-- 
Spain Offers Firms Tax Breaks, Flexible Temporary Contracts

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-26T14:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/spain-offers-firms-tax-breaks-flexible-temporary-contracts-1-.html
Spain ’s Cabinet approved a decree
making it easier for companies to use temporary contracts and
offering them tax breaks for hiring youths in a bid to reduce
 Europe ’s highest unemployment rate.  The government suspended for two years a rule it introduced
in 2006 that says employers must make a contract permanent after
hiring someone on a temporary basis several times. It offered
tax breaks for businesses employing youths on a new training
contract and extended a monthly 400-euro ($578) jobless subsidy
for those joining a training program.  A 21 percent unemployment rate, also the highest for youths
in Europe at 46 percent, is crimping Spain’s economic recovery.
Last year’s austerity measures, the strictest in three decades,
prompted protests by the “indignant ones.”  As many as 8.5 million people took part in the movement,
which was backed by 76 percent of the population, according to a
survey by Ipsos Public Affairs. Polls indicate the conservation
opposition  People’s Party  will win the next general election on
Nov. 20.  “We prefer to have a temporary job than someone out of
work,” Socialist Labor Minister Valeriano Gomez told reporters
in Madrid today.  Flexibility  “Laws have to change when circumstances change,” Gomez
said, adding that the rule on temporary contracts was created
during a period of expansion. At the time, the measure was meant
to consolidate employment and now it has become an obstacle to
the creation of even temporary jobs, he said.  Contributions to social security will be reduced by 75
percent to 100 percent when firms hire unemployed youths using a
new contract that entitles them to part-time work and part-time
training, Gomez said. Further tax breaks will be offered to
those who make the contracts permanent, increasing headcount.  The government defines a youth as someone under age 26 who
has no education and, until the end of 2013, anyone under age 31
who has no education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  