-- 
Spanish Recovery Slows as Exports, Public Spending Shrink

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-26T13:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/spanish-economy-slows-as-exports-fail-to-offset-spending-drop.html
Spain ’s recovery slowed in the
second quarter as exports contracted from the previous three
months and public-spending shrank amid the deepest austerity
measures in three decades.  The economy grew 0.2 percent in the quarter, the  National
Statistics Institute  said in  Madrid  today, confirming its Aug.
16 estimate. That compares with a revised rate of 0.4 percent in
the previous quarter. Gross domestic product expanded 0.7
percent from a year earlier, compared with a revised 0.9 percent
in the first three months.  “Exports are the greatest factor in uncertainty for the
second half of the year,” Spanish Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa told reporters in Madrid. Export growth slowed as
German growth faltered in the second quarter and  France , Spain’s
largest trading partner, stagnated. The deepest budget cuts in
three decades and  Europe ’s highest jobless rate, at 21 percent,
weighed on investment and household spending.  Exports fell 1.9 percent in the three months through June,
and expanded 8.4 percent from a year earlier, the institute
said. Public spending fell 2.4 percent in the quarter while
household consumption grew 0.6 percent, and contracted 0.2
percent on the year.  Revenue and Confidence  It has become “more difficult” to reach the government’s
1.3 percent growth target this year, Campa said. “There is no
other response to this than to continue reforms to improve
flexibility and competitiveness,” he said.  Private demand will grow “very gradually” in the second
half as the improving job market increases families’ revenue and
confidence in the economy, Campa said.  The Spanish recovery remains sluggish and “the economy may
tip back into recession before too long,” wrote London-based
economist  Ben May  in a note released by  Capital Economics .  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts full-year growth
of 0.8 percent.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year debt compared with
German equivalents narrowed to 279 basis points today at 1:30
p.m. in Madrid from 281 basis points yesterday. The  European
Central Bank  started buying Spanish bonds on Aug. 8 after that
spread touched a euro-era record of 418 basis points on Aug. 5.  ECB Rate  In its efforts to slash the deficit to 6 percent of GDP
from 11 percent in 2009, Parliament approved further austerity
measures on Aug. 23, bringing forward corporate-tax receipts and
reducing health spending. The government has already slashed
public wages, frozen pensions and increased sales tax as it
tries to tame the euro region’s third-largest deficit.  Adding to pressure on Spanish consumers, the ECB raised its
benchmark  interest rate  in July for the second time this year.
More than 90 percent of Spanish mortgages have variable rates,
making homeowners vulnerable to changes in borrowing costs.  Spanish banks, faced with a surge in borrowing costs and
the highest default rates since 1995, are reining in lending
after a decade-long borrowing boom.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) ,
the retail-banking unit of Spain’s biggest bank Banco Santander
SA, reported a 31 percent drop in second-quarter profit on July
12, as lending contracted and the costs of covering bad loans
rose.  The squeeze on Spanish households has sapped support for
the ruling Socialists in the run-up to elections set for Nov.
20. The  People’s Party  would win 47.6 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, compared with 35 percent for the
Socialists, according to a poll published by ABC newspaper on
Aug. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  