-- 
Star Scientific Loses New Trial Bid in Reynolds Tobacco Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-26T18:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/star-scientific-loses-new-trial-bid-in-reynolds-tobacco-case-1-.html
Star Scientific Inc. tumbled the
most in two years after losing a bid for a new trial in its
decade-long effort to extract patent royalties from  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)  on way to reduce carcinogens in cigarettes.  While the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  today  upheld  the validity of two Star patents, the
panel said there was no need to retry the infringement case
against Reynolds that Star lost in 2009. Chief Circuit Judge
Randall Rader said in the 2-1 opinion that a new trial wouldn’t
change the outcome as “there was substantial untainted evidence
before the jury to support a verdict of non-infringement.”  The patents cover a curing process that prevents
“bacterial activity” in tobacco leaves, resulting in the
lowest levels of cancer causing nitrosamines, according to Star.
The money-losing company, which had less than $1 million in
sales last year, has “not been able to monetize their only
asset,” Martin Shkreli, chief investment officer of  New York- 
based hedge fund MSMB Capital Management, said after the ruling.  “This is a complete loss for Star and basically makes
their business worthless,” said Shkreli, who has trading
positions that bet on the stock falling. “Investors have been
down this litigation road with Star for five to 10 years and
it’s never been fruitful.”  Shares Fall  Star whipsawed in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after the
ruling was made public, rising as much as 32 percent before
tumbling the most since June 2009. The shares fell $1.45, or 48
percent, to $1.55 at 2:12 p.m. New York time.  The  Glen Allen , Virginia-based company said it’s
considering options for “further appellate review.” Star said
the validity ruling will allow it to pursue claims “against all
prior and future infringers,” including another case it has
against Reynolds that had been put on hold pending this appeal.  “We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual
property, which we consider to be among our corporate crown
jewels,” Star Chairman and President Paul L. Perito said in a
statement today.  Star had claimed Reynolds was unable on its own to reduce
nitrosamines in tobacco as much as Star could. Star said
Reynolds then chose to use the technology without permission as
part of an effort to “neutralize” competition. Reynolds denied
the claim, challenging validity of the patents.  “We’re very pleased with today’s ruling,” August
Borschke, chief patent counsel for  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco, said
in an e-mail. “R.J. Reynolds did not infringe Star’s patents.”  Patent Office Review  R.J. Reynolds Tobacco is the cigarette unit of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds American, the second-
largest U.S. tobacco company. Reynolds makes Camel, Winston and
Salem brand cigarettes.  The case initially had been thrown out in June 2007 after
U.S. District Judge Marvin Garbis said Star deceived the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to obtain formal rights to the
invention. The appeals court reversed that order, setting the
stage for the 2009 trial.  The case is Star Scientific v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
10-1183, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)  v.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 01cv1504, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  