-- 
Steve Jobs Trumps CEO of $5 Trillion Economy: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-08-26T09:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/steve-jobs-trumps-ceo-of-5-trillion-economy-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Things are bad when a world leader
quitting registers less than a corporate executive. That’s what
 Naoto Kan  gets for bowing out the same week as  Steve Jobs .  Markets reacted immediately to news of Jobs’s departure
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ; there was barely a ripple after Kan cashed out
and paved the way for Japan’s sixth prime minister in five
years. Since Jobs returned to Apple’s top spot in 1997, Japan
has had nine premiers. Next week, it will have yet another.  It may seem odd to compare the leadership of a company with
helming the third-largest economy. Yet what does it say about a
nation of 127 million people when Kan stepping down is
considered a sideshow internationally to the sexier whither-
Apple story?  It says the world is tuning out Japan’s $5 trillion
economy. Never mind that Japan is home to some of  Asia ’s biggest
markets and has the region’s most international currency. The
place is just too dysfunctional for many investors who can
easily find healthier returns elsewhere. It also explains why
Japan’s credit rating will continue to grind lower in years
ahead.  Yet of all the questions we should be asking today, this
one may be most important: Is Japan politically unstable or is
it, oddly, too stable for its own good?  Unmemorable Leaders  Moody’s Investors Service cited the former this week when
it cut Japan’s rating one step to Aa3. Japan’s problem, though,
is an impenetrable structure that repels the ideas and policies
of leader after leader with nary a hiccup.  Japan  isn’t really run by prime ministers, and the next one
will quickly learn that frustrating fact. The commonly-accepted
line on Kan is that his 14-month government was undone by a
backlash over his leadership after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, the nation’s deepest postwar crisis. In truth, Kan was
pushed out by Japan’s ever-spinning political revolving door for
trying to exact change.  The former activist came in talking big about attacking the
group that really runs the nation: Japan’s vast bureaucracy. Kan
wanted to pull decision-making out of bureaucrats’ hands, reduce
their perks and ban them from the corrupt practice of taking
cushy jobs after they leave government at the companies and
power utilities they once oversaw. If you want to know why
radiation is leaking from nuclear power plants in Fukushima,
look no further than this incestuous practice.  Resisting Change  The nameless, faceless officials who run Japan resist
change of any kind. Anything that might upset the fiefdoms they
built up in decades on the job must be thwarted. The result is a
system on autopilot with bureaucrats refusing to tell the prime
minister how to switch to manual control.  Early in Kan’s tenure, his Cabinet struck fear in the
hearts of bureaucrats with public hearings into their bloated
budgets. The effort fizzled out when Kan realized he would get
absolutely nothing done if Tokyo’s pencil pushers felt
embattled.  Kan’s days were numbered for attempting to shake up
Nagatacho, Japan’s answer to  Capitol Hill . His demise
accelerated the moment he set his sights on Japan’s powerful
nuclear industry. With Fukushima leaking radiation into the
nation’s food and water supplies and seismologists fretting
about more big earthquakes, Kan moved to deemphasize Japan’s
reliance on reactors for power. At that point, the knives really
came out.  Spinning Faster  Japan’s revolving door is spinning faster than ever. When a
Kan replacement is named next week, the duration of Japanese
leadership will fall below a one-a-year average. You can just
see the bureaucrats laughing at the  Democratic Party of Japan ’s
promise to break their hold on the country.  It’s an incredible curiosity how Japan pulls it off. It’s a
safe, highly literate, well-functioning nation that boasts some
of the longest life spans anywhere and a relatively egalitarian
socioeconomic structure. Yet the world is changing rapidly
around Japan and it won’t wait for  Tokyo  to finally get
seriously about raising the economy’s game.  Japan needs to learn how to grow without the artificial
stimulants of zero  interest rates  and the world’s largest public
debt. It needs to prepare for an aging workforce and embrace
increased immigration to offset that dynamic. It needs to tweak
tax laws to encourage entrepreneurship to create new jobs. It
must empower its female population to do more than work in
supporting roles for men. It must increase competitiveness.  None of this is afoot. Since change won’t come from the
bureaucrats, it must derive from a visionary leader with the
courage and perseverance to take on Japan’s labyrinthine and
shadowy power structure. It can’t happen with the nation
replacing its prime minister every several months.  That’s why Jobs’s resignation got more attention than
Kan’s: Investors know that, for better or worse, things are
about to change at Apple. They can’t say the same about Japan.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Willie Pesek in Mumbai at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  