-- 
Steve Jobs, BAT, Samsung, Google, BBC: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-26T10:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/steve-jobs-bat-samsung-google-bbc-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s former Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs , who said Aug. 24 he was resigning from his
post, was a prolific inventor, if issued Apple patents are any
indication.  Jobs is named as an inventor on more than 300 issued U.S.
patents and 30 published and pending applications, according to
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. He’s
listed as Steve Jobs on most patents and as Steven P. Jobs on
others.  The patents are for a wide range of technologies, including
many that cover the design of Apple products. Others deal with
functionality, including user interfaces, power-off methods,
icon management and product packaging.  There may be other patent applications for Cupertino,
California-based Apple that list Jobs as an inventor that have
not yet been published in the database.  InterDigital Case Against ZTE, Huawei Gets Trade Agency Review  InterDigital Inc.’s patent-infringement complaint seeking
to block imports of phones made by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and
Huawei Technologies Co. will be investigated by the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  InterDigital, owner of about 1,300 U.S. patents related to
mobile phones, claims the companies are infringing seven patents
related to so-called third-generation wireless technology. The
ITC, which announced the investigation on its website yesterday,
typically takes 15 to 18 months to complete a review and can ban
imports of products that it finds violate U.S. patents.  Huawei had challenged the July 26 complaint in an Aug. 5
filing, accusing InterDigital of bringing the case “purely for
the purpose of inflating its value as it prepares to sell its IP
assets.” King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based InterDigital hired
Evercore Partners Inc. and  Barclays Capital  in July to help
explore a potential sale of its  intellectual property  to take
advantage of increased demand for wireless patents.  InterDigital has said it filed the ITC complaint because
Nokia, ZTE and Huawei refused to pay licensing fees.
InterDigital already had a case against Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia at the ITC that it lost, and is awaiting an appeals court
ruling in that dispute.  A victory in the new case could result in a ban of phones,
USB sticks, mobile hot spots and tablets made by the three
companies. Huawei and ZTE are  China ’s two largest makers of
phone equipment. Both are based in Shenzhen, China.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Devices with
3G Capabilities and Components Thereof, 337-800, U.S.
International Trade Commission.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia  Poised to Become First to Ban Tobacco Package Logos  Australia is poised to become the first nation to require
tobacco products to be sold in plain packages, a move that could
see other countries follow suit and crimp earnings of companies
like  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   The laws, passed by the lower house Aug. 24 and due in the
Senate in September, will ban logos and color variations on
cigarette packages. Packets will have to be olive green and
carry health warnings within six months from Jan 1, 2012.  “Other countries will follow,” said Anne Jackson, chief
executive of Ash Australia, a non-profit lobby group funded by
Cancer Council Australia and the Heart Foundation.  Health Minister Nicola Roxon announced the move last April,
along with a 25 percent tobacco tax increase and a A$85 million
(A$89 million) advertising campaign to combat smoking.  British American Tobacco Plc this week lost an appeal for
the release of Australian government documents the company said
would help it fight the law. The company plans to ask the
Australian High Court to review the ruling.  The company will next take its case to the Parliamentary
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee, with a hearing
scheduled for Sept. 13, Scott McIntyre, a spokesman for the
tobacco company, said yesterday in a phone interview. So far the
focus has been mainly on the health aspect of the legislation
without considering its effects on the tobacco industry, he
said.  Smoking costs Australia about A$31 billion a year in health
and workplace costs, according to the government. With 15.1
percent of the population aged 14 or over smoking daily, it is
the country’s top drug and preventable health problem, the
government says.  The tobacco companies say the bill is a breach of the
Australian Constitution, as plain packaging exceeds the
Commonwealth’s acquisition powers. They said they would seek
damages for losing the right to use their trademarks, which they
claim the government is seizing illegally.  “This would clearly undermine the value of manufacturers’
trademarks and destroy the goodwill built up over many years in
consumer brands,” British American Tobacco said in a June 6
submission to the government. “Plain packaging will frustrate
brand identification and consumer choice, making smuggled
branded product more acceptable to consumers.”  Australia’s top court has never addressed the question of
whether banning the use of trademarks amounts to an acquisition
by the government, George Williams, a constitutional law
professor at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, said.  “The tobacco companies have a hard road ahead,” Williams
said. “They’re quite likely to lose.”  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded tobacco company, said the Australian law also
violates a 1994 treaty with  Hong Kong  that prohibits the forced
removal of trademarks.  The tobacco companies plan to argue the law is a breach of
the World Trade Organization’s Trade Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS.  According to TRIPS, the use of a trade mark in the course
of trade “shall not be unjustifiably encumbered by special
requirements.” The tobacco companies say the Australian law
breaches that article.  Apple to Win German Ban on Samsung Tablet Sales, Judge Says  Apple Inc.’s intellectual property rights are likely to be
found strong enough to ban sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers in  Germany , a judge said yesterday.  The Dusseldorf court is unlikely to expand the ban on sales
beyond Germany to other European Union countries as Apple
sought, Presiding Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said in a
preliminary assessment yesterday. A ruling is scheduled for
Sept. 9.  “In the court’s view, Apple has a case to keep” the
German ban, Brueckner-Hofmann said at the hearing today. “We
think Apple’s EU design rights grant a medium range of
protection, if not a broad one.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and rival device makers is intensifying as an increasing number
of consumers use smartphones to surf the Web, play games and
download music. Apple, the world’s top smartphone seller, has
filed patent cases against handset makers using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system, including Samsung, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp.  The Dusseldorf court on Aug. 9 granted Apple, the maker of
the iPad, a preliminary sales ban in 26 of the 27 EU member
countries, only to scale back its reach a week later over
jurisdictional doubts.  The court is likely to find that it doesn’t have
jurisdiction to issue a ban applicable outside Germany against a
company based outside the EU, Brueckner-Hofmann said. Samsung’s
German unit, for which the ban applies EU-wide, is independent
and doesn’t allow the court to assume jurisdiction for both
companies alike, she said.  Samsung lost an unrelated case involving Apple yesterday
before a Dutch court over sales of some smartphones there. The
court took a different view on tablets, saying Samsung didn’t
violate Apple’s rights to the tablet’s design.  Samsung said it posted pictures of the Galaxy tab on its
German website on June 6 so Apple knew sales would start in the
country. Because the iPad maker only filed its bid in August, it
cannot claim to need an emergency ruling, Samsung said.  Apple’s lawyers say the posted pictures weren’t enough to
judge whether its design rights were violated. This was only
possible after a German computer magazine published an article
reviewing the Galaxy tablet.  Samsung asked the court to issue a ruling earlier or
suspend the current ban. The Sept. 9 ruling won’t allow Samsung
to show its tablet at the IFA consumer electronics trade show,
held in Berlin from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7.  Judge Brueckner-Hofmann rejected allegations Apple forged
pictures in its court filings. There was a technical error in
only one of the pictures that was easily explained and
unintentional, according to the judge.  The court won’t take Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 film “2001: A
Space Odyssey” into account, she said, commenting on claims by
Samsung in a U.S. case that a tablet appeared there. The film
sequence doesn’t allow one to compare that device with Apple’s
EU-protected design, she said.  The German case is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google, La Martiniere Settle French Protected-Works Dispute  Google Inc., owner of the world’s largest search engine,
settled a legal dispute with French publisher La Martiniere
Groupe and agreed on terms allowing it to scan out-of-print
works that are still copyright-protected.  The deal will permit La Martiniere to sell books on
Google’s Ebooks platform and split revenue from those sales
between the two companies,  Mountain View , California-based
Google said yesterday in a statement.  The agreement “allows us to move forward in a constructive
way for the benefit of French writers and readers,” Philippe
Colombet, director of  Google Books  in  France , said in the
statement.  Google is working to improve its relationship with French
industry groups and regulators after disputes over privacy and
access to copyrighted content. Chief Executive Officer  Eric
Schmidt  promised to increase Google’s investment in France after
meeting with French President Nicolas Sarkozy last year.  “France is a country which has required special
attention,” Colombet said today on a conference call about the
agreement. He declined to detail the financial terms of the
deal, saying just that “a majority” of revenue would go to the
rights holder as has been the case in similar accords.  Today’s agreement resolves a dispute that Paris-based  La
Martiniere  initiated in 2006. Google was ordered by a civil
court in the city in 2009 to pay the French publisher’s Editions
du Seuil unit 300,000 euros ($433,000) and stop scanning French
works for its digital library project.  Since that ruling, Google has reached agreements with other
groups in France such as the country’s main music-rights
collection agency, SACEM, which arranged to compensate artists
whose works appear on Google’s YouTube site, and the Hachette
Livre unit of  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the country’s biggest publisher.  The settlement announced yesterday doesn’t affect Google’s
appeal of the 2009 ruling that pertained to the Syndicat
National de l’Edition publishing trade group, which had joined
La Martiniere’s case, or to a lawsuit brought in May by three
publishing houses that claimed Google scanned almost 10,000
copyright-protected works without permission, Colombet said.  Google is working to end the SNE dispute and to reach
similar accords with other French publishers, Colombet said. The
May lawsuit “disrupted discussions under way,” he said.  Spokeswomen at the publishers weren’t immediately available
to comment when contacted by phone.  A U.S. judge gave more time last month to Google and a
group of publishers and authors to negotiate a settlement of a
lawsuit over the search-engine company’s digital reproduction of
books. That dispute dates back to 2005.  BBC  Outlines Policy for Photos Obtained Through Social Media  British Broadcasting Corp., the U.K.’s public-service
broadcaster, has backed down in a copyright dispute over photos
posted of riots in Tottenham that originally appeared on Twitter
Inc.’s short-messaging service.  A photographer who had complained that his photos were
taken from his Twitter posting and used without his permission
was initially told by the BBC that such content was not subject
to the same copyright laws “as it was already in the public
domain.”  The broadcaster said, in  a statement  on its website, that
this was “wrong and the response doesn’t represent BBC
policy.”  The BBC said while it has on occasion used photos before
clearing the rights “when there is a strong public interest and
often time constraints,” it will always try to give credit to
the copyright holder.  The only exceptions, the BBC said, would be a situation in
which the photographer doesn’t want to be contacted or if the
broadcaster considers it too dangerous to try to make contact,
such as in the case of photos posted to Twitter during recent
uprisings in some Middle Eastern countries.  If this is the case, the BBC said its practice is to label
the photo to indicate its source, such as “from Twitter,” to
indicate where it was obtained.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 