-- 
European Stocks Decline on U.S. Economic Growth; Lanxess Tumbles

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-26T16:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/stock-futures-fluctuate-in-europe-as-investors-await-signals-from-bernanke.html
European stocks fell as a report
showed that the U.S. economy grew more slowly than estimated,
offsetting Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s prediction
that the recovery is secure in the long term.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  tumbled 5.8 percent after the German chemical
maker said that its chief executive officer sold shares.
Frontline Ltd. declined 2.4 percent after reporting a loss in
the second quarter that was wider than analysts had estimated.
 EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  plummeted at least
6 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7 percent to
225.52 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , after earlier losing as
much as 2.7 percent, bringing this week’s gain to 1.1 percent.
The Stoxx 600 has fallen 23 percent from this year’s peak on
Feb. 17 as European and U.S. economic reports trailed forecasts,
adding to concern that the global economic recovery is at risk.
The decline left the index trading at 9.4 times its companies’
estimated earnings, near the lowest valuation since March 2009.  “Traders catch on to the reverse logic of Bernanke not
doing anything, as he probably would if the situation had been
bad enough to demand a response,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said. “We should be
cautious about how much bad news to price in.”  Stocks gyrated following the Bernanke speech, in which he
said the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments of
dissenting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who said
U.S. economic data aren’t pointing to a recession.  U.S. GDP Report  A Commerce Department report showed that the  U.S. economy 
grew 1 percent at an annual pace in the second quarter, a slower
rate than the agency’s previous estimate of 1.3 percent.
Economists had predicted expansion of 1.1 percent, according to
the median of 81 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report showed that the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
slumped to 55.7 in August from 63.7 in July. That was in line
with the average of 61 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Growth in loans to households and companies in the 17-
nation euro area slowed in July as the region’s debt crisis
weakened economic expansion and damped demand for credit. Loans
to the private sector grew 2.4 percent from a year earlier after
advancing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in June, the  European
Central Bank  said today.  German Equity Futures  Traders yesterday sold German equity futures to hedge their
investments before  France ,  Italy  and  Spain  extended curbs on
short selling. Spain and Italy extended their bans through Sept.
30, regulators in both countries said in a statement. France’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban may last until Nov.
11. The benchmark DAX Index lost 0.8 percent today.  “We have seen several large investors, both  hedge funds 
and long-only equity investors, hedge their portfolios and sell
large amounts of DAX futures, hence exerting a large selling
pressure,” Sushil Krishan, a derivatives salesman at UniCredit
Bank AG in Munich, said in a phone interview. “Hedge funds are
likely doing it as a speculative bet, while institutional
investors use it as a hedge.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost less than 0.1
percent, while France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 1 percent.  Lanxess, Frontline Fall  Lanxess slumped 5.8 percent to 39.79 euros, its lowest
price in 11 months, after the company said in a statement that
CEO Axel Heitmann sold almost his entire holding in the company,
raising 9.88 million euros ($14.3 million). It is only the
second time a board member has sold shares since Lanxess went
public in 2005, according to company filings.  Frontline dropped 2.4 percent to 34.63 kroner after the
world’s biggest operator of supertankers reported a second-
quarter net loss of $35.2 million. That was wider than the $30.2
million average loss of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company announced a cash dividend of 2 cents for
the quarter. The company said it expects the “weak trend” will
persist into the third quarter.  Alpha Bank SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias retreated 5 percent
to 1.90 euros and 6 percent to 1.73 euros, respectively, before
reporting earnings next week.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  slipped
7.6 percent to 2.78 euros, while Piraeus Bank SA sank 6.7
percent to 56 euro cents. UBS AG said the Mediterranean
country’s debt crisis “remains challenging.”  Credit Suisse Group AG said it expects the Greek banks’
underlying second quarter to be “significantly down” on the
first quarter. The Swiss brokerage doesn’t recommend buying any
Greek lenders.  Amec, Roche Slide  Amec Plc (AMEC) , the U.K.-based oil and gas engineer, declined 3
percent to 849.5 pence after Societe Generale SA downgraded the
stock to “hold” from “buy.”  Rautaruukki Oyj (RTRKS)  fell 5.1 percent to 9.45 euros, its lowest
price since February 2005, as the Finnish steelmaker was cut to
“hold” from “buy” at Deutsche Bank AG.  Gildemeister AG (GIL)  rallied 6.5 percent to 10.97 euros as the
German maker of cutting tools said it plans to buy back as many
as 3.1 million shares, or 5.1 percent of its share capital. The
company added that it is considering using the repurchased stock
as an “acquisition currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 