-- 
Superior Offshore Committee Claims Ex-Managers ‘Looted’ Company After IPO

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-08-26T21:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/superior-offshore-committee-claims-ex-managers-looted-company-after-ipo.html
A Superior Offshore International
Inc. bankruptcy committee accused four former managers in a
lawsuit of taking millions of dollars from IPO proceeds while
the company was short of cash.  Superior, which provided subsea construction and commercial
diving services to the  energy industry , ceased operations and
filed for bankruptcy in 2008, a year after its initial public
offering. The bankruptcy committee accuses the managers of
diverting proceeds from the IPO, leaving the company with $17.9
million in working capital and not the $45 million it needed to
stay afloat, according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Houston.  “The defendants, however, did not fare so bad,” the Post-
Confirmation Equity Committee said in the filing. “In total,
they walked away with nearly $75 million from sales of Superior
stock.”  The defendants in the complaint are Louis E. Schaefer Jr.,
founder and former chairman; James J. Mermis, who was president
and chief executive officer; R. Joshua Koch Jr., the former
executive vice president, general counsel and secretary; and
Roger D. Burks, the ex-chief financial officer. Each lives in
the Houston area and left the company before it collapsed.  The defendants filed a joint request yesterday for the
committee’s lawsuit, which was filed on behalf of the company,
to be thrown out. The managers already have “each defended and
settled adversary proceedings” brought by Superior’s plan agent
and a shareholders’ securities class action, their lawyers said.  ‘Another Bite’  “Those proceedings all made the same or similar claims,”
the managers said in their filing. The new lawsuit “seeks to
take another bite at the apple,” they said.  A federal judge rejected certification of a class-action,
or group, lawsuit against the managers, said Michael Biles, a
lawyer for Mermis and Burks. That ruling led the managers to
settle the investors’ complaints for $1.9 million, Biles said
today in a phone interview.  “Superior just had a short-term liquidity crisis,” caused
by a combination of factors, that overwhelmed the company in the
year after the IPO, Biles said. Superior’s largest deepwater
vessel experienced cost-overruns and delays during an overhaul,
while a major client refused to pay a $20 million bill and
supplemental funding became unavailable in the  bond market ,
Biles said. Each of these risks was disclosed in the company’s
prospectus, he said.  Shareholders’ Distribution  “All of the shareholders got a distribution of $2 to $3 a
share, and all of the creditors were paid off 100 percent,”
Biles said. “Quite frankly, this lawsuit is an attempt to get
the remaining proceeds of the insurance policy.”  In one internal e-mail cited in the committee’s complaint,
Burks asked Schaefer not to take $25 million in proceeds from
the Lafayette, Louisiana-based company’s IPO. Schaefer refused,
according to the complaint. That “reflects that the defendants
were grossly negligent in authorizing Schaefer, Mermis and Koch
to loot Superior in the IPO,” the committee said in the
complaint.  Biles said the managers didn’t do anything wrong. “The
allegation is they left the company without enough cash from the
IPO’’ to fund operations, he said. “That analysis may be
correct in hindsight. But at the time, the company’s directors
fully thought that $20 million or so would be sufficient.’’  Tony Visage, who represents Schaefer and Koch, said in an
e-mail that the defendants deny the allegations in the
complaint.  The case is Superior Offshore International Inc. v.
Schaefer, 4:11-cv-03130, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  Texas  (Houston). The bankruptcy case is In Re Superior
Offshore International Inc., 08-32590,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  