-- 
Franc Weakens After Bernanke Speech, Concern Banks May Charge for Deposits

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-26T17:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/swiss-franc-weakens-after-economic-barometer-declines-more-than-forecast.html
The  Swiss franc  slid against all its
major counterparts after Federal Reserve chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped short of signaling further stimulus, suggesting
the world economy isn’t as weak as some analysts had suggested.  The currency also extended a third weekly loss against the
euro on speculation Swiss policy makers will introduce new
measures to cap its gains, and local banks may start charging
customers for franc deposits. Bernanke said the Fed has tools to
deal with the economic slowdown but didn’t announce another
round of so-called quantitative easing.  “What Bernanke said suggested was perhaps the world’s
economic weakness is not so bad that it warrants another round
of QE, and that helped to damp demand for the franc,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in London. “There has also been speculation
about the SNB’s possible further action on the franc, which
makes the market cautious.”  The franc slumped 2.6 percent to 1.1697 per euro at 5:56
p.m. in London. The currency fell 1.8 percent to 80.76 centimes
per dollar, extending a weekly decline to 2.9 percent, the most
since the week ended Jan. 7. It slid 2.8 percent to 94.98 yen.  While Bernanke sought to reassure investors and the public
that U.S. growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still
has tools to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of
indicating the central bank will introduce a third round of
government bond-buying.  ‘Range of Tools’  “The  Federal Reserve  has a range of tools that could be
used to provide additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke told
central bankers and economists at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . He said a second day has been added to the next Fed
meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the
economy and the central bank’s possible response.  The franc tumbled in afternoon trading on speculation Swiss
banks may begin charging for deposits in francs. UBS AG said it
may levy a temporary excess balance fee to stem the inflow of
francs into its customers’ cash clearing accounts.  The Swiss lender cited “the prevailing market conditions
which in particular affect the Swiss Franc.” It made the
comment in a note to clients sent via the Swift system and
confirmed to Bloomberg.  ‘Jittery’ Market  “The market is very jittery on the franc right now because
of potential negative  interest rates ,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a
currency strategist at UBS in London. “Investors are not
distinguishing between different forms of deposit accounts. The
cash clearing accounts will potentially be impacted by deeply
negative interest rates in money markets. However, I think
there’s close-to-zero chance any major Swiss bank will penalize
normal depositors.”  If there were to be excess balance fees, it may become
less attractive to hold the franc, said  Jens Nordvig , managing
director of currency research at Nomura International Plc.  “The currency has attracted a lot of inflows,” New York-
based Nordvig said. “There are very few securities to buy. Most
of the money ends up in deposits in some form. If you are going
to have to pay for the privilege to have that deposit, that’s
going to disincentivize them.”  The Swiss currency weakened earlier after an index of
leading indicators dropped more than economists forecast, adding
to signs the currency’s recent strength may be damaging the
nation’s growth.  The monthly gauge that aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead fell to 1.61 for August from a
revised 1.98 in July, the KOF Swiss Economic Institute said.
Economists forecast a decline to 1.8, according to the median of
14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  SNB Measures  The central bank has taken a number of steps in recent
months to counter the currency’s gains. It boosted liquidity in
money markets and increased the cash available to banks after
the franc’s appreciation made the nation’s exports less
competitive. The Swiss manufacturers’ association Swissmem said
this week the country may face serious economic damage unless a
“clear weakening” of the currency begins soon.  Switzerland ’s currency has strengthened 12 percent this
year, the best performer among a basket of the currencies of 10
developed nations, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  Swiss  government bonds  rose, pushing 10-year yields down
seven basis points to 1.01 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  