-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb as Bernanke Predicts Long-Term U.S. Growth

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-26T16:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/swiss-market-index-falls-for-second-day-roche-baloise-clariant-decline.html
Swiss stocks advanced, for the
biggest weekly rally in 18 months, as investors took assurance
from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s prediction that
the U.S. economic recovery will continue in the long term.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  jumped 4.7 percent after receiving
regulatory approval to bid for Aker Drilling ASA. The nation’s
watchmakers rallied, with  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA rising more than 1 percent.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN) ,
Switzerland’s third-largest insurer, dropped 1.9 percent after
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.5 percent to 5,323.12 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The SMI gained 4.5 percent this week,
the biggest weekly rally since Feb. 2010. Even so, the gauge has
tumbled 21 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 amid concern
that the global economic recovery is stalling, while euro-area
leaders struggled to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.
The broader Swiss Performance Index rose 0.4 percent today.  “The bulls are putting hope into a possible quantitative
easing to be announced in September,” said Manish Singh, head
of investment at Crossbridge Capital in  London . “Is the Fed
going to take measures to support the economy? Yes it will. But
given the three dissents he had at the last meeting, he would
rather discuss another round of quantitative easing and such
measures at the next meeting in September before even hinting at
it now.”  Bernanke’s Speech  Bernanke sought to reassure investors and the public that
U.S. growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still has
tools to aid the recovery if needed. Even so, he stopped short
of indicating that the central bank will move ahead with a third
round of government bond buying.  “In addition to refining our forward guidance, the  Federal
Reserve  has a range of tools that could be used to provide
additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said in a speech today
to central bankers and economists gathered at their annual forum
in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. He also said the bank has added a
second day to its next policy meeting in September to “allow a
fuller discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s possible
response.  A Commerce Department report showed that U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a 1 percent annual rate in the April to
June quarter, down from the 1.3 percent pace estimated last
month. That fell short of the 1.1 percent median forecast of 81
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The reduction reflected a
smaller increase in inventories and fewer exports.  Traders yesterday sold German equity futures to hedge their
investments before  France ,  Italy  and  Spain  extended curbs on
short selling. Spain and Italy extended their bans through Sept.
30, regulators in both countries said in a statement. France’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban may last until Nov.
11.  Swiss Economic Barometer  Switzerland’s economic barometer fell in August to its
lowest level since November 2009. The monthly gauge that aims to
predict the economy’s direction about six months ahead dropped
to 1.61 from a revised 1.98 in July, the  KOF Swiss Economic
Institute  in Zurich said today. Economists had projected that
the gauge would decline to 1.8, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Transocean surged 4.7 percent to 42.78 Swiss francs after
Transocean Services AS, its wholly owned unit, received
clearance from the Oslo Stock Exchange to launch an all cash
voluntary offer for 100 percent of the shares of Aker Drilling
for 26.50 kroner apiece.  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , a Geneva-based oil-rig
owner, climbed 2.9 percent to 12.62 francs.  Swatch, Richemont Gain  Swatch, the world’s largest watch maker, rallied 2.1
percent to 347.50 francs and Richemont, the owner of the Cartier
brand, rose 1.3 percent to 43.61 francs after Tiffany & Co., the
world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer, reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year earnings
forecast.  Baloise Holding lost 1.9 percent to 68.40 francs after
Spencer Horgan, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, cut the company’s
shares to “sell” from “hold.”  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  fell 1.6 percent to 169.40
francs, while  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  slipped 1.6 percent to
100.80 francs. Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, sank 1.1 percent to 39.72 francs.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the world’s largest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, sank 1.4 percent to 8.51 francs as a gauge of
European chemical companies was among the worst performers of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  