-- 
U.K. Economy Expansion Slowed in Second Quarter as Manufacturing Shrank

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-26T10:56:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-k-economy-slows-to-0-2-as-cameron-faces-pressure-to-stimulate-growth.html
U.K. economic growth slowed in the
second quarter as manufacturing shrank and services showed signs
of losing momentum, adding pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to ease the squeeze on consumers.  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent from the first
quarter, the same as estimated a month ago, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. Output rose 0.7
percent from a year earlier. A separate report showed services
fell 0.1 percent in June, the final month of the quarter.  The economy has barely expanded since September as
government budget cuts and accelerating inflation sap  consumer
confidence . Cameron is under mounting pressure to find ways to
spur growth as the euro-region debt crisis and global market
turmoil threaten the biggest markets for British goods.  “There’s a bit of relief that it wasn’t revised down, but
it’s still looking set to be a very difficult second half,”
said  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in
London. “From a global perspective, the backdrop for the U.K.
is very uncomfortable.”  The pound was trading at $1.6333 as of 11:40 a.m. in
London, up 0.2 percent on the day.  Revisions  In its  second estimate of GDP , the statistics office
normally includes provisional data on income and expenditure,
including consumer and government spending, business investment
and exports. These were not published today because the ONS is
revising its procedure for preparing the national accounts. The
figures will be released, along with the revised Blue Book, on
Oct. 5.  Small downward revisions to industrial production were
offset by an upward revision to services, the biggest part of
the economy.   Services output  grew 0.5 percent in the second quarter from
the first, boosted by transport and business services and
finance. The  construction industry  expanded 0.5 percent.  Manufacturing shrank 0.5 percent and total industrial
production, which includes mining and utilities’ output, dropped
1.6 percent, the biggest contraction since the first quarter of
2009.  Industrial output was partly hit by warm weather in April
that depressed demand for fuel, while maintenance shutdowns saw
mining output fall at its fastest pace since 2006.  Special Factors  Other special factors included the extra public holiday to
mark the royal wedding in April and supply disruptions stemming
from the Japanese earthquake. GDP would have been about 0.5
percent higher in the absence of these events, the statistics
office said. The economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter.  Recent data suggest the pace of underlying activity is
weakening, with jobless claims rising the most in more than two
years in July. An index of retail sales in August fell to its
lowest level since the Conservative-led coalition took office in
May 2010 and consumer confidence declined for a second month in
July, reports showed yesterday.  Debt woes in countries such as Italy and  Greece , and the
U.S. federal deficit are among the “storm clouds everywhere”
threatening ad spending,  Martin Sorrell , chief executive officer
of London-based advertising company  WPP Plc (WPP) , said on Aug. 24.  The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark rate at a record low
of 0.5 percent this month and officials discussed whether they
needed to resume buying assets to spur growth.  ‘Severe Stress’  The risk of “severe stress and dislocation in financial
markets” stemming from the market strains would “have a
significant impact on the U.K. economy,” Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  said Aug. 16.  The bank forecasts the economy will grow about 1.5 percent
this year and 2.2 percent next year, less than its projections
in May for 1.9 percent and 2.5 percent.  Growth in  Germany , the largest European economy, slowed to
just 0.1 percent in the second quarter from 1.3 percent in the
first and in France the economy stalled.  Consumer spending  is
weakening in the U.S., which was stripped of its top  credit
rating  by  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this month.  Cameron has staked his reputation on carrying out his plans
to eradicate the bulk of the  fiscal deficit  by 2015. The 80
billion-pound ($131 billion) program of spending cuts will lead
to the loss of more than 300,000 government-funded jobs. The
government said today global market instability underlines the
need to stick to the program.  “Jobs are being created and the credibility bought by the
government’s deficit-reduction plan has made Britain a safe
haven in the sovereign-debt storm,” the Treasury said in a
statement.  The opposition  Labour Party  renewed its call for an
emergency cut in  sales tax , saying Cameron’s government had
brought the economy to a virtual standstill by trying to reduce
the deficit too quickly.  Britain is “dangerously exposed” if market conditions in
the euro region and the U.S. deteriorate, Angela Eagle, who
speaks on Treasury affairs for Labour, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  