-- 
U.S. Banks Said to Seek Relief From Regulators as Deposits Swell

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-banks-said-to-seek-relief-from-regulators-as-deposits-swell.html
U.S. regulators have asked some
banks to take more deposits from large investors even if it’s
unprofitable, and lenders in return are seeking relief on
insurance premiums and leverage ratios, according to six people
with knowledge of the talks.  Deposits are flooding into the biggest U.S. banks as
customers seek shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis and falling
stock prices. That forces lenders to raise capital for a growing
balance sheet and saddles them with the higher deposit insurance
payments. With short-term  interest rates  so low, it’s hard for
financial firms to reinvest the new money profitably.  Regulators have asked banks to take the deposits anyway,
three people said, with one lender accepting $100 billion. The
regulators want lenders to take the deposits because it improves
the stability of the financial system, according to one of the
people, who said U.S. banks are viewed as places of strength.  Some of the largest ones have talked with regulators about
softening rules for ratios that measure capital and assets,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
talks are private. At least one asked for a waiver on paying
higher premiums to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which is
less likely to be granted, one of the people said.  “If the helicopter comes raining money on your bank and
it’s only temporarily there, it could be excessively costly and
disruptive,” said  Robert Litan , a vice president of research
and policy at the Kansas City, Missouri-based Kauffman
Foundation, which promotes entrepreneurial business practices.  Cash Cache  Cash held by domestically chartered U.S. banks, which
includes Federal Reserve balances, rose to a record $1.02
trillion earlier this month, up 27 percent from the end of July
last year. Deposits held by the 25 largest lenders expanded to
$4.69 trillion in the week ended Aug. 10, up 8.5 percent from
the end of May. The Fed’s balances advanced to $1.61 trillion as
of Aug. 24, from $1.05 trillion a year earlier.  The extra deposits are problematic because they’re subject
to withdrawal, so banks have to park the money in low-yielding
short-term investments, Litan said. With few other choices
available, banks have stashed their excess deposits at the Fed,
which means the cash gets counted as assets.  This expands their balance sheets and thus pushes down
their  leverage ratio , which measures  Tier 1 capital  divided by
adjusted average total assets; the lower the ratio, the weaker
the bank, at least in theory. In reality, regulators regard U.S.
lenders as relatively strong with sufficient capital cushions,
the people said.  Talks With Regulators  Lenders have held discussions with officials at the Fed,
FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Treasury
Department, according to four of the people. Spokesmen for the
four agencies declined to comment.  Regulators may decide, for example, to ease curbs on
deposits swept in from brokerage affiliates as part of any
forbearance, said  James Chessen , chief economist at the
Washington-based American Bankers Association. Under normal
circumstances, those deposits could be restricted as part of an
enforcement action by regulators, he said.  “You don’t want costly business decisions driven by these
temporary flows and regulators are acknowledging that and
acknowledging the limited risk,” Chessen said in a phone
interview. “Unusual situations naturally call for a discussion
on both sides,” he added in an e-mail.  While the Fed has been paying 0.25 percent interest on
deposits placed with the central bank, known as interest on
excess reserves, since late 2008, it may not be enough to erase
the cost to banks of holding the deposits, said Robert Eisenbeis, a former head of research at the Federal  Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta and now chief monetary economist for Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc.  Charging Depositors  At least one firm,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , tried to
recoup some of the costs by charging depositors 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percent, for holding unusually high balances.  FDIC insurance fees for large banks typically average more
than 0.1 percent, three of the people said. In addition, large
banks also may apply an internal capital charge of at least 0.1
percent to such reserves, one bank executive estimated.  Lenders likely reached out to regulators “after having
watched what Bank of  New York  did,” Litan said. “I’m sure the
banks said there must be another way.”  If the FDIC agreed to forgive some fees, it would have to
give up some of the extra premiums that it’s counting upon to
rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund, which covers customers for
$250,000 per account in the event of a failure. That makes the
agency unlikely to grant a waiver, one of the people said,
adding that the existence of the insurance is one of the reasons
banks are able to attract the deposits.  Insurance Fund  The FDIC’s fund, which fell into a deficit of almost $21
billion after a wave of  bank failures , turned positive during
the second quarter for the first time in two years, the agency
reported this week. On April 1, the FDIC changed its formula for
assessing premiums, increasing the cost for most large banks and
adding to their deposit expenses.  That’s adding to the pinch on bank profits as revenue
shrinks and yields on assets decline. Net interest margins, the
difference between what banks pay to borrow and what they make
on loans and securities, declined in the second quarter,
“reflecting growth in low-yielding balances at Federal Reserve
banks,” the FDIC said Aug. 23 in its quarterly report.  European Crisis  U.S. deposits may surge again if Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis escalates and the region’s lenders face a funding
squeeze. Most of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s almost $53 billion in
new deposits in the second quarter were tied to Europe,
according to Pri de Silva, a New York-based analyst at
CreditSights Inc.  “If you are a bank you don’t want to use excess capital
for these hot-money deposits,” de Silva said.  Shares of the 24 U.S. firms in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  have
declined 28 percent this year. The second-worst performer in the
index, Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
lost half its value in 2011 before rebounding this week.  Most lenders already have capital cushions well above the
minimum of 5 percent that would trigger an order from regulators
for corrective action, according to one of the people.  The Tier 1 leverage ratio for Bank of America, the largest
U.S. lender, was 6.86 percent at the end of June, while JPMorgan
stood at 7 percent, according to second-quarter regulatory
filings.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s leverage ratio was 7.05 percent at the
end of June, and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s was
9.43 percent. Citigroup and JPMorgan are based in New York.  Changing Assets  If Citigroup’s average total assets changed by $1 billion,
it would alter the leverage ratio by 0.4 basis points, while a
$100 million change in Tier 1 capital would affect the leverage
ratio by half a basis point, according to the bank’s second-
quarter filing.  Shannon Bell, a Citigroup spokeswoman,  Howard Opinsky  at
JPMorgan, Ancel Martinez at Wells Fargo and Bank of America’s
 Jerry Dubrowski  declined to comment.  Relaxing the rules or enforcement could be a slippery
slope, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC,
a Jersey City, New Jersey-based unit of London-based ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  “Asking for a free pass on the leverage ratio for bank
deposits by itself isn’t something that regulators would
consider,” Crandall said. “The question is whether banks
should be able to exclude reserve balances since they are a
risk-free asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 