-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally as S&P 500 Index Ends Biggest Weekly Retreat Since 2009

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-stocks-rally-as-s-p-500-index-ends-biggest-weekly-retreat-since-2009.html
U.S. stocks rose, breaking a four-
week losing streak in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the world’s
largest economy isn’t deteriorating fast enough to warrant
additional stimulus.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rallied 11 percent after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. invested $5 billion.  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF)  surged 20 percent after raising its earnings forecast.  MEMC
Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  jumped 18 percent, leading a rally in
solar stocks, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the industry is
close to bottoming.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 7.7 percent even after Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs quit. Travelers Cos. slumped 2.4
percent as Hurricane Irene headed for the U.S. East Coast.  The S&P 500 rose 4.7 percent to 1,176.80 this week. The
index lost 16 percent between July 22 and Aug. 19, the most in
four weeks since March 2009. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 466.89 points, or 4.3 percent, to 11,284.54 this week.  “We’ve got our problems, but they’re ones we can come out
of,” Don Hodges, chairman of Dallas-based Hodges Capital
Management Inc., which has $700 million in assets under
management, said during an interview in  New York . “It feels
like we’re reaching for a bottom now, that we’re beginning to
pick up. We are buyers.”  Stocks dropped and then rebounded yesterday after
Bernanke’s speech, in which he said the central bank still has
tools to stimulate the economy without signaling he will use
them. He echoed comments from dissenting members of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  who said data aren’t pointing to a
recession. Investors piled into U.S. equities trading at the
cheapest price-earnings ratios since 2009.  ‘Fuller Discussion’  Bernanke said a second day has been added to the next FOMC
meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the
economy and the Fed’s possible response. He didn’t close the
door in yesterday’s speech to options he has previously
discussed, including a third round of government bond buying.  The week’s advance followed an increase in U.S. durable-
goods orders that topped the median economist projection, as
well as the biggest rise in  home prices  since September 2005.
Those reports overshadowed an unexpected rise in jobless claims
and helped the  S&P 500  curb its loss for the month to 8.9
percent from 13 percent as of Aug. 19.  Not ‘Permanently Altered’  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments yesterday in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming. “It may take some time, but we can reasonably expect
to see a return to growth rates and employment levels consistent
with those underlying fundamentals.”  Exchanges and investors are preparing for Hurricane Irene,
the biggest storm expected to hit the Northeast in more than two
decades. While all of the main U.S. stock exchanges plan to open
for trading on Aug. 29, Irene, forecast to reach New York this
weekend, has the potential to shut down the New York Stock
Exchange, Louis Pastina, senior vice president for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  All 10 S&P 500 industries rose more than 2 percent for the
week, with shares of technology companies advancing 6.2 percent
as a group, the most since the period ended July 1.  “There’s a risk appetite that’s building in the
marketplace,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at Fort Lee,
New Jersey-based Palisades Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3.8 billion, said in a telephone interview. “At some
point people are going to see  interest rates  are going to stay
at zero for some time, so we should probably buy financial
assets. It takes a while to digest what this all means.”  Buffett Buys  Bank of America gained the most in the Dow this week,
advancing 11 percent to $7.76. Berkshire Hathaway said it will
invest $5 billion after losses tied to subprime mortgages
drained capital from the biggest U.S. lender. The shares had
retreated 48 percent in 2011 before Buffett’s announcement as
investors speculated the lender will have to raise money. They
rallied 11 percent on Aug. 24, the day before the Buffett
investment, as bank analyst  Meredith Whitney  said the lender
wouldn’t have to raise capital.  “Bank of America is a strong, well-led company,” Buffett
said in an Aug. 25 statement. “I am impressed with the profit-
generating abilities of this franchise, and that they are acting
aggressively to put their challenges behind them.”  Tiffany, the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, gained 20 percent to $69.01 for the biggest rise in
the S&P 500. The company boosted its full-year profit forecast
on price increases and sales in the Asia-Pacific region.  Coach, MEMC  Coach Inc. (COH) , the maker of luxury handbags, advanced 19
percent to $54.76 for the second-biggest S&P 500 rally.
Jefferies & Co. raised its rating to “buy” from “hold,”
saying the stock market’s recent decline made the shares cheap.  MEMC, the second-largest U.S. maker of polysilicon, rose 18
percent to $6.87 in the biggest weekly gain since February.
Goldman Sachs said producers of solar-energy equipment may stop
falling. MEMC had retreated 48 percent in 2011 before this week.  Apple added 7.7 percent to $383.58. Jobs, who transformed
the company he started at age 21 from a personal-computer also-
ran into the world’s largest technology company, was replaced by
Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  on Aug. 24, after markets
closed. He will remain chairman.  Apple fell 0.7 percent the next day and advanced 2.6
percent yesterday.  Travelers, the New York-based insurer, was the only stock
in the Dow that declined, losing 2.4 percent to $48.30, as
investors speculated about losses from Hurricane Irene.  Lower Valuations  U.S. stocks are cheaper this month than they have been in
28 months, as investors sold shares on concern the world’s
largest economy may enter a recession. The S&P 500 is trading at
12.9 times earnings and fell as low as 12.2 times earnings on
Aug. 8, the lowest point since March 2009, when the bull market
began.  “If you look at the relative valuation of stocks, they’re
pricing in a fairly cataclysmic outcome already,” Barry Knapp,
head of U.S. equity strategy at  Barclays Capital , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Aug. 23. Fears of a recession
are “overblown,” he said.  Volatility narrowed this week, with the benchmark index for
U.S. stock options snapping its longest streak of weekly gains
since October 2008. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index is known, slumped 17 percent to 35.59.
The gauge of S&P 500 options prices has averaged 20.39 in its
21-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  