-- 
U.S. Must Cut Spending on Medical Technology, Harvard Study Says

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-26T17:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-must-cut-spending-on-medical-technology-harvard-study-says.html
U.S. policy makers wrestling with
the deficit should focus on reducing the number of angioplasties
and other medical procedures that don’t always deliver clinical
benefits, two Harvard University economists said.  The overuse of expensive medical interventions is a prime
culprit behind rising U.S. health-care spending that’s
encouraged by private health plans and Medicare,  Kathleen
Baicker  and Amitabh Chandra wrote in a paper presented at a
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City symposium today. The two
professors spoke at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “We are neither allocating resources efficiently between
health and other uses, nor are we getting as much health as we
could for every dollar spent,” Baicker and Chandra wrote.  Getting at the root causes of health spending that reached
$2.6 trillion last year and is projected to be one-fifth of the
gross domestic product by 2020 is the only effective way to
reduce the drag on the economy, the authors wrote. Raising taxes
or cutting payments of Medicare, the federal health program for
the elderly and disabled, won’t improve care, they said.  A 12-member congressional supercommittee will meet next
month aiming to reduce U.S. budget deficits by $1.5 trillion
over a decade. Medicare cuts may result, and if Congress doesn’t
agree on a bill, health care providers will see their payments
cut 2 percent.  ‘Not Optimistic’  “I’m not optimistic about what Congress will do about the
growth of health-care spending,” Chandra said in a telephone
interview before the conference.  Angioplasty, which uses balloons and stents from companies
such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , to open
blocked arteries, isn’t always a necessity, according to the
economists’ paper. Because Medicare and private plans base
payments on procedures instead of the outcome of a treatment,
physicians and hospitals don’t have a financial incentive to
gauge the effectiveness of therapies, Baicker and Chandra wrote.
Less expensive treatments, like aspirin for heart-attack
patients, are underutilized, according to the economists.  Angioplasties are being performed when needed and aren’t
being overused, said Christoper White, president of the  Society
for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions , in an e-mail.  Compensating caregivers for the outcomes of treatments
could pare U.S. health-care spending by more than 30 percent,
Baicker and Chandra wrote.  Provisions in the 2010 health-care law, such as the
creation of accountable care organizations linking hospitals,
doctors and other providers, may accelerate some of the changes
Baicker and Chandra recommend.  The authors recommend other shifts, such as researching the
effectiveness of new treatments against established ones and
requiring patients to pay a greater share of bills for unproven
therapies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 