-- 
U.S. Second Quarter Second GDP Technical Note (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-08-26T12:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-second-quarter-second-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note of
the Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Technical Note  Gross Domestic Product  Second Quarter of 2011  (Second Estimate)  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release.  The complete set of estimates
for the second quarter is available on BEA's Web site at
www.bea.gov; a brief summary of "highlights" is also posted on
the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be published in
BEA's monthly journal, the Survey of Current Business, along with
a more detailed analysis of the estimates ("GDP and the
Economy").  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.0 percent (annual rate) in the second
quarter, a downward revision of 0.3 percentage point from the
advance estimate.  Downward revisions to inventory investment and
to exports were partly offset by upward revisions to
nonresidential fixed investment and to  consumer spending .  *       The downward revision to inventory investment reflected
newly available and revised Census Bureau inventory data for June
for manufacturing, wholesale trade, and retail trade industries.
*       The downward revision to exports reflected newly
available Census goods data for June and revised data for May.
*       The upward revision to nonresidential fixed investment
reflected upward revisions to nonresidential structures and to
equipment and software.  The revision to structures was based on
newly available
 Census construction spending data for June and revised data for
April and May.  The revision to equipment and software was based
on newly available software company revenue data for the second
quarter, newly available Census imports and exports data for
June, and revised Census manufacturing shipments data for June.
*       The upward revision to consumer spending was to services
and reflected upward revisions to financial services and
insurance and to health care.  The revision to financial services
was based on newly
available second-quarter and revised first-quarter Federal
Reserve Board tabulations of Call Report data, and the revision
to health care was based on revised BLS data on employment,
hours, and earnings.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases increased 3.3
percent in the second quarter, an upward revision of 0.1
percentage point.  The upward revision to prices was primarily to
personal consumption expenditures and reflected an upward
revision to the price for financial services based on Call Report
data.  Revisions to Wages and Salaries and Disposable Personal Income  In addition to presenting revised estimates for the second
quarter, today's release also presents revised estimates of first-
quarter wages and salaries, personal taxes, and contributions for
government social insurance.  Wage and salary disbursements are
now estimated to have increased $101.2 billion in the first
quarter of 2011, an upward revision of $18.4 billion.  These
estimates reflect newly available wage and salary tabulations for
the first quarter from the BLS quarterly census of employment and
wages (QCEW). (Last month's estimate reflected BLS wage and
salary tabulations for 16 states.)  These data are more
comprehensive than the monthly employment and earnings data that
were used for the earlier estimates -- the QCEW data include
irregular pay, such as bonuses and gains from the exercise of
 stock options .  Real disposable personal income is now estimated to have
increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter and 1.0 percent in the
second.  (By comparison, the estimates that were available last
month showed increases of 0.7 percent in both the first and
second quarters.)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  