-- 
U.S. Stocks Climb, Erasing Loss as Investors Weigh Bernanke Growth Remarks

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-26T14:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-stocks-climb-erasing-loss-as-investors-weigh-bernanke-growth-remarks.html
U.S. stocks gained, erasing a 221-
point decline in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , as investors
took assurance from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
prediction that growth will resume amid equity valuations close
to the lowest in 2 1/2 years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 0.5 percent to
1,164.86 at 10:52 a.m. in New York after initially plunging 2
percent following Bernanke’s remarks.  Stocks gyrated following the Bernanke speech, in which he
said the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments of
dissenting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who said
U.S. economic data aren’t pointing to a recession.  “If they can stick to this and let the market find its own
bottom, they will come out of this stronger,”  James Paulsen ,
chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “People will start to develop some
confidence that this thing can recover on its own without Fed
assistance.”  This year’s decline in the  S&P 500  left the benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities at 12.7 times reported earnings yesterday,
more than 20 percent below its five-decade average.  Barton
Biggs , founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP, said last week
that valuations are so low they could withstand a 15 percent
decline in profits.  Earnings for companies in the index may rise 18 percent
this year, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Economists predict gross domestic product
will expand 1.75 percent this year and 2.35 percent in 2012,
according to a survey of 56 respondents conducted by Bloomberg.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments. “It may take some time, but
we can reasonably expect to see a return to growth rates and
employment levels consistent with those underlying
fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  