-- 
Irene Weakens on Path to North Carolina

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-26T12:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-east-coast-braces-for-biggest-hurricane-threat-since-gloria-in-1985.html
Hurricane Irene, downgraded to a
Category 2 storm, moved north at 14 miles (22 kilometers) per
hour toward the coast of  North Carolina , posing the largest
threat to the U.S. Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in 1985.  Irene is packing maximum sustained winds of 110 mph, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 8 a.m.
Miami time. The storm may grow anew to a Category 3 hurricane on
the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale tomorrow, the center said.  The center’s  forecast track  shows the storm will make
landfall in North Carolina’s Outer Banks tomorrow, skirt the
East Coast and reach New England on Aug. 28. The NHC said
hurricane-force winds extend 90 miles from Irene’s core and that
dangerous surf, storm surge and wind conditions will develop.  The system’s move closer to the Eastern Seaboard may be
good news for  New York  and the Northeast, said Arthur DeGaetano,
professor of earth and atmospheric sciences at Cornell
University. “It is going to hug the coast and that is going to
take a lot of punch out of the storm,” he said.  Hurricane  warnings  were in effect from North Carolina’s
Little River inlet north to the Sandy Hook area of New Jersey,
meaning hurricane conditions are expected within the area.  New York Watch  Hurricane watches were also extended north along the East
Coast from Sandy Hook to the Merrimack River, including New York
City, Long Island, Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, the NHC
said. A watch was already in effect from the North Carolina-
 Virginia  border to the south Jersey shore. A watch means that
hurricane conditions are possible within the area.  That means more than 65 million people, or about one in
five Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine  may be in the way
of the hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Irene is currently about 375 miles south-southwest of Cape
Hatteras, North Carolina, the hurricane center said. The storm
moving away from the Bahamas is now aiming “its fury toward the
North Carolina coast,” it said in an earlier statement.  President Barack Obama signed a federal emergency
declaration for North Carolina, authorizing the Homeland
Security Department and Federal Emergency Management Agency to
coordinate disaster response and mobilize resources. The
governors of New York,  New Jersey ,  Maryland ,  Connecticut  and
Virginia declared emergencies while officials in Virginia Beach
and Norfolk, Virginia, ordered mandatory evacuations.  Heavy Rainfall  Gasoline advanced to the most in more than three weeks
yesterday on speculation that Irene may disrupt East Coast
refinery production and fuel distribution. Futures rose 3.1
percent to $2.9679 a gallon the previous session and fell 0.6
percent today to $2.9499 at 1:11 p.m. London time on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Irene could produce rainfall of six to 10 inches to perhaps
as much as 15 inches in isolated cases from eastern North
Carolina to southeast Virginia and along the Eastern Seaboard
from Delaware and New Jersey to southeastern New York,  Long
Island  and western  Massachusetts  by Aug. 29, the NHC said.  Storm surge from Irene may raise water levels by as much as
6 to 11 feet in parts of eastern North Carolina, 4 to 8 feet
over southern portions of the Chesepeake Bay and Delmarva
Peninsula and 3 to 6 feet above ground level along the Jersey
shore, the NHC said.  In Delaware, Governor Jack Markell told potential visitors
to stay away from his state this weekend.  Amtrak  canceled most
train services south of  Washington  today through Aug. 28,
according to a statement.  New York Decision  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said a decision on
evacuations would be made by 8 a.m. tomorrow for residents in
areas including Coney Island, Battery Park City and parts of
 Staten Island . The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The storm’s track ultimately depends on a weather front
moving into the Northeast from the west as Irene approaches from
the south, DeGaetano said.  Irene is paralleling the path of Hurricane Gloria, which
killed 11 people after making landfall in New York’s Long Island
in 1985. The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was Ike in 2008,
a Category 2 storm when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  