-- 
U.S. Government Struggles As The Biggest Seller of Homes

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-government-struggles-as-the-biggest-seller-of-homes.html
For sale or rent by motivated owner:
248,000 foreclosed homes.  The U.S. government, which has become the nation’s biggest
owner of residential properties, is looking for ways to reduce
and manage its huge inventory without swamping the real estate
market or exposing federal agencies to enormous losses.  Government-run  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and the  Federal
Housing Administration  now own about a third of the country’s
nearly 800,000 foreclosed properties. With that inventory
predicted to grow, they are looking for new ways to cope.  In a joint public appeal this month, the agencies invited
the public to send in suggestions for managing the inventory,
particularly ideas for turning foreclosed homes into rentals.  Karen Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., said the unusual appeal is a sign the agencies
recognize the backlog of distressed properties has grown so
large that it can’t be sold off without inundating the market
and depressing prices.  “They’re stuck,” said Petrou. “All sorts of people are
demanding they do something. They don’t know what to do but they
have to do something.”  The government’s housing inventory is just one challenge
facing President  Barack Obama  as he prepares to run for re-
election next year. The administration also is exploring ways to
help hard-hit neighborhoods, unemployed homeowners and
underwater borrowers whose houses are worth less than what they
owe -- many of them concentrated in battleground states
including Florida, Ohio and  Nevada .  Refinancing  Current low  interest rates  offer an opportunity, with 30-
year-fixed loans hovering just above 4 percent. The
administration is weighing ways to allow distressed or
underwater borrowers to refinance into a lower-rate mortgage,
freeing up billions of dollars to boost  consumer spending .  The complexity of mortgage finance promises to make any
housing fix difficult to implement, as the administration
discovered when it launched a mosaic of loan-modification
programs three years ago.  Since the 2008 financial collapse, Obama and his aides have
focused housing efforts on extricating borrowers from high-cost
loans, aiding delinquent homeowners, and stabilizing
neighborhoods. Now the most pressing problem has shifted to what
to do with properties left by borrowers who couldn’t be helped.  Mark Wiseman, a lawyer and former director of  Cleveland ’s
foreclosure-prevention program, said the new call for ideas is a
sign the agencies are overwhelmed by the repossessions, commonly
known as real-estate-owned properties or REO.  Looking for Ideas  “It’s almost like having the captain of the Titanic go on
the public address system and say, ‘Does anybody have an
idea?’” Wiseman said. “It’s not a confidence builder.”  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHA already are working to
shrink the property glut by selling homes to individuals,
donating vacant properties to cities for demolition and
auctioning off hard-hit blocks to investors.  All the same, foreclosed properties on the agencies’ books
ballooned to 295,000 in December, nearly four times the number
just three years earlier. According to RealtyTrac Inc., a
housing data provider, that was about 30 percent of the 980,711
foreclosed properties listed nationwide that month.  Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the FHA made progress selling
off the backlog in the first half of 2011, dropping to about
248,000 in June, according to data from the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. Still, with the pace of
foreclosures slowed by flawed documentation, total inventory of
repossessed properties has dropped to 817,567 in June and
798,659 in July, and the agencies’ proportion remains just about
the same: about 30 percent.  Foreclosure Increase  With settlements in the works on the documentation problem,
foreclosures are expected to pick up, said Thomas Lawler,
founder of Lawler Economic & Housing Consulting, who tracks
trends in government-owned foreclosures.  “You wouldn’t say everything’s great or wonderful,”
Lawler said. “There’s still a substantial number of loans in
the foreclosure process.”  Foreclosed properties made up 22 percent of the 3.65
million homes that were for sale at the end of July, according
to RealtyTrac. With about 50,000 REOs sold each month, the
market has a 15-month supply, the firm said.  Buffering the broader housing market from a glut of
government-owned inventory by turning them into rentals might be
good for homeowners and the economy. That’s not necessarily so
for taxpayers, whose dollars are at risk when government-
guaranteed loans go bad and who are footing the bill for
maintaining the REOs.  Rental Costs  Moreover, it remains to be seen whether converting REO to
rental will work. Leasing requires money to bring properties up
to code, adds to liability costs and requires an infrastructure
to manage the inventory. It also delays the government’s ability
to recover anything from their repossessed properties, said FHA
Acting Commissioner Carol Galante.  “It isn’t necessarily our preference that FHA is going to
itself continue to hold these properties,” Galante said in an
interview. “We want to move homes through the system so we can
recover.”  At the same time, the agency can’t maximize returns if it
sells too many houses at once.  “If you’re putting too much through that system you are
helping to drive down prices,” Galante said. “If there’s some
siphoning off of some of that stock, it can help stabilize the
prices. We could be better off. The proof will be in the
pudding.”  Biggest Seller  That’s especially true in parts of the country where the
government is the biggest foreclosure seller. In the first seven
months of this year, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHA sold 45
percent of all REO properties in Toledo,  Ohio , and 53 percent in
Atlanta, according to RealtyTrac.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in particular are under
political pressure to recover as much money as they can from
repossessed properties. The mortgage companies were seized by
the  U.S. Treasury  in September 2008 as failing subprime
mortgages pushed them to insolvency. The Treasury bought nearly
80 percent of the companies and promised unlimited aid.  With more than $170 billion drawn so far, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac are among the biggest recipients of government
bailout money.  Whether turning foreclosures into rentals is a solution
remains to be seen. The government wants to explore, among other
things, partnerships with investors that would allow Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac and FHA to keep an ownership stake in the rental
properties, giving the government potential to gain from sales
should the housing market recover.  Joint Ventures  Structured properly, joint ventures could help mitigate the
impact of foreclosures on struggling neighborhoods, some housing
experts say.  “This proposal is encouraging because it looks like a
serious attempt to address two problems that have not received
enough attention, which is property maintenance and the impact
on communities,” said Kevin Stein, associate director of the
San Francisco-based California Reinvestment Coalition, which
works on behalf of low-income areas.  In the request for information, the agencies said deals
would ideally involve packages of properties ranging in value
from $50 million to $1 billion. Michael Slaughter, a partner at
New Providence Capital, a Dallas-based private lender, said it
would be better to sell to smaller, local investors in lots of
about 20 properties at a time.  Doing larger deals, “is putting the properties back in the
hands of the guys who created the problem in the first place,”
Slaughter said.  ‘Too Far Gone’  Also, it may turn out that some neighborhoods may be too
far gone for rentals, Wiseman said. In Cleveland,  Detroit  and
elsewhere, houses in some parts of town are stripped and
vandalized the minute they’re vacant.  “Some of the neighborhoods you can’t move into,” he said.
“There are so many empty houses, it’s just not safe.”  It also remains to be seen if there is adequate demand
from renters. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac already have been
renting foreclosed properties on a small scale, with mixed
success. Freddie Mac allows occupants of foreclosed homes to
remain on a month-to-month lease until the house is sold,
spokesman  Brad German  said. Few do.  “They have the option, and people prefer to take cash for
keys and move on,” German said. “Our primary goal is to sell
the property.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  