-- 
Confidence of U.S. Consumers Dropped in August to Lowest Level Since 2008

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T14:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-dropped-to-55-7-in-august-from-63-7.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
dropped in August to the lowest level since November 2008,
pointing to little pickup the biggest part of the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell to 55.7 this month from 63.7 in July.
The gauge was projected at 55.8 after a preliminary reading of
54.9, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Americans’ confidence was shaken by unemployment exceeding
9 percent, falling home values and a slump in stock prices this
month. Waning optimism may indicate consumer spending, which
rose in the second quarter at the slowest pace in more than a
year, will stay restrained.  “Consumers, when they see the recent stock-market
activity, that is certainly a burden on people’s confidence,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . “Many of our problems today in the economy are
now in the hands of elected officials, and consumers in general
are not exactly confident that they can put us on a stronger
economic path.”  Stocks declined after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated there was no new plan to stimulate an economy
that’s slowed this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
0.4 percent to 1,155.12 at 10:33 a.m. in  New York .  While Bernanke sought to reassure investors and the public
that growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still has
tools to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of
indicating that the central bank will move ahead with a third
round of government bond-buying.  Fundamentals Not Altered  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments at an annual forum hosted by
the Kansas City Fed in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . “It may take some
time, but we can reasonably expect to see a return to growth
rates and employment levels consistent with those underlying
fundamentals.”  Estimates of the 61 economists surveyed for the confidence
measure ranged from 53 to 63.7, according to the Bloomberg
survey. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to
the recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June
2009.  The economy grew at a 1 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, less than initially estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today. Household purchases, which account for
about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy, rose 0.4
percent, the smallest gain since the end of 2009.  Bloomberg Measure  Today’s confidence figures parallel the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which stabilized last week at a level that’s
within striking distance of an all-time low.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 47 in the
week to Aug. 21 compared with minus 48.3 reading the previous
period that halted a three-week slide. The gain was within the
survey’s 3-point margin of error. The figure is close to minus
54 in January 2009, which matched the worst reading in the
history of the series dating back to 1985.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
decreased to 68.7 from 75.8 the prior month. The preliminary
August reading was 69.3.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 47.4, the lowest since May 1980, from 56. The
preliminary outlook gauge was 45.7.  Inflation Expectations  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.5 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.4 percent in the prior survey and in July.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, the same as the previous month.  “U.S.  consumer confidence  hit a new low in August,” Art Winkleblack, chief financial officer at H.J. Heinz Co., said on
an Aug. 23 teleconference with analysts. “This result was even
lower than in the depths of the Great Recession of the first
quarter of 2009; and in fact, is at the lowest level since 1980.
As a result, U.S. consumers are reacting by cutting back on
discretionary spending.”  Pittsburgh-based Heinz, the world’s biggest ketchup maker,
repeated its forecast for full-year profit, saying it will be as
much as $3.32 a share. Analysts predicted $3.35, the average of
17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Employment Headwind  Limited employment gains are a headwind for consumers. U.S.
employers added 117,000 jobs in July, less than the average for
the first half of 2011, according to the Labor Department. The
jobless rate has been at or higher than 9 percent for four
straight months through July.  “Certainly, macro-economic events give pause for thought
as to the potential consequences on consumer confidence,”
Matthew Moellering, chief financial officer for apparel maker
 Express Inc. (EXPR) , said on an Aug. 24 conference call with analysts.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company said comparable sales in the
second-quarter slowed to 6 percent after rising 8 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  