-- 
U.S. Racing to Beat Terrorists in Hunt for Libya’s Anti-Aircraft Missiles

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-26T21:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-racing-to-beat-terrorists-in-hunt-for-libya-s-anti-aircraft-missiles.html
The U.S. plans to deploy two
contractors to  Libya  with the exclusive job of tracking down and
destroying shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles before they
fall into the hands of terrorists.  The State Department also will deploy an in-house
specialist in controlling and destroying the portable missiles
to oversee the team, which is expected to arrive in early
September, according to an official who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly on the subject.  State Department officials notified Congress of these plans
Aug. 15, the day before rebels stormed the Libyan capitol of
Tripoli, a decisive break in the sixth-month-old civil war.  There is evidence that a small number of Soviet-made SA-7
anti-aircraft missiles from Qaddafi’s arsenal have reached the
black market in  Mali , where al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is
active, according to two U.S. government officials not
authorized to speak on the record.  The U.S. is intensifying efforts to secure and destroy
conventional weapons from Muammar Qaddafi’s arsenal even as
State Department officials stress that his known store of
mustard gas and uranium yellowcake remains secure. His nuclear
weapons materials, including highly enriched uranium, were
removed or destroyed between 2004 and 2009 when Qaddafi was
seeking better relations with the  United States , State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday.  ‘Special Responsibility’  While the new teams will work closely with the rebels’
National Transitional Council on weapons control, Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said the NTC bears special responsibility
to keep these weapons safe.  The rebel group “has obligations to the international
community,” Clinton said in a statement yesterday. “We will
look to them to ensure that Libya fulfills its treaty
responsibilities, that it ensures that its weapons stockpiles do
not threaten its neighbors or fall into the wrong hands.”  The so-called quick reaction force will supplement other
State Department efforts to curb the spread of weapons, all of
which have been in planning for months, according to the
official familiar with the plans.  That includes two non-governmental organizations that have
been in Libya since May, backed by a $3 million State Department
grant, securing and destroying conventional weapons.  Rebel Cooperation  A U.S. inter-agency team met in Malta with a Libyan
official in early August to reach an agreement in principle on
creating a program to remove the shoulder-fired missiles. During
June and July, that inter-agency team visited Libya’s neighbors
to discuss weapons proliferation, coordinate responses and
determine what assistance is needed.  The two NGOs inside Libya are working closely with the
National Transitional Council, and so will the quick response
team and the State Department specialist, the official said.  The two contractors will search for the missiles in less
secure environments than the NGOs are able to operate, the
official said.  The State Department created its own internal team to work
on the proliferation of shoulder-fired missiles in 2003, after
terrorists fired two such missiles at an Israeli aircraft taking
off from  Mombasa ,  Kenya , in November 2002. Both missiles missed
their mark. In the years since, the State Department  has worked
with 30 countries to destroy 32,500 shoulder-fired missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  