-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally as Bernanke Signals Economy Doesn’t Need Aid

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-26T21:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/u-s-stock-futures-rise-amid-stimulus-speculation-ahead-of-bernanke-speech.html
U.S. stocks rallied, breaking a
four-week losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the economy
isn’t deteriorating fast enough to warrant any immediate
stimulus amid valuations close to the lowest in 2 1/2 years.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  paced gains among companies
most-tied to the economy, adding at least 2.2 percent.
Technology shares rose the most in the S&P 500, with  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  advancing more than 1.5 percent.
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, jumped 9.4 percent after reporting profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and raising its earnings forecast.  The S&P 500 rallied 1.5 percent to 1,176.80 at 4 p.m. in
New York after slumping 2 percent following Bernanke’s remarks.
The benchmark gauge for American equities has risen 4.7 percent
since Aug. 19 and had the first weekly gain since July. The Dow
climbed 134.72 points, or 1.2 percent, to 11,284.54 today.  “This is exactly what the market wanted,” Keith Springer,
who oversees $120 million as the president of Springer Financial
Advisors in  Sacramento ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s telling you there’s no reason to panic because
they have the impression that the economy is getting better. If
he threw more money at the economy, it would have given the
impression that things were out of control.”  Stimulus Tools  Stocks gyrated following the Bernanke speech, in which he
said the central bank still has tools to stimulate the economy
without signaling he will use them. He echoed comments of
dissenting members of the Federal Open Market Committee who said
U.S. economic data aren’t pointing to a recession.  “Although important problems certainly exist, the growth
fundamentals of the  United States  do not appear to have been
permanently altered by the shocks of the past four years,”
Bernanke said in prepared comments.  Bernanke said a second day has been added to the next
 Federal Open Market Committee  meeting in September to “allow a
fuller discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s possible
response. He didn’t close the door in today’s speech to options
he has previously discussed, including a third round of
government bond buying.  “The one bombshell in the speech is that he did say the
September meeting is going to be a two-day meeting, which has
two implications,” said John Canally, who helps oversee $340.8
billion as an economist and investment strategist at LPL
Financial Corp., said in a telephone interview from  Boston .
“One, it may mean they’re going to spend more time further
refining the tool they’ve already outlined. Or it means they
have time to talk about something they haven’t done.”  Less Effective  Threats facing the economy aren’t as grave as they were
when Bernanke pledged new stimulus at  Jackson Hole  in August
2010, according to  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of
BlackRock Inc. Solutions such as the so-called quantitative
easing program to purchase Treasury notes may be less effective
now, said Koesterich, whose firm oversees $3.66 trillion.  “This is pretty much what we expected,” he said. “The
economic data points are likely going to continue to be weak,
but the market already knows that. If you have a period when
economic data is poor, but not as bad as people expect, you can
actually see some relief in the market.”  Rising consumer prices and signs the economy is still
growing may be restricting Bernanke’s options. Gasoline costs
are 33 percent higher, consumer inflation is twice as fast and
inflation expectations are above levels since Bernanke signaled
more easing a year ago. While the U.S. expansion has slowed, the
Chicago Fed’s index of 85 economic indicators improved in July
for a third month on gains in production.  Bolster Recovery  Last year, Bernanke hinted that the Fed might embark on a
second round of asset purchases to bolster the recovery, kicking
off a 30 percent rally in the  S&P 500  that ended in a three-year
high on April 29.  Policy makers this month pledged to keep their benchmark
interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013 and said they
“discussed the range of policy tools” available. Bernanke told
Congress on July 13 the Fed has stimulus options. They may
include buying additional securities, increasing the average
maturity of its bond portfolio, lowering the interest rate on
excess reserves and pledging to keep its balance sheet near a
record high for a longer period of time.  “There’s a risk appetite that’s building in the market,”
 Dan Veru , chief investment officer at  Fort Lee , New Jersey-based
Palisade Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3.8 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “At some point people are going
to see  interest rates  are going to stay at zero for some time so
we should probably buy financial assets.”  Low Valuations  This year’s decline in the S&P 500 left the benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities at 12.7 times reported earnings yesterday,
more than 20 percent below its five-decade average.  Barton Biggs , founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP, said last week
that valuations are so low they could withstand a 15 percent
decline in profits.  Earnings for companies in the index may rise 18 percent
this year, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Economists predict gross domestic product
will expand 1.75 percent this year and 2.35 percent in 2012,
according to a survey of 56 respondents conducted by Bloomberg.
GDP climbed at a 1 percent annual rate from April through June,
down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate, revised Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  Caterpillar, Alcoa  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-
dependent on economic growth rallied 2.4 percent. The Dow Jones
Transportation Average, also a proxy for the economy, added 2.7
percent. Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction and
mining-equipment maker, gained 2.3 percent to $85.16. Alcoa
advanced 2.3 percent to $11.86.  Technology shares in the S&P 500 rallied 2.3 percent, the
biggest gain within 10 industries. Cisco, the world’s largest
maker of networking equipment, increased 1.6 percent to $15.32.
Intel climbed 1.8 percent to $19.77.  Tiffany gained 9.4 percent to $69.01. Sales growth in the
current quarter is exceeding estimates, helped by the Asia-
Pacific region and the Americas, Chief Executive Officer Michael
Kowalski said in the statement. The company has also been able
to “absorb” precious metal and gemstone cost increases, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  