-- 
Muddy Water’s Carson Block Comments on OSC Order on Sino-Forest

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-26T15:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/muddy-water-s-carson-block-comments-on-osc-order-on-sino-forest.html
Carson Block, the short seller and
founder of Muddy Waters LLC, comments on the Ontario Securities
Commission order to halt trading of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and demand
five executives resign. His comments were made today on  Canada ’s
BNN television network.  On Sino-Forest’s investigation by independent directors:  “I have every reason to believe that this investigation
that they’re conducting is proceeding in good faith. In the
U.S.-listed China fraud-cap world, that hasn’t always been the
case, but everything I’ve seen from these independent directors
shows that they’re serious about this investigation.”  On time frame for public disclosures by company:  “In terms of the time line for public disclosures of any
sort, that’s anybody’s guess. I have no idea whether they’ve
been in communication with the OSC. Perhaps that’ll be
forthcoming. My understanding is the company can challenge this
order. They can either consent to the extension of the order, in
which case there’s no hearing, or can challenge it, in which
case there is a hearing and I believe that the hearing would be
public.”  On the OSC’s actions:  “It’s positive that the OSC suspended trading in this. All
of us at  Muddy Waters  were alarmed when we saw that investors
were paying up to C$6, C$7, even C$2 a share to own this, when
we know that it’s a fraud.”  On billionaire Richard Chandler raising his Sino-Forest stake:  “I think it’s unfortunate that investors seem to have
interpreted his purchasing a stake and possibly along with the
stake that Wellington took as affirmation of the company’s
financial statements. I think what the OSC did is positive in
that it’s protecting investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  