-- 
Lumenogic Mines Workers’ Opinions for U.S. Air Force, Multinationals

-- B y   K e n   S t i e r
-- 
2011-08-30T13:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/lumenogic-mines-workers-opinions-for-u-s-air-force-multinationals.html
To improve its aircraft, the U.S.  Air Force  typically relies on teams of
seasoned engineers and bureaucratic procedures. But in December 2009, the Air Force’s Rapid
Reaction Innovation Team at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton,  Ohio , tried an
unconventional approach: It asked workers at the Air Force Research Laboratory with less than
five years on the job to develop their own proposals. Then some 2,000 personnel voted on the
best ideas; ultimately the Air Force awarded $75,000 for prototyping each of the two winners.  David Shahady, the deputy director of the Rapid Reaction Innovation Team responsible for the
experiment, says the ideas resulted in better cameras in drones and a radar system that remotely
detects human vital signs from 10 times the distance of previous systems. With demonstrations
completed this summer, he expects to evaluate them outside the lab over the next year. “We have
been trying to find different ways to inspire [our young scientists and engineers] to come up with
new ideas ... within our own walls,” says Shahady. “[This project] allowed us to energize this
workforce.”  To manage the idea generation and approval process, Shahady hired  Lumenogic , a Westport,
Conn., consulting firm that specializes in developing and customizing online systems for large
organizations to use to gather so-called collective intelligence from their employees. A typical
system is accessible via an online dashboard that looks like a simplified stock trading program,
showing new ideas and data collected in real time. Lumenogic’s pitch: The data will help clients
function better because they will be better informed. Thomas W. Malone, director of MIT’s
Center for Collective Intelligence at the  Sloan School of Management , says the burgeoning field
-- first popularly explored in James Surowiecki’s 2004 book, “The Wisdom of Crowds” -- can
offer businesses a competitive edge.  Like its approximately half-dozen competitors in the U.S., Lumenogic provides its clients
training on how to use the customized online platforms, makes refinements, and collects and
interprets the data, for fees that range from tens of thousands of dollars to hundreds of thousands
of dollars. The information collected ranges from the open-ended, such as strategic directions a
company should take, to the specific, like expected sales. Dr. Emile Servan-Schreiber, a
Lumenogic managing director, estimates annual spending for collective intelligence is roughly
$150 million to $250 million, with U.S. companies accounting for about 40 percent.  Online Prediction Markets  Besides harvesting good ideas, collective intelligence consultants often set up online prediction
markets that employees can use to bet on crucial outcomes -- such as product delivery schedule,
demand, or sales.  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  was one of the first technology behemoths to
experiment with an internal market, dramatically improving the quality of its printer sales
forecasts in the mid-1990s.  Cisco Systems  (CSCO),  Google (GOOG) , and  Microsoft (MSFT) 
have since followed suit. Knowledge about complex issues is often scattered in a large crowd
among different disciplines and perspectives, says Alpheus Bingham, who directed  Eli Lilly ’s
(LLY) early experiments in prediction markets a decade ago and now consults for the
pharmaceutical industry.  Rather than just sell software, like some of its rivals, Lumenogic also serves as a consultant,
helping clients unearth beneficial information and determine how to analyze it and put it to use,
says Edward Rhoads, another Lumenogic managing director. “Every company faces the
challenge of [finding out] what our company really knows -- how do I access it, when I need it,
how I need it -- to help drive decision-making or results,” he says. Lumenogic was established in
2008 when two managing partners from the New England Consulting Group, also in Westport,
teamed with Paris-based NewsFutures, a prediction markets software pioneer co-founded by
Servan-Schreiber. Rhoads says the five-employee firm, with clients including  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Pfizer (PFE) ,  L’Oreal (OR) ,  Siemens (SI) , and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , expects
revenue of $2 million this year, double that of 2010.  MIT’s Malone says it’s a “puzzle” why more companies have not made use of prediction markets
that have proved beneficial to early adopters. He notes one likely obstacle is resistance to sharing
information internally within companies. That didn’t stop  Syngenta (SYT) , the $11.6 billion
Swiss seed and crop protection company, from hiring Lumenogic in 2010 to improve forecasts
for its chemicals. The factors affecting growers’ demand are far more than just fickle weather,
and because production decisions must be made six months ahead of actual use, forecasting
accuracy affects profitability and market share. Visala James, a Syngenta executive in Basel,
says Lumenogic’s prediction market exercises are proving more accurate than forecasts the
company made through traditional surveys that can take many weeks instead of days. The
improvements in predicting growers’ demand by country and region, which will take a few years
to confirm, would be “hugely valuable,” says James.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ken Stier at  kenstier@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  