-- 
Turkey, Ukraine Most Exposed to Crisis Repeat, Goldman Says

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-08-26T15:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/turkey-ukraine-most-vulnerable-in-crisis-repeat-goldman-says.html
Turkey  and Ukraine are more
vulnerable to a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis than other
nations in central and eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  on concern their balance of payments will hurt financial
stability,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Turkey has “accumulated substantial external imbalances”
and an International Monetary Fund program has been sidelined in
Ukraine, economists including Clemens Grafe and Ahmet Akarli
said in an e-mailed report today. Russia would also be exposed,
though “a more resilient banking system and increased ruble
flexibility” should limit the impact, they said.  “Our analysis suggests there are marked financing risks in
a number of CEEMEA economies should we see a repeat of ‘crisis-
like’ stress conditions,” Goldman said. “The ‘stress-case’
scenario implies that Turkey and Ukraine may be relatively more
vulnerable to potential balance of payments incidents.”  Turkey’s current account deficit, which widened to a record
$72.5 billion in the 12 months through June, or about 9 percent
of economic output, has brought losses for the lira of 13
percent this year, the biggest decline among more than 20
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, in Ukraine,
the IMF has delayed a visit planned for next week until October,
pending a revamp of its pension system and steps to narrow the
 budget deficit .  ‘More Abrupt’  In the event of external financial stress, the adjustment
to Turkey’s current-account deficit “would have to be much more
abrupt, leading to significant output losses, further lira
weakness and possibly a fall in foreign exchange reserve
levels,” Goldman said.  The lira was little at 1.7558 per dollar at 5:43 p.m. The
main ISE National 100 share index in Istanbul rose 1.4 percent,
trimming this year’s declined to 19 percent. The  Ukrainian
Equities Index (UX)  fell 2.6 percent, extending this year’s retreat
to 34 percent, making it the worst performer globally this year
after the Cyprus General Market Index and  Egypt ’s EGX 30.
Russia’s Micex rose 0.9 percent, paring its 2011 drop to 14
percent.  In  Hungary , five-year credit default swaps, which measure
the cost of insuring a country’s debt against default, have
surged to the highest since April 2009, partly on concern that
disagreements with the IMF leave the country more exposed to a
financial shock.  “The breakdown in negotiations with the IMF means that the
government will need to convince the markets of the credibility
of its reforms and fiscal commitments; an unconvincing
performance would increase the likelihood that the country would
have to undergo another painful adjustment,” Goldman said.  South Africa   The external balances of Israel and Kazakhstan look more
resilient, the report said. In South Africa, “the required
current account adjustment is to a large extent generated by the
existing moderate current account deficit,” Goldman said. “In
addition, we would expect to see a relative outperformance of
gold under a ‘back to 2008’ scenario.”  The majority of countries are in a stronger starting
position when compared with mid-2008, with the excesses of a
pre-2008 credit boom now tempered, the report said.  “Most of the countries are running either a current
account surplus or a moderate deficit,” Goldman said. “The
exceptions are Turkey and  Poland , a by-product of the strong
domestic demand-led recoveries of the past two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  