-- 
Hurricane Irene Bears Down on North Carolina Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-27T09:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/hurricane-warnings-extended-to-new-york-new-england-as-irene-approaches.html
Hurricane Irene bore down on the
U.S. with Category 1-force winds of 90 miles (150 kilometers) an
hour, threatening a storm surge as warnings were posted from  North
Carolina  to southern New England, including  New York  City.  Irene weakened from Category 2 as it moved toward the coast
of North Carolina on its path to the Northeast, where New York
Mayor Michael Bloomberg ordered the first mandatory evacuation
in the city’s history.  The center of Irene is now expected to make landfall in
North Carolina in the next few hours, the National Hurricane
Center in Miami said in  an advisory  at 5 a.m. New York time. The
storm was about 35 miles south of Cape Lookout, North Carolina,
and 95 miles south-southwest of Cape Hatteras. Irene was a
Category 3 storm two days earlier.  “The center of Irene will make landfall in eastern North
Carolina during the next few hours and then move across eastern
North Carolina,” the center said. “The hurricane is forecast
to move over the mid-Atlantic coast tonight and move over
southern  New England  on Sunday.”  While some weakening is expected after the storm reaches
the coast of North Caroline, Irene is forecast to remain a
hurricane as it moves near or over the mid-Atlantic states and
New England, the center said.  More than 65 million people, or about one in five
Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine  may be in the course of
the hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
3.5 million live in the North Carolina counties in the storm’s
path, according to Governor Bev Perdue.  Potential Losses  The storm may cause $6.5 billion in overall economic
losses, according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp. If the
storm takes a more easterly track and is less intense than
forecast, the company expects insured losses of $3.1 billion.  President  Barack Obama  signed federal emergency
declarations for North Carolina, New York, Virginia and
Massachusetts, authorizing the Homeland Security Department and
Federal Emergency Management Agency to coordinate disaster
response and mobilize resources.  The president was cutting short his vacation in Martha’s
Vineyard a day early, and was due to return to  Washington  last
night.  New York  The Port of Authority of New York and New Jersey plans to
close its five airports to all arriving passenger flights
beginning at noon today.  John F. Kennedy International, Newark Liberty
International, Stewart International, LaGuardia and Teterboro
airports will remain open for departing flights, the  port
authority  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The New York Stock Exchange may close for trading if
customers can’t make it to their desks, Louis Pastina, senior
vice president for NYSE Euronext, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday.  “The biggest issue with respect to U.S. damage remains how
much the storm is weakened after hitting North Carolina, and the
exact track across the Northeast,” Chuck Watson, Kinetic’s
director of research and development, said in an e-mail. “It
does look like long-term economic impacts to the NYC area are
increasingly unlikely.”  ‘Storm Surge’  An “extremely dangerous storm surge” may occur along the
North Carolina coast, including Albemarle and Pamlico sounds,
according to the hurricane center. A storm tide will raise water
levels by as much as 6 to 11 feet above ground level in the
hurricane-warning area in North Carolina, the center said.  “The surge will be accompanied by large, destructive and
life-threatening waves,” the center said.  The threat of storm surge rushing ashore in New York
prompted Bloomberg to order 270,000 residents of low-lying areas
of the city, including Battery Park City and Coney Island, to
leave their homes. The mayor is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Irene has the storm surge of a much more powerful
hurricane, said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather Underground
Inc. in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . Irene is actually pushing the surge
of a Category 4 storm into North Carolina, he said.  The impact with land in North Carolina will weaken the
surge, Masters said. By the time it makes an expected landfall
on New York’s Long Island, it may still have a more powerful
surge than its wind-force status would indicate, he said.  Six to 10 inches of rain may accompany the storm from
eastern North Carolina into New England, with as much as 15
inches in some isolated areas, the center said.  Flooding  “These rains could cause widespread flooding and life-
threatening flash floods,” it said in the advisory. Governor
 Chris Christie  ordered all rail service in  New Jersey  suspended
as of noon today. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the
Metropolitan Transit Authority will close New York’s subways,
buses and trains at noon. The Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey will suspend all PATH services starting at noon,
according to a statement.  Irene whipped the Bahamas on Aug. 25. Losses on the island
are likely to be between $500 million and $1.1 billion,
according to an estimate by  AIR Worldwide  in  Boston .  Gasoline advanced to the most in more than three weeks on
Aug. 25 on speculation that Irene may disrupt East Coast
refinery production and fuel distribution.  Irene has forced evacuations along the coasts of New
Jersey,  Maryland  and North Carolina and prompted governors of
states from North Carolina to  Massachusetts  to declare states of
emergency.  Warnings  Hurricane warnings are posted from Little River Inlet,
North Carolina, to Sagamore Beach in Massachusetts, including
New York City, according to the hurricane center. The last
hurricane to prompt a warning in New York was 1985’s Gloria, the
center said.  Irene’s hurricane-strength winds stretch 90 miles from its
center, about the distance from Philadelphia to New York.
Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph extend 290 miles
from the core.  The storm is expected to weaken after it hits North
Carolina, according to forecasters.  “It is going to hug the coast and that is going to take a
lot of punch out of the storm,” said  Arthur DeGaetano ,
professor of earth and atmospheric sciences at  Cornell
University .  Gary Best, a meteorologist at Hometown Forecast Services in
Nashua, New Hampshire, agreed.  Irene may not be a hurricane by the time it reaches New
York, he said.  “As it moves up the coast, half of its circulation is
going to be over land,” he said. “It’s probably not going to
be a historical storm but it is going to cause some damage.”  Northeast  The Northeast is experiencing higher tides because of a new
moon, so a storm surge now will be higher than it would at other
times of the month, said Michael Schlacter, chief meteorologist
at Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  In addition, the storm will be striking Long Island and
southern New England perpendicular to the coast, which means
more water will be pushed on shore, he said.  “The biggest impacts obviously will be the storm surge,”
Schlacter said.  Across  New York City , winds may reach 50 to 60 mph as the
storm passes, said  Tom Kines , senior expert meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Long Island may have wind gusts as intense as 100 mph along
with 5 to 9 inches of rain.  Kines said some people may dismiss winds that are less than
74 mph, the threshold for hurricane strength. They shouldn’t, he
said. The rain will loosen the roots of trees and hours of high
winds can push them over, Kines said.  “A 70 mile-per-hour wind can do a lot of damage,” Kines
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  