-- 
Irene May Cut Electricity for Days, U.S. Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-26T16:05:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/hurricane-may-cause-outages-flooding-in-inland-u-s-fema-says.html
Hurricane Irene may cause power
outages that last for “days or longer” on the U.S. East Coast
and inland, along with flooding, high winds and downed trees,
said Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator  Craig Fugate .  “It’s so important for people to prepare,” Fugate said at
a news conference with emergency officials in Washington today.
“People need to leave early" if local officials advise them to
evacuate, he said. "Travel a safe distance. Get somewhere
safe.”  FEMA has sent emergency teams to states along the coast and
is coordinating with state and local officials. The American Red
Cross deployed more than 200 emergency response vehicles to
distribute buckets, mops, food and other supplies. The
organization is prepared to serve 250,000 meals a day and can
increase that to 1 million, said chief executive officer Gail
McGovern.  President  Barack Obama  called on those in affected areas to
heed evacuation instructions. He urged people to take the storm
seriously.  “All indications point to this being an historic
hurricane,” Obama said today in  Martha’s Vineyard ,
 Massachusetts . “If you’re in the way of this hurricane, you
should be preparing now.”  FEMA has millions of meals and millions of liters of water
ready to give out as well as cots, blankets and other supplies,
Obama said.  Gather Supplies  Those in the storm’s path should gather emergency supplies,
such as water, food, flashlights, appropriate clothing and
important papers, officials said.  Irene, downgraded to a Category 2 storm on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson scale, moved north at 14 miles (22 kilometers)
per hour toward the coast of North Carolina, posing the largest
threat to the U.S. Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in 1985.  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said the risk
of significant rain and flooding is great either way, regardless
of the storm’s category.  “If you are in the storm’s path, you won’t be able to tell
much difference,” she said at the Washington news conference.  Irene has maximum sustained winds of 105 mph, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 11 a.m. Miami
time.  North Carolina  Landfall  The center’s forecast track shows the storm will make
landfall in North Carolina’s Outer Banks tomorrow, skirt the
East Coast and reach  New England  on Aug. 28.  “There’s going to be a huge swath of 5 to 10 inches of
rain through the densely populated Northeast corridor, where
we’ve had almost 300 to 600 percent of normal rain in the last
30 days,” said National Hurricane Center Director Bill Read.  Already saturated ground increases the likelihood of downed
trees and flash flooding, he said.  “This is not just a coastal event,” Read said.  Napolitano said the U.S. government has the resources it
needs to respond, and Fugate said there is more than $900
million in the nation’s disaster relief fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  