-- 
Hurricane Irene May Hurt NVR, Toll Brothers Most Among U.S. Homebuilders

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-08-26T21:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/hurricane-irene-may-hurt-nvr-toll-brothers-most-among-u-s-homebuilders.html
NVR Inc. (NVR) ,  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  are the U.S. homebuilders with the
greatest risk of potential damage from Hurricane Irene,
according to a  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  housing analyst.  The companies have the largest shares of communities in the
storm’s predicted path, said Adam Rudiger, senior analyst with
Wells Fargo in  San Francisco . Irene, a Category 2 storm, was
heading north toward the coast of North Carolina, posing the
largest threat to the U.S. Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in
1985, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  “Hurricane Irene will have a negative impact on orders, in
our view, as weekends tend to be higher traffic days for
builders,” Rudiger wrote in a note to investors today. “If any
material damage does surface, it could have the adverse effect
of delaying completion and could push closings out, thereby
delaying revenues.”  U.S. homebuilders have struggled for profitability as sales
slumped amid low  consumer confidence , falling property values,
tight credit and an unemployment rate of more than 9 percent.
New-home sales fell to an annual pace of 298,000 in July. At
that rate, 2011 would be the slowest year in records dating to
1963, the Commerce Department reported Aug. 23.  About 62 percent of NVR’s communities face potential damage
from the hurricane, followed by 42 percent for Toll Brothers and
32 percent for Hovnanian.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  has 28 percent
of its communities in the storm’s predicted path, and PulteGroup
Inc. has 22 percent, Rudiger wrote.  NVR Shares  NVR, based in Reston,  Virginia , rose the least among the 12
members of the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
index, gaining 0.2 percent to $616.50 as of 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Stocks rose today after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the  U.S. economy 
isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant an immediate stimulus.  NVR and Toll Brothers have been the best performers in
S&P’s homebuilding gauge this year, losing 11 percent and 15
percent, respectively. The index is down 26 percent.  Dan Malzahn, an NVR spokesman, didn’t respond to a voice
mail message or e-mail seeking comment on the Wells Fargo
report.  Toll Brothers ordered contractors at construction sites to
secure loose objects and follow evacuation orders when
necessary, said Kira Sterling, chief marketing officer for the
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based builder, which has communities in
the Carolinas and Mid-Atlantic region. The impact on sales is
likely to be minimal, she said, because most potential buyers
are on summer vacation rather than shopping for a new house.  Sales Disruptions  “Are we disappointed we won’t have as much sales
traffic?” she said in a telephone interview. “Of course, but
this isn’t usually the busiest time of year.”  For the past 10 years, August has been the seventh-busiest
month for home sales, Rudiger said in his report.  Storm-related sales disruptions are likely to be temporary,
according to Walt Molony, a spokesman for the National
Association of Realtors.  “Typically we see temporary disruptions on a monthly basis
that tend to get smoothed in quarterly data,” Molony, based in
 Washington , said in a e-mail. “Often these are postponed
transactions, but if there’s a lot of damage, it can be followed
by a spike in sales. That occurred after hurricanes Katrina and
Andrew.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  