-- 
Vietnam Dong Falls This Week as Gold Imports Spur Dollar Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-26T09:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/vietnam-dong-falls-this-week-as-gold-imports-spur-dollar-demand.html
The Vietnamese dong fell this week
on speculation gold imports bolstered demand for the dollar.
 Government bonds  dropped.  Limits on gold shipments have been removed for some
companies as part of attempts to halt a surge in domestic
prices, the Tuoi Tre newspaper reported Aug. 23, citing an
unidentified official at Saigon Jewelry Co. Ltd. Immediate-
delivery bullion traded at $1,770.75 an ounce as of 2:50 p.m. in
 Singapore . In Vietnam, gold rose to as high as 47.1 million dong
($2,263) per tael in Hanoi as of 3 p.m. local time, compared
with 45.6 million dong yesterday, according to the Vietnam Posts
and Telecommunications. One tael is about 1.2 ounces.  “Banks continued to buy dollars to import gold due to the
significant gap between domestic and international gold
prices,”  Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co.  wrote in a
note late yesterday.  The dong fell 0.1 percent this week to 20,808 per dollar,
as of 3 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency was little changed today. It has weakened 1.1
percent this month, headed for the biggest decline since
February.  The central bank set the currency’s reference rate at
20,628 today, unchanged for a second day, according to its
website. The local currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent
on either side of the fixing.  “Surges in onshore gold prices above international prices
spurred” demand for dollars to pay for imports of gold “and
disrupted the dong’s stability achieved in the previous three
months,” Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. wrote in a
note yesterday.  The yield on  Vietnam ’s five-year bonds climbed six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 12.56 percent this week,
according to a daily fixing price from banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  