-- 
Warner Urges Deficit Supercommittee to ‘Go Bold’ (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-26T19:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/warner-urges-deficit-supercommittee-to-go-bold-transcript-.html
U.S. Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia
Democrat and a member of the Senate’s “gang of six” who sought
a grand bargain on  deficit reduction , said he has urged members
of both parties on a deficit supercommittee to “go big, go bold”
with their savings. He spoke during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANNA GOLDMAN, BLOOMBERG NEWS: We begin the show with
Senator Mark Warner, who’s joining us now from Roanoke,
Virginia. Senator, thank you for the time.  SENATOR MARK WARNER: Thanks for having me on.  GOLDMAN: You spent this past month on what you’ve been
calling a staycation. And so as you’ve been traveling across
 Virginia , what exactly is the level of frustration right now
with Congress and the president?  WARNER: Well, there’s a huge level of frustration. I start
every pitch with the idea that 87 percent of Americans are
disgusted with Congress. I’ve yet to find any of those 13
percent who are not, because personally I’m pretty disgusted, as
well.  The fact that we didn’t step up in a more major way in
terms of addressing the debt and deficit, to put a real $4
trillion plan in place that would actually take on both
entitlement reform and tax reform to generate revenues, I’ve yet
to find anybody that doesn’t agree that we needed to do more and
really have a broader approach than what we ended up passing in
early August.  GOLDMAN: Well, the president, after Labor Day, he’s going
to be giving a major address, laying out a new jobs proposal.
Based on the 87 percent level of frustration, do you think that
the American people should have high expectations for what the
president’s going to come out with? Or do you think that he’s
exhausted all the politically plausible measures right now that
could give the economy the immediate boost that it needs?  WARNER: Well, I think there are still tools. I mean, we
have to understand that, you know, traditional tools that any
government uses in a recession - monetary policy, lowering
 interest rates , federal stimulus - we’ve used basically those
bullets.  So one of the most important things we - at least I believe
we could do is try to incent part of that $2.5 trillion that’s
sitting in cash on corporate balance sheets to get off the
sidelines, reinvesting. One way we could give business and
consumers confidence is if we put a true deficit reduction plan
that’s fair and balanced and get it passed, number one.  Number two, I think there are - the notion that we are
going to disinvest in infrastructure - and I hear there are some
members of the House who want to try to actually eliminate the
gas tax. That would make no sense at all and kind of put a halt
to any federal highway transportation funding.  So I’ve been working with Democrats and Republicans,  Kay
Bailey Hutchison ,  John Kerry ,  Lindsey Graham , on an
infrastructure investment bank that could be a short-term tool
to jump-start private infrastructure funding.  We’re looking, as well, at small incentives to try to get
some of the outsourced jobs insourced back into this country,
with something we call the America Recruits Act, that would add
up to $5,000 on a forgivable loan for large manufacturing and
technology investments back in this - in our country from jobs
that have been shipped offshore.  You know, there’s ideas, for example, that I’ve found a
tremendous response on that says, you know, we’ve got thousands
of schools in our country that are energy inefficient. Why not
take folks, particularly young people, 18 to 30 year olds,
who’ve been on unemployment for more than 10 or 15 weeks and
say, you know, we’re going to continue to give you unemployment,
but you’ve got to go to work in these schools, basically
reinsulating - or insulating these schools so they - these
schools can become more energy efficient.  We’re paying these young folks anyway unemployment. Let’s
give them a skill, put them to work. And because we can get a
return on those energy efficiency investments in our schools, we
can actually make that money back.  I hear a lot of interest, as well, on certain things,
again, that don’t cost a lot of money in terms of innovation,
patent reform, reform of the  Food and Drug Administration  to
speed up the process in medical research and getting drugs - new
drugs to market. Europe does it half the time.  My old industry in the wireless spectrum, trying to license
off more of that will actually generate revenues for our
country, as well as for more wireless innovation jobs,
particularly in terms of broadband.  (CROSSTALK)  GOLDMAN: Right, but given - given the partisan climate
right now, I mean, how - I’m sorry. But given the partisan
climate right now, how optimistic are you that we’ll be able to
get something that can provide the boost that’s needed right
now?  WARNER: Well, you know, the - I wish I’d say that, you
know, I’m extraordinarily optimistic, but, you know, the
alternative becomes, you know, if we’re going to look at
gridlock, candidly, the whole Congress ought to get fired,
because the American people ought to expect us to do our job.
And part of that is at least what we can do to try to help
incent this kind of  job creation .  GOLDMAN: Well, Senator, I -  (CROSSTALK)  WARNER: - there are a whole series of things that we could
do that, frankly, you know, we do need folks - particularly in
the House - to simply stop saying “no” and kind of roll up their
sleeves and, you know, try to work together in a bipartisan way.  GOLDMAN: Well, Senator, Wells Fargo earlier this week, they
said that Virginia’s among the list of states with the weakest
economies. So how concerned are you about Hurricane Irene right
now, that that could further give the economy a blow in the - in
Virginia?  WARNER: Well, Virginia has actually got much lower
unemployment than national averages. One of the reasons we’ve
seen some of these assessments is because Virginia, both with
our strong military presence and an enormous amount of
government contracting in Northern Virginia, when, you know, the
federal government becomes somewhat dysfunctional in terms of
lack of political certainty, in terms of some of these programs,
Virginia feels some of that hurt quicker than other states.  But we are starting to batten down the hatches, in terms of
this hurricane, all up and down the East Coast. I talked to my
daughter, who’s in college in  South Carolina , today. She’s
worried. I’ve got friends all across the East Coast that are
concerned. But I’m anxious, and I’m happy to hear that FEMA and
others are already deploying people into the field so we can be
prepared for this.  We in Virginia, we actually had an earthquake earlier this
week, so an earthquake at the beginning of the week and a
hurricane at the end of the week, you know, it’s a little bit of
a double-whammy.  GOLDMAN: Yeah, that’s right. Well, I want to switch gears
now to the supercommittee that’s tasked with $1.5 trillion in
debt reduction. You were a member of the Gang of Six. You
weren’t chosen for the supercommittee.  Alan Simpson , the head of
the president’s deficit commission, said that if the Gang of Six
was not well-represented, this supercommittee would be destined
for failure. Is he right?  WARNER: I hope not. And, you know, I want the
supercommittee to succeed. And the challenge is -  (CROSSTALK)  GOLDMAN: You hope not. Senator, you hope not, but do you
think that that doesn’t bode well? Do you think that leadership
then isn’t taking the supercommittee seriously?  WARNER: Well, listen, the fact is, even if the
supercommittee knocks another $1.5 trillion off our debt, that’s
still not going to be enough, unless we can also take on the
issue of entitlement reform and  tax reform  to generate revenue,
I don’t think we’re going to get there. So what I think I hope I
can add - and I’ve talked to a lot of my colleagues in the
Senate -  (CROSSTALK)  GOLDMAN: You’ve talked to members of the supercommittee?  WARNER: - build the case - I have talked to members of the
supercommittee. I’ve talked to Democrats and Republicans alike.
How we can continue to, you know, try to help the
supercommittee, to urge them to, you know, go big, go bold, and
show that there are members of both political parties who are
willing to kind of check their Republican-Democrat hats and, you
know, really make sure that we get this debt and deficit problem
under control.  We’re not going to solve the problem overnight, but, you
know, a 10-year plan to reduce $4 trillion in debt should not be
the kind of ultimate heavy lift. You know, if we don’t step up
and do that, then I don’t think we are doing our country a
service.  GOLDMAN: Well, Senator, with less than 30 seconds to go,
the president is going to be laying out how he would like to see
more than $1.5 trillion in debt reduction. How critical is his
leadership going to be in this next phase?  WARNER: Well, I’m glad to see the president - you know,
he’s been supportive of a grand bargain. I think the more
details he lays out, the better. You know, one of the things we
had hoped with the Gang of Six, to let us take some of the early
arrows from the extremes on both sides - you know, I don’t mind
taking those arrows, because we’ve got to get past the kind of
rhetoric on both sides and this idea that we can somehow wall
off entitlements or wall off revenues. We can’t get there unless
we’re willing to have everybody have some skin in the game.  GOLDMAN: Well, Senator, thank you very much for the time.  WARNER: Thank you.  GOLDMAN: And when we come back, a new chapter for  Libya ,
and grading the vice president’s trip to  Asia . Bloomberg
reporters are next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 