-- 
Congress Deficit Panel Should ‘Go Big, Go Bold’ on Savings, Warner Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/warner-says-congressional-debt-panel-should-go-big-go-bold-on-savings.html
Democratic Senator  Mark Warner , one
of the “gang of six” that sought a bipartisan deal on U.S.
debt reduction, urged members of both parties on a deficit
supercommittee to “go big, go bold” with their savings.  “Even if the supercommittee knocks another $1.5 trillion
off our debt, that’s still not going to be enough,”  Warner
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “Unless we can also take on the
issue of entitlement reform and  tax reform  to generate revenue,
I don’t think we’re going to get there,” he said.  Warner of Virginia said the government has exhausted
traditional tools for boosting the economy and creating jobs,
such as lowering  interest rates  and injecting stimulus spending.  With President  Barack Obama  set to outline a jobs plan next
month, Warner said Congress shouldn’t let partisan bickering get
in the way of other options, including funding to improve the
nation’s infrastructure, changing  patent law  and speeding the
approval of new medicines.  “If we’re going to look at gridlock, candidly, the whole
Congress ought to get fired, because the American people ought
to expect us to do our job,” Warner said. “Part of that is at
least what we can do to try to help incent this kind of  job
creation .”  Warner said there is “a whole series of things that we
could do,” and some lawmakers, particularly in the House, must
“simply stop saying ‘no’ and kind of roll up their sleeves and
try to work together in a bipartisan way.”  Fresh Spending  Obama will release his jobs plan shortly after the Sept. 5
Labor Day holiday. The president intends to press Congress for
billions of dollars in fresh spending to reduce unemployment as
he also pursues a compromise on long-term deficit cuts.  Measures to spur the economy that require additional
 government spending  are likely to run into opposition from
congressional Republicans, who control the  House of
Representatives .  Warner, who has spent August traveling his state, said he’s
finding a “huge level of frustration” with Congress for not
doing more to reduce the nation’s deficit. The non-partisan
 Congressional Budget Office  projects the shortfall will reach
$1.3 trillion in the year ending Sept. 30.  “Personally, I’m pretty disgusted as well,” he said.  Supercommittee  As part of a debt-limit compromise Congress passed earlier
this month, lawmakers designated a 12-member bipartisan panel to
find $1.5 trillion in budget savings over 10 years to avoid
automatic, across-the-board spending cuts. The panel was given a
Nov. 23 deadline to offer a proposal and must overcome
differences over taxes and cuts to entitlement programs such as
Medicare.  Warner said lawmakers must be willing to “check their
Republican-Democrat hats and really make sure that we get this
debt and deficit problem under control.”  While the problem won’t be solved overnight, “a 10-year
plan to reduce $4 trillion in debt should not be the kind of
ultimate heavy lift,” Warner said. “If we don’t step up and do
that, then I don’t think we are doing our country a service.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  