-- 
Wells Fargo Stocks ATMs, Reinforces Branches for Hurricane

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-27T01:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/wells-fargo-stocks-atms-reinforces-branches-for-hurricane-irene.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which has offices
between North Carolina and Maine, is stocking automated teller
machines with extra cash and protecting branches as Hurricane
Irene moves up the eastern seaboard.  The San Francisco-based lender has 63,000 employees who
work at offices in that region and is preparing to protect some
branches with sandbags and plywood, spokesman Ancel Martinez
said today in a phone interview. Three branches in the Outer
Banks of North Carolina have closed and more in the state and in
 New Jersey  won’t open tomorrow, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
has readied generators to keep trading floors operating on
Monday if needed, spokesman  Howard Opinsky  said in an e-mail.  “We have a plan in place to ensure information associated
with the bank’s transactions remain operational and secure
throughout the foreseen period,” Martinez said.  Hurricane Irene bore down on the East Coast today with
Category 2-force winds of 100 miles (161 kilometers) an hour,
prompting governors from  North Carolina  to Connecticut to
declare states of emergency.  Wells Fargo stocked ATMs along expected evacuation routes
with extra cash, and identified key offices to receive
generators if power fails, Martinez said. JPMorgan Chase sent
emergency-response trailers to locations in New York, New Jersey,
and Connecticut, rounded up portable generators and readied
sandbags, Opinsky said.  New York City  JPMorgan also extended hours at its 376 New York City
branches tonight to accommodate customers, and will have limited
hours tomorrow, Opinsky said. The 22 branches in New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut with regular Sunday hours will be closed,
he said.  Citigroup Inc. also extended hours at its New York City
branches and will shut branches tomorrow, spokesman  Sean Kevelighan  said in an e-mail.  Bank of America closed less than a dozen bank branches
today along the North Carolina and Virginia coasts, said Kelli
Raulerson, a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank. The lender also has building engineers and construction
professionals “on standby” in case they are needed, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 