-- 
Wisconsin Judges, Charles Schwab, National Century’s Poulsen in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-26T12:13:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/wisconsin-judges-charles-schwab-national-century-in-court-news.html
Two Wisconsin state  Supreme Court 
justices who allegedly had a violent encounter over collective-
bargaining legislation won’t face charges, said a state district
attorney appointed as special prosecutor to review the incident.  “I have determined that no criminal charges will be
filed” against David Prosser and Ann Walsh Bradley for the
incident on June 13, Sauk County District Attorney Patricia Barrett said yesterday in a statement.  The alleged violence between the judges took place while
the top state court was grappling with what became a decision
the next day reinstating legislation limiting public employees’
ability to engage in collective bargaining.  Dane County Chief Judge C. William Foust earlier this month
selected Barrett from neighboring Sauk County to review the
incident at the request of Dane District Attorney Ismael Ozanne,
who said he wanted to avoid allegations any action he took was
politically motivated.  The Supreme Court is in the state capital, Madison, which
is also the Dane county seat. Ozanne’s office in March filed the
lawsuit challenging Governor Scott Walker’s collective-
bargaining legislation, which led to the June Supreme Court
ruling.  According to the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel, Bradley
 accused  Prosser of putting her in a chokehold, a claim that
Prosser denied.  The Wisconsin Supreme Court’s public information officer,
Tom Sheehan, didn’t immediately reply to a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment on Barrett’s decision. Prosser didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Verdicts/Settlements  Fuld, Lehman Executives to Settle Lawsuit for $90 Million  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  executives including former
Chairman Richard Fuld will settle an investor lawsuit using a
$90 million payment from the defunct firm’s insurers, according
to a court filing.  The investors blamed Lehman officers and directors for
losses on Lehman stock and options from June 12, 2007, to Sept.
15, 2008, according to the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan . Fuld, 65, was chief executive officer of New York-
based Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank,
before its 2008 bankruptcy.  A bankruptcy examiner said Lehman foundered because of too
much debt, which it tried to hide from investors, and risky real
estate investments.  Patricia Hynes, a lawyer for Fuld, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Lehman said in November that Fuld would get $10 million
from insurers as part of an officers-and-directors program
paying for the costs of lawsuits. It also said insurers would be
asked to pay as much as $90 million in costs for unidentified
defendants in civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings.  Lehman has asked the judge to modify bankruptcy law on nine
previous occasions to tap its directors-and-officers insurance,
according to yesterday’s filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Drimal Should Get 70- to 80-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says  Craig Drimal, the former Galleon Group LLC trader who
pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges, should get a prison
term of 70 to 80 months, which is within federal sentencing
guidelines, the U.S. said in a memo.  Drimal pleaded guilty last month in federal court in New
York charges of conspiracy and securities fraud. Drimal admitted
that he and others at Galleon traded on inside information
obtained from lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com
Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information
was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at
Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  Drimal has suggested that the court impose community
service or home confinement in lieu of a “substantial” prison
term, prosecutors said. The request should be denied in order to
send a “strong message of deterrence to others in the hedge
fund community” and because the “nature and extent of his
criminal conduct doesn’t warrant community service,”
prosecutors said.  Drimal is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  on Aug. 31. Drimal’s attorney, Jane Anne
Murray, said she filed a memorandum last week asking the judge
to impose a sentence below the federal guidelines.  “We’re not surprised by their position; it’s been
consistent,” Murray said in a telephone interview. “We
disagree with the government on a number of issues including the
applicable guidelines. And we’re seeking a sentence that is
substantially lower than the one the government is seeking.”  Prosecutors also asked the court to obtain a judgment
against Drimal to recover the amount of the proceeds of his
crimes, which they said are at least $7 million.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Barry Bonds Asks Judge to Toss Conviction or Order New Trial  Lawyers for Barry Bonds, Major League Baseball’s home-run
record holder, asked a federal judge to throw out his conviction
for obstructing a federal probe of steroid use by professional
athletes or order a new trial.  There was no crime in the slugger’s 146-word answer to a
grand jury about whether his trainer ever gave him anything that
required an injection with a syringe, in which he spoke about
being a “celebrity child” who didn’t “get into other people’s
business,” his lawyers told U.S. District Judge Susan Illston
at a hearing yesterday in  San Francisco .  Dennis Riordan, Bonds’s attorney, said the former San
Francisco Giants outfielder took about 75 seconds to respond to
prosecutors’ direct question and eventually answered “no.” He
said upholding the conviction would mean that a defendant could
face five years in prison simply by taking 75 seconds to provide
a direct answer to the grand jury.  “It’s really preposterous to say there was evasion,”
Riordan told Illston, who ended the hearing without issuing a
ruling.  Bonds, 47, was convicted in April by a federal jury in San
Francisco of obstructing a U.S. probe of steroid use by
professional athletes. In a response of about 130 words, Bonds
didn’t say yes or no when asked if his trainer Greg Anderson
ever game him anything “that required a syringe to inject
yourself with.”  Riordan said other evidence shouldn’t be weighed in
deciding whether Bonds’s answer to the specific question about a
syringe injection was evasive. Illston disagreed.  “I’m obliged to view the totality of the evidence,”
Illston told Riordan. “I don’t think it’s fair to say, just
focus on the one statement. It seems to me we need to look at
this in the context of all the evidence in this trial.”  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  National Century’s Poulsen Conviction, 30-Year Term Upheld  A federal appeals court upheld the 30-year prison term of
Lance Poulsen, founder of National Century Financial Enterprises
Inc., as well as his convictions at separate trials on
obstruction of justice and fraud charges.  Poulsen was found guilty by jurors in federal court in
Columbus, Ohio, in October 2008 of fraud, conspiracy and money
laundering for defrauding investors of $2.9 billion. Seven
months earlier, a separate jury convicted him of trying to bribe
the main witness against him. U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley sentenced him to 30 years in the fraud case.  The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati
yesterday rejected Poulsen’s claims that Marbley made several
improper rulings at each trial and that his prison term was too
long. Poulsen had said he shouldn’t get a longer sentence than
the chief executive officers of WorldCom Inc. and Enron Corp.,
who got 25 and 24 years, respectively.  “Poulsen cites a number of sentences given to those whom
he refers to as ‘the most notorious financial fraudsters in
corporate America,’” according to the opinion by a three-judge
panel of the appeals court. “Poulsen presents no coherent
argument as to why his sentence is substantively unreasonable.”  Poulsen, 68, is incarcerated at the Williamsburg Federal
Correctional Institution in South Carolina, according to the
U.S. Bureau of Prisons  website . His release date is listed on
the site as Dec. 4, 2033.  The appeals panel ruled that Marbley properly determined
the loss to investors as $2.89 billion, even though prosecutors
had said once to jurors that the loss was only “over $2
billion.”  Poulsen’s attorneys William Terpening and Peter Anderson
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Poulsen’s 30-year term for the fraud case is concurrent
with his earlier 10-year term for the obstruction case.  The appeals are U.S. v. Poulsen, 08-4218 and 09-3658, 6th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  For more, click here.  TCW CEO Stern Says Gundlach’s Firing Had to Be ‘Surprise’  TCW Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern testified
that the firing of  Jeffrey Gundlach , who was the asset
management firm’s chief investment officer, had to be done in a
way that made it a surprise.  Stern told state court jurors in Los Angeles yesterday that
his October 2009 trip to Paris to talk to TCW’s parent company,
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, about buying Metropolitan West Asset
Management LLC was kept “confidential” from Gundlach. TCW
bought MetWest to manage the fixed-income funds that had been
run by Gundlach on Dec. 4, the day he was fired.  “The element of surprise was essential to the preservation
of the company,” Stern said in response to questions from Brad Brian, a lawyer for DoubleLine Capital LP, the firm Gundlach
started after he was fired by TCW. Stern said it would be “on
the margin” advantageous to TCW to allow Gundlach little time
to set up competing funds if he was going to be terminated.  TCW, based in Los Angeles, sued Gundlach, 51, in January
2010, after more than half of its fixed-income professionals
joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375 million in damages, claiming
Gundlach stole its trade secrets, including client portfolio
data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuit News  Apple to Win German Ban on Samsung Tablet Sales, Judge Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s intellectual property rights are likely to be
found strong enough to ban sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers in  Germany , a judge said yesterday.  The Dusseldorf court is unlikely though to expand the ban
on sales beyond Germany to other European Union countries as
Apple sought, Presiding Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said in
a preliminary assessment yesterday. A ruling is scheduled for
Sept. 9.  “In the court’s view, Apple has a case to keep” the
German ban, Brueckner-Hofmann said at the hearing yesterday.
“There are a lot of alternative ways to design a tablet device,
as the market amply shows. We think Apple’s EU design rights
grant a medium range of protection, if not a broad one.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and rival device makers is intensifying as an increasing number
of consumers use smartphones to surf the Web, play games and
download music. Apple, the world’s top smartphone seller, has
filed patent cases against handset makers using Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, including Samsung, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp.  The Dusseldorf court on Aug. 9 granted Apple, the maker of
the iPad, a preliminary sales ban in 26 of the 27 EU member
countries, only to scale back its reach a week later over
jurisdictional doubts. The court yesterday signaled that it
would back that approach in its verdict.  The court is likely to find that it doesn’t have
jurisdiction to issue a ban applicable outside Germany against a
company based outside the EU, Brueckner-Hofmann said. Samsung’s
German unit, for which the ban applies EU-wide, is independent
and doesn’t allow the court to assume jurisdiction for both
companies alike, she said.  The German case is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America Depressed Libor Rates, Schwab Says in Suit  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, sued Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
other banks claiming they manipulated the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, starting in 2007 in violation of U.S.
antitrust law.  The banks conspired to depress Libor rates by understating
their borrowing costs, thereby lowering their interest expenses
on products tied to the rates, according to the lawsuit filed
Aug. 23 in federal court in San Francisco, where Schwab is
based.  The banks “reaped hundreds of millions, if not billions,
of dollars in ill-gotten gains,” Schwab wrote.  In separate suits in April, three European asset-management
firms and the Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia sued the
banks claiming they manipulated Libor. U.S. and U.K. officials
are cooperating in a probe of possible Libor manipulation, a
person close to the investigation said in March.  The Schwab suit seeks unspecified damages, which may be
tripled under antitrust law. It also includes claims for
racketeering and securities fraud.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” Danielle Romero-
Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
e-mail. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  The case is Schwab Money Market Fund v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-4186, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Guaranty Financial Trustee Suit Accuses KBW of Short Sales  The liquidation trustee for  Guaranty Financial Group Inc. (GFGFQ) 
sued  KBW Inc. (KBW) , claiming that the investment bank used inside
information about the  Texas  lender to short its stock before KBW
collapsed.  Kenneth Tepper, the trustee, is seeking to recover $20
million in fees KBW obtained as Guaranty Financial’s investment
banker, profit it received from betting against the company’s
shares and other damages, according to a suit filed Aug. 24 in
New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “KBW’s disregard of its contractual obligations and
illegal and improper use of GFG’s and the bank’s material, non-
public, confidential, inside information undermined GFG’s
efforts to raise capital, one of the very purposes for which KBW
had been engaged,” Tepper alleged.  Guaranty Financial, based in Austin, Texas, filed for
bankruptcy protection in 2009.  Krista Eccleston, a spokeswoman for New York-based KBW,
declined to comment.  The trustee on Aug. 22 sued cardboard-box maker Temple-
Inland Inc., which spun off Guaranty Financial in 2007.  The case is Tepper v. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
652349-2011, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 