-- 
You Think Obama’s Been a Bad President? Prove It: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-08-26T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-26/you-think-obama-s-been-a-bad-president-prove-it-jonathan-alter.html
Tell me again why  Barack Obama  has
been such a bad president? I’m not talking here about him as a
tactician and communicator. We can agree that he has played some
bad poker with Congress. And let’s stipulate that at the moment
he’s falling short in the intangibles of leadership.  I’m thinking instead of that opening sequence in the show
“ Mission Impossible ,” the one where Jim Phelps, played by Peter Graves, gets his instructions.  Your mission, Jim (and readers named something else),
should you decide to accept it, is to identify where Obama has
been a poor decision-maker. What, specifically, has he done
wrong on policy? What, specifically, would you have done
differently to create jobs? And what can any of the current
Republican candidates offer that would be an improvement on the
employment front?  I’m not interested in hearing ad hominem attacks or about
your generalized “disappointment.”  I want to know, on a substantive basis, why you think he
deserves to be in a  dead heat  with  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Perry 
and only a few points ahead of  Ron Paul  and  Michele Bachmann  in
a new Gallup Poll. Is it just that any president -- regardless
of circumstances and party -- who presides over 9 percent
unemployment deserves to lose?  Left, Right, Center  Every day you’re pummeling him from the right, left and
middle. Senators  John McCain  and  Lindsey Graham  even attacked
the president for letting Libyan rebels take Tripoli instead of
burying  Muammar Qaddafi  under American bombs months ago. Here we
have the best possible result -- the high probability of regime
change for about one-thousandth of the cost of getting rid of
 Saddam Hussein  and no bad feelings from the locals -- and Obama
gets savaged anyway.  Like everyone else, I’ve got my list of Obama mistakes,
from failing to break up the banks in early 2009 to neglecting
to force a vote on ending the Bush tax cuts when the Democrats
still controlled Congress. He shouldn’t have raised hopes with
“Recovery Summer” and “Winning the Future” until the economy was
more durable. I could go on.  But do these miscalculations really mean it’s time for him
to go?  Most of the bad feeling goes back to the first year or so
of the Obama presidency. And in hindsight, those decisions
really weren’t so bad. To prove my point, let’s review a few
areas where he supposedly messed up.  A Few Rebuttals  From the left: “He should have pushed for a much bigger
stimulus in 2009.”  That’s the view of New York Times columnist  Paul Krugman ,
now gospel among liberals. It’s true economically but bears no
relationship to the political truth of that period. Consider
that in December 2008, Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a
hardcore liberal Democrat, proposed a $165 billion stimulus and
said he would be ecstatic if it went to $300 billion. President-
elect Obama wanted to go over $1 trillion but was told by House
Democrats that it absolutely wouldn’t pass. In exchange for the
votes of three Republicans in the Senate he needed for passage,
Obama reduced the stimulus to $787 billion, which was still
almost five times Rendell’s number and the largest amount that
was politically possible.  From the right: “The stimulus and bailouts failed.”  When Obama took office, the economy was losing about
750,000 jobs a month and heading for another Great Depression.
The recession ended (at least for a while) and we now are adding
several thousand jobs a month -- anemic growth, but an awful lot
better than the alternative. How did that happen? Luck?  Fed, Stimulus, TARP  All the bellyaching ignores that the  Federal Reserve ’s
emergency policies stabilized the financial system, and that the
non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office   estimates  that the
stimulus increased economic growth and saved or created millions
of jobs.  According to  the Treasury Department, taxpayers will
end up actually making money on the bank bailouts under the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, which Obama inherited from the
previous administration.  The Republican alternative for  job creation  wasn’t tax cuts
(the stimulus contained almost $300 billion in tax cuts) but
deficit reduction and rolling back regulation. I’ve yet to see a
single economist convincingly argue how either would have
reversed the catastrophic job losses.  From all sides: “He took his eye off jobs by pushing health
care.”  Not really. Health care consumed enormous time and
political capital in late 2009 and early 2010. But with the
stimulus new and still being absorbed (with remarkably little
scandal) into the American economy, it’s not as if health care
distracted the president from another jobs program in that
period. Sure, he should have rhetorically “pivoted to jobs”
earlier, but substantively it wouldn’t have made much
difference. And Republicans have offered no evidence for their
claim that the Affordable Care Act (which includes tax credits
for small businesses) has contributed to current levels of
unemployment. How could it? The program hasn’t even fully begun
yet.  The all-purpose explanation from the business community is
“uncertainty.” We’re told that people, and enterprises, won’t
invest because they aren’t sure about future taxes. This is a
crock. “People invest to make money,” the noted lefty socialist
Warren E. Buffett recently  wrote  in the New York Times, “and
potential taxes have never scared them off.”  Again, from all sides: “He looked weak during the debt-
limit debate.”  Yep. And if you were president and a group of extremists
was pointing a gun at the head of the American economy, what
would you have done? Invoking the 14th Amendment sounded
satisfying, but a constitutional crisis layered on top of a
debt-limit crisis would have been a fiasco, and probably would
have ensured default as world markets spent months wondering who
in the U.S. had the authority to pay our bills.  Be Specific  Elections involving incumbents are inevitably hire/fire
decisions. With foreign policy mostly off the table, hiring a
Republican means buying his or her jobs plan. Firing Obama means
rejecting where he has come down on big decisions. He and Romney
will unveil their jobs plans in September. In the meantime, I’d
like to hear from Democrats, Republicans and especially
independents who voted for Obama the last time but have given up
on him now. Why?  Your mission, Jim, should you decide to accept it, is to be
specific and rational, not vague and visceral.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author
of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 