-- ‘Despicable Me 2’ Leads Box Office as ‘Lone Ranger’ Misses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e ,   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-08T21:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/-despicable-me-2-tops-depp-s-lone-ranger-for-holiday-weekend.html
Universal Pictures ’ “Despicable Me
2” set box-office records in its debut over the July 4 holiday
weekend, while  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The Lone Ranger” bombed,
failing to match even last year’s megaflop “John Carter.”  “Despicable Me 2,” a comedy from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s film
studio and Illumination Entertainment, took in $83.5 million in
U.S. and Canadian theaters from July 5 to yesterday, building on
a strong opening early in the week,  Hollywood.com Box-Office 
said in an e-mailed statement. Its $143.1 million to date marks
the biggest five-day opening ever for an animated feature.  “The Lone Ranger,” by contrast, generated $29.2 million
in three days, missing estimates of $38 million and falling
almost $1 million short of the opening for “ John Carter ,” the
2012 sci-fi bust that led to a $200 million writedown for
Disney. The disappointment highlights the risk studios take
trying to create new franchises that can lead to sequels.  “The property didn’t connect with a younger audience,”
said Dave Hollis, Disney’s executive vice president for sales
and distribution, calling the sales “disappointing.” “That’s
particularly frustrating given the time, energy and cost, and
when it feels like you have the ingredients to succeed.”  Those ingredients, he said, included an 80-year-old
property known to millions around the world, one of the most
successful producers in Hollywood in  Jerry Bruckheimer , award-winning director  Gore Verbinski  and “the biggest star in the
world,”  Johnny Depp .  ‘Ranger’ Budget  “The Lone Ranger” cost about $225 million to make. Based
on ticket sales so far, Disney may take a $190 million writedown
on the film, said  Barton Crockett , an analyst with Lazard
Capital Markets. He had earlier forecast a $113 million loss.  “Many investors had been skeptical about Disney’s ‘The
Lone Ranger’ reboot,” Crockett said in a research note. “They
were right.”  Sixty-eight percent of “The Lone Ranger” theatergoers
were over 25, and 24 percent were over 50, according to Hollis,
the Disney distribution executive. He said it’s premature to
suggest Disney will have to take a writeoff.  “The movie is only in the first week of its run,” Hollis
said. “It’s too early to say that, and possibly reckless.”  ‘Despicable Me’  Both studios released their movies ahead of the weekend to
take advantage of the U.S. Independence Day holiday. The first
week in July is traditionally one of the biggest of the year for
theaters and filmmakers.  “Despicable Me 2,” made for $76 million, is the fourth
No. 1 opening for Universal this year, following “Fast &
Furious 6,” “Identity Thief” and “Oblivion.” Sales of the
movie, a sequel to Universal’s 2010 hit about a criminal
mastermind who is reformed by a trio of orphans, mean a third
installment of the franchise is a near certainty, said Jeff Bock, an analyst with Exhibitor Relations Co.  “I think that’s a foregone conclusion,” said Bock. “This
is probably the most anticipated animated sequel since ‘Shrek
2,’” he said, referring to  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s hit
franchise.  In “Despicable Me 2,” former criminal Gru is recruited to
battle a new super villain. The film, which features the voices
of  Steve Carell , Kristen Wiig and Russell Brand, was projected
to take in $140 million in  North America  from its opening
through July 7, according to Boxoffice.com.  Over five days, receipts beat the record held by “Toy
Story 3” with $141 million, according to Hollywood.com.  Minions Movie  “When you have a big opener, and look at the company we
are in with the biggest five-day opener, it’s very exciting,”
Nikki Rocco, president of distribution for Universal Pictures,
said in a telephone interview. “This is going to be a
blockbuster.”  Universal already plans a related picture featuring
characters from the series. The film, titled “Minions,” is
scheduled for release in December 2014, she said.  “People love the Minions,” Rocco said.  “Despicable Me 2” was praised by critics. Of 138 reviews
compiled on  Rottentomatoes.com , 75 percent were positive. The
film “is light on its feet, visually inventive and very fast
with the repartee,”  wrote   Los Angeles  Times critic Betsy
Sharkey. “It requires actors who can pull off the many peppery
lines at warp speed and in that the film is lucky with its voice
cast.”  “The Lone Ranger” was subjected to harsh reviews. Of 147
critiques compiled by Rottentomatoes.com, only 23 percent were
positive. Projections for the movie were $60 million for the
five-day period, according to Boxoffice.com. Receipts totaled
$48.7 million.  ‘Modestly Thrilling’  The film stars Armie Hammer in the title role and Depp as
his partner Tonto. The picture tells the story of the masked
crime fighter’s origins as he unites with Tonto to fight a plot
by railroad executives and a U.S. Army officer played by Barry Pepper.  “The shoot-’em-up action sequences, modestly thrilling
early on, grow as wearisome as Depp’s endless double-takes and
laconic one-liners,” Bloomberg News critic  Greg Evans  wrote.  “It was a real disappointment for the studio,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone
interview. “Estimates have been coming down the last few weeks
as reviews came in negatively. It is going to be a black eye for
Disney.”  Among returning films, “Monsters University” dropped to
fourth place after two weeks at No. 1 with $19.7 million. The
Disney film has taken in $216.3 million since it opened on June
21, according to Hollywood.com.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 22 percent to
$221.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com Box-Office said. Attendance is down 1 percent year to date. Revenue
is 1.2 percent lower at $5.71 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on actual ticket sales for July 5 to yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  