-- Macau Considers Requiring Tourists to Declare Cash
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-09T09:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/macau-considers-requiring-tourists-to-declare-cash-at-border.html
Macau  is considering a system
requiring travelers to declare the cash they carry across the
border, according to a government agency that sets anti- money
laundering  guidelines.  The world’s largest gambling hub is studying a “cross-border cash declaration system, but no timeframe, declaration
threshold or penalties are determined yet at the present
stage,” Deborah Ng, director of the city’s Financial
Intelligence Office, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Visitors from China’s mainland have helped fuel a boom in
Macau’s casinos, turning the city into the world’s largest
gambling hub with $38 billion in revenue last year. Any controls
imposed by Macau’s government would back China’s currency curbs,
which restrict how much money Chinese tourists can take out of
the country.  “Such talk may hurt the sentiment on Macau casino
stocks,” Victor Yip, a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Ltd., said by phone today. “But it won’t hurt the casino
revenue because there are so many different ways a traveler can
get cash in Macau.”  Travelers to Macau currently aren’t required to report how
much cash they bring in when entering the city, said Daniel
Tang, a press officer at the agency.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , a Macau casino operator
controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, dropped 3.8 percent to
close at HK$35.55 in Hong Kong trading. Sands China dropped 1.1
percent,  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  lost 0.7 percent and  SJM
Holdings (880)  fell 3 percent. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng  index
gained 0.5 percent.  Capital Controls  Tourists from mainland China can bring 20,000  yuan  ($3,260)
when traveling across the border and withdraw as much as 10,000
yuan a day with each card at cash machines. High stake gamblers,
who contribute about two thirds of the city’s casino revenue,
rely on middlemen, called junket operators, for credit to make
big bets.  To skirt the cap on yuan they can take out of China,
gamblers buy expensive goods from pawnshops using debit cards
and trade them in for cash at the same store.  The use of junkets, otherwise known as VIP room operators,
by casino companies in Macau limits their ability to prevent
money laundering and other illegal activities, one of Nevada’s
top regulators said in testimony last month.  Criminal transactions “are widely alleged to take place
just out of the direct purview of the casino,” A.G. Burnett,
chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, said in
 testimony  before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review
Commission in Washington in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  