-- Ackman Seeks to Raise Fund for Unnamed Activist Stake
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-07-08T23:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ackman-raises-money-for-activist-stake-in-large-company.html
William Ackman ’s  Pershing Square 
Capital Management LP is raising money in the next 10 days for a
special purpose vehicle to buy the stock of a large U.S.
company, according to a letter sent to investors.  The target is a  large-capitalization , investment-grade U.S.
corporation that principally operates in one business, Ackman
wrote in the letter, without naming the company. The stock
trades at a lower multiple than its closest competitor.  “The business is simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow-generative, and enjoys high barriers to entry, high customer
switching costs and substantial pricing power,” Ackman wrote.  Ackman is seeking new money at a time when high-profile
bets such as his investment in  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and a wager
against  Herbalife (HLF)  Ltd. have lost money or produced small
profits. The last fund Ackman raised for a single-stock
investment, a $2 billion vehicle that invested in Target Corp.
in 2007, lost 90 percent of its value over the next two years.
At the time, Ackman called it “one of the greatest
disappointments” of his career.  “It’s unclear what the strategic advantages are of going
into a single-stock vehicle,” said Brad Balter, head of Balter
Capital Management LLC, a Boston-based firm that invests in
hedge funds on behalf of its clients. “When the name of the
stock is disclosed it will jump, but if I bought the stock
myself I’d still expect to get most of the upside.”  $3 Billion  The activist fund will be capped at $1 billion and will
invest alongside the New York-based firm’s main  hedge funds ,
which plan to invest about 15 percent of their capital in the
same stock. Pershing Square manages about $12 billion, meaning
the total investment could approach $3 billion. The firm, which
already has a position in the stock, plans to buy more than 5
percent of the company and will talk to the board and management
to bring about change.  Pershing Square exited its  Target stake  in the first
quarter of 2011, less than two years after the retailer’s
shareholders rejected a board slate nominated by Ackman.  This year, Pershing Square gained 6.3 percent in its main
fund through the end of June, according to a report sent to
investors. The performance lags behind such large competitors as
Daniel Loeb’s Third Point Offshore Fund Ltd., which climbed 13
percent in the first half, and  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Partners
Ltd., which climbed 14 percent in 2013 through June 14.  J.C. Penney  Retailer J.C. Penney has lost 14 percent this year. In
April, the company  ousted  its Chief Executive Officer  Ron
Johnson , whom Ackman had handpicked to lead the chain’s
turnaround efforts.  The hedge-fund manager sold short 20 million shares of
Herbalife, saying in December that the weight-loss and nutrition
company is a pyramid scheme. While Ackman has never disclosed
his average cost of shorting Herbalife, the average price
between May 2012, when investors said he first put on the
position, and Dec. 18, when he made the stake public, was
$48.58. The shares closed today at $47.48.  Ackman didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on the
new fund.  Pershing Square is making some changes to this single-stock
fund, its fifth. The loss on the  Target (TGT)  fund was magnified
because he used options to leverage his bet. This time, he won’t
use a material amount of borrowed money or options to make the
wager, he wrote.  The new fund will charge investors a reduced 0.25 percent
management fee and will take 5 percent to 15 percent of profits
depending on the size of investments, which will be locked up
until Sept. 30, 2016, according to the letter.  The firm has received a $200 million “indication of
interest” from an institutional investor that has conducted due
diligence on the stock and received investment committee
approval for the investment, Ackman wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  