-- Macquarie’s Theolia Bid May Value Wind Developer at $458 Million
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-08T16:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/macquarie-s-theolia-bid-may-value-wind-developer-at-458-million.html
A  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  infrastructure
fund agreed to buy  Theolia SA (TEO)  in a deal valuing the French wind
developer at an estimated 356 million euros ($458 million) after
a debt restructuring that helped fend off bankruptcy.  Theolia’s board and main shareholders recommended the 1.70
euro a share offer, the Aix-En-Provence-based company said today
in a statement on its website. The proposal represents a 51.8
percent premium over the last share price before the offer and
40.8 percent above the volume-weighted average price over one
month, it said.  The offer caps efforts to turn Theolia’s fortunes around
after a lack of project financing during the global financial
crisis. Theolia agreed in 2009 to sell assets, save costs and
restructure 240 million euros of convertible bonds including an
extension of early redemption for holders to Jan. 1, 2015.  The bid implies an enterprise value of 356 million euros,
said analysts at Kepler Cheuvreux who advised shareholders to
accept the offer. The estimate is based on Theolia’s net debt
reported at the end of 2012, which was before the company bought
wind developer Breeze Two Energy GmbH & Co. in January.  “This friendly takeover offer is a great opportunity,”
Theolia Chief Executive Officer Fady Khallouf said in the
statement. “It would allow Theolia to both repay the
convertible bond and increase its capacity for future
development.” Four shareholders, including Khallouf, with a
13.45 percent stake have committed to sell their shares. The
deal is subject to obtaining two-thirds of voting rights.  Macquarie Access  Theolia operates 1,269 megawatts of wind including plants
on behalf of customers in  France , Germany and  Italy . It also has
50 megawatts in  Morocco , where it plans to develop 300 megawatts
to replace current turbines and build new sites.  The deal gives Macquarie access to Theolia’s newly acquired
wind parks in Germany and France that receive preferential
prices for power, according to Daniel Shurey, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. It also enables Macquarie to
benefit from any sale of proven operations, including Italian
developments, at a premium price, with the potential for revenue
from services contracts.  “This longer term position will be a key pull factor for
Macquarie,” Shurey said.  MEIF4 AX Holdings SAS, a unit of the Macquarie European
Infrastructure Fund managed by Macquarie Infrastructure and Real
Assets, also offered 0.85 euros a non-consolidated share, and
15.29 euros a convertible bond plus accrued interest.  The company had 109 million euros of convertible bonds at
the end of last year, according its annual report. The maximum
amount to repay should bondholders request payment on Jan. 1,
2015, is 125.8 million euros, the report shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  