-- AfDB Eyes Bonds From Nigeria to Zambia Amid Debt Selloff
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-07-09T14:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/afdb-eyes-bonds-from-nigeria-to-zambia-amid-debt-selloff.html
The  African Development Bank  is
planning to raise as much as $1.5 billion in local-currency
bonds in Nigeria and Zambia to finance infrastructure projects
as emerging-market bond yields rise on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce economic stimulus.  The Tunis-based AfDB, which gives money to African
governments for projects in areas such as roads, ports and
energy, is completing the planned size of the medium-term note
programs and is in talks with authorities in the two countries,
Olivier Eweck, financial technical services manager in the
bank’s treasury department, said in an interview from the
Tunisian capital on July 5.  “Before the end of the month we would have made up our
minds on the numbers,” he said. The Nigerian issues may be
worth as much as $1 billion and the Zambian debt may reach the
kwacha equivalent of $500 million.  African countries are stepping up sales of local and
foreign debt, targeting funds for infrastructure on a continent
where many lack regular access to services such as water and
electricity. The offers come as borrowing costs increase amid
speculation that the Fed will begin scaling back a U.S. debt-buying program that pumped cheap money into assets around the
world, including  emerging markets .  Yields Jump  Yields on emerging-market bonds rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 5.86 percent yesterday, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. data show. Borrowing costs on naira-denominated debt due
January 2022 rose to a 10-month high of 14.73 percent on June
11, three weeks after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated
stimulus may be scaled back.  Nigeria raised $1 billion of five-year and 10-year
Eurobonds for power projects on July 2. The sale followed
Rwanda’s $400 million issue in April, while Ghana and  Kenya  have
announced plans to sell international debt in 2013.  Some investors will want to put money into frontier
markets, “quantitative easing or no quantitative easing,”
 Razia Khan , head of African economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said by phone yesterday, referring to
the Fed’s asset-purchase program.  Sub-Saharan Africa is the world’s second-fastest growing
region after emerging  Asia , according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Countries need to spend about $93 billion a  year 
on infrastructure in the next 10 years to boost growth and
business productivity, the  World Bank  said on its website.  Local Currency  Senegal , which may sell its third Eurobond this year, is
offering 50 billion  CFA francs  ($98 million) in a 10-year
infrastructure bond until July 22. The term matches the AfDB’s
debt sold in Uganda in May, where 12.5 billion shillings ($4.8
million) was offered as part of its 125 billion-shilling medium-term note program started last year.  The first tranche of local-currency debt in Nigeria may be
the naira equivalent of $100 million and bonds in both Nigeria
and Zambia will be offered “well before year-end,” said Eweck.
AfDB wants the Nigerian program to continue for “several years
at least,” he said.  “If a project is generating local currency it needs to be
financed in local currency,” Eweck said. The naira strengthened
less than 0.1 percent to 161.70 per dollar as of 3:01 p.m. in
Lagos, paring its decline this year to 3.4 percent. Zambia’s
kwacha gained 0.4 percent to 5.51 per dollar, lowering this
year’s losses to 5.8 percent.  Multinational companies may follow AfDB in selling local-currency debt, Khan said.  “It isn’t just about raising the money that’s required for
infrastructure development, but they’re also doing their bit for
developing the local markets,” she said. “The whole idea is
there is more liquidity in those debt markets as a result.”  The proceeds from the AfDB bonds will mainly go to funding
private-industry power, road and rail projects, as well as
financial companies, said Eweck.  The Zambian and  Nigeria  debt sales may be followed by
similar programs in Kenya, Tanzania and Ghana next year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  