-- AIB Bid to Plug $1 Billion Pension Gap Backed by Labour Court
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-08T14:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/aib-bid-to-plug-1-billion-pension-gap-backed-by-labour-court.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s
largest lender before its government bailout, won backing from
an arbitration court to shut down its defined benefit pension
plan, which has a 789 million-euro ($1 billion) deficit.  The bank should be able from December to move employees in
its defined-benefit plan, where pensions are linked to final
salaries, to a defined-contribution plan, where benefits depend
on the performance of investments, according to today’s ruling
by the Labour Court in Dublin. The defined-benefit plan was
closed to new entrants in 1997.  The decision removes an obstacle to  Allied Irish ’s attempt
to return to profit during 2014 and to private ownership
thereafter. The government owns 99.8 percent of the lender after
providing a 21 billion-euro bailout. Pension deficits will be
deducted from banks’ core capital ratios, a gauge of financial
strength, when the next round of international banking rules,
known as Basel III, take effect in 2019.  “Sorting out the pension issue removes some of the
uncertainty surrounding the group and will help its capital
position,” Colm Foley, an analyst at Dublin-based  Goodbody
Stockbrokers , said by telephone. “It also helps the bank to
start building up an investment case as it looks to return to
private hands at some stage in the future.”  While the court’s decisions aren’t legally binding, Allied
Irish said it will start to consult employees in coming weeks.
The Irish Bank Officials Association, the lender’s labor union,
will ballot its members on the decision by the end of July.  The court “is fully satisfied that the implementation of
the changes which it now recommends are crucial to ensuring the
future viability of the business and protecting employment,” it
said in a statement published by the IBOA.  Allied Irish, which had by the end of last year eliminated
1,700 jobs of a planned 2,500 by 2015, will maintain its
voluntary severance terms for departing employees until March
that year, according to the IBOA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  