-- AIG Said to Lead Insurers Covering Asiana Air Crash
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-08T22:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/aig-said-to-lead-insurers-covering-asiana-air-crash.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  was
the lead insurer providing coverage for the  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) 
jet that crashed while landing in San Francisco last weekend,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The coverage is split among several insurers and the lead
broker was  Willis Group Holdings Plc (WSH) , said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the contracts are
private. Spokesmen at Willis and AIG declined to comment on
coverage of the crash.  Asiana, South Korea’s second-largest airline, had $130
million of insurance for the plane and $2.25 billion for
reparations, South Korea’s Financial Services Commission said
July 7 in a statement. The commission estimated crash costs may
be about 148 billion won ($128 million) for the plane and 50
billion won for payouts to passengers and damage to the runway.  The U.S. Transportation Safety Board is investigating the
July 6 crash, in which two passengers were killed. There were
307 people on board the Boeing Co. 777, which caught fire after
hitting a sea wall short of the runway.  Insurance Insider reported earlier that AIG was the lead
insurer for the plane.  Prices have been flat or declining in the market for
aerospace insurance, after several years without major losses,
said Phil Smaje, who runs the aerospace division at London-based
Willis. It’s too soon to say how the Asiana crash may affect the
market for insurance, he said.  “We’ve gone through a period of very, very low frequency
of loss and low severity of loss as well,” Smaje said. It’s a
“very soft market environment.”  Nine insurers provided coverage to Asiana, the Financial
Services Commission said. The companies reinsured most of the
coverage to firms outside the nation, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 