-- Alcoa Facing ‘Hard Decisions’ on Aluminum Plants
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-07-08T13:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/alcoa-facing-hard-decisions-on-aluminum-plants.html
Bob Wilt’s first job at  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
was in 1999 at a plant in the Tennessee town named after the
company. In 2012, as head of the aluminum producer’s U.S.
smelters, he oversaw the plant’s demolition.  As the new president of Alcoa’s global primary products
business, the Gulf War veteran will now likely need to cut more
production capacity after competition from China and a 15
percent slump in aluminum prices made the New York-based company
the worst-performing stock in the Dow Jones Industrial Average
this year.  Alcoa, which had its  credit rating  cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service in May, will report after today’s close that
its  earnings  were unchanged from a year ago, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “You look back fondly on the experiences you had, but at
the same time you’re trying to do what’s good for the broader
organization,” Wilt said in a July 2 interview. “Those hard
decisions are going to have to be made.”  Appointed head of the company’s largest unit by revenue,
Wilt is reviewing 11 percent of aluminum capacity as Alcoa seeks
to improve its competitiveness. Already this year there have
been permanent shutdowns announced in Quebec and Italy, even as
the largest U.S. aluminum producer sees record earnings from
downstream segments selling components made out of the metal to
 customers  such as Boeing Co. and General Motors Co.  Alcoa is “taking action on smelters and will get the job
done,” said Lloyd O’Carroll, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst
at Davenport & Co. who recommends buying the shares. “The
downstream stuff is rocking and is going to do a lot better.”  Price Drop  Alcoa will post second-quarter net income excluding one-time items of 6 cents a share, according to the average of 15
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company declined
to comment on its results ahead of their publication.  Shares of Alcoa rose 1 percent to $7.89 at 9:31 a.m. in New
York. They declined 10 percent in 2013 through July 5, the  worst
performer  on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)  Aluminum for
delivery in three months, the benchmark futures contract on the
London Metal Exchange, dropped to $1,768 a metric ton in the
same period. It traded at $1,758 on June 27, the lowest in
almost three years.  The primary products business -- which makes aluminum
slabs, ingots and billets -- will see earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $15 million in the
second quarter, down 87 percent from a year earlier, Deutsche
Bank AG estimates.  Cost Curve  “The division that is really bringing home the bacon is
the downstream stuff,” said  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based analyst at Deutsche Bank who has a hold rating
on the stock. “They can continue to shutter the stuff that is
producing negative  cash flow .”  Alcoa, the most valuable metals company in 2002, has been
overtaken in size by diversified commodities producers such as
BHP Billiton Ltd. and Glencore Xstrata Plc. Once the largest
aluminum smelter by tonnage, it ranked behind  Russia ’s United
Co. Rusal and Aluminum Corp. of China last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld ’s
stated aim is to move the company along what is known in the
industry as the cost curve in the next two years, so that it’s
within the cheapest 41 percent of global capacity.  To achieve that goal, Alcoa plans to add lower-cost
production from a new 740,000-ton, low-cost smelter in a
partnership with Saudi Arabian Mining Co.  Fuel Oil  Alcoa said in April it achieved $247 million in year-on-year productivity gains in the first quarter. It expects to cut
$750 million in costs this year, compared with $1.3 billion in
2012, it said in a Jan. 8 presentation.  Wilt, 45, graduated from the U.S. Military Academy in  West
Point , New York, served in the  Gulf War  in  Iraq  with the Army’s
101st Airborne Division, and holds a Masters in Business
Administration from  Harvard Business School . He’s evaluating the
future of older, higher-cost plants. With electricity accounting
for about a third of production costs, the type of energy source
is critical.  One of the ways Wilt plans to attain Alcoa’s cost-savings
goal is by shutting smelters reliant on power generated from
 fuel oil , or converting them to other energy sources such as
natural gas.  “Fuel oil is not a fuel source that’s competitive long-term for us in some regions,” he said.  ‘Rapid Change’  The scale of the challenge in the aluminum market facing
producers such as Alcoa can be seen in the size of stockpiles of
the lightweight metal. Inventories total about 12 million tons,
excluding  China , Oleg Mukhamedshin, a director at Russian
smelter United Co., said in an interview July 1. That’s equal to
about 27 percent of 2012 global consumption, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While producers worldwide have announced capacity cuts of
about 1.3 million tons in 2013, others are set to add 5.4
million tons of capacity this year, led by new plants in China,
Morgan Stanley said in a June 25 report. In comparison, Alcoa
produced 3.74 million tons of aluminum in 2012.  Alcoa has confirmed the shutdown of 149,000 tons of
capacity so far in 2013, adding to the 531,000 tons temporarily
and permanently closed last year. The company is doing more than
most to help balance supply and demand, Davenport’s O’Carroll
said.  “I bring a very strong bias for action to the job,” Wilt
said. “I think that one of the reasons Klaus put me here is he
expects fundamental and rapid change in primary because we can’t
stand still.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  