-- Alcoa Earnings Exceed Estimates as Aircraft Orders Gain
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-07-09T13:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/alcoa-earnings-beat-estimates-as-car-sales-boost-aluminum-demand.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
following a better-than-expected performance at its unit that
supplies components to aerospace and power companies.  Profit excluding expenses related to output cuts and a
legal settlement were 7 cents a share in the second quarter,
Alcoa said yesterday, beating the 6-cent average of 15 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.9 percent to $5.85 billion,
surpassing the $5.79 billion average of nine estimates.  Alcoa’s engineered products and solutions business saw
operating income rise 12 percent from the first quarter,
exceeding the 5 percent growth forecast by the company in April.
It’s boosting sales at downstream divisions as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  tries to reduce reliance
on aluminum smelting, which has been hurt by lower metal prices.  “Aerospace is really what’s driving engineered products,”
said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,
 Virginia , who recommends buying the stock. “Revenues are
growing, and growing pretty strongly. Margins are continuing to
improve.”  Alcoa fell 0.8 percent to $7.86 at 9:39 a.m. in  New York .
The company, the first member of the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report quarterly results, has fallen 9.3 percent this
year in New York, the worst performance on the DJIA.  Aviation Market  “We continue to view AA as a story of two halves with
strength in the downstream business effectively negated by
poorly performing commodity markets,” Brian Yu, a San
Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note
yesterday, referring to Alcoa by its stock ticker.  Alcoa makes aircraft wings and fasteners used to attach
fuselages, wings and engines to one another. The civil aviation
market is in an upswing, with Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS securing
orders for 848 aircraft valued at $129 billion at June’s  Paris
Air Show , adding to a backlog already stretching several years
for some models.  “Alcoa will benefit from all of this as our position in
this segment is very, very strong,” Kleinfeld said yesterday on
a conference call with analysts.  While the alumina, flat-rolled and engineered products
units all recorded an operating profit for the quarter, the
primary metals business -- Alcoa’s largest by sales -- swung to
a $32 million loss, according to a statement from the New York-based company.  Smelter Shutdowns  The company confirmed the closing of 149,000 metric tons of
aluminum-smelting capacity so far in 2013, on top of 531,000
tons of cuts last year, as it tries to boost the competitiveness
of its smelters. More halts are likely as it reviews the future
of other plants accounting for about 11 percent of capacity.  Alcoa’s status as a bellwether for the stock market has
diminished along with its clout and credit rating, Richard Moroney, editor of Dow Theory Forecasts newsletter, said in
June.  Investors are looking beyond Alcoa, which in the past 11
years has lost its position as the world’s largest metals
company to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Paul Hickey , co-founder of Bespoke
Investment Group, said in April. Moody’s Investors Service cut
its rating on Alcoa’s $8.6 billion of debt to junk in May,
citing the decline in aluminum prices.  Aluminum for delivery in three months, the most active
contract on the London Metal Exchange, has fallen 13 percent
this year. It traded at $1,758 a ton on June 27, the lowest
since July 2009.  Net Loss  Alcoa’s second-quarter net loss widened to $119 million
from $2 million a year earlier. The average of five analysts’
estimates was for net income of $59.3 million.  The unexpected loss came after Alcoa recorded $42 million
in expenses related to production cuts at a Quebec smelter. It
also took a $62 million charge on a proposed settlement with the
 Department of Justice  over its probe into alleged corruption in
connection with alumina sales to Aluminium Bahrain BSC.  Alcoa said a settlement proposed to the Securities and
Exchange Commission over the same allegations was rejected by
the regulator.  Alcoa maintained its estimate that global aluminum demand
will rise by 7 percent this year, led by 11 percent growth in
 China . Demand will exceed supply by 315,000 tons, the company
said in  presentation slides  for the conference call.  Worldwide production has surpassed demand for the past
eight years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  