-- Amazon’s Quidsi Sees Founders Depart to Work on New Projects
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-07-08T21:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/amazon-s-quidsi-sees-founders-depart-to-work-on-new-projects.html
Marc Lore  and Vinit Bharara, founders
of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Quidsi unit, have left the company to focus
on other projects, the online retailer said.  Lore, who was Quidsi’s chief executive officer, and
Bharara, chief operating officer, told employees of their
impending departure in April, Tim Volkema, a spokesman for
Quidsi, wrote in an e-mailed statement. Maria Renz, formerly
vice president of media at Amazon, took over as Quidsi’s CEO
July 1, he said.  Amazon bought Quidsi, operator of Soap.com and Diapers.com,
for about $545 million in April 2011, making it Amazon’s third-largest  acquisition  since the 2009 purchase of Zappos.com for
$1.2 billion. Seattle-based Amazon purchased Kiva Systems Inc.,
a maker of robots that move items around warehouses, for $775
million last year.  “Lore and Bharara announced their decisions to employees
in April and have been working with Renz since then to ensure a
seamless transition,” Volkema said.  Executives and founders who have joined Amazon through
acquisitions in some of its larger takeovers have remained at
the online retailer. Mick Mountz, founder and CEO of Kiva
Systems, is still at Amazon, and Tony Hsieh, who was CEO of
Zappos when Amazon acquired it, remains in that position. Otis
Chandler, founder and CEO of Goodreads, a reading social network
Amazon agreed to acquire in March, has also stayed at the
company, Amazon said.  Amazon rose 1.7 percent to $290.59 at the close in  New
York . The online retailer has gained 16 percent this year. The
Quidsi departures were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  