-- Ambac Taps New York’s Goldin on $170 Million Detroit Debt
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ambac-taps-new-york-s-goldin-on-170-million-detroit-debt.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. turned to
Harrison J. Goldin,  New York  City’s comptroller during its mid-1970s fiscal crisis, for advice on Detroit and its plan to
partially repay some debt backed by municipal taxpayers there.  Detroit emergency manager Kevyn Orr halted payments on $2
billion in unsecured debt, including some tax-backed general-obligation bonds, in June. Ambac, a unit of New York-based  Ambac
Financial Group Inc. (AMBC)  that insures $170.3 million in the
securities, said the move imperils the city’s recovery.  “ Michigan  is making a grave error in its support for the
proposed treatment of the general-obligation bonds,” Goldin
said yesterday in a statement from Ambac. “It is short-sighted
to signal to lenders that they cannot trust the city’s
unconditional pledge to repay its general-obligation debts.”  Orr, appointed this year by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
to oversee the fiscal receovery of Michigan’s largest city, has
proposed skipping some debt payments, including those owed on
$530 million in unsecured unlimited-tax and limited-tax general-obligation bonds. Orr is grappling with $17 billion in Detroit
liabilities as he tries to avoid entering what would be a record
municipal bankruptcy.  “A successful revitalization of the city will be dependent
upon its ability to access cost-effective financing in the
future,” Ambac said in the statement. A default by the city
“is harmful to Detroit and the interests of taxpayers in
Michigan,” the company said.  Honoring Claims  Ambac also said it would honor investor claims for payment
on Detroit bonds if the city fails to cover them, in accordance
with its policies. It said it had exposure to $92.7 million in
Detroit limited-tax general obligation debt and $77.6 million in
unlimited tax bonds.  Goldin, a former state senator, served as New York
comptroller from 1974 to 1989, helping to lead the city away
from fiscal disaster. He is a senior managing director of New
York-based Goldin Associates LLC, a financial advisory firm, and
has worked on numerous major bankruptcies, including those of
Refco Inc., Enron  North America  and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.  Ambac’s hiring of Goldin may signal another legal
battlefront is opening in Detroit’s effort to stave off a
request for court protection from creditors.  Ambac is seeking preferential treatment for which there is
no legal precedent, said Bill Nowling, an Orr spokesman. He said
general-obligation bonds are unsecured debt, and that Ambac, as
a bond insurer, should have known the risks of investing in
Detroit securities.  Same Treatment  “It’s important that the emphasis is not on who wins or
loses among creditor classes, but on being able to provide
services and fund those services,” Nowling said. Orr’s plan to
revive the city’s fiscal affairs treats all creditors the same,
Nowling said.  “The city is not a company that can be carved up and sold
off,” Nowling said. “It has to function as a city when we’re
done with the restructuing process.”  On July 5,  Detroit  sued to block swaps insurer Syncora
Guarantee Inc. from preventing as much as $11 million a month in
casino-tax revenue from reaching the city, where it is used to
cover basic services. Syncora insures some of the $1.4 billion
in securities issued in 2005 and 2006 by the city to cover some
pension obligations.  Wayne County Circuit Court Judge Annette Berry granted
Orr’s request to keep US Bank, which collected the money from
the casinos, from refusing to send the funds to the city. Berry
also set a hearing on the matter for July 26.  Swaps Backer  The New York-based insurer also backs interest-rate swap
agreements used by the city to hedge against adverse changes in
credit markets that would affect the pension securities,
according to a statement by Orr.  Casino revenue was pledged to secure the swaps in 2009,
according to Orr. While the city has defaulted on $39.7 million
in pension debt service, the payments owed to investors were
covered by Syncora. Orr has said that the city hasn’t defaulted
on the swap agreements, which are separate.  On June 14, Orr met with more than 100 creditors to outline
a financial recovery plan that would use $2 billion in newly
borrowed money to cover about $11 billion in debt -- a plan that
would offer creditors no more than 10 cents on the dollar, his
advisers said.  Blight Targeted  Orr’s plan includes spending $1.25 billion over 10 years to
improve public safety and remove vacant buildings and other
blight that he said impedes redevelopment. Detroit, once among
America’s 10 biggest cities, has lost a quarter of its
population just since 2000 and has been unable to tear down
thousands of empty buildings.  About two dozen creditors are set to tour some of the
city’s worst areas of blight with Orr tomorrow. The emergency
manager plans to explain to them how deep cuts in debt payments
are needed to pay for revitalization efforts.  Meanwhile, Orr advisers will meet representatives of the
city’s two pension systems to explain proposed cuts in
contributions to the funds. Orr has said the pension systems may
be underfunded by a combined $3.5 billion, a figure pension fund
officials dispute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 