-- Applied Materials Says Smartphone Demand Boosting Sales
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-09T20:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/applied-materials-says-smartphone-demand-boosting-sales.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  shares rose
3.4 percent after the biggest maker of semiconductor equipment
said industry spending will pick up next year as chipmakers
boost output to meet demand for mobile-device parts.  Competition among smartphone providers is driving demand
for more advanced parts and improvement in the machines that
make them, Applied Materials Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter said yesterday at an analyst briefing in San Francisco.  The  Santa Clara , California-based company is the largest
seller of machinery used in the production of semiconductors and
flat-screen displays. Analysts watch Applied Materials’  earnings 
for a broad indication of demand for electronics, because
chipmakers order equipment based on their view of future sales.  “It’s really all about mobile,” Splinter said. “We
expect foundry spending will have to increase. We expect Nand
spending will have to increase.”  Foundries, which manufacture chips to order for other
companies, use Applied Materials’ machines to produce
semiconductors including applications processors and radio
chips, some of the key components of smartphones. Nand  flash
memory  provides the storage in mobile devices such as tablets
and handsets.  Applied Materials rose 52 cents to $15.66 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 37 percent this year.  Profit Forecast  The company predicts that the total market for machines
used to make semiconductors will be $27 billion to $30 billion
this year. In its fiscal second quarter, Applied Materials’
sales fell 22 percent to $1.97 billion.  The chip-equipment maker is targeting annual profit,
excluding certain items, of $1.50 to $2.15 a share by 2016,
Chief Financial Officer Bob Halliday told analysts. The company
will get closer to the higher end of that range if the total
market for equipment reaches $37 billion, the highest of the
company’s projected scenarios for 2016, he said.  Under Splinter, the company has branched out into machinery
that makes flat-panel displays and solar panels. While growth
has returned in orders for display equipment, the solar market
remains challenging, he said on a conference call with analysts
in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  