-- Arsenal Has $45 Million Suarez Bid Rejected: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-08T08:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/arsenal-has-45-million-suarez-bid-rejected-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Bid Rejected  Arsenal had a club-record bid of about 30 million pounds
($44.6 million) for striker  Luis Suarez  rejected by Liverpool,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  If the Gunners increase their offer to 40 million pounds,
Suarez could seek permission to speak to Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , the Telegraph added.  According to the  Daily Express,  Arsenal is unlikely to
return with an improved offer for Suarez. Chelsea is also
considering a move for the Uruguayan, the Telegraph said.  Higuain May Stay  Gonzalo Higuain’s future is still undecided as Arsenal
tries to sign the Real Madrid striker for 23 million pounds,  the
Sun reported .  Real’s new manager,  Carlo Ancelotti , plans to meet with the
Argentine to work out his future and sees a place for Higuain in
his team, the Sun added.  Villa Agreement  Barcelona striker  David Villa  may sign for Tottenham
Hotspur as early as this week after reaching a preliminary
agreement with the London club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The teams now need to agree on a fee for the 31-year-old,
with Spurs still short of meeting Barca’s asking price of 8.6
million pounds, the newspaper added.  Borussia to Bayern  Manchester United and Chelsea missed out on signing  Robert Lewandowski  as Borussia Dortmund manager Juergen Klopp confirmed
the Polish striker will join  Bayern Munich  after his contract
expires next year, the  Daily Mail reported .  “It is a known fact that Robert is going to play for
Bayern after the upcoming season,” the Mail cited Klopp as
telling German newspaper Welt am Sonntag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  