-- Stocks Gain on Earnings Optimism; Gold Rises, Pound Falls
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-07-09T20:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/asian-futures-heed-u-s-rally-as-alcoa-reports-yen-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose for a fourth day
amid optimism companies will report better-than-forecast
earnings for the second quarter. Gold advanced and the yen
weakened, while the British pound touched a three-year low.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 0.8 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7
percent, erasing its loss since the  Federal Reserve ’s June
meeting. The pound slid after U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank in May. Treasury  three-year  yields were little changed
after the U.S. sold $32 billion of the notes today at the
highest yields since June 2011. Gold rallied 0.9 percent, while
corn and wheat jumped more than 2 percent as dry, warm U.S.
weather increased the risk of crop damage.  Earnings reports have helped fuel stock gains in the four-year-old bull market. The S&P 500 rallied an average of 1.6
percent in the two weeks after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  marked the start of
the reporting season, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks were up two weeks later in 13 of the 17 reporting seasons
since the  bull market  began in 2009. Analysts have lowered
forecasts for last quarter and currently predict profit growth
of 1.8 percent for S&P 500 companies, compared with a projection
for an 8.3 percent increase at the beginning of the year.  “The economic data is suggesting that we’re not going to
see earnings roll over,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee
$221.2 billion as chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said by
telephone. “Expectations for second-quarter earnings had fallen
quite a bit and we’re beginning to see that the downgrades were
by too much. We could see some pleasant surprises in the
earnings season.”  IMF Forecasts  Global stocks remained higher even after the  International
Monetary Fund  said worldwide economic growth will struggle to
accelerate this year. Global growth will be 3.1 percent this
year, unchanged from the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3
percent forecast in April, the IMF said. The IMF reduced its
2013 projection for the U.S. to 1.7 percent growth from 1.9
percent in April, while next year’s outlook was trimmed to 2.7
percent from 3 percent.  The IMF urged central banks in wealthy nations facing low
inflation and economic slack to keep injecting stimulus until
recovery is entrenched, saying rising longer-term  interest rates 
have hurt  emerging markets  the most. The developing economies
need to be alert for financial risks if the “anticipated
unwinding” of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond-buying program
reverses capital flows, the IMF said.  Fed Watch  The  S&P 500  has recovered all its losses following a 4.8
percent drop between June 19 and 24, triggered when Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke said the central bank may reduce the pace of bond
purchases later this year as economic risks subside. Minutes
from the Fed’s June meeting will be released tomorrow at 2 p.m.
New York time. The S&P 500 is still down 1 percent from its  last
record  on May 21, the day before Bernanke told Congress the Fed
could taper purchases.  Financial shares recovered after briefly erasing early
gains as regulators proposed capital standards at the biggest
lenders should rise to 5 percent of assets for parent companies
and 6 percent for their banking units. The Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency proposed a  leverage ratio  that’s 2
percentage points more than the 3 percent international minimum
for holding companies, the agency said in a statement.  The KBW Bank Index lost as much as 0.5 percent before
recovering and rising 0.4 percent. Earnings at financials firms
increased 17 percent in the second quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates, to lead growth among the 10 main industries
in the S&P 500. Excluding financials, S&P 500 profits fell 1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Leaders  Cisco Systems Inc. jumped 2.2 percent, helping lead the Dow
Jones Industrial Average higher, after announcing a deal with
Microsoft Corp. on cloud computing infrastructure. Caterpillar
Inc., Chevron Corp., Bank of America Corp. and General Electric
Co. rose at least 1.3 percent for the other top gains in the
Dow. Homebuilders accounted for three of the four  biggest
advances  in the S&P 500, with D.R. Horton Inc., PulteGroup Inc.
and Lennar Corp. jumping at least 5.5 percent.  FedEx Corp. rose 4.4 percent, the most in nine months, on
speculation that it may be an investment target for  William
Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP, an Edward Jones
analyst said.  Alcoa, America’s largest aluminum producer, lost 0.1
percent even after reporting earnings and sales that topped
analysts’ estimates. Operating income at its engineered products
business, which supplies components to aerospace and power
companies, rose 12 percent from the first quarter. The company
was the first member of the Dow to report results for the second
quarter.  ‘Obvious Picture’  “A positive earnings season would help in an environment
where data may still not provide an obvious picture of the  U.S.
economy ,” said Luca Paolini, who helps oversee about $66
billion in equities as chief strategist at Pictet Asset
Management Ltd. in  London . “The most critical issue we are
looking at is company guidance for the next few quarters.”  The S&P 500 advanced for a fourth day, its longest rally in
almost two months. The gauge has climbed 16 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index and a 5.3 percent advance for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  European Movers  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.8 percent today, with trading 16
percent less than the 30-day average. Electricite de France SA
surged 9.3 percent, its biggest rally in more than 4 1/2 years,
after Le Parisien reported that the French government has
authorized the country’s utilities to increase their prices by 5
percent from Aug. 1, 2014. Tariffs have climbed by 1.1 percent
to 3 percent a year since 2006, according to the newspaper.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA advanced 2.1 percent
after agreeing to pay 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) to buy 80
percent of Italian cashmere brand Loro Piana SpA.  U.K. stocks advanced, sending the FTSE 100 Index to a five-week high, as mining companies rallied. Alcoa maintained its
forecast that global demand for aluminum will rise by 7 percent
this year, led by 11 percent growth in  China . BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Anglo American Plc both climbed at least 2.4 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained for the first time
in three days, advancing 0.8 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong
slipped 0.1 percent while the Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4
percent.  Egypt Rebounds  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index jumped 3.3 percent, rebounding from
the biggest drop in almost a month, as the interim president set
a timeline for new elections.  India’s Sensex rose 0.6 percent and the rupee gained 0.8
percent, rebounding from a record low, after regulators took
steps to curb speculation in the  derivatives market . Turkey’s
benchmark index rose 0.4 percent after the biggest two-day
selloff in two weeks.  Sterling retreated against 12 of its 16 major counterparts,
slumping as much as 0.9 percent to $1.4814, the weakest since
June 2010.  U.K. factory output fell 0.8 percent from April, when it
declined 0.2 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in
London. The median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was a 0.4 percent increase.  Bank of England  policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
signaled last week they will keep U.K. interest rates at a
record low. U.K. government bonds advanced for a second day as
investors sought safer assets. The Debt Management Office sold
index-linked gilts maturing in 2029.  Treasury Auction  The  three-year  U.S. note yield was little changed at 0.68
percent today after climbing to 0.80 percent in June from May’s
low of 0.29 percent. Treasuries were steady after the U.S. sold
$32 billion of three-year notes at the highest yields since June
2011 amid speculation the Fed is preparing to reduce debt
purchases.  The notes yielded 0.719 percent, compared with a forecast
of 0.724 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the
Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3.35, versus 2.95 at the previous auction and the
highest since May. Treasuries rose yesterday amid speculation
the yield surge had been too rapid.  ‘Baked In’  U.S. bond yields suggest investors anticipate the Fed will
announce a reduction in asset purchases at its September policy
meeting, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Heather Loomis.  Tapering “does appear to be baked in,” with as much as 80
percent of the market expecting it, Loomis, director of fixed
income in  San Francisco  for JPMorgan Private Bank, said during a
Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen and  Erik
Schatzker .  Greece’s 10-year  yield  increased six basis points to 10.99
percent and the rate on similar-maturity Portuguese debt fell 20
basis points to 6.73 percent. European governments said the
nation would receive 2.5 billion euros this month and 500
million euros in October if it delivers on economic reforms and
cuts to spending.  Spanish bonds fell, with the 10-year yield rising six basis
points to 4.73 percent, as the government sells 15-year
securities via banks.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
decreased, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies dropping 5 basis points
to 106.5, the lowest in a month.  Gold futures for August delivery added 0.9 percent to
$1,245.90 an ounce as accelerating inflation in China boosted
the appeal of the metal as a hedge, while demand increased for
jewelry, coins and bars. Copper fell 1.1 percent in New York.
West Texas Intermediate oil reached a 14-month high, gaining 0.4
percent to $103.53 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  