-- Asia Stock Futures Rise as China Economic Growth Concerns Ease
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-08T23:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/asia-stock-futures-rise-as-china-economic-growth-concerns-ease.html
Asian stock futures rose, indicating
the regional equities gauge will rebound from its biggest drop
in two weeks, as concern eased that a slowdown in Chinese growth
will curb earnings ahead of the release of inflation data.  American Depositary Receipts of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of construction and mining equipment,
gained 1 percent from the closing level in  Tokyo . ADRs of  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , the No. 2 mining company, gained 0.3 percent in New
York as metals prices rose. Shares of  Olympus Corp. (7733)  may be
active in Tokyo after the largest endoscope maker said it plans
to sell as much as 118 billion yen ($1.2 billion) of shares.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 14,310 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 14,100
at the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
14,300 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.4 percent. Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
gained 0.9 percent.  “The medium case for equities remains decent,”  Binay Chandgothia , a fund manager at Principal Global Investors in
Hong Kong, where he helps oversee $280 billion, said by
telephone. “Economic growth is chugging along. Most of the
slowdown in China is captured nicely in valuations.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 10 percent through yesterday from a five-year high on May 20 amid concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will
begin tapering stimulus as China’s economy slows and Japan puts
off unveiling economic reform policies until after upper house
elections later this month. The measure yesterday declined 1.5
percent, the most since June 24.  Relative Value  That left the Asia-Pacific gauge trading at 12.7 times
average estimated earnings yesterday compared with 14.9 for the
S&P 500 and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  China  International Capital
Corp. were among brokerages in the past two weeks that reduced
projections for Chinese economic growth this year to 7.4
percent, below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release June data
on inflation today. Consumer prices probably rose 2.5 percent
last month, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in May, according
to the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Declines in producer prices probably narrowed to 2.6 percent
from 2.9 percent, according to the survey.  U.S., China  The U.S. expressed approval of steps the People’s Bank of
China took during a credit crunch last month, as officials from
the world’s two biggest growth engines prepared to hold economic
talks in  Washington .  The PBOC’s delay in providing liquidity in interbank
markets in recent weeks signaled to market participants that
they need to have more discipline and greater prudence in
lending decisions, Obama administration officials said during a
briefing yesterday. The U.S.-China Strategic and Economic
Dialogue is scheduled for July 10-11.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong advanced 1.1
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.1 percent in New York
yesterday.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.1
percent. The S&P 500 advanced 0.5 percent yesterday, a third day
of gains, as the start of corporate earnings season fueled
increased optimism about growth in the world’s largest economy.  Japan’s Topix index last week capped its biggest three-week
advance since April 2009 amid a weakening yen and optimism Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will push through economic reforms after
winning upper-house elections on July 21.  The  London  Metal Exchange LMEX Metals Index gained 1.2
percent, the most in a week, in London yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  