-- Australia’s NSW State to Sell Sydney Heritage Buildings
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-07-09T02:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/australia-s-nsw-state-plans-to-sell-sydney-heritage-buildings.html
Australia ’s New South Wales state
government will sell two of Sydney’s most significant heritage
buildings in a second round of property sales as it works to
return its budget to surplus.  The three-story, sandstone  Lands Department building ,
completed in 1892, is one of the most outstanding surviving
Victorian buildings in Sydney, the state government said on its
website. The  Department of Education building , completed in
1914, is an important example of Edwardian architecture, it
said.  The state in June forecast a budget deficit of A$329
million ($301 million) for the fiscal year that began July 1
following a A$374 million shortfall in the previous year. Its
net debt is forecast to rise to A$15.72 billion by June 2014
from A$13.03 billion in June 2013, according to the state’s
budget papers.  “The divestment of these assets reinforces the New South
Wales Government’s commitment to only owning strategic assets
that support core government service provisions,” Acting
Minister for Finance and Services Andrew Constance said in an e-mailed statement.  Vacant land at Macquarie Park in Sydney’s northwest and an
office building in George Street, in the city’s center, are
included in the second tranche, which follows the government’s
A$405 million first round of property sales earlier this year.  The state government expects interest from local and
international investors, Constance said.  Architects Opposition  The sale is already meeting some dissent. The Australian
Institute of Architects opposes the sale of the sandstone
buildings as they should remain in public ownership given their
significance, Joe Agius, the New South Wales chapter president,
said.  The Lands Department building has been described as the
third icon of Sydney after the Harbour Bridge and Sydney Opera
House, Agius said.  “It is short sighted of the New South Wales government to
sell the buildings and not really consider the opportunity cost
for future generations,” he said in a phone interview.  A period of due diligence is under way to assess all
options that maximize the value of the buildings for the
government, Constance said. Expressions of interest will be
sought later this year.  “The sandstone buildings in Bridge Street have the
potential for a range of uses,” Constance said. Current
heritage and planning controls for the two buildings will remain
in place, he said.  Macquarie Capital, the investment banking arm of  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG) , is advising the government on the sale, Constance
said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  