-- Austrian Banks Should Boost Capital Reserves, Central Bank Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-07-08T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/austrian-banks-should-boost-capital-reserves-central-bank-says.html
Austria ’s central bank said the
country’s lenders should do more to boost capital and
profitability in order to become more resilient to economic
crises.  Austrian lenders’ combined equity Tier 1 ratio, a gauge of
financial strength, rose 0.65 percentage points to 11 percent
last year, the central bank said in its latest financial
stability  report  published today. International peers still have
considerably higher  capital ratios , Executive Director Andreas Ittner said in a statement.  “Weak operating results, which continued in the first
quarter of this year, show that we don’t have any room for self-satisfaction,” Ittner said at a press conference in Vienna.
Last year, profitability improved largely due to one-time
effects like the buyback of hybrid bonds, he said.  The capital weakness adds to risks from the banks’ position
as the biggest lenders in eastern  Europe . Austrian banks, led by
 Erste Bank Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and
UniCredit Bank Austria AG, had an exposure of 277 billion euros
($356 billion) to the region at the end of 2012, according to
the central bank. In countries like Romania, Croatia and
 Hungary , bad loans are rising while credit demand remains weak.  The banks’ average return on assets in eastern Europe was
0.8 percent last year, compared to 0.3 percent in Austria, the
central bank said. However, the performance in individual
countries of the region differed, it said. Higher profitability
is also linked to higher risks, it said.  Low Profits  The low profits of Austrian banks won’t allow them to
provide funds to the national budget, build a resolution fund
and increase capital at the same time, Ittner said.  Chancellor Werner Faymann said that Austria, which holds
general elections in September, should extend a bank levy to pay
the costs of ailing lender Hypo Alpe Adria International AG.
Finance Minister Maria Fekter opposes this, saying a national
resolution fund, which is foreseen in new rules on handling
failing banks agreed upon by European Union finance chiefs last
month, is enough.  Austria’s banks need to find as much as 8 billion euros
until 2022 to comply with new capital rules known as Basel III,
including 1 billion euros of common equity Tier 1 capital, the
central bank said. The main challenge remains to replace 5.15
billion euros of state aid by 2017, when it stops counting as
core capital, it said.  Erste is in the process of selling 660 million euros of new
stock to help pay back 1.2 billion euros of state aid.
Raiffeisen may sell shares to help redeem its 1.75 billion euros
of state aid, Chief Executive Officer Karl Sevelda said last
month. Bawag PSK started repaying its 550 million euros of state
aid with a first tranche of 50 million euros last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  