-- Best Wine Picks to Beat ‘Super Tuscan’ Hype: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-07-08T08:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/best-wine-picks-to-beat-super-tuscan-hype-john-mariani.html
Has the term “Super Tuscan” become as
fatuous as “vintage of the century” and “100 Point Rating”? Has
too much of a good thing cheapened the category?  It was never officially recognized by Italian wine laws and
used with abandon by just about any Tuscan winemaker who blended
cabernet sauvignon with sangiovese.  Mention “Super Tuscan” (S.T.) to pioneer Tuscan producers
such as Sassicaia, Tignanello, Solaia and Ornellaia and you’ll
get either a shrug or, more likely, a response that “that kind
of hype is over.”  The Italian government hasn’t made things any simpler, at
first prohibiting the iconoclastic new wines from carrying
anything but a designation of “vino da tavola” (table wine),
then, in 1994, coming up with “IGT” (typical of the geography).  Today, regulations allow some Tuscan blends to be called
Chianti: few producers embrace a name once connected to Italian
wines in straw baskets. The Super Tuscan name is also fading
because all the best vineyards in Tuscany are already taken.  “Anyone in Tuscany can call their wine a Super Tuscan, and
some of the new owners have no idea what grapes they have,” says
Axel Heinz, winemaker for Ornellaia, made in  Bolgheri  since 1981
from cabernet sauvignon, cabernet franc, and merlot. “We do not
promote the name Super Tuscan any more, even though Bolgheri now
has its own appellation.”  Sotheby’s Auction  A sought-out classic wine like Ornellaia can cost $200 or
more per bottle; in May, at record-breaking  Sotheby’s (BID)  London
charity auction, Ornellaia raised 238,500 pounds ($364,000),
with some custom-designed bottles selling for 80,000 pounds
each.  Many of the now dozens of self-described Super Tuscans are
excellent wines on their own and cost far less than the older
names.  Castello Banfi’s  Tuscan blends are highly regarded but
sell for more modest  prices : ExcelsuS ($65), SummuS ($45), and
Cum Laude ($35).  Says  Banfi  proprietor Cristina Mariani-May (no relation to
this writer), “When the wine world was just starting to discover
Tuscany in the 1980s, it was important for vintners to show what
they could do with international varietals like cabernet and
merlot. Once we caught the wine world’s attention, we were able
to show what we could do with our indigenous varietals,
including sangiovese. Today the emphasis is much more on Tuscan
than on Super. Our goal is to make wines that express a sense of
place, a unique identity tied inherently to our special land.”  I thought it a good idea, then, to sample recent vintages
of five of the very first wines to acquire the Super Tuscan
name. Here’s what I found.  Tenuta San Guido Sassicaia  2010 ($105) -- Marchesi Mario
Incisa della Rocchetta had been making this cabernet sauvignon
for his family since 1948. He brought the 1968 vintage to market
in 1971.  Today it is considered as fine a cabernet as the best in
Bordeaux. It can be a tannic wine in its youth, so I’d give the
current 2010 vintage, which shows good, silky fruit, another
five years for it to blossom.  Tignanello  2009 ($60-$70) -- Easily the best known label
among the modern Tuscans, this widely available blend of
sangiovese and cabernet sauvignon, from the Marchesi Piero
Antinori, first appeared in 1978, from a 1971 vintage.  It is one of those wines that just about everyone loves --
richness, elegance, fruit, and a refined Italian character that
distinguishes it from more austere French Bordeaux.  Ornellaia  2010 (prices vary, suggested retail $220, $160 
from Internet stores) -- Piero Antinori’s brother Ludovico made 
the first vintage of Ornellaia in 1985, and today the estate is 
owned by another aristocrat, Marchesi de’ Frescobaldi.  Since 2005 Axel Heinz has given Ornellaia a softer edge,
with a riper fruit component. The tannic power of 53 percent
cabernet sauvignon is softened by a generous 39 percent merlot,
as well as 4 percent cabernet franc and 4 percent petit verdot.  Solaia 2009 ($255) -- This has always been one of my
favorite wines in the world, a seamless composition of perfectly
balanced elements, voluptuous in its bouquet and its long
finish, with several spice and mineral flavors. Few wines are so
well knitted to impress. The vineyard adjoins Tignanello.  Originally Solaia was only cabernet sauvignon and cabernet
franc. It now contains about 20 percent sangiovese, which boosts
its fruitiness.  Montevertine Le Pergole Torte  2009 ($105) -- Finding Tuscan
wine laws too restrictive in the 1960s, Sergio Manetti withdrew
from the Chianti Consorzio and in 1971 bottled a 100 percent
sangiovese from a vineyard he called Le Pergole Torte.  The wines tend to be supple even when young, and this is a
delicious example of what caused all the fuss in Tuscany four
decades ago, when “super” was a novel descriptive.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,
 Richard Vines  on food,  Martin Gayford  on art and  Jeremy Gerard 
on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 