-- Best Rule for Safe Banking Gets the Snub
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-08T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/best-rule-for-safe-banking-gets-the-snub.html
A few weeks ago, a Parliamentary
commission issued a surprisingly radical  report  on how to reform
the U.K. banking system. This week, Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  released the government’s point-by-point
 response . He says he will add some of the commission’s proposals
to legislation already moving through Parliament; regulators can
apply others without the need for new law. That’s all fine, but
it’s a pity these don’t include a higher leverage ratio -- the
report’s most valuable idea.  Adopting a leverage ratio wasn’t the proposal that
attracted the most attention. The commission instead won
headlines by calling for the creation of a new criminal offense
of reckless mismanagement of a bank. The feeling that somebody
should be in jail for what has happened since 2007 is at least
as strong in the U.K. as elsewhere, so the idea is popular. It
is good policy, too, despite some practical difficulties, and
Osborne deserves credit for saying  he will deliver .  Some of the conduct detailed in the report was reckless
enough that it might meet a reasonable criminal standard -- and
the harm was vastly greater than ordinary crimes cause. For its
deterrent value, and to answer the public’s call for justice,
the worst and most senior offenders in a financial meltdown
should be at risk of going to jail. As long as the prospect of
criminal prosecution doesn’t block the flow of information and
militate against effective regulation and adequate civil
remedies -- risks the report acknowledged and that the
government must guard against -- we are for it.  Excess risk  The same goes for another headline-grabber: the proposal to
defer bankers’ performance-based pay for as long as 10 years.
The commission also said regulators should be able to claw back
bonuses if a bank gets into financial trouble, or void them if
it has to be bailed out. This pushes incentives in the right
direction, by leaning against the short-term pursuit of
excessively risky transactions to goose profits, ultimately at
taxpayers’ expense. Again, give Osborne credit for promising to
put this into effect (and give him some more if he actually
keeps the promise).  However, as we have frequently  argued , the most fundamental
guarantor of a bank’s financial viability is its capital. The
commission went over the arguments for requiring banks to
finance more of their lending with equity rather than debt, and
rightly concluded this was crucial.  In particular, it stressed the value of a more demanding
 leverage ratio , a straightforward benchmark that measures equity
as a percentage of all assets, unadjusted for risk. The Basel
III accord calls for a wafer-thin minimum of 3 percent. The
commission said this ratio should be “substantially higher.” It
also said that this is a “complex and technical decision best
made by the regulator and it should certainly not be made by
politicians.”  Well, the leverage ratio isn’t all that complex. The main
reason to make it the measure of capital adequacy is that it is
simple, hence more difficult to game than the risk-weighted
ratios that regulators have relied on in the past and expect to
keep relying on. But the commission is right that politicians
should leave it to regulators to decide what is an acceptable
ratio. In our view, anything less than 10 percent is dangerous
and the case for an even higher ratio is strong.  Osborne’s reluctance to follow this approach isn’t that
surprising. He had already made his views known. It’s still
disappointing, though. The commission’s reasoning on leverage is
persuasive and the chancellor hasn’t even bothered to refute it.
This part of the Treasury’s response is conspicuously weak.  The measures he is adopting will make the U.K. financial
system safer, yet a more demanding leverage ratio would be worth
all the other regulatory innovations put together.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 