-- Bin Laden Aide Loses Bid to Halt U.S. Surveillance Effort
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/bin-laden-aide-loses-bid-to-halt-u-s-surveillance-effort.html
An aide and son-in-law of  Osama bin Laden  was denied a court order preventing the U.S. from
potentially monitoring communications with his defense lawyer
through government surveillance programs.  Sulaiman Abu Ghayth sought an order halting any
surveillance efforts and the sharing of any of the information
collected with prosecutors. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in
Manhattan rejected the request yesterday, finding there wasn’t a
“shred of evidence” that prosecutors are involved in
monitoring of attorney-client discussions.  “The key to much of this application lies in the misuse by
the defense of the word government,” Kaplan said, saying that
the government’s surveillance programs are separate from the
work of federal prosecutors. “That really could be the
beginning and end of this discussion.”  Stanley Cohen, Abu Ghayth’s lawyer, said yesterday in court
that his client is concerned about what information could
potentially have been gathered through the National Security
Agency’s Prism program, made public June 6, and others like it.  “How are we to know, judge, what filters its way down to
the prosecutors?” Cohen asked.  Assistant U.S. Attorney John Cronan said prosecutors on the
case “had absolutely no exposure whatsoever” to Abu Ghayth’s
privileged discussions.  Ghayth is set to face a trial in January on charges that he
plotted with bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders to kill
Americans starting in 1989. He was captured by U.S. agents after
a decade-long manhunt as he attempted to travel from  Jordan  to
 Kuwait .  The case is U.S. v. Abu Ghayth, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Manhattan at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  