-- BMW Extends Sales Lead Over Audi on 3-Series Deliveries
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-07-08T11:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/bmw-extends-sales-lead-over-audi-on-3-series-deliveries.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  widened
its lead in the luxury car industry in the first six months of
2013 as sales of the revamped 3-Series model surged 22 percent.  Global deliveries by the BMW brand rose 7.7 percent from a
year earlier to 804,248 cars and sport-utility vehicles, the
Munich-based company said in a statement today. Growth outpaced
increases of 6.4 percent posted by both  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s  Audi (NSU) 
division, which ranks second in the premium segment, and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz marque.  First-half deliveries were at record highs for the period
as the three German luxury-auto producers sidestepped recessions
in  Europe  with growth in the U.S. and  China . BMW, Ingolstadt-based Audi and Stuttgart-based Mercedes are largely maintaining
production throughout July and August to meet overseas demand,
rather than shutting plants for traditional summer breaks.  “The luxury-car makers profited from growth in China, the
U.S. and  emerging markets  in the first half, avoiding the brunt
of the European slowdown,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based
analyst at Warburg Research GmbH. “We expect the European
market to stabilize in the second half and the premium-car
makers should get their share of it while growth in the U.S. and
emerging markets should continue.”  Stocks Jump  BMW  rose  as much as 3.4 percent to 68.47 euros, the biggest
intraday jump since June 25, and was trading up 3.3 percent at
1:51 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the stock’s decline this year
to 6.2 percent. Daimler  gained  as much as 3.1 percent, while VW
 advanced  as much as 2.8 percent.  Audi sold 780,500 cars and SUVS in the first half,
including a 5.5 percent gain in June, the division said today in
a separate statement. Mercedes, which lost the worldwide sales
lead to BMW in 2005 and fell behind Audi to third place in 2011,
posted 694,433 deliveries in the period, propelled by an 8.3
percent jump last month, Daimler said on July 3.  BMW is expanding its lineup, including the introduction
later this year of the i3, its first electric-powered car, to
fend off Audi and Mercedes, which have both vowed to claim the
top spot by the end of the decade. The 3-Series, which includes
a GT version that entered showrooms last month, was BMW’s best-selling vehicle line with 236,215 cars sold.  Sales were at a record “despite the prevailing headwinds
in some European markets,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s head of sales
and marketing, said in the statement. “We aim to continue our
sales growth in the second half of the year with new models,”
including a revamped X5 SUV and the new 4-Series coupe.  A3 Sedan  Audi expects to get a lift in the second half from a new
sedan version of the A3 compact, Luca de Meo, the brand’s sales
chief, said in the division’s statement. The model goes on sale
in Europe in September and in the U.S. and China in 2014.  Mercedes is pushing to make up lost ground by rolling out a
new line of entry-level compacts, including the CLA four-door
coupe, and refreshing upscale models like the top-of-the-line S-Class sedan. Sales of the brand’s compact models, including the
A-Class hatchback and van-like B-Class, surged 58 percent to
173,362 vehicles in the first half.  “Daimler should gain some momentum in the second half over
BMW” because of its new vehicles, said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  