-- Botox Gets $10 Billion Cheaper for Acquirers: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-07-08T20:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/botox-gets-10-billion-cheaper-for-acquirers-real-m-a.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN)  just got $9.6 billion
cheaper for buyers looking to get their hands on the Botox
wrinkle treatment.  Since peaking in April, Allergan’s market value has tumbled
28 percent to $25 billion as investors became concerned that
generic competition to its Restasis eye drops and delayed drug
studies would crimp future sales growth. Despite the setbacks,
Allergan’s growth prospects from Botox and other products on the
market may attract acquirers such as  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Bank of Montreal said. Botox sales alone
are  forecast  to climb to $3 billion in 2017, up 67 percent from
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nestle SA (NESN)  could merge its skin-care business with Allergan,
according to Leerink Swann LLC, which said Allergan’s management
probably wouldn’t sell for less than its  high  of $116 a share.
The decline has left the  Irvine , California-based company
trading near its least expensive multiple of earnings in four
years, the data show.  “If you’re large pharma and you’re looking for steady,
growing franchises, Allergan has several of them,”  David Maris ,
a New York-based analyst at BMO, said in a phone interview.
“You’ve had a series of disappointments, but I think the market
has overreacted. Botox is the  crown jewel , and I could see
Allergan fitting well with a number of companies.”  Pipeline Delays  “As a matter of practice, we do not comment on any
business development activity,” Bonnie Jacobs, a spokeswoman at
Allergan, said in an e-mail when asked if the company has been
approached by acquirers or is weighing a sale.  Allergan fell the most in 13 years on May 1 after saying it
would delay final studies for two new drugs after disappointing
results. A study of DARPin, designed to treat age-related
macular degeneration, didn’t distinguish it from a competing
product enough to move on to the next phase yet, and bimatoprost
for baldness showed insufficient hair growth.  The shares  extended  their losses in June after the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  said it may not require human
testing for generic versions of Allergan’s Restasis eye
treatment, which may make it easier for competing products to
win approval. Restasis, which accounted for about  14 percent  of
Allergan’s 2012 sales, loses U.S. patent protection in 2014.  Since the end of April, Allergan’s  stock  fell 26 percent to
$84.35 through the end of last week, the worst performance among
health-care companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Today,
the shares climbed 1.5 percent to $85.65.  Botox Treatment  The FDA’s announcement “was the straw that broke the
camel’s back,” J.T. Haresco, a San Francisco-based analyst at
JMP Group Inc., said in a phone interview. “The onus is on
Allergan to prove that it can withstand the setbacks.”  So far, many analysts project it will. Estimates provided
after the FDA’s draft guidance show Allergan’s revenue climbing
through at least 2018, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales are also increasing for Botox, a purified form of the
poison botulinum used to treat wrinkles, chronic migraines and
other  neurological  conditions, the data show.  “Botox has a little bit of competition, but really it’s
the Scotch tape of toxins,” BMO’s Maris said.  While Allergan’s pipeline and patent risk may scare off
some buyers, the company would fit well within Merck or  Glaxo (GSK) ,
and the stock drop could spur bids, he said.  Merck, like Allergan, makes treatments for eye problems,
migraines and allergies. Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Frazier 
said in January that the drugmaker, now with a market value of
$142 billion, may be interested in buying eye-care company
Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. Bausch & Lomb instead agreed to be
acquired by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. in May
for $8.7 billion.  Glaxo, Nestle  “Allergan has all the eye-care pharma one could want,”
Maris said. “While most people think of Botox as a cosmetic
drug, about half of its use is in neurology.”  Glaxo, which also makes neurology drugs, was speculated to
be pursuing a merger with Allergan in 2009. The 84 billion pound
($125 billion) company licenses from Allergan the rights to
develop and sell Botox in  Japan  and  China .  Steve Cragle, a spokesman for  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck, and Mary Anne Rhyne of London-based Glaxo
said their companies don’t comment on speculation.  Nestle, based in Vevey,  Switzerland , could merge Allergan
with its skin-care operations, according to  Seamus Fernandez , a
Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann. There would be cost
savings and synergies, especially because of Nestle’s lower
corporate tax rate, he said.  Skin Care  Nestle, which has a market value of 202 billion Swiss
francs ($209 billion), owns 50 percent of two dermatology-focused joint ventures with Paris-based L’Oreal SA. The CEO of
 Galderma SA , one of the partnerships, said in December that he’s
scouting for acquisitions. Galderma’s products include Cetaphil
skin creams and Restylane, a wrinkle reducer that can be used
alone or with Botox.  “Nestle certainly has the size and scale” to acquire
Allergan, Fernandez said in a phone interview. While it may come
as a surprise, “it’s one of those deals that immediately upon
announcement would make sense.”  Robin Tickle, a spokesman for Nestle, declined to comment
on whether the company is considering a purchase of Allergan.  Even with Allergan’s shares languishing, the company’s  size 
is still a hurdle, and Chairman and CEO David Pyott may not be a
willing seller at the stock’s current level, said Erick Maronak,
chief investment officer of Victory Capital Management Inc.,
which oversaw $22.7 billion as of March 31.  Not ‘Broken’  “There’s a lot to like about the company, but even with
the selloff it’s not exactly inexpensive,” Maronak said in a
phone interview from  New York . While Allergan does merit a look
from buyers at some point, it would be more likely “if it were
a little smaller and a little less expensive,” he said.  Allergan’s  price-earnings  ratio slid from more than 28 in
March to about 21 last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That still tops the S&P 500 Health Care Index’s
multiple of 17.  While  David Steinberg , a San Francisco-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, doesn’t place a high likelihood on an Allergan
takeover, he said it’s still possible because large drugmakers
have shown an appetite for major purchases in the past. Allergan
reported a  profit  of $1.1 billion last year on sales of $5.8
billion.  “Allergan does not seem like a broken company
whatsoever,” Steinberg said in a phone interview. “It’s
certainly among the highest quality -- if not the highest --
 management  teams in the sector, and the company has consistently
delivered strong financial results for years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  