-- BSBIOS Exports Biodiesel to EU After Duties Imposed on Argentina
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-08T15:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/bsbios-exports-biodiesel-to-eu-after-duties-imposed-on-argentina.html
BSBIOS Industria e Comercio de
Biodiesel Sul Brasil SA, the biofuel producer that’s half-owned
by  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company Petrobras, began
exporting after the European Union imposed tariffs on imports
from neighboring Argentina.  The company expects to ship 9.1 million liters (2.4 million
gallons) of the renewable fuel to  Europe  this month, according
to Erasmo Carlos Battistella, president of Sao Paulo-based
BSBIOS.  The EU imposed tariffs of as much as 104.92 euros ($135.06)
a metric ton on imports from Argentina and  Indonesia  in May for
allegedly selling the fuel below cost, a practice known as
dumping. That’s opened the door to exports from other countries
including Brazil, Battistella said.  “Brazil could become a large exporter of biodiesel,”
Battistella said in a July 4 telephone interview. “That’s my
vision.”  BSBIOS received an export license from Brazil’s fuel
regulator in 2008 and hasn’t sold the fuel outside the country
until now.  Argentina  was the world’s biggest exporter of biodiesel
last year, Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, a London-based analyst
for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today in an e-mail.
Brazil has the most production capacity after the U.S. and
almost all of Brazil’s biodiesel is consumed domestically.  “This first export of ours will generate very low
profitability but our interest here is to build up the know-how
of exporting biodiesel,” Battistella said. “We’re working hard
to export more this year.”  Brazilian producers may be able to produce and ship
biodiesel to Rotterdam for about 98 cents, Labastida said. The
soybean-based fuel is selling there now for $1.  BSBIOS is 50 percent owned by Petroleo Brasileiro SA. It
exports biodiesel from its plant in the southern city of Passo
Fundo, about 636 kilometers (395 miles) from the port of
Paranagua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  