-- Buffett Makes $2 Billion Donation to Gates Foundation
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-08T17:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/buffett-makes-2-billion-donation-to-gates-foundation.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire whose
fortune swelled this year with a surge in  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  shares, contributed a record $2 billion to the foundation
created by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
donated about 17.5 million Class B shares in his annual gift to
the  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , according to a statement
today from his Omaha, Nebraska-based company. The donation beat
his previous record stock gift of $1.8 billion to the foundation
in 2008. The stock has climbed 29 percent this year to $115.42
at 1:11 p.m. in New York.  Buffett is a trustee of the foundation and the world’s
third-richest man, with a net worth of about $61 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , a daily ranking
of the wealthiest people. He has campaigned to promote
charitable giving among the wealthy through the Giving Pledge
initiative.  “The truth is I have never given a penny away that had any
utility to me,” Buffett, 82, said last month at the Forbes 400
Summit on Philanthropy. For millions of people who aren’t rich,
donating money “really means they’re giving up a movie, or a
dinner out, or if it’s a larger sum, maybe a trip to
Disneyland.”  Buffett also donated about 1.75 million Class B shares to
the  Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation . Formed by the investor
and renamed to honor his first wife, the foundation supports
education and other causes.  He gave about 1.22 million shares each to the Howard G.
Buffett Foundation, a family charity focused on poverty; the
NoVo Foundation, led by Buffett’s son Peter and his wife; and
the Sherwood Foundation, which funds projects focused on social
justice in  Nebraska , according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  