-- Rex Ryan Runs With Bulls as Jets Coach Joins Pamplona Tradition
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/bulls-run-with-rex-as-jets-coach-joins-festivities-in-pamplona.html
Rex Ryan  ran with the bulls in
Pamplona, Spain, and has a red T-shirt to bring home.  Ryan, the  New York Jets ’ coach, spent part of his vacation
fleeing 1,300-pound bulls along narrow streets during the annual
Running of the Bulls.  The 50-year-old coach, known for salty language and
bantering with reporters, took part in the runs yesterday and
the day before, Jets spokesman  Bruce Speight  said in an e-mail.
Ryan had informed the National Football League team of his plan
to participate in the annual event, in which at least 14 people
have been killed.  A photo posted on Deadspin.com showed Ryan standing with
three other runners on a Pamplona street. The Jets’ coach was
wearing a red T-shirt with a menacing cartoon bull and the
caption “Bad Toro.”  The Pamplona tradition features up to 3,500 runners
sprinting through an 848.6-meter (half-mile) route in front of
six bulls that will fight in the bullring later that afternoon,
according to the Pamplona  tourism website . The daily run during
the San Fermin festival each July 7-14 typically lasts less than
four minutes.  There are usually between 200 and 300 people injured each
year, with 3 percent “seriously” hurt, according to the
website. The most recent death was in 1995, the website said.
The  Associated Press  reported that four people were treated in
hospitals yesterday.  Medieval Origins  The run dates to Medieval times and has been regulated
since 1867, according to the tourism website.  Ernest Hemingway 
made the Running of the Bulls a worldwide attraction in his 1926
novel “The Sun Also Rises.”  Ryan isn’t the first NFL coach to dart through the Spanish
streets. Chip Kelly, who is taking over this year as coach of
the  Philadelphia Eagles  after coaching at the University of
Oregon, ran with the bulls last year.  In four seasons as coach, Ryan has a 34-30 record. A former
defensive coordinator with the Baltimore Ravens, he led the team
to the American Football Conference championship game during the
2009 and 2010 seasons, losing both. The team was 6-10 last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  