-- Bumi Said to Near $508 Million Bakrie Exit, Weigh Dividend
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-09T00:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/bumi-said-to-near-508-million-plan-for-bakrie-exit-dividends.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the Indonesian coal
producer at the center of an ownership dispute, is close to a
$508 million deal that will see one of its co-founders, the
Bakrie family, exit from their investment in the group,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  As part of the two-stage plan, the Bakrie Group is in talks
with Bumi Chairman Samin Tan to sell him their entire 23.8
percent holding in London-listed Bumi, the people said, asking
not to be identified as the discussions are confidential. The
Bakries would use the funds from the sale to buy back a 29.2
percent holding in PT Bumi Resources,  Indonesia ’s largest coal
exporter, which they sold to Bumi Plc in 2011, the people said.  Under the proposal, the Bakries would buy back 10.3 percent
of Bumi Resources for $230 million and the rest of Bumi Plc’s
stake for $278 million, the people said. Bumi Plc is studying
returning the proceeds to shareholders through a special
dividend, one of the people said. Terms of the Bakries’ sale of
their Bumi Plc stake to Tan aren’t known.  Bumi has been at the heart of a battle for control between
co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of a centuries-old
British banking dynasty, and Indonesia’s Bakrie family since the
$3 billion deal that brought them together started to sour in
late 2011. Bumi, which slumped 69 percent in London trading last
year, has been seeking to sever ties with the Bakries since
October amid investigations in the U.K. and Indonesia.  London-based spokesmen for Bumi Plc and the Bakries
declined to comment. Tan couldn’t be reached through calls to
his mobile phone. Alexander Ramlie, president-director of Tan’s
PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal, declined to comment.  General Offer  Tan, who already owns 23.8 percent of Bumi Plc in a joint
venture with the Bakries, is expected to get a waiver from U.K.
regulators allowing him to double his stake by buying out the
Bakries without having to make a general offer to shareholders,
one of the people said. Under an earlier October plan Bumi was
to buy back the Bakrie’s stake and cancel the shares.  “This is Samin Tan’s side deal, taking control without
paying a premium and denying minority shareholders the potential
upside that all would have enjoyed equally from buying back the
stake,” Rothschild said in e-mailed comments to  Bloomberg News .
“This behavior is exactly what U.K. regulators and competent
boards are designed to protect against,” he said, repeating a
demand that Tan resign immediately.  Rothschild has also asked the U.K.’s financial regulator to
probe whether Bumi made misleading statements about a proposed
deal with the Bakries, according to a copy of a July 4 sent by
Rothchild’s lawyers to the Financial Conduct Authority and seen
by Bloomberg.  Tan has agreed to step down as chairman once a replacement
is found. His Borneo Lumbung Energi invested $1 billion in Bumi
Plc more than a year ago in buying half of the Bakries’ stake.  $800 Million Loss  Tan said last month he had lost about $800 million on the
value of the investment and has no side deal with the Bakries.
Borneo’s Ramlie said on July 4 that a deal separating the
venture with the Bakries was expected to be concluded at the
weekend.  Bumi and the Bakries announced in October a proposal to
unwind their investments that involved the Bakries exchanging
their stake in Bumi Plc for 29.2 percent of PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  in
a cash-and-shares deal.  That transaction required the Bakries to pay $278 million
in cash for 18.9 percent of Bumi Resources stock at 680 rupiah a
share. The shares closed yesterday at 485 rupiah in Jakarta. A
sale of its Bumi Resources shares would leave the London-listed
company with its 85 percent holding in PT Berau Coal Energy, the
fifth-largest Indonesian exporter, as its only asset.  Bumi Plc shares have been halted from trading in London
since April 19 and talks with the U.K.’s Financial Conduct
Authority to end the suspension have focused on bolstering
“internal systems and controls,” the company said June 21. The
stock last closed at 259.3 pence on April 19, giving Bumi a
market value of 625 million pounds ($934 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  