-- North China Lives Cut 5 Years by Coal Burning, Study Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T05:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/burning-heating-coal-cuts-lives-by-5-years-in-china-study-finds.html
People in northern  China  may be dying
five years sooner than expected because of diseases caused by
air pollution, an unintended result of a decades-old policy
providing free coal for heat, a study found.  Coal burning leading to  heart disease , stroke,  lung cancer 
and respiratory illnesses may cause the 500 million Chinese
living north of the Huai River -- a rough line dividing the
country’s north and south -- to lose an aggregate 2.5 billion
years of  life expectancy , according to the research published in
the Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences  today.  The government gave free heating coal for people living
north of the Huai River over a period of central planning from
1950 to 1980, and such indoor systems remain common today, the
study showed. Burning coal in boilers is linked to the release
of particulate matter that can be extremely harmful to humans,
raising health costs and suggesting a move away from using
fossil fuels would be attractive, according to  Michael Greenstone , one of four authors of the study.  “This was an unintended consequence of the policy, showing
that the health costs are substantially larger that we had
previously understood,” Greenstone, a professor of
environmental economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said in a phone interview. “It makes a movement
away from the use of fossil fuels or the installation of
pollution abatement equipment look much more attractive.”  The policy wasn’t implemented in the south because of
budget constraints, according to the study.  Chinese Lifespan  The life expectancy at birth in China was 73 years in 2011,
according to  World Bank data .  The authors, who also comprise researchers from Peking
University and  Tsinghua University  in Beijing, and the  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem , compiled air pollution data for 90
Chinese cities from 1981 to 2000 and analyzed 500,000 deaths
recorded between 1991 and 2000.  They found that air pollution, as measured by total
suspended particulates, was about 55 percent higher north of the
river than south of it. Long-term exposure to every additional
100 micrograms of particulate matter per cubic meter cuts life
expectancy at birth by three years, the study showed.  Indoor air pollution from solid fuel use and urban outdoor
air pollution are estimated to be responsible for 3.1 million
 premature deaths  globally every year, according to the  World
Health Organization .  Public Discontent  Air quality  in Beijing reached hazardous levels for 20 days
in January this year, according to U.S. Embassy readings. The
figures showed the average level of PM2.5 pollution in the month
was similar to an airport smoking lounge based on comparisons
with data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. PM2.5 refers to fine air particles that
pose the greatest health risks for lung and heart diseases.  Public discontent about pollution has replaced land
disputes as the main cause of social unrest, Chen Jiping, a
former leading member of the Communist Party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  Chinese President Xi Jinping has since pledged to protect
the environment and signaled a tolerance for slower economic
expansion in return. The nation won’t sacrifice the environment
to ensure short-term growth, he said during a study session of
the Communist Party’s top leadership on May 24.  As part of efforts to curb pollution, the Ministry of
Environmental Protection suspended approval for coal-fired power
projects in the regions of  Inner Mongolia , Henan and Guizhou, it
said in May. The ministry also ordered 15 companies, including
state-owned Hebei Iron & Steel Group, to pay fees for sulfur-dioxide emissions, according to a statement on its  website .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  