-- Call Egypt’s Coup a Coup
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-07-08T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/call-egypt-s-coup-a-coup.html
Who ousted Mohamed Mursi? It turns
out that the future of  Egypt  -- and perhaps of regional peace --
depends on whether removing a president after popular protests
counts as a military coup or not.  The Foreign Assistance Act requires the suspension of all
U.S. aid to a country when the “duly elected head of government
is deposed by military act or decree” -- no exceptions unless a
democratic election is later held. If President  Barack Obama 
wants to continue $1.55 billion in annual aid to Egypt, his
lawyers will have to do some fancy legal footwork to explain why
he gets to ignore a law designed precisely to deter an army from
doing what Egypt’s did.  U.S. assistance to Egypt derives from the Camp David
accords, in which  Anwar Sadat  was rewarded by the U.S. for
making peace with  Israel . Sadat used the aid to sustain his
unpopular rule, a strategy adopted by  Hosni Mubarak  after
Sadat’s assassination.  Any Egyptian government would have trouble ruling without
the U.S. aid. Most of the money goes to the military, which, as
a result, boasts state-of-the-art equipment and a whole shadow
world of gated neighborhoods, clubs and stores -- not to mention
the prestige of being a second-world institution in a decidedly
third-world country. To take all this from the army would
destabilize the institution. The military must have believed
that bringing down Mursi, Egypt’s first leader who could
honestly be called “duly elected,” wouldn’t result in a
suspension of aid.  Worrisome Assurances  Here is where things go squirrelly. Egypt’s army has
extremely close ties to its U.S. counterparts. General
Abdelfatah al-Seesi wouldn’t have gambled his institutional
power base on the judgment of anonymous Obama administration
lawyers. It seems likely that he had assurances from General
Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, whom
he reportedly spoke with before ordering Mursi removed. If they
were given, such assurances would have been legally wrong,
politically unwise and constitutionally worrisome.  Start with the law. Mubarak was “voted” into office in a
rigged system that assured his easy victory. His removal
shouldn’t have led to a cessation of aid -- and it didn’t.
What’s more, a genuine democratic election followed relatively
soon after, curing any legal defect that might have existed.  Mursi was genuinely elected -- and genuinely deposed by a
military that was the only force in the country that could bring
him down. Sure, the protesters also wanted him out. But as he
himself made clear, he wasn’t going anywhere as a result of the
protests. Plenty of Egyptians wanted him to stay in power. The
crowds weren’t about to storm his palace and lead him out
Nicolae Ceausescu-style. If it were not for the army, Mursi
would still be president, albeit of an embattled nation. This
was a coup -- and if wasn’t, then nothing is.  The precedent is clear, too. I wrote a detailed independent
 report  with co-authors in 2011 detailing how the Honduran
military removed  Manuel Zelaya  from power, an event that the
Obama administration eventually ruled was a coup. Mursi’s
removal was even more clearly a coup than what happened in
 Honduras , where the president had violated the constitution
already and the army acted with the agreement of the legislature
and the courts.  In fact, the whole reason the law exists is to deter a coup
like this one -- which is why it would be terrible policy to
wink at its violation. If we wanted the president to decide
which coups he liked, we wouldn’t need the law. It is supposed
to tie the president’s hands, forcing the U.S. to support
democratic values and to guide militaries like Egypt’s that rely
on U.S. aid.  Obama’s lawyers have played fast and loose before, and
extended executive power by denying that the air campaign in
 Libya  represented “hostilities” and by claiming that internal
deliberations before killing Americans by drone were a species
of “due process.” This time, they should follow the spirit and
the letter of the law. If Congress wants to support the Egyptian
army, it can do so -- by voting an exception to the Foreign
Assistance Act, not by weakening its own constitutional power
and democracy itself.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition” and
“The Fall and Rise of the Islamic State,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. Follow him on Twitter at  @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  nfeldman@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 