-- Canada Building Permits Rise 5th Month on Toronto Housing
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-08T15:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/canadian-building-permits-rise-fifth-month-on-toronto-housing.html
Canadian  building permits  rose a
fifth straight month in May, a surprise gain that caps the
longest stretch in almost a decade, led by a jump in multiple-unit housing work in Toronto that has sparked warnings from
policy makers about overbuilding.  The value of municipal permits rose 4.5 percent to C$7.32
billion ($6.93 billion), following a revised 11.2 percent rise
in April, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Toronto saw a
23.6 percent jump in permits to C$1.44 billion, led by multi-family dwellings.  Bank of Canada officials have said there are signs of a
“constructive evolution” in household finances after a surge
in home starts and re-sales fueled by rising consumer debt.
About one in 10 Canadians households are highly indebted, with
borrowings exceeding 250 percent of gross income, the central
bank said last month.  “Old habits die hard among builders, and housing risks on
both sides remain in play,” Dana Peterson, an economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients. “Household imbalances will remain on the front-burner
of the Bank of  Canada ’s list of concerns” at its July 17 policy
meeting,’’ she said.  The central bank has kept its  main interest rate  at 1
percent since 2010, and has said for more than a year that its
next move may be to boost borrowing costs. Today’s report
supports the central bank’s tightening bias, Peterson said.  Residential Increase  Residential permits rose to C$4.56 billion in May, up 4.2
percent from April, Statistics Canada said. Multi-unit dwellings
jumped 4.0 percent to a record C$2.22 billion, while single-family housing permits rose 4.4 percent to C$2.33 billion.  Demand for homes has been supported by some of the lowest
 mortgage rates  in decades, including the average five-year fixed
rate of 5.14 percent last week. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time last year on concern
there was overbuilding of condos in major cities such as Toronto
and  Vancouver .  Canada’s dollar strengthened from the lowest in almost two
years, gaining 0.2 percent to C$1.0559 per U.S. dollar at 11:14
a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 94.70 U.S. cents. The
rise in permits to the third highest on record came after a
Bloomberg economist  survey  predicted a decline of 5.2 percent.  While Toronto permits rose, Vancouver saw a 13.5 percent
drop and Calgary declined 42.1 percent in May, Statistics Canada
said.  Permits for  non-residential construction  rose 5.0 percent
to C$2.77 billion, led by industrial projects.  The value of permits was 3.4 percent higher in May than the
same month a year earlier, with residential work increasing 7.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 