-- Canada May Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-07-08T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/canada-may-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
May building permits report from Statistics Canada.  Contractors took out building permits worth $7.3 billion in
May, up 4.5% from April. The total value of building permits
continued to trend upward on the strength of five consecutive
monthly increases.  The increase in May came mainly from the residential sector
in Ontario and the non-residential sector in  Quebec .  Residential sector permit values increased 4.2% to $4.6
billion in May. This advance followed a 21.6% gain in April and
was the third consecutive monthly increase. The gain in May was
attributable to both single- and multi-family dwellings. The
value of residential building permits was up in seven provinces
led largely by Ontario, followed by Alberta and Nova Scotia.
British Columbia posted the largest decline.  In the non-residential sector, the value of building
permits rose 5.0% to $2.8 billion in May. Quebec, Ontario and
Manitoba were behind most of the growth at the national level.
Declines were recorded in Alberta, New Brunswick and British
Columbia.  Residential sector: Construction intentions up for both single-and multi-family dwellings  Construction intentions for single-family dwellings rose
4.4% in May to $2.3 billion, the fourth increase in five months.
Advances were posted in eight provinces with Ontario,  Alberta 
and Quebec accounting for most of the gain.  Building permits for multi-family dwellings recorded a
third consecutive monthly increase, up 4.0% to $2.2 billion in
May following a 51.2% advance in April. Numerous apartments and
apartments-condominium projects in Ontario, Alberta and Nova
Scotia contributed to sustaining the advance from April.
Declines were registered in four provinces, with British
Columbia posting the largest drop, followed by Saskatchewan.  Canadian municipalities authorized the construction of
20,048 new dwellings, 3.1% more than in April. The advance was
attributable to both multi-family dwellings, which increased
3.5% to 13,649 units and single-family dwellings, which rose
2.3% to 6,399 units.  Non-residential sector: Significant gains in the industrial
component  In the industrial component, the value of permits rose
37.4% to $612 million in May. This was the third increase in
four months. The growth was the result of higher construction
intentions for manufacturing plants and utilities buildings in
Ontario, for mining buildings in Saskatchewan and for
manufacturing plants in British Columbia. Gains were posted in
seven provinces.  In the institutional component, the value of permits
declined 3.6% to $702 million in May, a second consecutive
monthly decrease. The value of institutional building permits
was down in four provinces, with New Brunswick accounting for
much of the drop as a result of lower construction intentions
for medical and educational buildings.  Canadian municipalities issued $1.5 billion worth of
commercial building permits in May, down 0.6% from April. This
followed a 17.3% increase the previous month. The decline was
the result of lower construction intentions in a variety of
commercial buildings, including office buildings and
recreational facilities. Decreases were posted in three
provinces, led by Alberta. Conversely, Quebec posted the largest
gain, as a result of higher construction intentions for
recreational facilities, office buildings as well as hotels and
restaurants.  Provinces: Large increases in Ontario and Quebec  The value of permits was up in seven provinces in May, led
by Ontario and Quebec.  The largest increase occurred in Ontario, mainly as a
result of higher construction intentions for multi-family
dwellings and industrial buildings. In Quebec, commercial and
institutional buildings were responsible for the gains.  Manitoba followed a distant third, as a result of higher
construction intentions for institutional buildings, commercial
structures and, to a lesser extent, industrial buildings.  The largest decline occurred in British Columbia, where all
components except industrial buildings fell. In New Brunswick,
institutional construction intentions largely contributed to the
decline.  Significant gains in construction intentions in Toronto and
Montréal  In May, the total value of permits was up in 16 of the 34
census metropolitan areas.  The largest increases were in Toronto and Montréal, with
 Edmonton  a distant third. In Toronto, the advance was
principally attributable to multi-family dwellings. Higher
intentions for industrial and commercial buildings explained the
growth in Montréal. In Edmonton, construction intentions for
residential dwellings and, to a lesser degree, for institutional
buildings were behind the advance.  Calgary had the largest decline, followed by  Vancouver  and
Victoria. After posting their third highest level on record the
previous month, the value of permits issued in Calgary decreased
42.1%, largely the result of lower construction intentions for
commercial buildings. In Vancouver, multi-family dwellings were
responsible for the decline while in Victoria, institutional
buildings were behind the decrease.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng ) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  The trend-cycle estimates have been added to the charts as
a complement to the seasonally adjusted series. Both the
seasonally adjusted and the trend-cycle estimates are subject to
revision as additional observations become available. These
revisions could be large and even lead to a reversal of movement,
especially at the end of the series. The higher variability
associated with the trend-cycle estimates is indicated with a
dotted line on the chart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  