-- Canada Company Sales and Investment Optimism Fading
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-08T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/canada-company-sales-and-investment-optimism-fading.html
Canadian business optimism about
sales and investment faded in the second quarter on signs of
sluggish domestic and global demand, a central bank survey
showed.  The  balance  of opinion for sales growth over the next 12
months fell to 9 percentage points from 24 percentage points in
the  Bank of Canada ’s survey of about 100 executives. Investment
intentions declined to a balance of 9 from 12, the Bank of
Canada said today.  The survey shows that “uncertainty regarding the nature
and timing of a notable improvement in growth prospects is
bearing on firms’ expectations and investment decisions,” the
Ottawa-based bank said in the Business Outlook Survey taken May
21 to June 13.  Governor Stephen Poloz said last month he would focus on
comments from companies about their plans to increase sales and
production in a halting global recovery. Today’s report is the
central bank’s last major publication before its July 17
announcement about its  policy interest rate , which has been at 1
percent since September 2010.  More companies expect inflation to be in the bottom half of
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band, the
survey found. About 64 percent of respondents predicted
inflation would be between 1 percent and 2 percent over the next
two years, up from 61 percent in the last survey and the fifth
straight increase. The consumer price  index  rose 0.7 percent in
May from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  reported June 21.  Credit conditions were little changed in the second
quarter, the central bank said its survey of executives showed.
The balance of opinion, which subtracts the share of executives
reporting easier conditions from those who saw tightening, was
negative 1 percentage point.  A separate survey of  senior lending officers  had a balance
of opinion of negative 12.7 percentage points, suggesting easier
credit conditions. That measure has shown easing conditions
every quarter since the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  