-- China Swaps Climb for Second Day on PBOC Stance, U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-08T02:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/china-swaps-climb-for-second-day-on-pboc-stance-u-s-jobs-data.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  rose for
a second day on speculation central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
will favor higher money-market rates to remedy excessive lending.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, may average 4 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 3.63 percent in the past year, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts. Asian
swap rates advanced today after U.S. data last week showed
employment increased more than forecast in June, bolstering the
case for the  Federal Reserve  to cut stimulus.  “There would be no across the board, huge liquidity
injection, at least in the near term,” said  Frances Cheung , a
Credit Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong . “In addition,
Asian rates are mostly up after the U.S. data.”  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
climbed two basis points to 3.84 percent at 9:59 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity swaps in the Philippines jumped 10 basis points, while
South Korean and Taiwanese rates added two basis points each.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 11 basis points to 3.7 percent
after falling 236 basis points, or 2.36 percentage points, last
week, according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The benchmark reached a record high of
12.45 percent on June 20.  Credit Growth  China’s money-market cash squeeze will reduce credit growth
this year by 750 billion  yuan  ($122 billion), according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The People’s Bank of China signaled June 25 that any
liquidity support during the funds crunch would be focused on
banks that lend to help the economy. It hasn’t  issued  91-day
bills since June 20 or 28-day repurchase  contracts  since June 6.  The monetary authority gauged demand for seven- and 14-day
reverse-repurchase contracts, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. The central bank also
asked banks to submit orders for 28-day repurchase contracts
this morning, the trader said.  The PBOC may release detailed measures for interest-rate
liberalization reform this year, according to a front-page
commentary in China Securities Journal written by reporter Zhang
Zhaohui. Exports in June may be “relatively weak” and might
even decline from a year earlier, the newspaper reported, citing
an unidentified person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  