-- China Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks as Energy Shares at 2
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T08:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/china-s-stock-futures-drop-signaling-first-losses-in-three-days.html
Chinese stocks  dropped the most in
two weeks as indexes tracking energy, materials and industrial
companies sank to the lowest levels since November 2008.  China  Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest coal
producer, slipped 3.6 percent, taking its loss this year to 38
percent. Yunnan Tin Co. plunged 8.7 percent after saying its
chairman is under investigation.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (601899) , China’s
largest gold producer, declined for the first time in six days
after saying first-half profit probably decreased. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its earnings forecasts for Chinese mining
companies, citing lower metal prices and sales.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 2.4 percent to 1,958.27
at the close, after climbing 1.4 percent last week. The CSI 300
Index slid 2.8 percent to 2,163.62. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.1 percent in Hong Kong. The
ChiNext index of smaller companies lost 2.5 percent.  “There’s a lack of confidence in the economy,” said Li Jun, a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“There’s also concern about possible capital outflows. There’s
nothing positive for stocks.”  U.S. employers added more workers than economists expected
in June, data July 5 showed, stoking expectations the Fed will
be able to taper asset purchases that prompted capital flows
into  emerging markets .  China’s State Council, headed by Premier Li Keqiang,
pledged last week to improve the effectiveness of financial
support for the economy after a cash crunch. Misallocation of
capital is hampering the restructuring of the economy and the
financial sector must play a better role in helping the
overhaul, the cabinet said July 5 after equity markets closed.
The State Council said it will maintain its “prudent”
monetary-policy stance while ensuring a reasonable supply of
money and credit.  Inflation Data  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release June data
on inflation tomorrow. Consumer prices probably rose 2.5 percent
last month, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in May, according
to the median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Declines in producer prices probably narrowed to 2.6 percent
from 2.9 percent, according to the survey.  The People’s Bank of China will release June figures on new
 yuan  loans, money supply and a broader measure of credit known
as aggregate financing by July 15.  The Shanghai index has lost 14 percent this year as data
from industrial production to exports pointed to a sustained
slowdown in the economy and as money-market rates reached record
highs. The index trades at 8 times 12-month projected profit
after the valuation fell last month to the lowest level in at
least five years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Energy Shares  The CSI 300’s energy gauge plunged 5.5 percent. Shenhua
Energy sank 3.6 percent to 15.67 yuan, the biggest drag on the
Shanghai Composite. The stock went ex-dividend today.  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , Asia’s biggest oil refiner, also
known as Sinopec, dropped 1.2 percent to 4.14 yuan.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company, added 0.1
percent to 8.07 yuan after  reversing  a loss of 1.6 percent in a
late-trade rally. The shares have gained for eight straight
days, the longest winning streak since the stock first traded in
2007. The company was the only one among 27 members of the
energy index to rise today.  An  index  of materials producers lost 4.8 percent, taking
its decline this year to 32 percent. Yunnan Tin slumped 8.7
percent to 11.48 yuan, the lowest close since March 2009.
Chairman Lei Yi is under investigation for “severe discipline
violation,” the company said July 5 after the market closed.  Zijin Mining lost 4.1 percent to 2.56 yuan. The company
said first-half profit may have dropped 45 percent to 55 percent
as the price of gold and copper declined and costs rose.  Goldman Cuts  Goldman lowered its target price for Zijin Mining by 26
percent to 2.3 yuan and cut its estimate for Yunnan Copper by 9
percent to 6.25 yuan.  “Rising volatility in metal prices will not only have an
adverse margins impact but will likely make it more difficult
for producers to manage inventory and non-operational businesses
such as hedging, leading to potentially unexpected losses,”
Goldman analysts led by Julian Zhu, wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “Ongoing liquidity tightening may also weigh on
those highly leveraged commodities producers.”  UBS AG lowered its rating on Chinese stocks to neutral in a
report on July 5, citing the risk of further declines caused by
tighter liquidity. In a separate report last week, HSBC Holdings
Plc reduced its recommendation on the nation’s shares to
underweight from overweight as economic growth slows and the
government places more emphasis on reform.  Company Delistings  China’s cash squeeze is likely to reduce  credit growth  this
year by 750 billion yuan ($122 billion), an amount equivalent to
the size of  Vietnam ’s economy, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index sank 1.9 percent last
week, extending declines in May and June. Delistings by Chinese
companies that traded in the U.S. are outnumbering initial
public offerings by the most in at least four years as
valuations fall to the lowest since 2008.  So far in 2013, eight Chinese companies have delisted from
 New York  exchanges while only online retailer  LightInTheBox
Holding Co. (LITB)  has completed a U.S. IPO, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In 2010, there were 38 IPOs and three delistings.  Companies in the China-US gauge traded at a 30 percent
discount on average to those for the Nasdaq Composite Index last
month, the biggest gap since 2008.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  