-- China Won’t Introduce Duties on EU Polysilicon Imports
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-07-09T06:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/china-won-t-introduce-duties-on-eu-polysilicon-imports.html
China  won’t introduce import duties
on polysilicon imported from the European Union, according to
the German Economy Ministry.  “The dispute about trade sanctions with China is resolved
for the time being,” a spokeswoman with the Economy Ministry
who asked not to be named due to ministry policy, said yesterday
by phone from Berlin. The decision was reported earlier by the
local newspaper Handelsblatt, which cited German Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler and Chinese Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng.  China, the world’s biggest maker of solar panels, was
preparing to impose anti-dumping duties on polysilicon imports
from the EU after completing an investigation that started in
October. The material is the main raw ingredient in solar cells.  The move was seen as retaliation after the EU introduced
preliminary tariffs June 5 of 11.8 percent on solar panels from
China. EU and Chinese officials are negotiating a trade deal,
and if no agreement is reached the duties will increase to as
much as 67.9 percent next month. A fax to the news department of
China’s Ministry of Commerce wasn’t answered.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , Europe’s largest polysilicon maker, rose
7.9 percent to 62.07 euros at the close in  Frankfurt  yesterday,
a three-month high. China’s  Daqo New Energy Corp. (DQ)  slumped 20
percent to $8.35 in  New York  trading yesterday.  Wacker sees “extremely positive and encouraging” signals
from the talks, the Munich-based company said today in an e-mailed statement. “The signals that there might be a negotiated
solution in the solar dispute between the European Union and
China are extremely positive and encouraging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  