-- China’s Ordos Struggles to Repay Debt: Xinhua Magazine
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T16:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/china-s-ordos-struggles-to-repay-debt-xinhua-magazine.html
A Chinese city known for its empty
skyscrapers is struggling to repay debt and has resorted to
borrowing from companies to pay workers, a magazine published by
the official Xinhua News Agency  reported .  Some district governments of Ordos,  Inner Mongolia , had to
borrow money from companies to pay salaries of municipal
employees, Economy & Nation Weekly said in a July 5 report on
its website. Ordos local-government entities have amassed 240
billion yuan ($39 billion) of debt, while the city had 37.5
billion yuan of revenue last year, the publication said without
specifying annual interest costs.  The report adds to signs of strains in an economy that
probably decelerated for a second straight quarter as overseas
and domestic demand slowed and Premier  Li Keqiang  reined in
credit growth.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings
Ltd. (1101) , the country’s biggest shipyard outside state control, said
last week it’s seeking financial support from the government
after orders plunged.  “Isolated default cases will happen in places like Ordos -
- people know investment in these places is unsustainable,”
said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Hong Kong .  Two phone calls to Ordos’s government general affairs
office went unanswered. The city is also known as Erdos.  ‘High Alert’  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said last week that
China should be on “high alert” to risks in local government
debt. Coal-rich Ordos is known for a building frenzy in recent
years, including a new area named Kangbashi that was designed to
accommodate 300,000 people.  Ordos had gross domestic product of 365.7 billion yuan in
2012 and 2 million residents, according to the local government,
giving it a per-capita GDP close to Hong Kong’s. The magazine
cited an unidentified person close to the city government for
the debt number.  The government’s debts include delayed payments to builders
as well as loans from companies, the magazine said.  Ordos’s Dongsheng district has the most debt with at least
120 billion  yuan , followed by Yijinhuoluo district with about 70
billion yuan, according to the article. The expansion of
government payrolls is another reason for Yijinhuoluo’s debt,
the magazine reported, citing an unidentified local government
employee.  Officials with section-chief rank or higher can take a form
of retirement at age 50, where they retain salaries and benefits
without having to work, the person said, according to the
publication.  Citigroup Estimates  Ding and his Citigroup colleagues yesterday lowered their
estimates of China’s  growth  to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent in
2013 and to 7.1 percent in 2014 from 7.3 percent. Fixed-asset
investment growth will lose steam as credit for local government
financing vehicles dries up, Ding said. That slowdown in
investment is the “major underlying factor for us to cut China
growth forecasts,” he said.  Last month,  Shang Fulin , chairman of the banking regulator,
said most local debt is guaranteed with assets and the “overall
risk is controllable.”  The central government may be forced to bail out some local
authorities and take over their liabilities, Moody’s Investors
Service said last month, after a new audit report showed a jump
in borrowings. The ratings company lowered its outlook for
China’s sovereign credit rating to stable from positive in April
and Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut the country’s long-term local-currency debt rating, with both citing risks from local-government debt and credit expansion.  Growth Slowdown  China’s GDP may have expanded 7.5 percent in the April-June
period from a year earlier, according to the median  estimate  of
31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a July 15 release by
the statistics bureau. That would be down from 7.7 percent in
the first quarter and 7.9 percent in the October-December
period.  Rongsheng also said it’s “restructuring” its workforce
and is in talks with financial institutions about renewing
credit facilities.  The order book at Chinese shipbuilders fell 23 percent at
the end of May from a year earlier, according to the  China 
Association of National Shipbuilding Industry. One-third of the
nation’s yards face the danger of closing within five years,
having failed to get orders “for a very long period of time,”
Wang Jinlian, the group’s secretary general, said July 4.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  