-- China Mine Runoff Pollutes Water for 30,000, Daily Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T13:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/chinese-mine-runoff-pollutes-water-for-30-000-china-daily-says.html
Officials in southern  China  shut 112
illegal mines after polluted runoff entered the local water
supply, killing fish and making the water unusable for about
30,000 people,  China Daily  newspaper  said .  Pollutants including cadmium and thallium flowed into the
Hejiang River after heavy rain led to flooding, and the mines
were closed July 6, China Daily said today. Though many fish
died before that, officials’ limited equipment and testing kept
them from identifying the problem, the Hezhou local government
said in a statement on its website today.  “We apologize deeply for the loophole caused by our poor
regulation,” Lei Shaohua, deputy head of the Hezhou city
environmental bureau, said at a press briefing today, according
to a  report  posted on China National Radio’s website.
Concentrations of pollutants in the river are still over safety
limits as of 12 p.m. today, the broadcaster said.  The incident adds to concerns over the quality of China’s
water supply amid public anger sparked by chemical spills and a
case in which thousands of dead pigs were pulled from the main
river running through  Shanghai . China plans to invest 4 trillion
 yuan  ($652 billion) by 2020 on its water resources, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency.  About 30,000 people living downstream from the closed mines
will be unable to use river water over the 20 days needed for
the pollution to dissipate, China Daily said.  Dead Fish  A large number of dead fish surfaced on the rive on July 5,
the Hezhou government said in its statement. Tests on the water
showed that levels of cadmium exceeded standards by 1.9 times
and thallium by 2.14 times, according to the statement.  Water quality in Foshan in  Guangdong province  is normal and
the impact of Hejiang river pollution is expected to be “not
big,” Southern Metropolis Daily said today, citing Li Kangwen,
deputy head of the city’s environmental protection bureau.  In a separate incident, about 50,000 people in the seat of
Suijiang county in Yunnan province “have struggled to access”
tap water for four days, after heavy rain triggered floods that
damaged the town’s water facilities, Xinhua reported today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  