-- Citigroup Lifts Russia to Favorite in Region on Stock Valuations
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-08T09:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/citigroup-lifts-russia-to-favorite-in-region-on-stock-valuations.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  raised Russian
equities to overweight, citing low valuations for making them
its preferred pick in central and eastern Europe, the Middle
East and  Africa .  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at
5.1 times its 12-month estimated earnings, having lost about 8.5
percent this year, compared with a multiple of 9.5 for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, which is down 14 percent.  Oil prices and dividend yields are the key drivers for the
Russian market, the Citi analysts, who have an overweight
recommendation on the nation’s financial and  energy  sectors,
said in an e-mailed note. The dollar’s recovery will push
Russia’s inflation higher, supporting resource-linked stocks
over equities dependent on domestic consumption, they said.
Slowing economic growth means the central bank won’t cut rates,
according to the report.  “ Russia  sits as our preferred CEEMEA market for the second
half of 2013 due to valuation reasons,” Citi strategist Richard
Schellbach said in the note. “We note that investor skepticism
towards the market is high, and underperformance relative to
emerging markets has continued throughout the first half of
2013.”  Russia’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three
months, the slowest pace since 2009. Bank Rossii held its
refinancing rate at 8.25 percent on June 10 after inflation
accelerated for a second month in May to the fastest pace in 21
months.  S.A, Turkey  Citi rates South African and Turkish stocks neutral on
“shaky” social and political backdrops and valuations, and has
an underweight recommendation for Poland and  Egypt . Analysts are
also neutral on Czech and Hungarian equities.  Latin America is Citi’s least preferred emerging-market
region where it sees “further disappointments” from the
Brazilian market in the next few months on “weak” economic
data, the foreign-exchange effect on earnings and political
unrest. Citi sees Brazil rebounding in the first half of 2014
and  Mexico  offering a “safe play” in the region with the
possibility of underperformance in the near term as fixed-income
and foreign-exchange markets adjust to higher U.S. bond yields,
according to the note.  Citi prefers Asia among emerging markets, citing benefits
from expanding central bank balance sheets, current account
surpluses, “large” reserves and space for further monetary
easing. The recent drop in  China ’s equities amid the liquidity
crunch is a buying opportunity, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  