-- Citigroup, BTG May See Sizable Batista Losses, Moody Says
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-07-08T19:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/citigroup-btg-may-see-sizable-batista-losses-moody-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Brazil unit and
 Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  are among banks that may face “sizable”
losses if companies controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  default, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Citigroup’s loans and other risks linked to Batista’s
faltering commodities companies total 206 million reais ($91
million), or 42 percent of the profit generated by the New York-based bank’s Brazil unit for last year, Moody’s said today in a
report. At Sao Paulo-based BTG, the exposure is 649 million
reais, or 32 percent of profit.  Companies owned by Batista, 56, are grappling with stock
and bond declines after his oil and gas business, OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA, said on July 1 it may halt output at its
only producing field. OGX tumbled 29 percent after the
announcement, and is down 88 percent this year. Batista’s iron-ore production company reduced output, it said in a filing last
week, and his shipbuilding business has been asked by advisers
to close, a person familiar with the proposal said.  Citigroup, BTG, the Brazilian  development bank  known as
BNDES, Caixa Economica Federal and Banco ABC Brasil SA “could
sustain sizable losses to their earnings and capital bases in a
default,” Ceres Lisboa, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in the report.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco Bradesco SA,  Latin
America ’s largest banks by market value, have manageable risks,
according to Moody’s.  Caixa, BNDES  Batista’s companies have more than 11 billion reais of
outstanding loans from major banks, based on first-quarter
earnings filings, Moody’s said. Federally controlled Caixa and
BNDES account for about 55 percent of the total, according to
the report. BTG’s loans to Batista’s businesses are the largest
as a percentage of total loans, at 7.4 percent, Lisboa wrote.
Citigroup’s Brazil unit was next highest, at 1.4 percent.  “Poor disclosure regarding collateral, loan conditions and
off-balance sheet and other non-lending exposures makes our
assessment preliminary and possibly understated,” she wrote.  About 80 percent of BTG’s loans to Batista-linked companies
are to  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , which got a cash injection last week from
 Germany ’s EON SE, a person familiar with the matter said today.  An official at Citigroup declined to comment. BNDES and
Caixa didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Banco ABC, based in  Sao Paulo , hasn’t had any exposure to
Batista companies since May, when OSX Brasil SA paid back a 107
million-real loan, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said. The person asked not to be identified because the matter
was private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  