-- Clariant Plans Profitability Growth as CEO Excludes Big Purchase
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-07-08T12:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/clariant-plans-profitability-growth-as-ceo-excludes-big-purchase.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  plans to reach a 2015
profitability target by nurturing growth units such as catalysts
and chemicals for personal care, and ruled out another large
acquisition.  “At this point we can exclude a transformational
acquisition” like the $2.5 billion purchase of catalyst maker
Sued-Chemie in 2011, Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann
said at a media briefing in Zurich. Muttenz, Switzerland-based
Clariant will be among “the second quartile” of chemical
companies for profitability by 2015, matching that of  Germany ’s
 Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , Kottmann said.  Kottmann is seeking to expand in ingredients for crop
chemicals, moisturizers and shampoos, after a restructuring,
which will offload five less-profitable units in areas such as
paper and leather chemicals this year. Clariant’s base
profitability has increased after buying Sued-Chemie, Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Jany said.  A second wave of divestments of leather, detergent and
intermediates units is “progressing well” with “strong
interest from buyers,” Jany said. Clariant is in talks with
several buyers for each of the businesses, and expects a signing
this year, he said, Clariant will reach a margin of 17 percent
by 2015 for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to sales, Jany said.  Clariant had an Ebitda margin of 13.7 percent in the first
quarter. The company will make a 2 to 3 percentage-point
increase from executing business unit strategies, 1 percentage
point with synergies from integrating Sued-Chemie, and 1 to 2
percentage points from cost-cutting and efficiency measures,
Jany said.  Evonik had an adjusted Ebitda margin of about 18 percent in
the first quarter. For Clariant to reach the profitability of
 Albemarle Corp. (ALB)  by 2015 is “too ambitious,” Kottman said.
Albermarle, a maker of oil-refinery catalysts, had a first-quarter Ebitda margin of 22 percent.  Clariant is also selling three commodity-chemical units
generating $1.3 billion in sales to buyout firm SK Capital
Partners LP. The disposal will be completed by the end of
September, Clariant has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  