-- Clearwire Shareholders Approve Sprint Offer
-- B y   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-08T20:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/clearwire-shareholders-approve-sprint-offer.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  shareholders voted in
favor of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s bid for full control of the
wireless Internet operator, giving Sprint valuable airwaves to
make its services more competitive.  Investors representing 82 percent of eligible shares
approved the $5-a-share proposal, Clearwire said today, allowing
Sprint to acquire the remaining half of the company. Sprint, the
third-largest wireless carrier, won support from shareholders
after raising its offer two weeks ago, trumping a $4.40-a-share
bid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   By tapping Clearwire’s spectrum -- the frequencies that
mobile devices use to connect to networks -- Sprint can offer
faster download speeds in more locations. That’s a key element
in the strategy of  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese carrier that’s
buying a majority of Sprint shares in a separate $21.6 billion
deal. With both transactions in the final stages, SoftBank Chief
Executive Officer Masayoshi Son is within reach of the tools
he’s sought to take on  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “The biggest reason Sprint wanted to gain full control of
Clearwire is because of the spectrum that Clearwire has,” said
David Heger, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .
“When you look at Sprint and Clearwire on a combined basis, the
deal will effectively give Sprint more spectrum than AT&T and
Verizon.”  Next Steps  Clearwire and Softbank plan to close the merger tomorrow,
according to today’s statement.  “We still have a lot of integration to do -- everything
from network assets to employees,” Clearwire CEO Erik Prusch
said after the shareholder vote.  Clearwire shares were unchanged at $5 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 73 percent this year as the bidding
war between Dish and  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint drove up
the company’s value.  Today’s shareholder vote followed an eight-month saga in
which Sprint fended off Dish’s pursuit of Clearwire while
SoftBank waged a separate battle with Dish for control of Sprint
itself. Dish, the second-biggest U.S. satellite-TV provider,
pulled out of contention for Sprint on June 21, then abandoned
the fight for Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire five days
later.  Last Hurdle  Sprint shareholders approved SoftBank’s takeover proposal
on June 25, and the deal gained Federal Communications
Commission approval last week, passing its final hurdle. The
transaction will be completed July 10, the companies said today.  Clearwire shareholders have rallied around Sprint after the
company topped Dish’s bid by 14 percent. Clearwire’s board
endorsed Sprint’s proposal, changing an earlier position, when
Sprint sweetened its terms.  Sprint also secured the support of investors Mount Kellett
Capital Management LP, Glenview Capital Management LLC,
Chesapeake Partners Management Co. and Highside Capital
Management LP. Even if the transaction didn’t close, the
shareholders had agreed to sell their stock to Sprint to further
block Dish’s ability to counter.  Crest Financial Ltd., one of Clearwire’s most vocal
minority shareholders, reversed its position to support Sprint’s
offer last week.  At $5 a share, Clearwire is valued at about $14 billion,
according to Sprint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madeline McMahon in  New York  at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  