-- Czech Central Bank Split on Immediate Koruna Sales, Minutes Show
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-08T07:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/czech-central-bank-split-on-immediate-koruna-sales-minutes-show.html
Czech central bank board members are
split on the need for immediate currency interventions, with
several of them calling at a June 27 meeting for selling koruna
to weaken it because inflation is below target.  The seven-member board agreed that the need for monetary
easing had increased, minutes from the meeting published on the
bank’s website showed today. It didn’t say whether policy makers
voted on a proposal to start intervention. The central bank
should react to current risks, some members said.  “In this regard, several board members spoke in favor of
immediately commencing foreign-exchange interventions,”
according to the minutes, which didn’t disclose the views of
individual policy makers. “However, it was also said that the
tendency to undershoot the inflation target was only short term
in nature and that a necessary condition for commencing
interventions was a risk of sustained deflation, which was not
materializing.”  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  is in uncharted territory
after reducing rates three times last year to  effectively zero 
in reaction to a recession. With households and businesses
curbing spending, the central bank began pondering in 2012
whether the first currency intervention in a decade is needed to
help meet its 2 percent inflation target.  Consumer prices  grew 1.3 percent from a year earlier in
May, the slowest pace in almost three years. That compared with
the central bank’s estimate of 1.6 percent. Inflation relevant
for monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted for
changes in indirect taxes, was 0.6 percent in May, below the 1
percent to 3 percent target band.  Koruna Debate  After cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to 0.05 percent
last year exhausted room for reducing borrowing costs, the
koruna assumed the central role in policy plans as its
depreciation helps boost competitiveness of exports and makes
imports more expensive, limiting deflation risks.  At least one board member said the koruna’s exchange rate
may remain weaker “as a result of bad macroeconomic news,”
according to the minutes.  Others disagreed, saying the currency’s deviation from the
central bank’s forecast was small and that the “exchange rate’s
potential for easing the monetary conditions more significantly
is almost exhausted without further intervention by the monetary
authority,” the minutes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  