-- Danone to Cut China Infant-Formula Prices by Up to 20%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T08:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/danone-to-cut-china-infant-formula-prices-by-up-to-20-.html
Danone (BN)  said it will cut prices for
its main infant-formula products in  China  by as much as 20
percent after the government started an investigation into
possible price-fixing by overseas producers.  The Paris-based company will cut prices of all its Dumex-branded products in the Asian country by between 5 to 20
percent, starting tomorrow, it said in a statement today. Danone
had said on July 3 that it would be lowering prices of baby milk
powder in China.  High prices charged by companies including Danone,  Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  were the subject of a
National Development and Reform Commission investigation, the
official People’s Daily reported on July 2, citing the agency.
Danone joins Nestle’s Wyeth brand and Dutch producer Royal
FrieslandCampina NV in reviewing prices in China’s 95.2 billion
 yuan  ($15.5 billion) baby formula market, after the newspaper’s
report on the probe by the nation’s top economic planning
agency.  “Dumex has already undertaken an internal review with
respect to relevant provisions of antitrust law in order to
ensure that its operations are in compliance with relevant law
and regulations,” Danone said in today’s statement. The company
said it has co-operated with the NDRC investigation and will
maintain today’s price reductions for the next year.  Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry & Trade Co., the
Hong Kong-listed arm of China’s second-largest baby formula
company by market share, will cut product prices by 5 percent to
20 percent to increase its competitiveness and market share, the
company said in a  filing  to Shenzhen’s stock exchange today.
Beingmate wasn’t named in the People’s Daily report as a
producer being probed in the government investigation.  Mead Johnson had a 14 percent share in China’s milk-formula
market last year, according to industry researcher Euromonitor
International. Hangzhou Beingmate Group Co., the parent of
Zhejiang Beingmate, was second with a 10 percent share, followed
by Danone’s 9.2 percent and Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group
Co.’s 7.8 percent.  The NDRC has evidence that the companies sold goods at high
prices in China and their pricing increased about 30 percent
since 2008, according to the People’s Daily. Sales of baby
formula in China grew 29 percent to 95.2 billion yuan  last
year, more than four times the size of the U.S. market,
according to industry analyst Mintel Group.  Food processing and packaging company Tetra Pak Group is
also being investigated by China for possible abuse of market
dominance, another sign of increasing scrutiny into the
operations of overseas companies. Drugmakers including
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  are being probed separately in the country.  -- Liza Lin. Editors: Anjali Cordeiro, Stephanie Wong  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  