-- DaVita Advances After Berkshire Increases Stake: Denver Mover
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-08T16:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/davita-advances-after-berkshire-increases-stake-denver-mover.html
DaVita Healthcare Partners Inc. (DVA) 
gained the most since May after  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  boosted its stake in the second-largest U.S.
dialysis provider last week.  DaVita rose 2 percent to $116.90 at 12:03 p.m. in New York
after climbing as much as 2.4 percent, making it the second-best
performer today on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Health Care Index.
The Denver-based firm has advanced 5.7 percent this year,
compared with the 21 percent gain of the 54-company index.  Berkshire bought 639,200 DaVita shares on July 2 and July 3
for about $73.4 million, according to a regulatory filing,
increasing the Omaha, Nebraska-based firm’s stake to about 15.6
million shares. The purchases came after last week’s proposal to
cut U.S. Medicare payments to the dialysis industry, which sent
shares of DaVita down 6 percent in the two days after the
announcement.  “It was a relatively good purchase on the pull back,”
Kevin Ellich, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Cos., said in a
phone interview. “It’s good to see some support.”  DaVita’s growth in treatments and recurring revenue stream
made the dialysis provider an attractive buy for  Berkshire (BRK/B) ,
Ellich said.  Regulus Therapeutics Inc. (RGLS) ’s Garry E. Menzel will join
DaVita in September as chief financial officer, the company said
today in a  statement . Menzel, 48, will replace Interim CFO Jim Hilger, who will continue as the company’s chief accounting
officer.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News , has served on DaVita’s board of directors
since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  