-- Dead Among Those Interviewed in Faulty Background Checks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-07-08T17:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/dead-among-those-interviewed-in-faulty-background-checks.html
Anthony J. Domico, a former
contractor hired to check the backgrounds of U.S. government
workers, filed a 2006 report with the results of an
investigation.  There was just one snag: A person he claimed to have
interviewed had been dead for more than a decade. Domico, who
had worked for contractors  CACI International Inc. (CACI)  and Systems
Application & Technologies Inc., found himself the subject of a
federal probe.  Domico is among 20 investigators who have pleaded guilty or
have been convicted of falsifying such reports since 2006. Half
of them worked for companies such as Altegrity Inc., which
performed a background check on national-security contractor
Edward Snowden. The cases may represent a fraction of the
fabrications in a government vetting process with little
oversight, according to lawmakers and U.S. watchdog officials.  “The process for granting security clearances across the
federal government is broken,” Senator  Ron Johnson  of
 Wisconsin , the top Republican on a Senate panel overseeing
government contracting, said in an e-mail.  Passing a government background check is a requirement
before an employee or contractor can be granted a security
clearance to access classified information. The process has been
under increasing scrutiny since Snowden, a former National
Security Agency contractor who had worked for McLean, Virginia-based  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , leaked secret documents
on U.S. surveillance programs.  Snowden’s Vetting  Snowden held a top-secret clearance, and his background
check was done by the USIS unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Altegrity in 2011, according to Senator  Claire McCaskill , a
Missouri Democrat. USIS, the government’s No. 1 provider of such
work with $253 million in awards this year, is under
investigation by an inspector general who has said there may
have been shortcomings in the company’s vetting of Snowden.  Among the 10 background-check workers employed by
contractors who have been convicted or pleaded guilty to
falsifying records since 2006, eight of them had worked for
USIS, according to the inspector general for the U.S. Office of
Personnel Management. The personnel agency is responsible for
about 90 percent of the government’s background checks.  In one case, Kayla M. Smith, a former investigative
specialist for USIS, submitted some 1,600 falsified credit
reports, according to the inspector general’s office.  Convicted Workers  She pleaded guilty in August 2009 to falsifying one out of
three credit checks she performed during an 18-month period,
according to a  Justice Department  statement. Smith, then 25,
received three years of probation. She also was ordered to pay
about $95,300 in restitution to USIS and an estimated $4,300 to
the personnel office.  In a twist that hints at how widespread the fabrications in
the background check system may be, the investigator who had
vetted Smith was convicted in a separate falsification case,
Patrick McFarland, inspector general for the personnel office,
said at a June 20 hearing held by two Senate panels.  The most recent case involved Ramon Davila, 59, a former
worker for contractors including USIS, Fairfax, Virginia-based
 ManTech International Corp. (MANT)  and Largo, Maryland-based Systems
Application & Technologies.  Davila pleaded guilty last month to submitting documents
that contained false reports about interviews he had never
conducted and records he had never obtained. His sentencing is
scheduled for September, according to the Justice Department.  Talking Dead  Domico, who claimed to have interviewed a person who turned
out to be dead, falsified documents in more than two dozen cases
in 2005 and 2006, according to a Justice Department press
release. He was sentenced in April 2010 to five months in prison
and ordered to pay $69,611 in restitution to the personnel
agency, according to the department. It wasn’t clear which
company he worked for when he claimed to have interviewed the
deceased person.  Attempts to reach Domico, Smith and Davila by phone were
unsuccessful. Jody Brown, a spokeswoman for CACI, declined to
comment. Representatives for ManTech and Systems Application
didn’t provide comment. A USIS spokesman didn’t respond to a
phone call seeking comment on the cases.  There may be “considerably more” botched background
investigations, McFarland told senators at the hearing. “I
don’t believe that we’ve caught it all by any stretch,” he
said.  McFarland said his office doesn’t have the funds needed to
conduct thorough probes.  Oversight Bill  While the personnel office charges other federal agencies
to conduct the checks, it isn’t allowed to include the cost of
the inspector general’s oversight in its prices, according to
McFarland.  Johnson and Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat who
chairs a Senate oversight panel, plan to introduce legislation
this week that would provide the inspector general access to
funding for a broader investigation.  The bill would also require the personnel office to
temporarily suspend any employee under investigation for
falsifying background checks. It would establish government-wide
standards for screening federal workers requiring security
clearances.  McCaskill has said that USIS is under criminal
investigation by the inspector general for the company’s
“systemic failure to adequately conduct investigations.”  Flawed Checks  USIS is the government’s top provider of federal background
check investigations, handling about 45 percent of the reviews
that the personnel office hires contractors to perform.  The company received a subpoena in January 2012 from the
inspector general and “has cooperated fully with the
government’s civil investigative efforts,” it said in  a June 26
statement . USIS said it has never been informed that it is under
criminal investigation.  McFarland has  found flaws  dating to 2009 with background
checks overseen by the personnel office. The agency’s primary
contractors are the USIS unit of Altegrity, owned by Providence
Equity Partners LLC; KeyPoint Government Solutions Inc., a unit
of Veritas Capital, a New York-based private equity company; and
CACI, based in Arlington, Virginia.  USIS Competitors  The  Office of Personnel Management  has awarded contracts
valued at $466 million for background checks so far this fiscal
year, which began Oct. 1, 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Of that amount, USIS received 54 percent,
or $253 million, Keypoint got 35 percent, or $162 million, and
CACI got 11 percent, or $51 million.  USIS received 95 percent of the personnel office’s spending
on background investigations in fiscal 2007, according to the
data.  “Competition is already eating away at USIS’s market
share, and its competitors can try to use the bad publicity to
their advantage,” said Brian Friel, a contracts analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  McFarland’s office recommended in a 2010 audit that the
contractors be required to undergo standardized training and
verify all records used in background investigations. Those
recommendations are unresolved, according to the inspector
general.  Security Clearances  The government is increasingly relying on companies to
conduct background investigations for security clearances. The
ranks of contract workers helping to do background checks on
contractors and federal employees swelled 15 percent to almost
6,800 last year from fiscal 2011, according to the personnel
office.  Contractors are under tremendous pressure to complete a
growing number of security clearances as quickly as possible,
said  Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business Partners,
a consulting firm in McLean, Virginia.  “Investigators are overworked, they don’t always feel they
are compensated fairly, and there is a lot of pressure put on
them by the Office of Personnel Management to get things done in
a timely manner,” Allen said in a telephone interview.
“Ultimately, some people slip through the cracks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  