-- Design Is King for Impulsive Asian Shoppers, Nielsen Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-08T12:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/design-is-king-for-impulsive-asian-shoppers-nielsen-report-says.html
Asian consumers are more inclined  to
shop impulsively and pay extra for designer goods than people
from other regions, according to a study by market information
company  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)   Forty percent of shoppers from the Asia Pacific region say
they often buy on a whim things they don’t need, compared with
about a third of global respondents, Nielsen found in a survey
of more than 29,000 online consumers in 58 countries. Sixty-one
percent of Asians are prepared to spend more on designer goods
than for similar unbranded items, exceeding the global average
by 17 percentage points, according to the researcher.  “Indians and Chinese are among the most impulsive and
brand-image-driven shoppers,” Nielsen said in the report, which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  With clothing and shoes, design is the most important
purchasing factor for about half of respondents from the Asia
Pacific region, Nielsen said. North American and European
consumers are mainly driven by price, the researcher said.  Almost a third of Asian shoppers get information about
jewelry and clothing online, whereas their counterparts from
other regions depend more on visits to stores, the study showed.  Middle Eastern, African and Latin American consumers rely
most on professional advice, Nielsen said. North American
shoppers are the least swayed by professional recommendations,
the study said.  The data show that “a one-size-fits-all approach doesn’t
work,” Nielsen said in the report.  The survey was conducted between Aug. 10 and Sept. 7, 2012
and polled claimed purchasing behavior. The margin of error was
plus or minus 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  