-- DirecTV Said to Bid for Hulu as Guggenheim Digital Joins
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-09T17:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/directv-makes-hulu-bid-as-time-warner-cable-seeks-stake.html
DirecTV (DTV)  made a bid for the online
video service Hulu LLC, as did  Hollywood Reporter  owner
Guggenheim Digital and its partner,  KKR & Co. (KKR) , people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Time Warner Cable Inc. offered to acquire a stake in Hulu,
said the people, who sought anonymity because the sale process
is private. The suitors join Chernin Group, working with  AT&T
Inc. (T) , in meeting a July 5 deadline for binding proposals. Terms
of the offers weren’t known.  Pay-television systems are vying for Hulu, which offers a
lower-cost option than the video subscriptions on cable and
satellite systems. The website, owned by Walt Disney Co., 21st
Century Fox Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , provides a limited free
version of its service on computers and offers an $8-a-month
subscription with access to more programs on more devices.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable TV
service, is seeking to become an investor alongside the current
owners, offering an alternative to an outright sale of the video
service, which had more than 4 million paying  customers  as of
the first quarter.  Deep Pockets  Hulu’s owners are looking for a buyer that will keep
spending on shows for the upstart Web-video site. Incumbent pay-TV providers such as Comcast, DirecTV and Time Warner Cable are
contending with the growing popularity of mobile and Web-based
viewing, and competition from companies including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment as did  Robert Mercer , of El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV, and Maureen Huff, with New York-based
Time Warner Cable.  AT&T operates the U-verse pay-TV service and Chernin Group,
producer of “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” film and TV’s
“New Girl,” has invested in startups such as Tumblr Inc. and
Flipboard Inc. Officials of AT&T and Chernin, which would gain
an online outlet for programming, declined to comment last week.  Guggenheim Digital and private equity firm KKR had
initially bid separately for Hulu before joining forces.
Guggenheim Digital is an affiliate of Guggenheim Partners LLC,
the private equity firm running the Hulu auction. In addition to
the Hollywood Reporter, the digital arm owns Dick Clark
Productions.  Thomas S. Mulligan, an outside spokesman for Guggenheim
Digital, had no comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported the joint Guggenheim
Digital-KKR bid yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  