-- Draghi Says ECB ‘Sharpened’ Communication by Pledging Low Rates
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-07-08T14:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/draghi-says-ecb-sharpened-communication-by-pledging-low-rates.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the Governing Council enhanced its communication
last week by giving an outlook on  interest rates  at a time when
the euro-region economy remains weak.  “The Governing Council sharpened its communication by
announcing that it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain
at present or lower levels for an extended period of time,”
Draghi told the European Parliament’s Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee in Brussels today. “This expectation was
based on the overall subdued outlook for inflation extending
into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the real
economy and subdued monetary dynamics.”  The ECB and the  Bank of England  both indicated on July 4
that they will keep  benchmark interest rates  low for longer than
investors were betting, breaking new ground to protect their
economies from a U.S.-led surge in bond yields. Draghi’s outlook
represented a change in policy for an institution whose
officials had until then consistently said that it “never
precommits” on monetary policy.  “The euro area still faces considerable challenges” and
“the economy is still weak,” Draghi said today. Still, recent
 confidence indicators  “have shown some further improvement”
and economic activity “should stabilize and recover over the
course of the year, although at a subdued pace.”  ‘Stable’ Conditions  Draghi also said that the euro region faces an improved
situation compared with a year earlier.  “Clearly financial conditions in the euro area today are
more stable and resilient than they were last summer,” he said.
“This is partly due to our determined monetary policy actions.
Governments and parliaments have also played a key role in the
relative return of confidence and stability by undertaking
courageous reforms.”  In his opening statement to lawmakers, Draghi updated them
on progress toward the creation of a program led by the  European
Investment Bank  to stimulate lending to small and medium-sized
companies, and on the ECB’s work to establish a banking
supervisor.  “Reinstating beyond doubt the soundness of the banking
system, reintegrating the banking system and delivering a
supervisory framework that will prevent a repeat of the past
risk buildup” are among the ECB’s objectives, he said. “All
core elements should fall into place swiftly to reap the full
benefits of a banking union”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  