-- The Fancy Said to Get Funding From AmEx, Will Smith
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/the-fancy-said-to-get-funding-from-amex-will-smith.html
The Fancy, an online shop with items
culled by customers, raised $53 million from investors including
 American Express Co. (AXP) , billionaire Len Blavatnik and actor  Will Smith , people familiar with the matter said.  The funding round, which was disclosed last week in a
filing that didn’t name the investors, values the company at
$600 million, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the information is private.  The financing will aid the expansion of the New York-based
company, which sells items like light-up shower heads and
alcohol flasks with cigar storage. The site, fancy.com, takes in
about $3 million in revenue each month, the person said.  Edward Gilligan, the president of American Express, joined
Jack Dorsey, Twitter Inc.’s founder, and Francois-Henri Pinault,
chairman of Kering, on The Fancy’s board, according to a
regulatory filing.  Michael Silverman, chief operating officer of The Fancy,
declined to comment on behalf of the company, which previously
was known as Thing Daemon Inc.  The funding round adds to a high-profile year for  New York 
startups. Last month, New York-based Tumblr was acquired by
Yahoo! Inc. for $1.1 billion, pouring millions into the coffers
of East Coast investors Spark Capital and Union Square Ventures.  Fab.com, MakerBot  Four weeks after that announcement, Manhattan-based online
retailer Fab.com Inc. raised $150 million, valuing the company
at more than $1 billion, and Brooklyn-based MakerBot, a 3-D
printing company, was acquired by a larger competitor for at
least $403 million. Last month, New York’s  Tremor Video Inc. (TRMR)  was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and Jonathan Oringer, the
founder of Shutterstock Inc., became Silicon Alley’s first
billionaire.  On The Fancy’s site and in its software applications, goods
are posted by users who have searched around the Internet for
interesting items. Users of the service can say they “fancy”
an item, propelling the most popular choices to the front page
of the site. The items can be bought without leaving The Fancy’s
site, which works out deals with retailers to offer them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  