-- Egypt Shares Slide the Most in a Month on Deadly Clashes
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-07-08T14:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/egypt-shares-slide-the-most-in-a-month-on-deadly-clashes.html
Egypt’s  stock index  dropped the most
in almost a month and the benchmark bonds declined after dozens
were killed in clashes between the military and supporters of
deposed Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index decreased 3.6 percent, the
biggest retreat since June 12, to 5,123.06 at the close in Cairo
as all but two stocks declined. Commercial International Bank
SAE  led the drop , losing 3.7 percent on volume of 1.7 times the
three-month daily average. The yield on the 5.75 percent bonds
due in April 2020 jumped 30 basis points to 9.37 percent at 4:26
p.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares and bonds reversed last week’s gains after at least
42 people were killed and more than 300 wounded in fighting
outside the Republican Guard headquarters in Cairo, a main
security installation. The army said pro-Mursi protesters opened
fire, while the Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi hails, said
the attacks were unprovoked.  Egypt ’s stock index rallied 14
percent last week as the military ousted Mursi.  “The market is down, because of the clashes,” Teymour El-Derini, director of Middle East and North Africa sales trading
at Naeem Brokerage in Cairo, said by phone. “It’s just a
correction, one that was needed after the gains last week.
Unfortunately, it’s happening on sad news.”  Deeper Polarization  The  value of shares  traded fell to 394 million Egyptian
pounds ($56 million) after rising to 525 million pounds
yesterday, the highest since May 30. Commercial International,
the nation’s biggest publicly traded lender, fell the most since
June 12 to 33.26 pounds.  Five-year credit default swaps, which protect investors
against non-payment of debt, rose one basis point to 775 today,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts climbed to a
record 925 on July 2.  Last night’s clashes threatened to deepen political
polarization and derail efforts by the country’s interim leaders
to form a government. The ultra-conservative Nour Party, the
only Islamist group that backed the army’s move to oust Mursi,
suspended its participation in talks to name a prime minister
because of the “massacre,” Shaaban Abdel Alim, the party’s
assistant secretary-general said by phone. The army installed
Adly Mansour last week as interim president.  “If this polarization continues, the impact on the economy
is going to continue to be negative however you look at it,”
said Ahmad Alanani, Dubai-based director for the  Middle East  at
Exotix Ltd.. “In the short term, credit ratings will continue
to be skewed toward the negative until we see the interim
government put in place a road map.”  Missing Target  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s rating by one level last
week to B-, or six levels below investment grade. The ouster of
Mursi may damp economic growth and fan political instability,
Fitch said, placing Egypt at the same level as Greece and
Cyprus.  The country is struggling with the worst economic slump in
two decades and the biggest  budget deficit  as a percentage of
economic output in the Middle East. It plans to raise 200
billion pounds at local debt auctions this quarter in part to
meet a record 169 billion pounds of repayments.  The  Finance Ministry  missed its 2.5 billion-pound target at
today’s auction of five-year and 10-year treasury bonds. The
ministry raised 1.74 billion pounds, according to central bank
data on Bloomberg.  Political instability this year placed pressure on the
Egyptian pound, which has depreciated 9.3 percent in 2013, the
worst performer in the region after the Syrian pound, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 0.1
percent to 7.0196 a dollar today after the central bank sold
$37.6 million at a currency auction. The regulator started the
sales in December to limit banks’ access to dollars in order to
stem a drop in foreign reserves.  Net foreign reserves  declined 7 percent last month to $14.9
billion, less than half the level before the 2011 uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  