-- Heinz Kerry’s Doctors Haven’t Diagnosed Illness, Person Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-08T13:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/heinz-kerry-s-doctors-haven-t-made-exact-diagnosis-person-says.html
Teresa Heinz Kerry’s doctors haven’t
yet made a diagnosis of what caused her to suffer symptoms 
consistent with a seizure, according to a person close to the 
Kerry family.  The wife of U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  was
hospitalized yesterday in Nantucket,  Massachusetts , in critical
condition and soon stabilized, said the person, who asked not to
be identified discussing her status.  She was later taken to  Massachusetts General Hospital  in
 Boston , where she remains under treatment. The family friend
wouldn’t say whether Heinz Kerry was conscious or provide
additional details, saying her children didn't want to describe
every change in her condition.  Sue McGreevey, a spokeswoman at Massachusetts General,
referred questions to the State Department, which declined to
provide information about her ailment. The  Associated Press  
reported yesterday that Heinz Kerry, 74, was in critical but 
stable condition.  A philanthropist who has focused on issues ranging from
childhood lead poisoning to women’s education, Heinz Kerry is
chairman of the Heinz Family Foundation and the  Heinz Endowments 
in Pittsburgh, according to her biography on the website of an
award that bears the Heinz name.  Born in  Mozambique  and fluent in five languages, she is
heiress to the H.J. Heinz ketchup fortune, estimated in 2004 at
$500 million. Her former husband, Pennsylvania Republican
Senator John Heinz, died in 1991. She married Kerry, then a
Democratic senator from Massachusetts, in 1995.  In an interview that aired in February 2010 on CNN’s
“Larry King Live” program, she and Kerry talked about her 2009
diagnosis with  breast cancer , and Kerry said “she knows more
about medicine than a lot of doctors.”  ‘Very Analytical’  Asked about the prospect of facing radiation treatment, she
said, “I wasn’t scared because I’m very analytical about things
like this, and I guess a little fatalistic.”  Kerry and Heinz Kerry have a home on Nantucket, an island
south of Cape Cod. The secretary of State traveled there July 3
for a Fourth of July holiday with his family after returning
from a trip to the Middle East and  Asia .  Heinz Kerry didn’t accompany the top U.S. diplomat on the
tour, his fifth trip in an attempt to revive long-stalled
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.  Kerry’s respite on Nantucket created a stir when a CBS News
producer reported he was spotted on board a yacht on July 3,
amid a crisis that day as  Egypt ’s military ousted President
Mohamed Mursi. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki initially
said that “any report or tweet that he was on a boat is
completely inaccurate.”  Psaki later said in a statement that “while he was briefly
on his boat on Wednesday, Secretary Kerry worked around the
clock all day including participating in the president’s meeting
with his National Security Council” and making calls to
numerous leaders in the  Middle East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  