-- Emerging Stocks Drop as India’s Rupee Touches Record Low
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-07-08T21:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/emerging-stocks-fall-for-second-day-as-zijin-slumps-rupee-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day, bond yields rose and  India ’s rupee touched a record
low on speculation the Federal Reserve will reduce economic
stimulus. The lira rebounded as  Turkey  sold dollars.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.3 percent to
905.96.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa slid as Citigroup Inc. lowered its
recommendation for the nation’s stocks, while iron-ore producer
Vale SA slumped. India’s rupee fell below the previous record on
June 26, while the lira advanced after the central bank sold the
most foreign exchange in 12 years. The premium investors demand
to own emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.08
percentage point, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Stocks in Asia’s developing nations led losses, with the
Jakarta Composite Index down 3.7 percent, as stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs data on July 5 boosted speculation the Fed
will trim monetary stimulus in the world’s biggest economy.
Political turmoil also contributed to declines after dozens were
killed in clashes between the military and supporters of deposed
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi.  “Today’s action is still driven by the quantitative easing
tapering fears,” Sean Lynch, the Omaha, Nebraska-based global
investment strategist for Wells Fargo Private Bank, said by
phone, referring to the Fed’s stimulus program. His firm
oversees about $170 billion. “We saw geopolitical risk come
back into play. This is a factor to consider when investing.”  Technology and financial shares led the  declines  among 10
industries in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The broad measure
has slumped 14 percent this year, compared with an 8.9 percent
gain in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation gauge  trades 
at 9.5 times projected earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s
valuation of 13.4.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.1 percent to $37.39. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slipped 2.6 percent to 28.79.  Brazil’s Ibovespa lost 0.3 percent, extending this year’s
tumble to 26 percent, while the real weakened. Citigroup cited a
“discouraging mix” of a depreciating currency, slower growth and
political unrest in changing its call on Brazilian equities.
Vale contributed the most to the benchmark’s decline as prices
for the steel-making ingredient fell for the first time in eight
days.  Mexico ’s peso climbed the most in three weeks on
speculation demand for the nation’s assets will weather concern
that the Fed will scale back stimulus.  Russia’s Upgrade  Russian equities, the cheapest among emerging markets,
advanced after Citigroup Inc. raised the nation’s stocks to
overweight, citing low valuations. OAO Raspadskaya, a coal
producer, climbed 4.9 percent after resuming work at its
flagship mine after a two-month halt.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index fell
to the lowest level since June 25 and the lira added 1.1
percent.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index dropped 1.3 percent, while stock
gauges in  Hungary  and the Czech Republic gained. The  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares (JALSH)  Index rose 1.6 percent in Johannesburg.  India’s rupee declined 0.6 percent to 60.6150 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped as low as 61.2125, passing the previous
record of 60.7650 on June 26.  Indonesia ’s stocks, bonds and currency fell on speculation
the central bank will raise interest rates.  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the
nation’s largest lender by assets, slid 7.4 percent, the biggest
drag on the Jakarta index.  Chinese stocks dropped the most in two weeks as indexes
tracking energy, materials and industrial companies sank to the
lowest levels since November 2008. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
nation’s biggest coal producer, slipped 3.6 percent.      The
Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.4 percent.  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index decreased 3.6 percent, the biggest
retreat since June 12. Commercial International Bank SAE led the
drop, losing 3.7 percent on volume of 1.7 times the three-month
daily average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in  New York  at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  