-- Hendar Named Deputy Governor as Bank Indonesia Fills Top Jobs
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-08T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/hendar-named-deputy-governor-as-bank-indonesia-fills-top-jobs.html
Indonesian lawmakers chose Hendar as
central bank deputy governor, moving to fill remaining vacancies
in the management team as the authority grapples with
accelerating inflation, slowing growth and a falling currency.  Commission XI, a parliamentary panel for financial affairs,
selected Hendar after a vote at a meeting late yesterday in
Jakarta, said Commission Chairman Emir Moeis. Hendar, currently
an assistant governor at  Bank Indonesia , received 24 votes, he
said. Treesna Wilda Suparyono, director of the foreign-exchange
management department, got 18 votes, while the third candidate,
Mulya Siregar, also an assistant governor, received five votes.  The appointment will have to be confirmed at a plenary
session of parliament.  Indonesia  in June became the region’s first major economy
to boost  interest rates  this year, as policy makers sought to
shore up one of  Asia ’s worst performing currencies in the past
12 months and cool inflation expectations. Foreign-exchange
reserves fell to a more than two-year low last month as the
central bank intervened to support the rupiah, adding pressure
for further monetary tightening as the authority meets this week.  The rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 9,955 per dollar in
Jakarta yesterday, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks
show. It has fallen about 5 percent in the past 12 months, the
worst performer among 11 Asian currencies after the yen and the
Indian rupee.  Monetary Ability  “It will be useful if parliament names a person who has
the ability to manage monetary policy,” Juniman, an economist
at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia, said before the decision.
“Hendar is a good person who will be able to support” Governor
 Agus Martowardojo  together with Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo,
he said.  The authority will probably raise the benchmark  reference
rate  by a quarter of percentage point for a second straight
meeting to 6.25 percent on July 11, a Bloomberg survey shows.  The country’s  reserves  fell to $98.1 billion last month
from $105.15 billion in May, Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo said last week. The central bank has trimmed its
2013 economic growth forecast and lifted its outlook for
inflation to 7.2 percent to 7.8 percent, Martowardojo also said.  The parliamentary committee assessed the three candidates
last week to replace Muliaman Hadad, who resigned from his
second term as deputy governor after parliament named him head
of the Financial Services Authority in June last year. Bank
Indonesia is due to hand over its banking supervisory role to
the new authority, which will oversee lenders starting next year.  Hendar, 55, has a Master’s degree in development economics
from  Williams College  in the U.S. This was Hendar’s second
attempt at becoming deputy governor this year, after losing out
to Perry Warjiyo for a similar role in March. He has been a
bureau chief of monetary policy, executive director of monetary
management, and is currently an assistant governor specializing
in payment systems, money circulation and information system
management at the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  