-- Tepco’s Woman on the Inside Leading Push to Restart Reactors
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-07-08T02:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/tepco-s-woman-on-the-inside-leading-push-to-restart-reactors.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  has pledged
to establish nuclear safety rules that “meet or exceed”
national guidelines, as the operator of the wrecked Fukushima
atomic station seeks restarts at one of its idled plants.  The standards are part of an effort to change the culture
of the utility known as Tepco and convince a skeptical public
that its nuclear plants can be operated safely, said Barbara Judge, the deputy chairman of the company’s  Nuclear Reform
Monitoring Committee , an internal watchdog.  “Tepco wants to turn over a new leaf, they want to be
reborn,” Judge, a former chairman of the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority, said in an interview in Tokyo on July 4. “I don’t
think there was a strong safety culture before. I think it was
an efficiency culture. I think they worried about pumping out
electricity and being profitable but not particularly about
being safe.”  The reform committee established a 20-person nuclear safety
assurance office to devise the rules in May. Committee Chairman
Dale Klein, a former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, said in March that Tepco should have examined the
possibility of tsunamis and other natural events in greater
detail.  The nuclear safety office, which is led by former U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority safety director John Crofts, began
working on the guidelines this month and aims to begin
implementing them in about six months, Judge said. The standards
would apply to Tepco’s Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant in Niigata
prefecture, 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of Tokyo, which
it is seeking to restart, she said.  Safety Practices  Japan’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority , which was set up
after the disaster to independently review the country’s nuclear
power, finalized its own safety guidelines in June. They require
that tsunami defenses be based on the largest estimated waves
from the most recent scientific assessments and oblige nuclear
power plant operators to build secondary control centers at
least 100 meters (328 feet) from reactor buildings to manage
emergency cooling systems.  They also stipulate that plants using boiling water
reactors, the same type employed at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa and which
suffered a meltdown at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, must install filtration
vents before restarting.  “Tepco will meet or exceed the standards of the new
regulatory commission,” Judge said. “Tepco itself will have
the highest and best safety practices not just in Japan, but in
the world.”  Restart Application  All but two of Japan’s 50 functioning reactors are idled
for checks after the Fukushima disaster, which caused the
evacuation of 160,000 people. The utility is among at least five
power companies that have said they’ll apply to Japan’s Nuclear
Regulation Authority to restart units at their plants. The NRA
began accepting applications today.  Tepco has said it would apply as soon as possible to
restart two reactors at the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant. The
utility, which had an 685.3 billion yen ($6.8 billion) loss last
fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it would return to profit
this year if it’s allowed to restart the reactors at the plant.  Tepco President Naomi Hirose visited Niigata on July 5 to
try to gain support for a restart application from its governor,
Hirohiko Izumida, who has opposed the plant’s resumption.  Gender Gap  “What’s the rush?” Izumida said in remarks published July
6 by the Yomiuri newspaper. “Why was it just decided to go
ahead with the application without doing anything to alleviate
anxieties?”  Hirose said he would continue to seek meetings with Izumida
to secure his understanding for the restart, the Nikkei
newspaper also reported July 6.  About 59 percent of the respondents to a  survey  conducted
June 8 and 9 by the Asahi newspaper said they’re opposed to
restarting reactors. Women may be especially fearful of nuclear
power, with a  poll  published in June 2012 by the Pew Research
Center in Washington finding that 61 percent of Japanese women
worried about radiation exposure, as opposed to 42 percent of
men.  Judge, who also previously served as a director of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said she suspects that, as
its sole woman, she was invited to join Tepco’s five-member
reform committee in part to help address this gender gap.  The public must be convinced that nuclear power enhances
Japan’s energy independence, while offering the country a
cheaper and less polluting supply of energy than the fossil
fuels used in its stead since the Fukushima accident, she said.  Judge had been making these points in speeches to women’s
groups, including one last week at the University of Tokyo, she
said.  “I think women have to talk to other women,” Judge said.
“It must be about mothers and worrying about your children. We
need teachers, we need doctors, we need nurses, we need mothers.
We need people who are respected in the community but who you
can relate to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  