-- Eskom South Africa Power Plant Delayed to 2014 as Costs Rise
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-08T11:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/eskom-south-african-power-plant-delayed-to-2014-as-costs-climb.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the South
African power producer seeking to boost capacity 25 percent,
said its Medupi plant will be delayed to 2014 as contractors’
“underperformance” and labor disruptions drive up costs.  “The delay is expected to increase the cost to completion
of Medupi, but some of this must be recouped from contractors,”
Eskom Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  told reporters today
at the Johannesburg-based company’s headquarters. Eskom is
considering supply options as it faces a gap of about 700
megawatts next year, he said.  The cost of Medupi has increased by as much as 15 percent
to 105 billion rand ($10.3 billion), the utility said in a
presentation today. Eskom had said it intended the first power
from an 800-megawatt unit at Medupi to be generated by the end
of this year. The Medupi site, in Limpopo province, has about
17,000 workers and 300 contractors, according to Eskom.  The utility, which generates about 95 percent of the
nation’s power, is spending some $50 billion revamping old
plants and building new ones to avoid a repetition of the
January 2008 blackouts that halted mines of companies including
 Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  Eskom’s new plants at Kusile and Medupi are
set to be the third- and fourth-largest coal-fired stations in
the world.  Yields on Eskom’s dollar-denominated bonds due in January
2021 climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 5.98
percent by 12:35 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Coal, Boilers  While Eskom’s Medupi, Kusile and Ingula power stations are
intended to add 10,900 megawatts to the national grid, according
to the utility, the company has battled to keep to its budgets
and deadlines.  In March, coal production for Medupi stopped after workers
at supplier  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  went on strike. The following
month, Eskom said Hitachi Kaefer would test and repair about
9,000 faulty welds on a boiler at the project.  Construction at Kusile, in Mpumalanga province, was
disrupted in April because of a labor dispute. A review of the
project is underway, Dames said.  While labor, boiler repairs and the lack of an operable
control and instrumentation system at Medupi are the main
obstacles confronting Eskom, the utility has had to increase its
involvement in construction of the project, said Finance
Director Paul O’Flaherty.  “We as Eskom are now driving the management, the
development, the training and the supervision of labor,” he
said. “That is actually not Eskom’s responsibility.”  “We’ve got a long way to go,” O’Flaherty said of the
construction at Medupi. “This is unit one. We’ve got 12 boilers
we have to build and we must always look for alternatives to
cover our risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  