-- EU: Japan to Address Anti-Deflation Plan Spillover at G20
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-07-08T13:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/eu-japan-to-address-anti-deflation-plan-spillover-at-g20.html
Japan  should explain how it will
guard against external effects from its deflation-fighting
efforts, the European Union said in a planning document for a
July 19-20 meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in Moscow.  “We expect that Japan will put in place a credible medium-term fiscal consolidation plan that addresses its possible
spillover effects on the domestic and foreign financial systems
from its policy program to end deflation,” according to the
July 3 EU document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The G-20 ministers will consider a draft action plan to
promote economic growth that could include the EU’s efforts to
integrate its financial system and repair credit channels, the
document stated. The EU said it will encourage  China  to
accelerate planned structural reforms and make more use of
market-determined exchange rates.  The EU said in the document that the “absence of an
agreement on a credible medium-term fiscal consolidation plan in
the U.S. continues to pose a downside risk to the global
recovery.” The U.S. “should make progress in addressing the
medium- and long-term fiscal challenges it is facing as well as
deal with the debt-ceiling issue,” according to the EU.  In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s plan to reflate the
Japanese economy by expanding stimulus measures and weakening
the yen has prompted the currency’s biggest losses since 1996.  EU finance ministers will discuss planning for the G-20
when they meet in Brussels tomorrow. Euro-area ministers are
gathering today to discuss the currency area’s economic outlook
and the next group of aid payments to  Greece .  The EU planning document for the G-20 says “policy
measures that help rotate global demand remain essential.” It
also calls for a “new narrative” on global financial
regulation and for a “common, global approach” on tax issues
such as companies shifting their profits across borders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  