-- EU to Toughen Creditor-Loss Rules at Failing Banks From August
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-07-08T13:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/eu-to-toughen-creditor-loss-rules-at-failing-banks-from-august.html
The European Union is set to toughen
its rules on state support for failing  banks  from Aug. 1, as it
seeks to ensure that private creditors take a hit before
taxpayers, and that bailed-out lenders face pay curbs.  The European Commission is scheduled to publish the updated
bank state aid guidelines on July 10, according to an EU
official, who asked not to be cited by name because the measures
haven’t been made public.  The updated guidelines, which will take effect next month,
will require shareholders and  junior creditors  at a failing bank
to face losses before any government funds are provided,
according to a draft of the plans obtained by  Bloomberg News  in
May. Lenders would also be expected to abide by “strict
executive pay policies,” according to the draft, drawn up by
the staff of  Joaquin Almunia , the bloc’s antitrust chief.  EU governments have provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) of support to their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
commission data. Nations have dealt with failing banks in a
variety of ways. While the Netherlands in February nationalized
SNS Reaal NV without writing down unsecured senior debt holders,
such bank creditors were in the firing line as part of the euro
area’s bailout of Cyprus.  The state aid guidelines will be published on the same day
that  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
presents draft legislation to centralize bank resolution in the
euro area. Both initiatives are part of a series of actions by
the EU to set common rules on bank failure that shift the burden
to private creditors.  EU finance ministers last month brokered a deal on a draft
law for how national regulators should handle crisis-hit banks.
Those proposals, which must still be agreed on with European
Parliament lawmakers, would only take full effect in 2018,
leaving the state aid guidelines until then as the main EU
reference point for how failures should be tackled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  