-- European Stocks Rise as Portugal Reaches Coalition Deal
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-08T15:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/european-stock-index-futures-advance-novartis-may-move.html
European stocks  rose, rebounding from
their biggest decline in almost two weeks, amid speculation that
economic data will improve and as  Portugal ’s politicians reached
an agreement to hold the governing coalition together.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  climbed 1.3 percent after saying a psoriasis
treatment met all its objectives in a clinical study.  Lloyds (LLOY) 
Banking Group Plc advanced 3.8 percent after a person with
knowledge of the matter said a former Standard Chartered Plc
executive may mount a bid for a stake in the U.K.’s biggest
mortgage lender. TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA declined the most
since May 2012 after cutting its full-year revenue guidance.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.4 percent to 292.37 at
the close. The gauge rose 1.2 percent last week as the European
Central Bank and the  Bank of England  said  interest rates  will
remain low for an extended period of time. The equity benchmark
has still  fallen 5.9 percent  since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  indicated that the central bank may reduce its asset
purchases if the economy improves in line with its forecasts.  “The world looks rosy to investors again, after the U.S.
market rallied on much better-than-expected employment numbers
that investors finally seem to be interpreting as good news,”
John Plassard, who helps oversee $28 billion as vice president
at Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva, wrote. “We have reached a
point where markets will reflect the real economy more.”  Portugal’s Government  In Portugal, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  proposed
that Paulo Portas, leader of the junior party in the governing
coalition, become vice premier. The appointment helps cement a
deal to hold the coalition together. Portugal’s PSI 20 Index
retreated 2.7 percent last week when Portas resigned after
Coelho appointed a new finance minister.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels discussed
 Greece ’s progress in meeting the conditions needed to obtain
further aid from the  International Monetary Fund ,  European
Central Bank  and  European Commission .  Approval of an agreement at the meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels would allow Greece, which has been
unable to tap bond markets since 2010, to obtain a loan of 8.1
billion euros ($10.4 billion).  In  Germany , a report showed that  industrial production 
declined 1 percent in May, more than the 0.5 percent drop, which
was the  median forecast  of 38 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. It surged a revised 2 percent in April.  Alcoa’s Earnings  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  will unofficially start the second-quarter U.S.
earnings season after the market closes today, when the biggest
U.S. aluminum producer becomes the first company in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  to report results.  “With analysts having downgraded their expectations in
recent weeks, we should be seeing fewer negative surprises in
the U.S. earnings season,” Plassard said. “So sentiment is
quite good before Alcoa reports numbers”  National benchmark indexes advanced in all 18 western-European markets today. France’s CAC 40 gained 1.9 percent and
Germany’s DAX climbed 2.1 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.2
percent. The PSI 20 rallied 2.3 percent.  Novartis climbed 1.3 percent to 68.50 Swiss francs as the
company said its secukinumab drug proved better at clearing the
skin of people with plaque psoriasis than Enbrel.  Lloyds advanced 3.8 percent to 67.1 pence. Former Standard
Chartered Chairman  Mervyn Davies  is assembling a group of
investors to bid for part of the U.K. government’s 39 percent
stake in the lender, according to a person with knowledge of the
talks. The group has yet to reach an agreement with the
Treasury, the person added.  Bovis Homes  Bovis Homes Group Plc jumped 7.1 percent to 830 pence after
the U.K. housebuilder said that increased volume and higher
margins led to a bigger profit in the first half. The company
said it will probably report a housing gross margin of about 23
percent, compared with 20.9 percent a year earlier.  Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc surged 5.6 percent to 1,050
pence, the highest price since its initial public offering in
November 2005, after the company raised its full-year revenue
forecast. It predicted that revenue will grow by 17 percent in
2013, compared with a previous projection of 13 percent.  TGS (TGS)  slumped 7.4 percent to 176.90 kroner as Norway’s
largest surveyor of underwater oil-and-gas fields lowered its
forecast for full-year revenue to $920 million to $1 billion
because of lower-than-expected demand from industry. It had
projected sales of $970 million to $1.05 billion.  Osram Licht AG traded at 23.80 euros after opening at 24
euros in its first day of trading in  Frankfurt . Siemens AG,
which spun off Osram, rallied 4.1 percent to 78.15 euros.  Chr. Hansen A/S (CHR)  slid 1.7 percent to 186 kroner after Credit
Suisse Group AG cut the stock to neutral, the equivalent of
hold, from outperform. The brokerage said that profit from its
natural-color business remains under pressure. The world’s
biggest maker of dairy enzymes cut its full-year sales forecast
on July 3 because of lower prices for the red pigment carmine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  