-- Dollar Rises Versus Yen as Traders Boost Bets Before Fed Minutes
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-07-09T06:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/euro-holds-first-gain-in-3-days-as-risks-ease-before-eu-meeting.html
The dollar climbed against the yen as
traders increased bullish bets on the U.S. currency amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will provide further guidance on
plans to scale back asset purchases.  The greenback approached a five-week high it reached
yesterday versus its Japanese peer, before Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  speaks tomorrow, the same day minutes of the U.S.
central bank’s June meeting are due and Bank of Japan officials
are set to begin a two-day gathering. Australia’s dollar
weakened as traders increased bets the nation’s  Reserve Bank 
will reduce interest rates next month as  China’s economy  slows.  “As the dollar is being bid, the euro is looking heavy,”
said Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in Tokyo at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “It’s possible the FOMC minutes will
provide hints of a reduction in quantitative easing,” Murata
said in reference to the  Federal Open Market Committee .  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to 101.29 yen as of 7:05 a.m.
in London. It touched 101.53 yesterday, the highest since May
30. The greenback lost 0.1 percent to $1.2881 per euro. The yen
declined 0.4 percent against the 17-nation currency to 130.48.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus currencies of six major U.S. trade
partners including the euro and yen, was little changed at
84.198 after touching 84.588 yesterday, the highest since July
2010.  Bets Raised  Futures traders increased bets on Dollar Index gains last
week, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on an advance
in the gauge compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net
longs  -- was 15,672 in the week through July 2, compared with
12,281 in the previous period.  The Fed will release tomorrow minutes of its June meeting
when Bernanke said the U.S. central bank will probably taper its
$85 billion in monthly bond buying later this year and halt
purchases around mid-2014 as long as the world’s largest economy
performs in line with projections. Bernanke is scheduled to
speak tomorrow on economic policy in Boston.  The dollar has gained 7.4 percent this year, the best
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has risen 4.6
percent since Dec. 31, the second-biggest advance while the yen
is the biggest loser, with a 9.6 percent drop.  Yen Weakness  “The macro dynamic and monetary policy dynamic are still
suggesting yen weakness is the game to be playing,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist at Scotiabank in  Hong Kong , said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re still looking for
105 by the end of this year,” Tihanyi said in reference to the
dollar-yen  exchange rate .  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his fellow policy makers
will gather tomorrow for a two-day meeting. Officials will
discuss upgrading their assessment of the nation’s economy by
using the word “recover” for the first time in more than two
years, people familiar with the central bank’s discussions said.  Last month, they refrained from extending the length of
loans they use to smooth volatility and stuck with a pledge from
April to increase the monetary base by 60 trillion yen ($593
billion) to 70 trillion yen per year.  “The long-term upward trend for dollar-yen remains intact
based on the divergence of the two nations’ monetary policy,”
said Akira Moroga, a manager of foreign-exchange products at
 Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304)  in Tokyo. Some selling of  call options , which
grant the right to buy a currency, on the dollar is “is
limiting the pace of yen depreciation.”  Risk Reversal  The one-month dollar-yen risk reversal rate dropped to
minus 1.05 percent, a level unseen since June 14 and indicating
increasing demand for options to purchase the yen against the
dollar.  Norddeutsche Landesbank, Macquarie Bank Ltd. and Banco
Santander SA are all calling for the yen to tumble to 110 per
dollar by year-end. The lenders are among the five top-ranked
forecasters for the currency last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the median estimate of
105 by Dec. 31 in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The Aussie dollar dropped versus most of its peers after
Chinese government figures showed the  consumer price index  for
the world’s second-biggest economy rose 2.7 percent in June from
a year earlier, more than the 2.5 percent forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. China is Australia’s biggest trading
partner.  Export Outlook  “The higher China inflation suggests less likelihood the
People’s Bank of China will provide monetary policy support,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “The new Chinese government is
less focused on engineering rapid economic growth and more
focused on sustainability, so the market has marked down demand
for Australian exports to China, and pushed down the Aussie.”  The Australian was little changed at 91.39 U.S. cents. It
reached 90.37 on July 3, the lowest since September 2010.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 57 percent chance the RBA will reduce its benchmark
 interest rate  to an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its next
meeting on Aug. 6. The  rate  already stands at a record low of
2.75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  