-- Greece Wins Release of Aid, Stays Lashed to Tightness
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-07-09T08:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/euro-finance-chiefs-said-to-back-3-9-billion-greek-aid-payment.html
European governments agreed to
release 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of aid for  Greece ,
seeking to buy enough financial calm to prevent another debt-crisis showdown until after Germany’s elections in September.  Greece will get 2.5 billion euros this month and the rest
in October, as long as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
tottering coalition delivers on economic reforms and cuts to
spending. It can also count on recouping 2 billion euros in
central bank profits on Greek bonds and on 1.8 billion euros
from the  International Monetary Fund . Bonds advanced today.  European governments led by Germany are continuing to keep
Greece on life support, unwilling to let it go bankrupt and exit
the euro while doling out aid in the smallest possible doses to
avoid upsetting their own taxpayers.  “Greece is on the right track in many ways, but there have
been delays in some areas,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters after a meeting with euro-area
counterparts in Brussels yesterday. “It is right to proceed on
a cash-on-delivery basis and step by step and make the
disbursements as Greece’s financing needs arise.”  Greek bonds rose for a third day, pushing the 10-year yield
down 31 basis points to 10.6 percent. The yield has dropped 1
percentage point in the past three sessions. The euro was little
changed at $1.2880.  Aid Discussion  At one point in the talks, ministers considered increasing
Greece’s allotment for the third quarter by drawing on 1.8
billion euros earmarked for later periods, two officials said.
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who led the meeting,
didn’t explain why that proposal was dropped, saying the final
decision was in line with the previous schedule. A third EU
official said  Germany  led the push to shoot down the proposal.  “More would have always been better, but certain
parliaments would have seen it as a change in the program,”
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said.  Recession, the threat of rising global  interest rates  and
political tumult in  Portugal , among the five euro countries
tapping aid, raised the pressure on creditors to prevent a
financial accident in Greece, the trigger of the debt crisis.  The 17-nation economy has shrunk nonstop since the fourth
quarter of 2011.  Record 12.2 percent unemployment  masks jobless
rates as high as 26.9 percent in  Spain  and as low as 4.7 percent
in  Austria , splitting  Europe  between a better-off north and
poorer south.  ‘Financing Gap’  Underlining the fragile state of the economy and persistent
threats to the euro’s coherence, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  came to Brussels with a report that “the centrifugal
forces across the euro area remain serious and are pulling down
growth everywhere.”  Germany, the linchpin of the European economy, is trying to
avoid a flareup in the crisis as Chancellor Angela Merkel
campaigns for re-election in September. The decision means there
will be no holes in Greece’s finances “in the foreseeable
future,” Dijsselbloem said.  “If there is a financing gap it will be at the end of
2014, which will allow us enough time to deal with it,” he
said.  Creditors unlocked the financing after the “troika” of
European Commission, IMF and  European Central Bank  labored
through the weekend to seal an accord with Samaras’s government
on economic and deficit-reduction steps. The final go-ahead
won’t come until later in July, once lawmakers in countries
including Germany give their assent.  Strict Conditions  Greece’s economic outlook “remains uncertain” and the
government is behind schedule in making the public
administration leaner and more efficient, the troika said.
“While important progress continues to be made, policy
implementation is behind in some areas,” it said.  The troika gave the coalition a lengthy to-do list,
including “concrete steps” to control health-care
overspending, income and property tax reform, and politically
sensitive cuts in government payrolls, termed “mandatory
exits” in the jargon.  Greece has also failed to generate planned revenue from
selling state assets. The latest setback came last month, when
no bids came in for the national gas company Depa SA.  “Strict conditionality remains the name of the game,”
said Paolo Pizzoli, an economist at ING Bank in Milan. “The
extent to which the inevitable downsizing of the public sector
will prove socially tolerable will also depend on economic
developments.”  “Significant further work is needed over the next weeks to
fully implement all prior actions required for the next
disbursement,” the finance ministers said in a statement.  Lagarde, who was French finance minister at the start of
the crisis, said she expects the IMF to supply its portion of
the Greek aid, dismissing suggestions that the fund would pull
out because of doubts over Greece’s ability to pay its debts.  “We’re not stopping; we’re partners in the program,”
Lagarde said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Brussels at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  