-- Ex-Knicks President Scott O’Neil Joins NBA’s 76ers as CEO
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-08T18:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ex-knicks-president-o-neil-joins-nba-s-76ers-as-chief-executive.html
Former Madison Square Garden Sports
President Scott O’Neil has been hired as chief executive officer
of the Philadelphia 76ers.  O’Neil, 43, ran business operations for the National
Basketball Association’s  New York  Knicks and National Hockey
League’s Rangers before leaving MSG in September 2012. Before
that, the Villanova University graduate worked for the National
Football League’s Eagles and for the NBA, where he headed team
marketing and business operations.  “I love the NBA and the game of basketball and am thrilled
to be back,” O’Neil said in an e-mail. “I have lived in and
around Philadelphia for parts of my teens, 20s, 30s and now 40s
and I am really excited to be back and get started with the
Sixers. This is an incredible city that loves an underdog and
that is very much what the Sixers are right now.”  O’Neil, who begins his new job on July 16, will be
responsible for every aspect of the team’s business operations,
the Sixers said in a statement.  He replaces Adam Aron, who will become chairman and CEO of
a new investment vehicle funded by members of a Sixers ownership
group that includes  Apollo (APO)  Global Management LLC co-founder Josh Harris.  Aron will remain a Sixers co-owner and board member, the
team said in its statement.  “Scott is a smart and proven leader with a strong record
of success at both the league and the Knicks and I am confident
he will be a tremendous addition to the 76ers,” NBA Deputy
Commissioner Adam Silver, who’ll succeed Commissioner David Stern on Feb. 1, said in an e-mail.  Sixers Shakeup  The 76ers had a 34-48 record this past season, tied for
last in the Atlantic Division, 20 games behind the Knicks. Doug Collins stepped down as coach; Tony DiLeo was fired as general
manager; and Rod Thorn was shifted to a consultant role from
president.  The 76ers in May hired Sam Hinkie from the Houston Rockets
to take over as president and general manager. Hinkie had been
serving as an assistant to Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey.  “We have put in place a dynamic, industry-leading
management team that should help position the Sixers for success
both on and off the court,” Harris said in the statement.  O’Neil secured corporate partnerships while at MSG
including deals with  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase,  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co. and  Delta (DAL)  Air
Lines Inc. He wouldn’t disclose terms of his contract.  “The ownership group wants to win and has proven they are
committed to invest the resources necessary to create a team
that will have sustainable success on and off the court,” said
O’Neil, who holds a master’s degree from the Harvard Business
School. “Josh is smart, tough and as good a guy as he is a
success. I couldn’t imagine finding a better fit for me and my
family. This is going to be fun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ; Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  