-- Texas A&M Mulls Taxable Debt for Stadium: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-09T18:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/texas-a-m-shuns-tax-free-debt-for-stadium-muni-credit.html
Texas A&M University , Governor  Rick Perry ’s alma mater, may join the biggest wave of taxable
municipal-bond sales since 2010 to help finance the costliest
stadium project in U.S. collegiate sports.  The 137-year-old school expects to sell as much as $320
million of 30-year bonds later in 2013 for a $450 million
project, less than a year after finishing fifth in the
Associated Press national college football poll. Led by Heisman
Trophy-winning quarterback Johnny Manziel, it was the school’s
best showing in more than five decades. The school is
considering both taxable and tax-free debt, said Steve Moore, a
vice chancellor.  Even after the steepest quarterly losses in taxable munis
since at least 2009, localities issued  $20.1 billion  of the
securities in the first half of 2013, up 57 percent from a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For  Texas A&M , the
expansion reflects the state’s oil-driven wealth and a boom in
spending on college football. Money from television rights
contracts has doubled in the past four years for schools in
 Texas  A&M’s Southeastern Conference.  “Support for Texas A&M football is so strong that there’s
very little chance that their bonds would face problems,” said
William Sirakos, a senior executive vice president at
 Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc. (CFR)  in  San Antonio , who manages $9 billion
including the school’s bonds. “There will be tremendous
demand.”  California Leads  Led by schools in California, U.S. colleges have taken on
about $12 billion of muni debt this year, after $22.8 billion in
2012, the most since 2010, Bloomberg data show. The  University
of California  and New Jersey’s Rutgers University have already
sold taxable municipal debt this year.  Texas A&M is based in College Station, about 95 miles (153
kilometers) northwest of Houston. It is rated AAA by Moody’s
Investors service, the highest mark, and AA+ by  Standard &
Poor’s , one step below.  The stadium bonds won’t be backed by the state’s Permanent
University Fund, which requires an educational purpose. Issuing
taxable bonds would allow Texas A&M to use the stadium for other
purposes, according to Sherylon Carroll, a spokeswoman for the
school.  In a sale last month of tax-exempt revenue debt that was
backed by the fund, a 10-year segment was priced to yield 2.3
percent, about 0.06 percentage point above benchmark securities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Seat Cash  While the new bonds won’t have the state fund’s backing,
they will be repaid by seat-licensing revenue and donations.  Seating at the refurbished stadium will rise by 24 percent
to 102,500 when completed in mid-2015. Attendance averaged about
87,000 the past two years, ranking 11th nationally last year,
Carroll said. About 5,000 were in temporary or standing-room-only seats.  Texas A&M expects to collect about $232 million from seat
licenses over five years. Donors have committed to lease all but
two of 144 suites, Carroll said. While Texas A&M hasn’t
disclosed terms for the largest suites, which have sold out, the
next-priciest tier requires a one-time donation of at least $1
million.  Suite holders must also make annual contributions of
$80,000 to $100,000, she said. Tickets for the six to eight
annual home games cost another $75 or more per seat in each
suite.  Renewal Reliability  More than 98 percent of the 45,000 season-ticket holders
renewed for the 2013 season, Carroll said.  “Generally, stadium bonds aren’t looked upon favorably
because expectations are usually greater than the reality,”
said Dick Berry, a portfolio manager at Brasada Capital
Management LP in Houston, which manages $135 million in munis.
“But for A&M, and a few other schools like  Alabama  and the
 University of Texas , you can’t build a stadium big enough to
meet demand.”  The stadium project also taps the university’s 50,000
students, whose fees will increase by $72 a year in 2014. On top
of that, prices that students pay for football season tickets
will also rise. About 31,000 seats are reserved for students.  Football is a tradition at Texas A&M, which opened in 1876,
and required students to take military training courses until
1965.  Perry, a Republican who first took office in 2000,
graduated from the school in 1972 as an animal-science major,
according to the governor’s  website.  He was also a “yell
leader” who revved up crowds during games. Other Aggie
graduates include singer Lyle Lovett and oilman  George Mitchell ,
a pioneer of hydraulic fracturing, which frees natural gas
trapped in shale deposits.  Alumni Largess  The expansion is well-timed because many alumni with
petroleum engineering and geology degrees are prospering in oil
and gas production, said Charles Neinas, a consultant in
Boulder, Colorado. As executive director of the College Football
Association, he negotiated TV contracts for universities from
1984 to 1995.  “Not every state is as fortunate as Texas,” he said.
Texas is the nation’s biggest energy-producing state.  Wealthy individuals, rather than corporations, have bought
most of the suites, said Hunter Goodwin, chairman of the local
tourism bureau board. A former Aggie football player, he is
part-owner of three hotels in the College Station area.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  “There’s some  irrational exuberance  in the marketplace
which happens with every stadium, and people are intoxicated by
the big season we had last year,” said Goodwin, who played in
the  National Football League  for nine seasons. “The timing
couldn’t be any better to leverage all of that excitement.”  Dan A. Hughes Co., a closely held oil- and gas-exploration
company in Beeville, Texas, has owned a suite since 1999, said
founder Dan Hughes, 83, who graduated in 1951 with a geology
degree.  “I’m all for the expansion,” he said. “My education at
A&M gave me the blocks to succeed.”  Southeastern Conference  schools received, on average, about
$20.7 million from television rights in 2012-13, compared with
about $11 million in 2009, according to statements from the
group. A new network, set to start airing 45 football games in
2014, will add to the  cash flow .  The most expensive U.S. college sports project is the
University of California’s $321 million Memorial Stadium
renovation in 2012, according to a report Texas A&M filed with a
state education agency.  Texas A&M expects to collect $125 million in private gifts
related to the project, according to Carroll.  Deduction Option  Donors can deduct 80 percent of their seat-license expenses
under Internal Revenue Service rules, said John Colombo, a law
professor at the  University of Illinois  in Champaign who studies
taxation.  Stadium improvements don’t always lead to on-field success.  The University of Tennessee, which spent $125 million
expanding Neyland Stadium from 2004 to 2010, has had three
straight losing seasons.  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market this week, issuers,
including  Utah  and the city of  Dallas , are set to offer a
combined $7.4 billion of debt. That’s about double the total in
the previous week, in which trading was shortened by the
market’s closing for  Independence Day  on July 4.  Benchmark municipal securities maturing in 10 years yield
about  2.7 percent  after the  interest rate  reached 2.96 percent
last month, the highest since April 2011, according to Bloomberg
data. The ratio of the yields of these munis to 10-year U.S.
Treasuries, a gauge of relative value, is about 98.3 percent,
the lowest since June 21, Bloomberg data show. The average since
2001 is about 92 percent. A higher percentage means local debt
is cheaper relative to federal obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  