-- Mexico Peso Rallies on Optimism Demand Will Weather Fed Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-08T16:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/mexico-peso-rallies-on-optimism-demand-will-weather-fed-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso climbed the most in
three weeks on speculation demand for the nation’s assets will
weather concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve will scale back
stimulus measures.  The currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 12.9198 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:27 a.m. in Mexico City, the biggest gain on a
closing basis since June 13. The peso dropped by the same amount
on July 5. Three-month historical volatility, a measure of the
magnitude of the peso’s fluctuations during the period, rose to
13.1 percent, the highest level since August 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Against the global backdrop, Mexico is seeing bigger
inflows that are offsetting the harsh moves in reaction to a
stronger dollar,” Luis Estrada, the head of currency and
derivatives trading at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in Mexico City, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  The peso advanced as investors are opting for Mexico’s
assets over  Brazil ’s or Turkey’s, according to Estrada.
Citigroup Inc. maintained the equivalent of a buy rating for
Mexican equities while lowering Brazil to sell.  Francisco Vega, the candidate of the the  National Action
Party , or PAN, and the Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, was
leading the Baja California governor’s election over Fernando
Castro, supported by the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, and the  Green Party , according to results reflecting 97
percent of the votes cast.  PRD and PAN agreed in December to create the Pact for
Mexico with PRI to push through legislative changes to promote
economic growth.  ‘No Blood’  “Foreign investors read the paper, saw no blood” in the
elections, with the Pact for Mexico “still there,” Estrada
said.  The yield on benchmark government peso bonds due in 2024
declined seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.97
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has
increased 1.45 percentage points since the end of April.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to speak in Boston this
week on economic policy after saying on June 19 policy makers
may reduce bond purchases this year and end them in mid-2014 if
growth meets estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  