-- Mexico Parties to Evaluate Pact for Reforms After Election
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-08T05:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/mexico-parties-to-evaluate-pact-for-reforms-after-election.html
  Mexico ’s opposition parties said
they’re evaluating the future of a multi-party accord to pass
economic reforms after alleging foul play by the administration
of Enrique Pena Nieto in local elections.  “We have to evaluate what will happen with the pact,”
Jesus Zambrano, the head of the opposition Democratic Revolution
Party, or PRD, said yesterday in an interview broadcast on
Milenio TV. The ruling party acted with “political savagery,”
he said.  Both ruling and opposition parties declared victory
yesterday in a close race for governor of the northern state of
Baja California, with preliminary results being tallied late
into the night. Mexicans voted Sunday in 15 states to pick
mayors and local lawmakers as well as a new governor of  Baja
California .  The elections have heightened tensions among political
parties that are in the midst of negotiating key energy and tax
bills to be presented and voted on this year, as scheduled by
the so-called Pact for Mexico. The aftermath of the elections
may have an impact on the political and reform agendas of the
second half of the year, according to JPMorgan Chase and Co’s
chief Mexico economist, Gabriel Lozano.  Going forward “there will be a more complicated political
environment,” said Sergio Luna, chief economist at Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit. “The pact will enter a more delicate stage
in terms of negotiations and the capacity for consensus.”  When asked about alleged irregularities, a press official
with the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, referred a
Bloomberg to statements by the party’s president, Cesar Camacho.
Camacho said today that his party had been the victim of
irregularities by opposition groups, including members who
blocked voting stations.  Vote Buying  Luna said after the elections he remained “moderately
optimistic” that political parties will be able to overcome
their differences and push through economic reforms.  The pact stalled in April after the opposition alleged Pena
Nieto’s PRI arranged to buy votes using government funds in the
state of Veracruz. The groups patched up differences by creating
measures to ensure the July 7 election would be free of vote
rigging as part of an addendum to the pact.  Many of those measures weren’t followed, the opposition
 National Action Party ’s secretary general Cecilia Romero said in
an interview after the elections. “There were very grave
omissions on the part of the government and its party with
regard to carrying out the addendum,” Romero said by phone from
Mexico City. “We have to do an evaluation of the election
results, of the irregularities and the behavior of the parties”
to decide how reform negotiations will progress, she said.  Romero added that as long as the pact “serves the
country” her party will remain a member.  Baja California  The PAN has led Baja California state since 1989, when it
became the first governorship to switch hands from the PRI that
had ruled every state for six decades.  Considered one of the last PAN bastions, a close race
threatens to further strain the Pact for Mexico by causing post-election disputes, Lozano said in a July 5 interview.  If the PAN hands over power to the PRI candidate in the
state, Fernando Castro, it will give the ruling party more
leverage to push through economic changes, Victor Espinosa, a
political scientist at the Colegio de la Frontera Norte in Baja
California, said in a July 5 telephone interview from Tijuana.  PAN candidate Francisco Vega, who ran as part of an
alliance with the PRD, was backed by Senator  Ernesto Cordero ,
who has split with the more conciliatory PAN leadership,
Espinosa said.  Pena Nieto has pledged to pass this year bills to break the
government’s monopoly on the oil industry and boost tax
collection in efforts to double the pace of growth. He’s managed
to broker an accord with major parties to push these reforms
through congress.  The PRI enjoyed single-party rule for 71 years until the
PAN won the presidency in 2000, only to lose to Pena Nieto in
2012.  Violence  Disputes of another kind have also dogged the elections.  At least four candidates and politicians were killed in the
run-up to the race in Oaxaca, Chihuahua, Veracruz and Sinaloa,
states where drug cartels have long sought to gain influence
with local officials. Sinaloa is the home state of Joaquin “El
Chapo” Guzman, Mexico’s most-wanted drug lord.  “It’s very probable organized crime groups are trying to
prevent some people from gaining office, either because they
think they’ll act against their group’s interests, or because
they think they’re aligned with a rival gang,”  Jorge Chabat , a
political scientist at the Center for Economic Research and
Teaching, a Mexico City-based university, said in a July 1
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net  