-- MF Global Settlement With JPMorgan Unit Approved by Judge
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-07-08T21:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/mf-global-settlement-with-jpmorgan-unit-approved-by-judge.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit’s
$100 million settlement with MF Global Inc. liquidators won
court approval, paving the way for the return of more money to
the failed brokerage’s former customers.  The agreement will allocate $100 million for the return of
customer property, according to an order entered today in
 bankruptcy court  in Manhattan. The agreement resolves claims
against JPMorgan arising from transfers of customer property in
the days before MF Global entered bankruptcy, as well as its
actions as one of the brokerage’s primary banks.  “The motion is granted in all respects and the settlement
agreement is authorized,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn
said in the order.  Former customers sued MF Global, New York-based JPMorgan
and other parties over the firm’s collapse and James W. Giddens,
trustee for the liquidating brokerage, joined the lawsuit. U.S.
District Judge  Victor Marrero  is overseeing the class-action
case while Glenn is handling the bankruptcy wind-down.  Giddens seeks to return an additional $200 million to
customers from the settlement, which also recoups $29 million in
MF Global funds held at the bank and completes a previous return
of $417 million by JPMorgan. The bank will pay an additional
$7.5 million to cover plaintiffs’ legal fees, according to court
papers.  Key Lender  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the parent company once run by
former New Jersey Governor and ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Co-Chairman  Jon Corzine , filed for bankruptcy in 2011 after a $6.3
billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s
most indebted nations. Most MF Global client funds were held in
JPMorgan accounts, and the bank was a key lender to the parent
before it collapsed in the eighth-largest U.S bankruptcy.  The agreement resolves all outstanding matters between
JPMorgan and the MF Global estate, its customers and creditors.
JPMorgan will get a $60 million general unsecured claim in the
brokerage liquidation and the companies won’t pursue any other
claims against each other, according to court papers.  JPMorgan was agent for a $1.2 billion loan to MF Global’s
parent company before it failed and also loaned money to the
brokerage and other affiliates, according to court documents.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The broker liquidation is In
re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, same court. The class-action case
is 11-cv-7866, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  