-- Fed Says a Few Dealers Report Deterioration in MBS Market
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-07-08T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/fed-says-a-few-dealers-report-deterioration-in-mbs-market.html
The  Federal Reserve  said a few Wall
Street dealers have seen a deterioration in the functioning of
the market for residential mortgage-backed securities where the
Fed each month is buying $40 billion in bonds.  “A few dealers indicated that the liquidity and
functioning of the underlying market for agency RMBS had
deteriorated,” the  central bank  said today in a quarterly
survey of senior credit officers. “For other collateral types
covered in the survey, the liquidity and functioning of the
underlying markets were generally characterized as little
changed.”  Twenty percent of dealers who responded to the question
said the market in MBS had deteriorated “somewhat” or
“considerably.” Ten percent said the market improved somewhat,
while the remaining 70 percent saw the market “basically
unchanged.”  The Fed is closely scrutinizing financial markets to ensure
that its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases and record period
of near-zero  interest rates  aren’t damaging the functioning of
financial markets or spurring excessive risk taking. The
interest rate and asset purchase policies are aimed at reducing
the 7.6 percent unemployment rate.  The Fed’s survey of 22 Wall Street dealers enables the
central bank to gauge the financing conditions available to
hedge funds, private equity funds and pension plans. The most
recent survey was conducted May 21 to June 3.  Demand for funding certain types of securities, including
non-agency residential MBS, commercial MBS and high-yield
corporate demand increased, the Fed said, citing the survey.
Credit terms in the survey were largely unchanged for most types
of borrowing, the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  