-- Marchionne Seeks End to Fiat’s Pursuit of Chrysler Soon
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-08T13:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/fiat-exercises-option-to-buy-additional-3-3-of-chrysler-shares.html
Fiat SpA (F)  moved to tighten its control
of Chrysler Group LLC as Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne looks to complete a four-year effort to merge the
Italian and American automakers.  Fiat exercised an option to buy an additional 3.3 percent
of the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company, it said today in
statement. Fiat placed a value on the stake that’s 82 percent
more than a disputed earlier tranche. That deal has been held up
by a U.S. court as the union trust that owns the shares seeks a
higher price.  The Italian company intends to reach an agreement with
 United Auto Workers ’s voluntary employees beneficiary
association on the acquisition of the remaining stake in
Chrysler “as soon as possible,” Marchionne, chief executive
officer of both carmakers, told reporters in Turin today, when
asked if Fiat plans to ink a deal before the board meets to
review first-half results, scheduled for July 30.  Fiat owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler, while the VEBA, a
medical-benefits trust for the U.S. carmaker’s retirees, holds
the remaining 41.5 percent. Fiat has been  exercising options 
since mid-2012 to buy holdings of a little more than 3.3 percent
from the trust every six months under an acquisition agreement.
It has yet to take possession of those shares while a judge in
 Delaware  considers how much Fiat should pay for the initial
tranche.  Share Rise  Fiat  rose  as much as 3.3 percent to 5.57 euros and was up
3.1 percent at 3:02 p.m. in Milan trading. The stock has surged
46 percent this year, valuing the company at 6.94 billion euros
($8.91 billion).  Based on “a market multiple” applied to Chrysler’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Fiat calculated that it has to pay $254.7 million for the latest
stake in Chrysler.  The price is still below what the trust is seeking for
shares in the option that was exercised in July 2012. The trust,
which disputes Fiat’s valuation methods, has said the first 3.3
percent tranche should be worth as much as $342 million. Fiat
says it’s worth $139.7 million. Ownership of the stock gained
through the three options exercised so far would raise Fiat’s
holding to 68.5 percent.  The step-by-step purchases are intended to lead to full
control of Chrysler that would enable Marchionne to merge the
companies to compete with global industry leaders  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Awaiting Ruling  Fiat asked Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons
last year for a ruling in the valuation dispute. Marchionne has
estimated the process would be completed by the end of
September. The judge may call for a trial, which would
potentially push back a final decision for as long as a year,
U.S. law professors said in June.  Fiat gained control of Chrysler in 2009 after the third-largest U.S. automaker went bankrupt during the credit crunch.
The maker of Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep vehicles has recovered and
become Fiat’s most reliable profit generator as the Italian
company struggles to end losses in Europe that totaled 704
million euros ($903 million) in 2012 amid a collapse in the
region’s car market.  Fiat’s net income, including minority holdings, totaled
1.41 billion euros that year. Without Chrysler, Fiat’s losses
would have exceeded 1 billion euros.  Marchionne said last month that Fiat was in talks with the
trust about buying the stake and is seeking to complete a deal
before a potential Chrysler initial public offering requested by
the labor group is held. The talks are “fundamentally” about
price, he said.  Fiat may raise as much as $10 billion from banks to
increase its stake in Chrysler and to refinance both companies’
debt, people familiar with the matter said in May. As part of
those talks, Marchionne refinanced about $6.8 billion in loans
for Fiat and Chrysler June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  