-- Finaport’s Goetti Says Abenomics to Support Stocks, Weaken Yen
-- B y   M i o   C o x o n
-- 2013-07-08T03:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/finaport-s-goetti-says-abenomics-to-support-stocks-weaken-yen.html
Japanese equities are likely to rise
and the yen will weaken further as economic recovery combined
with monetary easing continues in the country, according to Hans Goetti, Singapore-based chief investment officer for Asia at
Finaport Investment Intelligence.  He spoke today with  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  On Abenomics:  “You have these three arrows and I think the most
important one is the third, which is the reforms. There is a
fourth component, a fourth arrow, that is in the pipeline, which
will be the increase in the sales tax, but that’s something that
is not on the table right now. We think that the real issue will
be how fast reforms can be implemented.  ‘‘There is traction in the economy and it looks like
Abenomics seems to be working - at least we’re in the early
stages but it seems to be working and we are bullish on Japanese
stocks based on this.”  On  Japan ’s easing:  “The Japanese are continuing on their very aggressive QE,
I mean there’s no talk of tapering there, in fact the Japanese
economy is starting to gain traction as well. In fact if the
U.S. economy was doing as well as the Japanese economy is doing
right now they would taper in no time.”  “We think the combination of an economic recovery in Japan
and continued very easy monetary policy bodes very well for
Japanese equities and of course on the other hand gives rise to
the view that the Japanese yen will weaken quite a bit even from
these levels.”  On outlook for the U.S.:  “We are looking for tapering later this year, maybe as
early as September if economic data continues to improve, and I
think that has relevance to all markets globally.”  “This is one of the weakest economic recoveries in
history, that’s true, I mean we have growth around 2 percent,
which is usually at this stage in the cycle you would have about
twice as much and for the Fed to taper I think we need to see
growth in the third and the fourth quarter exceeding 3 percent.
This has not happened in this recovery yet but it’s not
completely impossible, but the bar is relatively high.”  On China:  “We had this credit crunch which has been somewhat
alleviated by liquidity injections by the central bank, but I
think the biggest concern is whether this will lead to some kind
of deleveraging cycle where lending becomes more difficult,
where borrowing becomes more difficult, and then the economy
slows dramatically into the latter part of the year -- I think
that’s the biggest concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mio Coxon in Tokyo at 
 mcoxon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  