-- Germany’s FDP Party May Thwart Carbon Glut Fix, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-07-08T13:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/germany-s-fdp-party-may-thwart-carbon-glut-fix-new-energy-says.html
Germany ’s Free Democrats party, an
opponent of Europe’s plan to fix a record oversupply in the
carbon market, may retain enough power after the nation’s Sept.
22 elections to thwart a compromise, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Opposition from Philipp Roesler, head of the FDP and German
economy minister, would persist should his party score at least
5 percent of votes in the election, potentially toppling a
revised plan, Itamar Orlandi, an analyst in  London  at New Energy
Finance, said today in an e-mailed report.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , on July 3
agreed a compromise on a plan known as backloading, in which 900
million metric tons, or about 40 percent of annual supply, may
be temporarily removed from the market and returned near the end
of the decade. The measure requires approval by  member states .
Allowance prices have plunged 50 percent in the past year
because of the glut.  “If the current coalition stays in power, the FDP could
continue to battle a market intervention in the European Union
emissions trading system, leaving prospects of backloading at
risk,” Orlandi said.  Carbon permits for December dropped as much as 4 percent
today to 4.12 euros ($5.30) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange. They traded at 4.22 euros a ton at 2:29 p.m. in
London.  There is doubt the FDP will meet the threshold of 5 percent
required to gain seats in the Bundestag, Orlandi said, citing
polls giving the party from 4 percent to 6 percent.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s unwillingness to support tighter
emission standards in the  auto industry  “highlighted that she
can put competitiveness considerations of major industries ahead
of climate policies,” Orlandi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  