-- German Exports Unexpectedly Fall Amid Recovery Doubts
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/german-exports-unexpectedly-fall-amid-recovery-doubts.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  unexpectedly fell in
May, indicating the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis is
disrupting a recovery in the region’s largest economy.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
dropped 2.4 percent from April, when they rose a revised 1.4
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast an increase of 0.1 percent, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports
increased 1.7 percent from April.  Germany ’s factory orders unexpectedly dropped for a second
month in May, an Economy Ministry report showed July 5. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the previous day that
the economic risks for the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, are to the downside.  “Companies are still worried about future developments in
the euro zone and this inhibits their willingness to invest,”
 Ralph Solveen , an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said
after the factory orders report and before today’s release.
“Until this situation changes, there is no prospect of a
sustainable and powerful recovery in Germany.”  Germany’s trade surplus narrowed to 13.1 billion euros
($16.8 billion) from 18 billion euros in April. The surplus in
the current account, a measure of all trade including services,
was 11.2 billion euros, down from 16.7 billion euros.  The euro-area economy contracted in the six quarters
through March and the ECB expects it to shrink 0.6 percent this
year before expanding 1.1 percent in 2014. Draghi gave what he
called “unprecedented” forward guidance on July 4 that
 interest rates  will stay low for an extended period of time.  Still, German  unemployment  fell in June, the Ifo
institute’s business climate index climbed and ZEW’s investor
sentiment increased. The Bundesbank said last month that German
gross domestic product should have improved “markedly” in the
second quarter, while warning of a potential slowdown in coming
months. It expects the economy to expand 0.3 percent this year
and 1.5 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  