-- German Industrial Production Decreased in May
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/german-industrial-production-decreased-in-may.html
German industrial  production (GRIPIMOM)  dropped
more than economists predicted in May, adding to signs that
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is weakening a recovery in the
region’s largest economy.  Production fell 1 percent from April, when it gained a
revised 2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
That’s the first decline since January. Economists forecast a
drop of 0.5 percent, according to the median of 38 estimates in
a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier, production
decreased 1 percent when adjusted for working days.  German exports unexpectedly fell in May, the Federal
Statistics Office said today, and factory orders dropped for a
second month as the 17-nation euro region struggles to emerge
from the longest recession since the introduction of the single
currency in 1999. Still, German unemployment declined in June
while confidence among entrepreneurs and investors improved.  “Recent indicators point to some minor problems in
 Germany ,” said  Andreas Moeller , an economist at WGZ Bank in
Dusseldorf. “But compared with the rest of the euro area, the
economy is still solid and will grow throughout this year.”  German gross domestic product increased 0.1 percent in the
first quarter after a 0.7 percent contraction in the final three
months of 2012. The Bundesbank said last month that economic
growth may have increased “markedly” in the second quarter,
while warning of signs of a slowdown later this year.  Continuing Recovery  German manufacturing output fell 0.7 percent in May, with
production of investment goods down 2.3 percent, today’s report
showed. Construction slumped 2.6 percent, while energy output
dropped 1.5 percent.  Even though production weakened “somewhat,” the  Economy
Ministry  said in the statement, “the recovery of the industrial
sector should continue in a slightly damped fashion.”  The truck business of  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s biggest maker
of the vehicles, needs to accelerate spending cuts and
deliveries to achieve this year’s earnings goal,  Wolfgang Bernhard , the head of the division, said on July 1.  Germany’s VDMA machine makers’ association cut its 2013
production forecast on July 4 to a contraction of 1 percent from
expected growth of 2 percent.  Forward Guidance  The euro-area economy, Germany’s biggest export market,
shrank in the six quarters through March and European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week that the risks to the
outlook are to the downside. He gave what he called
“unprecedented” forward guidance that  interest rates  will stay
low for an extended period of time.  Still, Draghi reaffirmed his prediction for a recovery at a
subdued pace later this year. The ECB expects the 17-nation
economy to contract 0.6 percent in 2013 before expanding 1.1
percent in 2014.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the Hamburg-based maker of Nivea skin cream,
reported first-quarter profit on May 2 that exceeded estimates
as higher emerging-market sales countered a drop in western
Europe.  “All in all, the German economy is doing quite well,”
said Stefan Muetze, an economist at Helaba in Frankfurt. “We
are going through a little weakness right now, but no serious
trouble is in sight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  