-- Glaxo Probes Complaint on China Sales of Botox
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-08T16:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/glaxo-probes-complaint-on-china-sales-of-botox.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is investigating
a complaint about how employees in China sell the Botox wrinkle
treatment to doctors, adding to the U.K.’s  drugmaker woes in
the country as Chinese police probe allegations of corruption.  The same whistle-blower who made previous accusations about
corruption at Glaxo in China apparently is behind the Botox
complaint, Simon Steel, a company spokesman in  London , said in
an e-mail today. The whistle-blower says salespeople gave
doctors cash and perks for prescribing the product, the Wall
Street Journal reported today, citing internal documents and e-mails it reviewed.  “We are investigating these new claims,” Steel wrote.
“However, our inquiries to date have found no evidence of
bribery or corruption in relation to our sales and marketing of
therapeutic Botox in  China .”  Senior executives at Glaxo China are suspected of
“economic crimes” and are being investigated by Changsha
public security officials, the city’s police force said June 28
on its official blog, without elaborating. A senior Glaxo
finance executive in  Shanghai  and employees in Beijing were
detained as part of a corruption investigation, the South China
Morning Post said July 1, citing an unidentified person from
Shanghai’s drug industry. Glaxo will cooperate with the
investigation, Steel said July 1.  Share Price  Glaxo rose 1 percent to close at 1,729.50 pence in London.
The stock has  returned  33 percent this year, outperforming the
20 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  “To have an impact on the share price, you’d have to speak
about several hundred million dollars or pounds in fines, and I
doubt that that will be the case,” Fabian Wenner, analyst with
Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich, said in an interview.  Glaxo’s sales in China make up just under 3.5 percent of
the company’s global pharmaceutical revenues and are less
profitable than its Western businesses, Mark Clark, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said by e-mail.  “China is really not a big needle mover in terms of
earnings for Glaxo, even if  emerging markets  as a whole are an
important sales growth driver,” he said.  Russian Sniper  E-mails and documents discuss a marketing strategy for
Botox that targeted 48 doctors and planned to reward them with
cash or educational credits, based on the number of
prescriptions made, the Journal reported today. The strategy was
called “Vasily,” borrowing its name from Vasily Zaytsev, a
noted Russian sniper during World War II, the report said,
citing a 2013 PowerPoint presentation.  “We have investigated the specific claim on the so-called
Vasily program,” Steel wrote. “Our investigation has found
that while the proposal didn’t contain anything untoward, the
program was never implemented.”  A four-month investigation of the same tipster’s previous
allegations turned up no evidence of wrongdoing, the company
said June 13. The whistle-blower alleged Glaxo’s sales staff in
China bribed doctors to prescribe medication, in some cases for
unauthorized uses, between 2004 and 2010, the Wall Street
Journal reported last month.  Glaxo licenses from  Allergan Inc. (AGN)  the right to sell Botox
in China and  Japan .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  