-- Goldman, Temasek Said to Invest in Shanda’s Cloudary
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-07-08T07:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/goldman-temasek-said-to-invest-in-shanda-s-cloudary.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Temasek
Holdings Pte agreed to buy a minority stake in  China ’s  Cloudary
Corp. (READ)  at a 25 percent lower valuation than in a previous funding
round, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The private placement values the operator of literary
websites at about $600 million, less than an earlier valuation
of $800 million, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the information is private. Cloudary is controlled by
Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd.  Cloudary, which filed for a U.S. initial public offering
more than two years ago, has yet to start the share sale. A
gauge of Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. last month traded at
the widest discount since 2008 to the Nasdaq Composite Index as
measured by price-to-earnings ratios, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Equity funds managed by Orbis bought 1.875 percent of
Cloudary in May 2012 for $15 million, according to a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission last year. The deal
valued the company at $800 million.  It wasn’t clear exactly how the investment in Cloudary will
be carried out. Officials at Temasek, Goldman Sachs and Shanda
declined to comment or weren’t immediately available. Sina.com
reported on the investment by Goldman Sachs and Temasek earlier
today, without saying where it got the information.  Cloudary, based in  Shanghai , applied for a $200 million  New
York  IPO in May 2011. Goldman Sachs had been named to help
manage the listing in July 2011 though is no longer involved in
the process. The company, led by former  Bank of America  Corp.
banker Robert Chiu, hired Bank of America, Citic Securities Co.
and CICC HK Securities as underwriters, according to a filing
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  