-- Google Data Policy Faces Brazil Probe After Snowden Spy Leak
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-09T15:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/google-data-policy-questioned-as-brazil-probes-snowden-spy-story.html
Brazilian authorities will
investigate data storage policies of technology companies such
as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  after a Brazilian newspaper report alleged that
the U.S. government spied on  e-mail traffic  in Latin America’s
largest economy.  “We need to see where data was stored,” President  Dilma Rousseff  told reporters yesterday in Brasilia. “Often data are
stored outside  Brazil , primarily Google data. We plan to require
that data from Brazilians be stored within Brazil.”  Rousseff asked the federal police and telecommunications
regulator Anatel to investigate whether local companies were
involved in spying, she said. Brazil will raise the issue of
espionage, which Rousseff said would be a violation of Brazil’s
sovereignty, to the United Nations Human Rights Council.  The U.S. National Security Agency over the past decade
intercepted data from telephone calls and e-mails by residents
and companies in Brazil, O Globo newspaper reported July 6,
citing documents collected by former national security
contractor Edward Snowden.  State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki earlier yesterday
said she wouldn’t comment on specific intelligence activities.
Google’s corporate communications office said that while it had
no comment on Rousseff’s statement, Google does “not provide
any government, including the U.S. government, with access to
our systems. We  provide  user data to governments only in
accordance with the law.”  Oil Spying  U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Thomas Shannon met with Brazil’s
Chief Minister of Institutional Security Jose Elito Carvalho
yesterday to discuss the allegations, according to Rousseff’s
press office.  The NSA spied on security-related concerns across the
region, as well as commercial issues including oil in  Venezuela 
and energy in  Mexico , Globo reported today, based on documents
from Snowden. It also sought information on Marxist guerrilla
group Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia , or FARC.  “We have spoken with Brazilian officials regarding these
allegations,” Psaki said, according to a transcript of a press
briefing. “We plan to continue our dialog with the Brazilians
through normal diplomatic channels. But those are conversations
that, of course, we would keep private.”  When visiting Brazil in May, U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden announced the U.S. government would host Rousseff on a
state visit in October. He called for increased trade and
improved relations between the two nations, which he called
friends.  “For many in Brazil, the  United States  doesn’t start with
a clean slate,” Biden said on May 29 in  Rio de Janeiro .
“There’s some good reason for that skepticism. That skepticism
still exists and it’s understandable. But the world has
changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  