-- Greek Aid Payment Seen Winning Ministers’ Approval
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-07-08T09:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/greek-aid-payment-seen-winning-ministers-approval.html
Euro-area finance ministers will
probably approve the latest disbursement of bailout aid to
 Greece  when they meet in Brussels later today, a European Union
official said.  Teams from the so-called troika that oversees euro-zone
bailouts reached a staff-level agreement with the Greek
authorities on the policies needed to ensure that the country’s
aid program “is on track to reach its objectives,” the troika
said in a  statement .  The troika comprises the European Commission, the European
Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The IMF’s
Executive Board is also due to consider approving the Greek
review this month, according to the statement.  Approval of the agreement at the meeting of euro-area
finance ministers that begins at 3 p.m. in the Belgian capital
would be a first step toward Greece, which has been unable to
tap bond markets since 2010, receiving payments of 8.1 billion
euros ($10.4 billion).  The payments may be parceled out in several disbursements,
the EU official said on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  While concluding its latest mission to Greece and reaching
a preliminary agreement with the authorities in  Athens , the
troika said Greek “policy implementation is behind in some
areas.”  “The government is preparing the necessary legislation in
support of its program and will table an omnibus bill shortly
before parliament,” the troika said. “The authorities are also
preparing ministerial decisions and other legal steps to
implement their commitments in the coming days.”  Greece has pledged to take “corrective actions” to meet
its fiscal targets under the bailout agreement for this year and
next, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 