-- Ibovespa Futures Fluctuate on Rate Outlook, Citigroup Reduction
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-08T12:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ibovespa-futures-fluctuate-on-rate-outlook-citigroup-reduction.html
Ibovespa futures fluctuated between
gains and losses after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for
interest rate increases and Citigroup Inc. lowered its
recommendation on Brazilian stocks to the equivalent of sell.  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , the frequent-flier unit of  Latam Airlines
Group SA (LFL) ’s  Brazil  subsidiary, may move after naming Ronald Domingues chief financial officer, replacing Sandoval Martins
Pereira. Arezzo Industria & Comercio SA may be active after
Banco Itau BBA SA recommended buying the footwear maker’s
shares.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August rose 0.1
percent to 44,895 at 9:42 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  after sinking as
much as 0.1 percent. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 2.2543 per
dollar. Brazilian policy makers meet this week after boosting
the benchmark lending rate 0.75 percentage point this year from
a record-low 7.25 percent in a bid to tame inflation.  “Signs that the economic activity is weakening faster than
expected by authorities” should spur the central bank to lift
the benchmark Selic rate by 0.5 percentage point, down from a
previous forecast of 0.75 percentage point, JPMorgan’s analysts
including Fabio Akira wrote in a note to clients.  The Ibovespa has slumped 26 percent this year, the second-worst performance among 94 stock benchmarks tracked by
Bloomberg. The real’s 8.9 percent drop this year and worse-than-forecast economic data will probably prevent the index from
rebounding in the short term, according to Citigroup.  “We expect weak performance from the Brazilian market in
the next few months,” Citigroup’s  Stephen Graham  wrote in a
research note to clients.  Brazil’s equity gauge trades at 11.3 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 9.7
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’
equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.76 billion
reais on July 5, compared with a daily average of 7.88 billion
reais this year through July 4, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  