-- Hikma Rises to Record Price on Doxycycline Boost: London Mover
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-08T11:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/hikma-rises-to-record-price-on-doxycycline-boost-london-mover.html
Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc (HIK)  advanced to
the highest price on record after the U.K. drugmaker raised its
2013 sales forecast, citing “excellent performance” of its
doxycycline antibiotic.  Full-year revenue will gain about 17 percent, up from a
previous prediction of 13 percent, on better than expected sales
of generic medicines, the London-based company said today in a
statement. Total revenue was $1.1 billion last year.  The stock gained as much as 9.5 percent and was up 8.7
percent at 1,080 pence at 12:20 p.m., the highest price since
Hikma sold shares in 2005. The volume of trading was 61 percent
more than the three-month daily average.  “Although today’s upgrade is driven by windfall, the  cash
flow  is real, which should boost the balance sheet,” Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., said in a note to
investors. Doxycycline will add at least $100 million of
incremental revenue, said Neophytou, who raised his price
prediction for the stock to 1,100 pence from 1,000 pence and
maintained a buy recommendation.  While doxycycline success will boost the generics
division’s operating margin, a potential $60 million gain in
incremental profit is less than the $100 million Neophytou had
estimated. Even so, the analyst predicts $220 million in
generics revenue versus a company forecast of $200 million, and
an operating profit margin of 33.8 percent versus Hikma’s 30
percent guidance.  Injectable Medicine  Hikma’s injectables business also may do better than the
company predicts,  Neophytou wrote . The length and quality of
contracts has “improved significantly in recent years due to
the company’s perceived reliability of supply.”  The drugmaker said today that the injectables unit is doing
well in the U.S. and  Europe  and will benefit from new contracts
in the  Middle East  in the second half. The branded drugs
division is on track for revenue growth of about 9 percent,
Hikma said.  The company has as much as $600 million to fund
acquisitions in the Middle East and  Africa  and hopes to close a
second deal this year after buying Egyptian Company for
Pharmaceuticals & Chemical Industries, Mazen Darwazah, chief
executive officer for the Middle East and North Africa, said in
May.  Hikma, founded in  Jordan  in 1978 by current Chairman Samih
Darwazah, established a foothold in the U.S. in 1991 and now is
the second-biggest injectable-drug business by volume in that
country. The drugmaker has more than 6,500 employees worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  