-- Miliband Moves to Distance Labour From Union Leaders
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/miliband-moves-to-distance-labour-from-union-leaders.html
Ed Miliband  will move to distance his
opposition  Labour Party  from the bosses of the U.K. unions that
founded it, as police investigate whether one of those unions
tried to fix the selection of a candidate for Parliament.  Miliband asked police on July 5 to investigate the behavior
of Unite, Britain’s largest labor union, over its actions in the
selection of Labour’s candidate for the seat of Falkirk in
 Scotland . In a speech in London today, Miliband will describe
what happened there, which Labour still hasn’t disclosed, as “a
politics closed, a politics of the machine, a politics hated --
and rightly so,” according to his office.  In his speech, the Labour leader will try to use the
crisis, which has caused the resignation of his campaigns chief,
 Tom Watson , to create a new relationship with unions. He’ll
propose that, rather than every union member being automatically
affiliated to Labour unless they opt out, they should have to
opt in to supporting the party. That may reduce the ability of
union leaders to influence the party.  “I do not want any individual to be paying money to the
Labour Party in affiliation fees unless they have deliberately
chosen to do so,” Miliband will say. “I believe we need people
to be able to make a more active, individual, choice on whether
they affiliate to the Labour Party.”  Unite has donated 11.8 million pounds ($18 million) of the
60.2 million pounds Labour has received since the 2010 election.
Writing in the Sunday Mirror on July 7, Unite General Secretary
Len McCluskey said the union had behaved within the rules at
Falkirk and warned Miliband to “step back from the brink of a
ruinous division.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  