-- Indian Oil Falls to 4-Year Low as Rupee at Record: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-07-08T06:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/indian-oil-falls-to-4-year-low-as-rupee-at-record-mumbai-mover.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, fell to its lowest in more than four years as
the rupee’s decline to a record and crude’s increase raises its
import bill and widens its loss.  Indian Oil  fell  as much as 3.9 percent to 216.45 rupees,
the lowest since May 15, 2009, and traded down 3.5 percent to
217.30 rupees as of 10:56 a.m. in Mumbai.  Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. (HPCL) , the third-biggest state refiner, dropped as much as 5.5
percent and  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) , the second-biggest, fell 4.7
percent. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index declined 1.2
percent.  The Indian currency’s slump and crude’s rise is adding to
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s worries as he
struggles to narrow a  budget deficit  and revive an economy
that’s growing at the slowest pace in a decade. The dual factors
are negating Chidambaram’s attempt to reduce the gap between the
cost of producing diesel, which accounts for about 50 percent of
all oil products consumed in the country, and its selling price
by increasing retail rates by half a rupee every month.  “In the quarter, the state refiners will be burdened with
huge forex mark-to-market losses and that adds to earnings
volatility,” said Mayur Patel, a Chennai-based analyst with
Spark Capital Advisors, who rates Indian Oil shares a sell.
“The lower rupee combined with rising crude prices is widening
revenue losses and acting as a drag on their working capital.”  The government in January allowed the state-run refiners to
raise diesel prices by as much as half a rupee every month till
losses are wiped out. The rupee’s fall and crude’s increase have
widened the deficit to 8.60 rupees a liter from 3.80 rupees a
liter as of May 1, according to oil ministry data.  Below Costs  Indian Oil and its state-run rivals sell  diesel , kerosene
and cooking gas below cost to help curb inflation. They are
partly compensated by the government in cash and producers
including  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  give
discounts on crude they sell to the refiners.  India ’s rupee today fell to a record after a U.S. jobs
report July 5 showed companies hired more workers than
economists forecast adding to the case for the  Federal Reserve 
to reduce monetary stimulus and strengthening the dollar. The
currency fell 1.5 percent to 61.1475 per dollar as of 9:30 a.m.
in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped as low as 61.1550, passing the previous
record of 60.7650 on June 26.  Every one-rupee depreciation in the Indian currency against
the dollar widens Indian Oil’s revenue loss from selling fuels
below cost by 48 billion rupees a year, finance director P.K. Goyal said June 24. Indian Oil prefers an exchange rate of
around 54 to 55 rupees per dollar, he said.  Raising Prices  Goyal didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone today
seeking comment.  Indian Oil has raised diesel prices six times since
January, while  gasoline prices  have increased three times since
June, according to Indian Oil’s  website .  Brent for August settlement gained as much as 32 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $108.04 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It has increased in five of the past six days
as protests in  Egypt  fanned concern that Middle East oil supply
may be disrupted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  