-- India Rupee Drops to Record on Concern Fed Risk May Spur Outflow
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-08T11:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/india-s-rupee-plunges-to-record-as-fed-risk-may-worsen-outflows.html
India’s rupee fell to a record after
a U.S. jobs report showing companies hired more workers than
economists forecast added to the case for the  Federal Reserve  to
reduce monetary stimulus.  U.S. payrolls rose by 195,000 workers for a second month in
June, the Labor Department reported July 5 in  Washington ,
exceeding the 165,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six major
trading partners, rose to the highest level since July 2010.
Global funds have pulled $7.6 billion from Indian bonds since
holdings touched an all-time high on May 21. The currency pared
losses on speculation the central bank intervened.  The U.S. jobs data “could lead to outflows from all
 emerging markets ,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at state-owned
 Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.  The rupee declined 0.6 percent to 60.6150 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped as low as 61.2125, passing the previous
record of 60.7650 on June 26. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, rose 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, to
13.56 percent, the highest closing level since June last year.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled May 22 that the
central bank’s asset-buying program could be tapered should the
job market continue to improve. The  unemployment rate  held at
7.6 percent in June, near a four-year low.  RBI Intervention  The central bank probably sold dollars today to slow the
rupee’s drop, two traders said, asking not to be identified as
the information isn’t public.  Any dollar sales by the  Reserve Bank  of India will be aimed
at reducing market volatility, rather than supporting the
exchange rate, as the rupee’s slide is in line with losses in
other currencies, according to Barclays Plc. The dollar climbed
against eight of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The RBI is definitely concerned about rupee weakness,”
said Nick Verdi, a strategist at Barclays in  Singapore . “It
will look to combat this mostly through verbal intervention”
and “moves to discourage speculation,” he said.  The yield premium on 10-year Indian sovereign bonds over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has slid 134 basis points from
this year’s high of 622 on April 5.  The RBI, concerned about the fastest growth in currency
derivatives trading in more than three years, is asking overseas
funds to prove they aren’t speculating on the rupee.  Currency Derivatives  Turnover in futures and options involving the currency
climbed 47 percent to a daily average of 387.7 billion rupees
($6.4 billion) in June on the National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd., the biggest jump since January 2010.  The RBI on June 26 asked overseas funds for proof that
individual accounts were seeking to limit  currency risk  on
securities by using derivatives. The central bank has also
enquired about foreign lenders’ open positions involving the
rupee. Global investors can only use rupee futures and options
to protect their holdings of Indian shares and debt.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.6 percent to
61.80 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 0.4 percent to 61.94.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  