-- India’s RBI Said to Discuss Dollar Purchases With Biggest Buyers
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-07-08T12:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/india-s-rbi-said-to-discuss-dollar-purchases-with-biggest-buyers.html
The  Reserve Bank  of India and the
nation’s state-owned refiners including  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  are
discussing ways to manage dollar demand in a bid to curb rupee
volatility, an oil ministry official briefed on the matter said.  The central bank and the refiners are exploring the
possibility of mandating a single state-run bank to sell dollars
to the companies, eliminating bids that fuel speculation in the
rupee, the person said, asking not to be identified because the
matter is confidential. Another option is for the RBI to sell
dollars directly to the  oil companies , the person said.  The RBI was meeting oil company officials today to discuss
their foreign exchange needs and it may set up a separate window
to provide refiners with dollars, Reuters reported earlier,
citing people it didn’t identify.  India ’s rupee fell to a record today after a U.S. jobs
report showing companies hired more workers than economists
forecast added to the case for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce
monetary stimulus. The refiners, the biggest buyers of the
greenback, import about 80 percent of their crude oil
requirements which they have to pay for in the U.S. currency.
The nation spent $22.86 billion to import crude oil in the two
months through May 31, according to oil ministry  data .  Record Low  P.K. Goyal, finance director at Indian Oil, S. Varadarajan,
finance director at  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  and K.V. Rao, finance
director at Hindustan Petroleum Corp., didn’t answer two calls
each to their mobile phones today seeking comments.  Oil Secretary Vivek Rae, the senior-most bureacrat in the
ministry, wasn’t available for comments at his office in  New
Delhi . The RBI’s Mumbai-based spokeswoman Alpana Killawala did
not respond to a call to her mobile phone.  The rupee touched 61.2125 a dollar, weakening past the
previous all-time low of 60.7650 on June 26. One-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, rose 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage
point, to 13.56 percent, the highest closing level since June
last year.  The rupee pared today’s losses on speculation the central
bank sold dollars, two traders said, asking not to be identified
as the information isn’t public.  Any dollar sales by the Reserve Bank will be aimed at
reducing market volatility, rather than supporting the  exchange
rate  as the rupee’s slide is in line with losses in other
currencies, according to Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  