-- Indonesia Weighs Debut Kangaroo Bond Sale on Yield Outlook
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-07-08T02:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/indonesia-weighs-debut-kangaroo-bond-sale-on-yield-outlook.html
Indonesia  is considering selling
Kangaroo bonds for the first time next year as analysts predict
Australia’s yield premium over Treasuries will narrow and its
currency weaken.  “We are thinking of tapping this market, and issuing in
the Australian dollar is a possibility,” Robert Pakpahan,
director general at the debt management office, said in a July 5
interview in Jakarta. “We will be meeting with investors first
to gauge what kind of demand there is.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Australian
government notes over similar-maturity Treasuries has fallen 30
basis points this year to 121 and is projected to reach 94 basis
points by the end of 2014, according to Bloomberg surveys of
analysts.  Australia ’s dollar, which has dropped 13 percent
against the greenback since March, will weaken an additional 1.7
percent by the middle of next year, according to the median
estimate in a separate survey.  Indonesia benefited from a 21 percent decline in the yen
against the dollar since it sold Samurai bonds in November,
reducing its interest payments, Pakpahan said. The country will
boost the proportion of debt sales in foreign currencies to as
high as 20 percent in 2013, from an earlier target of 15
percent, as it seeks to fund what is forecast to be its widest
budget deficit on record without overcrowding the local market,
he said.  Widening Spread  Southeast Asia’s largest economy sold $3 billion of dollar
bonds in April, including $1.5 billion of 10-year debt at a
record-low yield of 3.5 percent. The rate has since climbed to
5.09 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as indications
the Federal Reserve is preparing to scale back monetary stimulus
drove global yields higher.  The premium investors demand to hold the 10-year notes over
similar-maturity Treasuries has widened from 176 basis points at
the sale to 220 basis points, and peaked at 274 basis points on
June 24.  Indonesia would join  Russia ’s VTB Capital, Korea Gas Corp.
and Zurich-based ABB Ltd., who have all tapped the Australian
market for the first time in the past year. Sales of Australian
dollar-denominated bonds sold by offshore borrowers, dubbed
Kangaroo bonds, rose 11 percent so far in 2013 to A$14.1 billion
($12.9 billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Australian investors are looking for new names like
Indonesia,” Roger Bridges, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$22 billion as head of fixed income at Tyndall Investment
Management Ltd., said in a July 5 interview from Sydney.
“Appetite would depend on the spread,” as emerging-market
yields have dropped a lot in recent years and are only now
increasing, he said.  Asia’s Worst  Indonesia’s local-currency bonds and dollar-denominated
notes both lost about 10 percent this year, the worst
performances among Asia’s 10 biggest economies excluding  Japan ,
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Outstanding notes yield 8.05
percent, compared with 1.89 percent for U.S. sovereign debt and
5 percent for Australia, weighted averages show.  Indonesia predicts a budget deficit of 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, which would be the biggest in
Bloomberg data going back to 2004. The shortfall was 1.5 percent
in 2012. The national debt of $147 billion is equivalent to 25
percent of GDP, the lowest ratio in 12 Asian emerging-market
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Planned Sales  The Finance Ministry may sell as much as $3.6 billion more
dollar bonds this year, Pakpahan said. It has previously
announced it will offer $500 million of dollar-denominated debt
onshore in October and that it is planning two global sales this
half, one of which will be a sukuk issue. Pakpahan declined to
comment on the timing and said the government is seeking clarity
on when the Fed will rein in U.S. stimulus.  “Recent developments, with volatility in the  emerging
markets  and the U.S., have made us realize that we shouldn’t
reduce our options,” he said. “What we should do is sell in a
currency when it is strong but weakening, which was what we saw
happen last year to the yen.”  The drop in interest payments on Indonesia’s yen-denominated debt has probably exceeded the increase in the cost
of servicing the nation’s dollar debt, caused by the rupiah
declining 5.5 percent against the greenback in the past year,
Pakpahan said. The government will consider selling Samurai
bonds for the fourth time next year depending on market
conditions, he said.  The nation has hired banks to manage its planned dollar-denominated bond and sukuk offers this half, and the Islamic
sale is likely to be the smaller of the two, Pakpahan said.
Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc will
manage the Shariah-compliant offer, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Barclays Plc and StanChart will arrange the non-Islamic sale, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Janes at 
 ajanes@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  