-- Indonesia Eases Regulation on Lead Content for Tin Shipments
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-07-08T09:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/indonesia-eases-regulation-on-lead-content-for-tin-shipments.html
Indonesia , the world’s largest tin
shipper, eased a rule on lead content to help smelters meet
export requirements, the Trade Ministry said.  The limit for lead was increased to a maximum 0.030 percent
from 0.010 percent, according to a regulation signed by Trade
Minister  Gita Wirjawan  on June 28 and published on the
ministry’s website. The iron limit was unchanged at a maximum
0.005 percent, while other metals such as cadmium and aluminum
were removed from the regulation, it said. Tin purity was
increased to 99.9 percent from 99.85 percent as planned, the
 decree  stated. The new rules took effect on July 1.  “This will facilitate business,” Bachrul Chairi, director
general of foreign trade at the ministry, said by phone from
Jakarta. The revision came after some smelters said they were
unable to meet the content limits, said Thamrin Latuconsina,
export director for mining and industry products. Hidayat Arsani, president of the tin mining association, didn’t answer
three calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Tin for delivery in three months rose 1.9 percent to
$19,200 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange at 5:20 p.m.
in  Singapore . The metal used in soldering and packaging has
dropped 18 percent this year.  Exports from Indonesia may fall 20 percent to 79,000 tons
this year because of the rules, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey published on June 27. Shipments surged 18
percent in May from April to 9,242 tons, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The trade ministry will release June
figures this week.  Tin producers must trade ingots in the local physical
market first before export with effect from Aug. 30 and for
other tin products from Jan. 1, 2015, according to the rule.  “This will enable us to monitor shipments,” Chairi said.
The trade will create a reference price for Indonesian tin, he
said, without providing details on the bourse that will handle
the physical trading.  The Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange  is the
only bourse in the country with a tin contract.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  