-- Irregular Bedtimes Tied to Children’s Lower Test Scores
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-07-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/irregular-bedtimes-tied-to-children-s-lower-test-scores.html
     July 9 (Bloomberg) -– Young children without consistent
bedtimes in early childhood score lower on tests of intellectual
performance at age 7, which may affect their health and
well-being later in life, U.K. researchers said.  Children who went to bed at different times on school
nights when they were 3, 5 and 7 years old did worse on tests of
reading, math and spatial ability when they reached 7, the
researchers at  University College London  wrote in a  study 
published in the Journal of Epidemiology and  Community Health .
The findings were adjusted for factors such as socioeconomic
status, and the effect didn’t differ for children in families
with one or two working parents.  “It could be that consistent schedules are good for the
patterns the body needs to establish,” Amanda Sacker, one of
the authors and a professor in the epidemiology and public
health department at  University College London , said in a phone
interview. “An irregular bedtime might mean that children are
getting more sleep deprivation than children who go to bed at a
regular time.”  The researchers said their study suggests age 3 may be a
sensitive period and that the effects seem to build up over
time.  Millennium Study  The study analyzed data on bedtimes and test scores from
11,178 7-year-old children born from September 2000 to January
2002 who participated in the U.K. Millennium Cohort Study. When
they were 3, 5 or 7, the children’s mothers were asked whether
they always, usually, sometimes or never went to bed at a
regular time.  Irregular bedtimes were most common at age 3, when almost
20 percent of children went to bed at inconsistent times,
compared with less than 10 percent of the older children. Non-regular bedtimes at age 3 were associated with lower reading,
math and spatial ability test scores.  At age 5, non-regular bedtimes were only linked to lower
reading scores in girls and lower math scores in boys. Girls who
never had consistent bedtimes at any age had significantly lower
scores on all three tests, as did boys who didn’t have regular
bedtimes at any two of the three ages.  “It seems to be additive as well,” Sacker said. “If you
can’t get a schedule going by age 3, if you manage to get a
regular routine by the time they start school at 5, that will
still have positive effects.”  Girls, Boys  The study found that irregular bedtimes had more impact on
girls than on boys. Sacker said it didn’t explain the reasons
for the difference, which may be related to girls being more
affected by psychosocial factors in their lives.  Previous studies have been smaller and haven’t followed
children for as long a period, the authors said. Still, their
findings echo several reports that linked inconsistent sleep
with poor later cognitive performance in children.  “Previous research suggests all learning builds on
previous learning,” Sacker said. “It’s more likely that
children who aren’t doing well in early childhood will have more
trouble catching up. There is a concern that this can have long-term implications.”  The UCL study’s findings may have been affected by missing
test score data for 7 percent to 8 percent of participants,
reports coming directly from parents rather than independent
sources and the unavailability of data on bedtimes at weekends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  