-- Istanbul Golden Horn to Lure $500 Million Hotel Projects
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-07-08T14:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/istanbul-golden-horn-to-lure-500-million-hotel-projects.html
Istanbul’s Golden Horn, a waterway
that sheltered Roman, Greek and Byzantine ships over thousands
of years, is set to attract five hotel projects costing about
$500 million.  One of the hotels, slated to open next year, will be
operated by  Switzerland ’s Moevenpick Holding AG, while another
will be run by Turkish furniture maker Lazzoni Mobilya Insaat
Turizm Sanayi & Ticaret Ltd. Sti, said Alaeddin Babaoglu, who
provided consulting work on the projects as chairman of
Istanbul-based Amplio Real Estate Investments. Together, the
five hotels will add 1,500 beds along the waterway, he said.  The Golden Horn is attracting more investment as it
competes with the Bosporus Strait for restorations, home
building and hospitality. Hilton Worldwide Inc., the chain owned
by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , has operated a hotel built by Amplio on
the waterway since 2011, Babaoglu said.  “The Golden Horn will be a new attraction for Istanbul as
more tourism investments are under way,” Babaoglu said.  The three other hotel projects to start next year are by
Turkish construction groups that may sign operating agreements
with international hoteliers, Babaoglu said.  Lazzoni’s hotel will cost about $25 million and will open
in the summer of 2014, Chairman Yasar Kababulut said in a phone
interview today. The company will operate the hotel itself under
the Lazzoni brand after failing to reach a deal with
international chains, he said. Movenpick’s existing Turkish
hotels are in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir, according to its
 website .  Housing Project  Amplio is two-thirds owned by German entrepreneur Erwin Walter Graebner, with the rest held by Babaoglu. The company
plans to build a housing project on 25,000 square meters
(270,000 square feet) of land on the Golden Horn, according to
its  website .  The partners at Amplio Real Estate Investments plan to turn
the company into a real estate investment trust next year,
Babaoglu said.  Turkey ’s capital markets regulator requires REITs
to sell shares through an initial public offering within three
months after being founded, he said.  Amplio plans to more than double its sales this year to
more than 30 million liras ($15.4 million), Babaoglu said.  Marion Schumacher, a spokeswoman for Moevenpick, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail and a call seeking comment on the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 