-- Japan Utilities Apply to Regulator for Atomic Plant Restarts
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-08T07:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/japan-utilities-file-for-atomic-plant-restarts-with-regulator.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  and three
other regional utilities applied to  Japan ’s nuclear regulator
for safety checks, a step toward restarting reactors idled after
the Fukushima atomic disaster in March 2011.  The applications filed today by Kansai Electric,  Shikoku
Electric Power Co. (9507) ,  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  and  Kyushu
Electric Power Co. (9508)  seek the Nuclear Regulation Authority’s
clearance to operate 10 reactors with a total installed capacity
of 8.84 gigawatts.  The applications cover 19 percent of the total capacity of
Japan’s fleet of 50 functioning nuclear plants and represent
enough power to supply 2.9 million Japanese households,
according to calculations by Bloomberg.  All but two of Japan’s reactors are idled for safety
assessments after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The NRA was set up after the disaster
to independently review Japan’s nuclear power.  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s biggest utility, hasn’t made a
decision on when to turn in an application to restart reactors
at its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant in Niigata prefecture, 220
kilometers (137 miles) northwest of Tokyo, Hiroshi Itagaki, a
spokesman for the company better known as Tepco, said today by
phone.  Tepco President Naomi Hirose said last week that the
company would seek permission to start two reactors at the plant
as soon as possible. The utility, which had a 685.3 billion yen
($6.8 billion) loss last fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it
would return to profit this year if reactors at the plant are
restarted.  Safety Checks  Kansai Electric , the nation’s second-biggest regional
utility, filed to restart the No. 3 and No. 4 units at its
Takahama facility, according to a statement on its website. The
company will also seek the regulators’ endorsement for the No. 3
and No. 4 units at its Ohi plant, which had been given
government approval to operate before the NRA was formed.  Hokkaido Electric filed for unit Nos. 1-3 at its Tomari
plant, according to spokesman Hisatoshi Kibayashi. Shikoku
Electric filed for the No. 3 unit at its Ikata plant, the
company said on its website. Kyushu Electric filed for unit Nos.
1 and 2 at its Sendai plant and will file for unit Nos. 3 and 4
at its Genkai plant on July 12, spokeswoman Naoko Iguchi said.  The following table includes data on reactor types,
original reactor start dates, current state of operations and
status of safety-check applications to the NRA. Boiling water
reactors (BWR), including advanced boiling water reactors
(ABWR), must install filtration vents before restarting.
Pressurized water reactors (PWR) are required to install the
vents within five years after resuming operations.  
Sources: Federation of Electric Power Cos. of Japan; Company
Statements  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  