-- Japan Sold Record U.S. Treasuries in May During Global Bond Rout
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-08T03:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/japan-sold-record-u-s-treasuries-in-may-during-global-bond-rout.html
U.S. Treasury sales by Japanese
investors exceeded purchases by a  record  in May amid the biggest
monthly drop for the securities in more than three years.  Money managers in the Asian nation unloaded a net 3
trillion yen ($30 billion) of U.S. government bonds in a fifth
straight month of overall sales that was the largest in data
from 2005, the Ministry of Finance said today. In June, Japanese
investors were net sellers of overseas debt valued at a record
2.96 trillion yen, taking the total to 10.6 trillion yen this
year, the data show. That’s on track for the first net annual
sales ever.  A more than 20 percent drop in the yen against the dollar
over the past year has prompted funds managers in  Japan  to take
profit on their offshore debt holdings. At the same time, the
Japanese  bond market  is being spared a global rout that’s pushed
the U.S.  Treasury 10-year (USGG10YR)  yield to a two-year high as the  Bank
of Japan  buys sovereign debt from the market.  “The Treasury market in the U.S. is in a  bear market ,”
said Steven Mansell, the Sydney-based head of Group of 10 rates
strategy for the Asia-Pacific region at Citigroup Inc. “The
stock market in Japan is doing quite well, the data is
surprising on the upside, so it’s very unlikely that the
Japanese are going to start buying large amounts of foreign
bonds.”  ‘Portfolio Shift’  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said after leading his first
policy meeting on April 4 that he’d use government bond
purchases to double the country’s  monetary base  by the end of
2014. The unprecedented program would lower domestic debt yields
and encourage a “portfolio shift” into stocks, foreign bonds
and other assets, Kuroda told reporters at the time. The
monetary base is cash in circulation and the money that
financial institutions have in deposits at the central bank.  The move into offshore debt has yet to materialize, with
the finance ministry data showing an acceleration in offshore-bond sales from April through June. The  Topix (TPX)  index has climbed
38 percent this year, as Japan’s equity markets post the biggest
gains among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Japanese investors sold 133 billion yen of Australian
 government securities  in May, in a record 10th month of net
sales, and 313 billion yen of Australian dollar-denominated
debt. Euro-based bond buying was the largest among the 10
currencies tracked at 1 trillion yen, with net purchases of
German sovereign securities worth 1.2 trillion yen.  Yen Depreciation  The yen slid 21 percent versus the dollar, 25 percent
against the euro and 11 percent against the Australian currency
over the past 12 months. It traded at 101.23 per dollar as of
12:01 p.m. in  Tokyo  after earlier touching 101.53, the least
since May 30. It was little changed at 129.86 per euro and
climbed 0.1 percent to 91.69 per Australian dollar.  U.S.  Treasuries (BUSY)  have lost 3.9 percent this year, German
debt is down 1.6 percent and  Japanese government securities  are
up 0.3 percent, Bloomberg data show. The U.S. Treasury market
fell 2 percent in May, the biggest loss since December 2009,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  A broad global market index slid 1.5 percent in May, the
most since April 2004 for a single month.  “If JGB yields were to rise sharply the BOJ would step
in,” said Mansell. “We still think that the BOJ will have to
take more stimulatory measures later this year in order to
sustain the momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  