-- Jefferies Must Pay Fired Trader $1.86 Million, Court Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-07-08T10:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/jefferies-must-pay-fired-trader-1-86-million-court-says.html
Jefferies Group LLC was ordered by a
 Hong Kong  judge to pay its former Asia equity trading head Grant Williams about $1.86 million for firing him over a newsletter
which referred to a Hitler parody video.  The award includes pay for a six-month notice period and
damages covering his loss of salary and bonuses from June 2011
until July 2013, according to a ruling by Deputy High Court
Judge Conrad Seagroatt today.  Seagroatt ruled last month that Williams shouldn’t have
been blamed for the Dec. 7, 2010 newsletter that included a link
to a YouTube Inc. video clip depicting  Adolf Hitler , with
subtitles that mocked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon . His firing the next day for unacceptable
conduct was “hypersensitive” and “irrational,” Seagroatt
said last month.  Williams, 46, had sent it for vetting and its distribution
was a result of human error or a defect in the approval system
established by Jefferies or a combination of both, according to
the June ruling.  Carole Bishop, a Jefferies spokeswoman in  London , didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting a comment on the
case.  Jefferies’s lawyer, Jose Maurellet, argued in court that
the newsletter associated the New York-based investment bank
with the video that “insulted in a quite humiliating way a
competitor and business partner.”  The video uses a scene from the 2004 German movie
“Downfall” showing Hitler screaming at his subordinates in the
final days of the war. Subtitles suggested Hitler’s character
was Dimon, speaking in the context of bets on the price of
silver.  Williams, who is now a portfolio manager with Vulpes
Investment Management Ltd. in Singapore, sought at least HK$13
million ($1.7 million).  The case is  Grant Williams  and Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd.,
HCA320/2011, Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  