-- Judge Tosses Part of Suit Over Alleged NSA Surveillance
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-09T00:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/judge-tosses-part-of-suit-over-alleged-nsa-surveillance.html
The National Security Agency must
face damage claims by individuals alleging government
surveillance of phone communications violates wiretapping laws,
a federal judge in  San Francisco  ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White , ruling in a 2008 lawsuit
challenging the surveillance, today ordered government lawyers
to explain how proceeding with the case could harm national
security, as the U.S. asserts, in light of recent disclosures
that the NSA collects telephone records of Americans without
their knowledge or consent under an anti-terrorism program.  White threw out the plaintiffs’ bid for an order blocking
the conduct they’re challenging and dismissed claims that the
government violated the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
The judge allowed claims for money damages for violations of
federal wiretap and stored communications laws to proceed. He
reserved judgment on whether the surveillance is constitutional.  “Over the last month, we came face-to-face with new
details of mass, untargeted collection of phone and Internet
records, substantially confirmed by the Director of National
Intelligence,” said Cindy Cohn, legal director of the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group representing
some plaintiffs. “Today’s decision sets the stage for finally
getting a ruling that can stop the dragnet surveillance and
restore Americans’ constitutional rights.”  Nanda Chitre, a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The lawsuit filed by several individuals cited documents
provided by former AT&T Inc. telecommunications technician Mark
Klein allegedly showing AT&T routed copies of  Internet traffic 
to a secret room in San Francisco controlled by the NSA.  The case was among the first filed challenging surveillance
programs put into place after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
Lawsuits against telecommunications companies ended when
Congress granted firms immunity.  The case is Jewel v. NSA, 07-cv-00698, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  