-- Kenya Nears Debt Cap as Wage Demands Pressure Budget
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-07-10T10:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/kenya-poised-to-reach-debt-limit-as-wage-demands-pressure-budget.html
Kenya ’s increasing stock of
international debt is approaching the government’s ceiling and a
strike by school teachers for higher pay is adding to public-spending pressures, the country’s Parliamentary Budget Office
said.  The amount of external borrowing could reach about 1.1
trillion shillings ($12.7 billion) by the end of June 2014,
moving toward the state’s 1.2 trillion-shilling debt limit,
Martin Masinde, deputy director of the office, said by phone.
The government has also tapped the maximum amount it can access
from an overdraft facility at the central bank, the Nairobi-based office said in an e-mailed statement.  President Uhuru Kenyatta on July 4 asked school teachers to
end a two-week strike and resume negotiations, with the
government offering to hire 10,000 more teachers, among other
things. The salary demands are adding to pressure on Kenya’s
public wage bill, which at about half of tax income is “very
high” the International Monetary Fund said last month.  “The ongoing teachers strike is likely to exert pressure
on the wage bill,” the budget office said in its report. “This
may consequently lead to a systemic push for higher wages in the
other sectors of the public service. The economy may plunge into
wage-push inflation tendencies.”  Inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in June, near the
lower end of the government’s 5 percent to 7 percent target.  The government said last year it would introduce new taxes
and cut spending to fund the 25.5 billion shillings in wage
increases teachers, doctors, and lecturers were calling for.  Growing Economy  Rising debt levels could reduce the allure of Kenyan
assets, including the shilling and stocks, over the “medium- to
long-term,” according to Vimal Parmar, head of research at
Nairobi-based Burbidge Capital.  “It will increase the risk,” Parmar said today by phone.  The shilling depreciated for a fourth day, falling 0.4
percent to 86.80 per dollar by 4:21 p.m. in Nairobi, taking its
decline this year to 0.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kenyatta, who in April began his first, five-year term in
office, is targeting growth in East Africa’s biggest economy of
at least 10 percent from 5.8 percent this year. Kenya is the
world’s biggest exporter of black tea and supplies a-third of
all flowers traded in Europe.  Kenyan commercial banks have been slow to lower the cost of
credit in line with reductions to the key lending rate, with
some lenders not reacting at all, the budget office said. The
average interest rate spread -- the difference between
commercial banks’ interest rates and deposit rates -- has been
maintained at about 15 percent over the past 15 months, it said.  Policy Meeting  Kenya’s central bank has lowered its  policy rate  to 8.5
percent from 11 percent so far this year, adding to 11
percentage points of reductions in 2012 from a record high.
Monetary policy makers are due to meet tomorrow. All 10
economists and analysts in a Bloomberg survey forecast the rate
would remain unchanged at that meeting.  Legislators in January raised the ceiling on public debt to
1.2 trillion shillings from 800 billion shillings, according to
a copy of Hansard e-mailed by the budget office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  