-- Koreans Find Breaking Up With Chaebol Hard to Do
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-07-08T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/koreans-find-breaking-up-with-chaebol-hard-to-do.html
Everyone loves a good perp walk. For
South Koreans, Lee Jay Hyun’s made great theater.  The sight of Lee -- chairman of the conglomerate CJ Group
and grandson of Samsung’s legendary founder -- being led away by
police last week on embezzlement and  tax-evasion  charges has
been portrayed as an early victory for President Park Geun Hye’s
five-month-old government. The arrest supposedly shows that Park
is serious about reining in the chaebol -- family-owned
behemoths that continue to dominate  Asia ’s fourth-biggest
economy and hog much of the nation’s wealth.  The reality, of course, is far more complicated. Past
attempts to bring tycoons to heel have also been greeted with
great fanfare, only to fizzle out. In April 2008, Lee’s uncle,
Samsung Chairman Lee Kun Hee, resigned after being charged with
criminal tax evasion. His ignominious fall was heralded as the
end of the chaebol -- until then-President  Lee Myung Bak 
pardoned him eight months later, allowing Korea’s richest man to
return to work.  Park won election in December by promising “economic
democratization.” That meant dealing sternly with the tycoons
her father, dictator Park Chung Hee, helped create after the
 Korean War . Every economy has a certain amount of innovative
oxygen that sustains its dynamism and creates fresh jobs. The
chaebol starve would-be entrepreneurs of air and impede the
growth of a vibrant stable of small and mid-size companies.  Outsize Influence  The chaebol are largely exporting animals. Their outsize
influence hinders the growth of a vibrant services sector, which
Korea needs to create better-paying jobs, increase productivity
and develop a highly skilled workforce. Their dominance also
makes it hard for small companies to attract good talent so they
can grow into large, profitable and game-changing firms.  Pundits in Korea tend to see reforming the chaebol as a
separate task from Park’s effort to build a “creative
economy,” but it’s not. Innovative startups can’t thrive as
long as the chaebol continue to rely only on their in-house
networks of suppliers. Korea will never develop its own  Steve
Jobs  or  Bill Gates  as long as getting a job at LG, Samsung or
Hyundai remains the only acceptable goal for college graduates.  Koreans have much to be proud of. Their nation nimbly
steered around the global crisis in 2008. A Korean helms the
 United Nations . Samsung’s smartphones are all that stand between
Apple Inc. and world domination. Pop stars and film directors
are advancing Korea’s soft power in ways Japan and  China  are
rushing to emulate.  Yet Korea is in a funk. Growth is just 1.5 percent, wages
have stagnated, and costs of housing and schooling in the
education-obsessed nation are surging. That’s led to a dangerous
jump in  household debt  to about $847 billion from $564 billion
in mid-2008. It’s quite a debt load for a $1.1 trillion economy,
and it speaks volumes about challenges facing the middle class.  There are worrisome signs Park is making her own Faustian
bargain with the chaebol. Yes, she supported the revisions to
Korea’s corporate laws passed July 2 by the National Assembly.
The reforms mean that subsidiaries owned by a chaebol chairman’s
family should find it harder to monopolize supply orders.
Convenience-store operations now have new protections, and the
conglomerates’ influence over banks is being reduced.  But the real victors were  chaebol  lobbyists. Their
insistence that bolder restrictions would hurt not just
competitiveness but also national growth prevailed. By week’s
end, even Park, the supposed conglomerate slayer, was musing
publicly about the central role the chaebol must play in fueling
growth this year.  Extreme Concentration  Such short-termism is what put  Korea  in this predicament.
Koreans have a love-hate relationship with their behemoths: They
love how they helped the  nation  to rise into the orbit of
 Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development  members;
they hate the extreme concentration of economic power. In 2012,
exports by the 30 largest chaebol accounted for 82 percent of
Korea’s output, compared with 53 percent in 2002. They hire
about 80 percent of new college graduates.  Why would a 22-year-old Korean roll the dice on a small or
mid-size company, or start a new one, when he or she can have a
stable career at a chaebol? Park can talk all she wants about
transforming young Koreans into innovators and risk-takers. She
can insist that the failure of a startup is a learning
experience that needn’t bring shame on an entire family (as many
Koreans believe).  Park can roll out corporate welfare programs, play venture
capitalist and pick the brains of Gates and  Mark Zuckerberg  all
she wants. But until Korea reduces the chaebol’s stranglehold
over all walks of life -- economic, political and social --
these well-intentioned efforts will gain little traction.  Park has one five-year term to undo her father’s legacy,
and the clock is ticking. Thus far her efforts to build a more
creative economy lack more than just teeth. They lack
creativity.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Seoul  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 