-- Krona Slumps as Swedish Industrial Output Unexpectedly Declines
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-07-08T08:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/krona-slumps-as-swedish-industrial-output-unexpectedly-declines.html
Sweden’s krona slid after a report
showed a deepening manufacturing slump in the largest Nordic
economy.  The krona fell as much as 0.9 percent against the euro and
traded 0.8 percent lower at 8.8023 per euro as of 10:53 a.m. in
Stockholm. It slid 0.8 percent to 6.8586 per dollar, the second-biggest decliner among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Industrial production  fell a monthly 2.6 percent in May
after declining a revised 1.1 percent the previous month,
Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden said. Production was  estimated 
to rise 0.6 percent, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of four economists. Output fell an annual 7.3
percent after falling a revised 1.1 percent the previous month.  “The year-over-year rates for both industrial and service
production indicate that the 1.7 percent year-over-year for GDP
in the first quarter will not be repeated in the second
quarter,” Mikael Sarwe, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in
an e-mailed note. “GDP might thus fall quarter-over-quarter in
Q2, which can be compared with the Riksbank forecast of an
increase of 0.3 percent.”  The Swedish central bank last week kept benchmark interest
rates unchanged and stuck to a forecast for tightening to start
in the second half of next year, saying the economy was on the
way to a recovery. The bank said it sees the rate at an average
of 1 percent in the third quarter and 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, maintaining a small chance for a reduction.  Industrial orders fell a monthly 2.6 percent in May and
decreased an annual 6.1 percent, Statistics Sweden said today.
Exports orders fell 2.1 percent and domestic orders slid 3.5
percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  