-- New Jersey Court Rules Against Homeowners in Dune Dispute
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-08T21:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/new-jersey-court-rules-against-homeowners-in-dune-dispute.html
A  New Jersey  town can present
evidence of the benefits of building dunes as storm barriers
when homeowners with beachfront properties seek compensation for
losing their ocean views, the state’s highest court ruled.  The Borough of Harvey Cedars on Long Beach Island, New
Jersey, appealed a $375,000 state-court judgment to pay a couple
for the loss of their water views when the town built a dune 22
feet high and 30 feet wide. Harvey and Phyllis Karan sued after
the town condemned part of their multimillion-dollar beachfront
property for the dune, which was completed in 2010.  The New Jersey Supreme Court in Trenton today unanimously
reversed a lower appeals court ruling upholding the judgment and
ordered a retrial, saying the borough “should have been
permitted to present evidence of the non-speculative, reasonably
calculable benefits arising from the dune project.”  Governor  Chris Christie  has clashed with beachfront
homeowners over the state’s plan for dunes to protect its 127-mile coast after Superstorm Sandy. Christie, a Republican
seeking re-election, argued that the economic benefit of the
dune system outweighs property owners’ objections.  Just Compensation  Just compensation to homeowners for taking a portion of
property for public projects isn’t the question, the Supreme
Court said. Instead, it’s how to calculate the losses when a
public project “may lessen in part and enhance in part the
value of the remaining property,” the court ruled.  The ruling is a “decisive victory,” Christie told
reporters today in Trenton.  “Technically, I think this should be a clear message to
the 1,400 or so folks who have not yet given easements along the
127 miles of New Jersey’s coastline: you’re not going to be paid
a windfall for your easement,” Christie said.  “If you were hoping to get some six-figure payment for the
loss of your precious view then I think the  Supreme Court  put a
stake in that today,” he continued.  The trial court in the Karanss case erred in not permitting
the jury to consider “that the dune would likely spare the
Karans’ home from total destruction in certain fierce storms and
from other damage in lesser storms,” the court said.  ‘Fair Market’  “In a partial-takings case, homeowners are entitled to the
fair market value of their loss, not a windfall, not to a payout
that disregards the home’s enhanced value resulting from a
public project,” it said.  Peter Wegener, an attorney for the Karans, said he was
disappointed but not entirely surprised by the ruling given
comments the justices made during oral arguments in May. The
court was under pressure to reach a “more politically
acceptable” decision, Wegener said.  “It’s somewhat distressing that the court should see fit
to overrule more than 100 years of well-thought-out precedent,”
Wegener said in a phone interview. “The facts in the case did
not warrant any consideration of reduction in value because of
the benefits.”  Real estate appraisers for the municipality and the Karans
testified at trial that the home was worth $1.9 million before
the easement was acquired in November 2008. The borough valued
the couple’s loss for the land taken at $300 compared with
$500,000 estimated by the Karans’ appraiser.  Panoramic Views  The easement covered more than one-fourth of the 11,868-square-foot property, according to court records. The three-story home, built in 1973, is anchored on pilings with exterior
decks that offer panoramic views of the beach and ocean,
according to the records.  The Karans’ house wasn’t damaged when Sandy came ashore in
New Jersey on Oct. 29, leaving 2.7 million people in the state
without power, crippling mass transit and severely damaging some
coastal towns.  Christie has said it will cost $36.9 billion to repair the
damage and prevent future devastation.  Wegener said his clients have no intention of declaring
defeat and look forward to a retrial that may begin as early as
next month.  The case is Borough of Harvey Cedars v. Karan, A-120-11,
Supreme Court of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 