-- Nissan Goes Back to Future With Datsun in Emerging Markets: Cars
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-07-09T10:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/nissan-goes-back-to-future-with-datsun-in-emerging-markets-cars.html
New Delhi fashion designer Rebecca
Nelson is the kind of customer Nissan Motor Co. aims to attract
as it revives the Datsun brand: Someone on a budget looking to
buy her first car. Problem is, she’s never heard the name.  “What is Datsun?” said the 26-year-old, who earns about
$400 a month and takes the subway to work. “If I’m spending my
savings on a car, I’ll opt for a tried-and-tested brand.”  Nissan is resurrecting the Datsun marque after killing it
in 1981 in favor of the automaker’s namesake brand. Sold mostly
in North America and Europe in the past, Datsuns were popular
for their fuel economy during the 1970s oil shocks. Chief
Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn is counting on updated technology
at bargain prices to overcome the lack of brand recognition in
emerging markets, where Datsun will be sold.  The first Datsun model -- Nissan says it’s a hatchback and
will cost “significantly lower” than 400,000 rupees ($6,600) -
- will be unveiled in  India  this month and go on sale next year.
Within two years, Nissan expects to introduce Datsun in
 Indonesia , Russia and South Africa. Sketches released by the
automaker show a five-door hatchback with a hexagonal grille and
swept-back headlights.  The new Datsun adds another leg to Ghosn’s strategy of
competing in every segment in high-growth developing countries.
Its role is to occupy the opposite end of the price spectrum
from Nissan’s upscale Infiniti unit, which is undergoing a
revamp to lure wealthy Chinese buyers.  “Nissan realized there is huge potential in emerging
markets for which it needs more affordable models,” said Ammar Master, an analyst at LMC Automotive in Bangkok. “Without
Datsun, the automaker will find it difficult to grow fast in
 emerging markets .”  U.S. Sales  Datsun’s revival follows Ghosn’s $5 billion bet in 2009 on
electric vehicles that so far has fallen short of targets.
Nissan in January cut prices for its all-electric Leaf car after
missing sales targets in the last two years.  “He has to pull some rabbits out of the hat,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in
 Tokyo , which manages about $3 billion in assets. “He hasn’t
pulled out any for a long time. Has he no magic anymore?”  Nissan shares have risen 34 percent this year, compared
with the 39 percent gain by the  Topix index  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s 60 percent advance. The automaker, which derives more of
its sales from  China  than Toyota or Honda Motor Co., trailed its
domestic competitors last year as a territorial dispute spurred
consumers to turn away from Japanese brands.  In the U.S., Nissan notched record sales in June after
cutting prices on seven models.  Emerging Markets  In developing economies, such as India,  Russia  and
Indonesia, Nissan doesn’t offer passenger vehicles in the lowest
price ranges, which account for about 40 percent of the market,
Ghosn has said.  Datsun will target first-time buyers upgrading from
motorcycles or used cars, allowing the automaker to reach a new
market segment, Ghosn said in March 2012. Reviving the Datsun
name, even if it’s unfamiliar to consumers in emerging markets,
beats starting a new brand in terms of customer recognition, he
said.  “The risk is to do nothing,” Ghosn said at the briefing
announcing the brand’s comeback. Datsun will house the
automaker’s budget range to prevent the main Nissan brand, whose
top-selling Altima sedan starts from $21,760 in the U.S., from
going down-market, he said.  Ghosn is adopting a similar strategy that  Renault SA (RNO) , which
he also heads, used with the low-cost Dacia brand, which it
bought in 1998 and is popular with budget buyers in Europe, said
Master of LMC.  Low Cost  Datsun will account for a third to half of total group
sales in India, Indonesia and Russia by 2017, said Roland Buerk,
a spokesman at Nissan’s headquarters in Yokohama.  Nissan will probably use older vehicle platforms for its
Datsun models to cut costs, said Kota Yuzawa, an auto analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo. And since Datsun can
piggyback on Nissan’s dealer network, “it doesn’t really
require a lot of investment,” Yuzawa said.  The automaker doesn’t comment on the specifics of future
products, said Chris Keeffe, a Nissan spokesman, adding that the
newly developed Datsuns use “state-of-the-art technologies,
platform and components.”  Rival Models  Datsun can expect stiff competition. There’s  Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. (MSIL) ’s Alto 800 and the Eon by South Korea’s Hyundai Motor
Co., both of which cost less than $5,000. Nissan’s cheapest car
in India now, the new  Micra  compact hatchback, costs about
$5,800.  At least 10 other manufacturers, including Toyota Motor
Corp., Ford Motor Co. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , also sell compacts and
minicars, which accounted for about 75 percent of passenger-car
deliveries in India last year, according to the Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  In Indonesia, Toyota and affiliate  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262) ,
accounted for about half of the passenger-vehicle market,
according to researcher IHS Automotive.  Jakarta resident Arie Novarina, who rides a motorcycle to
work, illustrates the difficulty Datsun will face. As she
considers upgrading to a car, the 31-year-old said she’s most
interested in a Toyota, and will only consider a Datsun if it’s
easy to handle, gets good gas mileage, and -- most important --
is cheap.  “Datsun’s design looks cool,” Novarina said after viewing
a sketch of the soon-to-be-released Datsun hatchback. “But if
it’s the same or similarly priced, then I’d choose Toyota.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  