-- North Korea Thaws Ties With South as Gaeseong Talks Progress
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-08T05:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/north-korea-thaws-ties-with-south-as-gaeseong-talks-progress-1-.html
The two Koreas agreed to hold a
second round of talks on July 10 on resuming operations at a
joint factory park, the best progress yet toward mending ties
that soured after the North’s February nuclear weapon test.  Negotiators ended more than 16 hours of meetings at the
Panmunjom border village yesterday with an agreement to hold
follow-up talks this week on normalizing work at the Gaeseong
industrial zone,  North Korea ’s official Korean Central News
Agency reported.  North Korea shuttered Gaeseong in April to protest U.S.-
South Korean military drills and United Nations sanctions
targeting leader Kim Jong Un’s nuclear program. Kim, who had
threatened strikes against the U.S. and South Korea, started
softening his stance last month as the regime proposed dialogue
with the two nations.  The Koreas will “restart Gaeseong when ready” and will
discuss ways to normalize operations and prevent future closings
at the follow-up meeting, according to the joint agreement
carried by KCNA. South Korean businessmen will be allowed to
retrieve completed goods and raw materials from the site and
inspect facilities starting July 10, KCNA said.  While  South Korea  sees this as the result of its bid to
resolve disputes through talks, it doesn’t mean it’s “simply
willing to go back to the way things have been,” the
Unification Ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Conditions have to be created for the complex to be run not
only on a company level but also on the government level.”  Building Relations  South Korean President Park Geun Hye today expressed
“relief” at the developments, adding agreements must be
adhered to in order to build a relationship.  “It is important for us to protect our businesses’ assets,
defend the security of our citizens and prevent a relapse of
wrongdoings to not only resolve the Gaeseong issue but for
future progress in inter-Korean relations,” Park told her
advisers, according to a statement on her website.  Shares of companies operating in Gaeseong gained in Seoul.
Watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040)  gained 3 percent as of 2:05 p.m.  Good
People Co. (033340) , an underwear maker, rose 1.9 percent. The benchmark
 Kospi (KOSPI)  index of stocks fell 1 percent and the won fell 0.82
percent against the  U.S. dollar .  Three officials from each side held the initial talks at
Panmunjom, the site for the signing of the armistice that ended
the 1950-1953 Korean War without a peace agreement, according to
the ministry.  Shut Down  “It’s not easy for Kim Jong Un to permanently shut down
Gaeseong because it is a legacy of the late  Kim Jong Il ,” said
Koh Yu Hwan, a North Korean studies professor at  Dongguk
University  in Seoul. “North Korea didn’t shut Gaeseong with a
permanent closure in mind, they were only trying to pressure the
South,” Koh said. “North Korea knows that it can’t afford to
lose Gaeseong for good.”  The North on April 3 started blocking South Korean
businessmen from entering Gaeseong. Five days later it decided
to withdraw its workers from the industrial zone. On April 11,
an unidentified North Korean government spokesman called the
closing temporary, while blaming the South for a halt to
operations.  Last month, the North requested talks with the South on
Gaeseong, then scrapped the offer over a protocol dispute, and
less than a week later suggested high-level talks with the U.S.
on a peace treaty to formally end the  Korean War .  Any talks between Kim’s regime and the U.S. would be the
first since the North fired a long-range rocket in April 2012,
breaking its pledge of a moratorium on weapons testing in
exchange for 240,000 metric tons of food aid.  North Korea faces increasing diplomatic isolation as  China ,
its biggest trading partner, tightens enforcement of UN
sanctions targeting financial transactions and joins the U.S.,
South Korea and  Japan  on no-tolerance for its nuclear ambitions.  Closing Gaeseong deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. Recalling nearly 54,000 of its workers employed
by 123 South Korean companies has disrupted the $100 million
that Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies in  Seoul , estimates the North earns in annual profits.  Panmunjom, about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northwest of
South Korea’s capital Seoul, is used for diplomatic engagements
and talks. It straddles the military demarcation line that runs
through the four kilometer-wide demilitarized zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  