-- O’Driscoll Says Lions Rugby Series Win ‘Bittersweet’ After Axing
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-08T10:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/o-driscoll-says-lions-rugby-series-win-bittersweet-after-axing.html
Brian O’Driscoll  said adding a
British and Irish Lions Test series win to his rugby resume was
“bittersweet” after watching the combined team secure its
first victory in 16 years from the stands.  “No matter what. That is just how it is,” O’Driscoll
wrote in his column for the U.K.’s  Daily Telegraph . “It was a
massive mix of emotions: delight at being part of this historic
moment alongside guys you have battled with, but tempered by not
playing. It was hard and I would be lying if I said otherwise.”  Ireland center O’Driscoll, 34, was left out of the 23-man
squad for the series-decider against  Australia  two days ago,
which the Lions won 41-16 to take the best-of-three contest 2-1.  The omission of the squad’s most experienced player and the
decision to pick 10 Welshmen in the starting lineup sparked
criticism of head coach Warren Gatland in social and mainstream
media that the 49-year-old described as “vitriolic.” At his
post-match news conference, Gatland said he felt unable to savor
the victory because of the controversy.  O’Driscoll had been seen as the likely replacement for
injured captain Sam Warburton in Sydney, having led the Lions on
seven previous occasions and taken over as skipper when
Warburton got hurt the previous week. It was the first time
O’Driscoll was dropped in a 15-year international rugby career.  O’Driscoll, who was handed his Test debut by Gatland in
1999 when the New Zealander was coach of Ireland, said he knew
his fate when he was approached by coaches at a coffee machine
at the team hotel and asked for a quiet word.  ‘Blow’  “I realized a quiet word in the meeting room was not a
good sign,” O’Driscoll wrote. “They were not about to ask me
to be captain. That would have been said to me there and then.
It was a blow.”  O’Driscoll added that the experience of watching how other
players reacted to getting dropped in the past helped him
“behave properly” and try to be a positive presence despite
his “big inner disappointment.”  “I have said all along on this tour that the contributions
of everyone will make or break it,” O’Driscoll added. “That
was true and remains true. Suddenly I was that person. You
cannot say things one week and then behave differently. I hope I
did my bit last week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  