-- Obama Sees 2013 Deficit Lowest in Five Years, GDP Growth at 2.0%
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-07-09T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/obama-sees-2013-deficit-drop-to-759-billion-gdp-growth-at-2-0-.html
The Obama administration projects
that the federal  budget deficit  will drop to the lowest level in
five years, $759 billion for the year ending Sept. 30, as the
economy improves and tax collections increase.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its forecasts that the  economy may grow  2 percent this calendar
year. That’s slower than the 2.3 percent growth rate predicted
three months ago. The median forecast of 86 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for a 1.9 percent gain.  Next year, the administration projects the economy will
grow by 3.1 percent, down from 3.2 percent seen in April.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a median increase of 2.7
percent in 2014.  While the deficit figures released yesterday are lower,
that’s “only temporary,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of
the Committee for a Responsible  Federal Budget , a Washington-based group that seeks lower deficits. “The long-term
situation, however, remains as dismal as it’s been.”  In a 60-page report to Congress by budget director Sylvia Burwell, the administration partly blamed $81 billion in
automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, for being “a
drag on growth in recent months.” The White House also cited
slow growth in Europe and  China .  Dying Headwinds  “As a consequence, the economy was under additional fiscal
pressure during the first half of 2013, leading to a reduction
in the forecast for growth,” the report said. “As various
headwinds die down, and the proposed budget replaces
sequestration, the administration expects more rapid growth.”  Unemployment may average 7.5 percent this year, down from
the 7.7 percent the administration predicted in April.
“Unemployment is now projected to decline somewhat more rapidly
than in the budget projections,” the report said.  Increased tax collections of $65 billion more than was
expected in April helped to reduce the deficit forecast, the
White House budget office said.  Rising income and a shrinking shortfall also take the heat
off Congress and the White House to achieve any kind of “Grand
Bargain” on dealing with spending, deficits or automatic budget
cuts.  President  Barack Obama  hosted five private dinners with
lawmakers from March to May to try to coax a sweeping budget
deal, yet there’s been no action, suggesting the momentum for
any accord is fading.  Congressional Impasse  In Congress, the standoff over spending and taxes
continues. The House passed a blueprint in March that
Republicans said would achieve a surplus in a decade by cutting
spending. Senate Democrats have refused to consider the measure
and have prepared a separate blueprint that restores spending
cuts and raises taxes.  “It doesn’t seem like they’re trying to come to any sort
of budget agreement,” said  Bob Bixby , head of the Concord
Coalition, which promotes balanced budgets.  MacGuineas said that while the budget figures “are
definitely an improvement, we’re still clearly on an
unsustainable path” with rising costs in Medicare and Social
Security in the years ahead. In a reference to sequestration,
she said “the bulk of the savings have come from an abdication
of responsibility.”  Though the White House opposes the automatic spending
reductions, the calendar is working against any reversal, with
the government’s fiscal year ending on Sept. 30.  ‘Wide Differences’  “Wide differences in Senate and House budget plans and
corresponding differences in appropriations levels make it
increasingly likely that come Sept. 30, Congress will resort to
another” catchall spending bill and sequester, said Christopher Payne, an analyst at Bloomberg Government.  In the budget review, the forecast for a deficit of $759
billion translates to 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product.
That compares with a deficit estimate by the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  on May 14 of $642 billion this year,
or 4 percent of the economy, less than half the shortfall in
fiscal 2009 when it was 10.1 percent of GDP.  In a blog posting, Burwell said deficits will be reduced to
less than 3 percent of the economy by 2017 and continue to fall
to about 2 percent by 2023. Economists generally agree that the
deficit shouldn’t exceed 3 percent of the GDP in a country with
a stable economy.  “ Washington ’s top priority must be spurring  job creation 
and strengthening the middle class,” Burwell said in the blog.  Shrinking deficits may postpone until October or November
the deadline this year for raising the government’s debt ceiling
of $16.7 trillion.  The Congressional Budget Office normally issues its version
of a mid-session budget review in July or August but no date has
been set, the agency said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  