-- Todd Killed Himself by Hanging, Singapore Coroner Rules
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-07-08T08:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/todd-killed-himself-by-hanging-singapore-coroner-rules.html
U.S. research engineer Shane Todd
committed suicide by hanging, a  Singapore  judge ruled,
disagreeing with the Todd family that he was murdered in the
Asian city.  “There was no foul play involved,” Singapore district
judge and coroner Chay Yuen Fatt said in handing down his
verdict today. “The evidence was incontrovertibly consistent
with asphyxia due to hanging.” Chay’s decision can’t be
appealed.  Singapore police and government lawyers said Todd killed
himself in June 2012. The Todd family quit the inquest on May 22
saying the outcome had been pre-determined. The family claims
Todd probably was murdered because of his work that may have
involved technology transfers to China’s Huawei Technologies Co.  “We are disappointed but not surprised” by the verdict
Mary Todd, Shane’s mother, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The state was represented by five of its top lawyers who never
investigated the possibility of murder, but were at the inquest
solely to prove Dr. Todd committed suicide.”  The case has caused friction between the U.S. and
Singapore, which the U.S. calls  “a close strategic partner.” 
Two U.S. Democratic senators proposed blocking funding to
Singapore’s Institute of Microelectronics where Todd had worked.  Relations between the two countries ought not to be
affected by the case, Singapore’s Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam
said at a news conference today.  Verdict ‘Clear’  “The verdict is clear: Dr. Todd committed suicide,”
Shanmugam said. “The world can see what we’ve done.”  Shanmugam said the family has avoided explaining its
“conspiracy theory” by refusing to testify in court.  “The inquiry into Dr. Todd’s death was comprehensive, fair
and transparent,” the U.S. embassy in Singapore said in an e-mailed statement today. “The Todd family was given the
opportunity to participate in the hearing.”  Shane Todd faced “great difficulty in coping,” may have
had a relapse of depression and had suicidal thoughts, evidence
in the 10-day inquest showed, Chay said. The Todd family’s
former lawyers were in court when the verdict was read.  “We went to the inquiry with great expectations because we
were told that it was going to be an open, fact-finding, non-adversarial hearing,” Mary Todd said. “Nothing could have been
further from the truth.”  Congressional Probe  The Todds have been in contact with two Senators and two
Congressman and plan to seek a U.S. congressional probe into how
Shane Todd died, his father Rick Todd said before the verdict.  The Todd family’s murder “theory is entirely misplaced and
unfounded,” Singapore Senior State Counsel Tai Wei Shyong said
in closing submissions on June 17. Todd was depressed, had
trouble coping and visited suicide-related websites before he
died, Tai said.  The inquiry in May heard from 65 witnesses giving evidence
including Edward Adelstein, a medical examiner hired by the
family.  Adelstein had testified Todd may have been tasered or
killed by a choke hold. He had earlier said Todd may have been
strangled to death based on pictures of the body.  Calling Adelstein an “incredible and unreliable expert
witness,” Chay said the examiner’s evidence “was nothing short
of bizarre” and his change in opinion was “surprising and
unsatisfactory.”  The Institute of Microelectronics said it doesn’t do
classified military-related research and didn’t collaborate with
Huawei on a gallium-nitride project, the focus of Todd’s work.  A U.S. congressional committee last year said Huawei’s
connections to the Chinese army created the potential for
electronic spying and urged U.S. companies to avoid doing
business with it. Huawei has said it doesn’t pose a U.S.
security threat.  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. CI002014 of
2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  