-- Ohr Pharma Plans Regeneron Eye-Drug Rival as Patients Recruited
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-07-08T09:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ohr-pharma-plans-regeneron-eye-drug-rival-as-patients-recruited.html
Ohr Pharmaceutical Inc. (OHRP)  has enrolled
half of the 120 patients needed for a mid-stage study for an
age-related eye disorder, as it seeks to compete with  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  and Roche Holding AG.  Ohr’s lead drug  Squalamine , an eye drop formulation for wet
age-related macular degeneration, is undergoing Phase II trials
and interim results are expected by the second quarter of 2014,
Chief Financial Officer Sam Backenroth said. Squalamine is a
novel small molecule that inhibits growth factors, and eye drops
would offer an advantage compared with available injections
developed by Tarrytown, New York-based Regeneron and Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche, Backenroth said.  “What’s important to note about the 50 percent enrollment
is that the clock starts ticking for the interim analysis,”
Backenroth said in a telephone interview. When the first
enrollees complete a nine-month treatment period, followed by
analysis, the data will give “the first initial proof-of-concept as to the efficacy of the eye drop,” he said.  Ohr, meaning light in Hebrew, is trying to grab part of
what it estimates to be a $5 billion market, dominated by
Regeneron’s Eylea, and Lucentis, sold in  North America  by Roche
unit  Genentech  Inc. New York-based Ohr wouldn’t be the first
drugmaker seeking to improve on intravenous treatments for the
leading cause of blindness in the elderly. London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  did a  mid-stage study  for wet-AMD using eye
drops of its Votrient medicine.  Ophthalmology Plan  Glaxo’s Votrient “was a less potent drug that acts further
downstream in the biochemical pathway,” Ohr Chief Executive
Officer Irach Taraporewala said in an interview. “They haven’t
officially terminated their program but both their Phase II
study results have now read out and they’re clearly not moving
forward.”  Wet AMD is caused by abnormal blood-vessel formation at the
back of the eye, triggering fluid to leak into the macula and
creating scarring that obscures vision. Regeneron’s drug is
designed so it can be administered less frequently than
 Lucentis. (ROG)  About 200,000 people in North America  are diagnosed
annually  with wet AMD, according to Genentech.  In June, Ohr announced a one-for-three reverse stock split
required for a Nasdaq listing. The shares advanced 38 percent
this year through the July 5 close, giving the company a market
value of $133 million. Started in 2008 by investor Orin Hirschman to look for mid-stage drugs that showed efficacy in a
large therapeutic area, Ohr now has $6.7 million in cash and
doesn’t plan on raising money through 2014, Backenroth said.  The company plans to focus on ophthalmology and will seek
to “create value” with its other assets such as a drug for
cancer cachexia, according to Backenroth. While the drug failed
to meet a key clinical trial goal, the original study design was
flawed and the drug showed “clinical utility” such as
significant increase in patient appetite and stability in body
mass, Backenroth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  