-- Holders of 97% of Sprint to Get Cash in SoftBank Takeover
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-08T20:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/holders-of-97-of-sprint-to-get-cash-in-softbank-takeover.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   investors  mostly
opted to receive cash rather than stock in  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s
takeover of the wireless carrier, creating more demand than
SoftBank could accommodate.  Of the 3 billion shares outstanding as of July 5, holders
of about 53 percent elected to get cash and 44 percent didn’t
make a choice, which means they will receive cash, Sprint and
SoftBank said in a statement today. Because the available cash
consideration was oversubscribed, they stand to get
approximately $5.65 in cash for each share and 0.26 shares of
new Sprint common stock.  The $21.6 billion takeover won clearance from the Federal
Communications Commission last week, following shareholders’
approval of the offer in June. The fact that only about 3
percent of shareholders opted to receive shares in the deal
signals that most aren’t going to stick around to see what
happens to the new company, said  Chris King , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “A lot of Sprint shareholders were probably playing the
M&A game and aren’t really interested in riding it out
operationally with the company for the long run,” said King,
who has a hold rating on the stock.  Clearwire Deal  The FCC also approved Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint’s
offer to buy the half of wireless operator  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  it
doesn’t already own. Clearwire shareholders voted today in favor
of the deal, which is expected to close tomorrow, according to
the company.  SoftBank’s takeover of Sprint, which comes with a cash
infusion, stands to make the carrier a bigger competitor to the
nation’s two biggest mobile-phone services,  Verizon Wireless  and
 AT&T Inc. (T)  SoftBank’s founder, Japanese billionaire Masayoshi Son, has pledged to use innovative pricing and network
investments to gain an edge.  Sprint shares  fell 1.3 percent to $7.07 at the close in  New
York . The stock had climbed 25 percent this year.  After the merger is completed, investors may revisit the
new company, said Kevin Roe, founder of Roe Equity Research in
Dorset, Vermont.  “Traditional telecom investors will certainly take another
hard look at Sprint’s prospects once SoftBank has fully
articulated their operational, financial and management strategy
for the new Sprint/Clearwire,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  