-- TOM, BinckBank Infringe Euronext Trademark Rights, Court Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-07-08T16:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/tom-binckbank-infringe-euronext-trademark-rights-court-says.html
The Order Machine, the Dutch
alternative trading system that is 25 percent owned by Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc., infringed NYSE Euronext trademark rights by
using AEX-Index ticker symbols, a Dutch court said.  TOM and online broker  BinckBank NV (BINCK) , based in Amsterdam,
have to remove all AEX-ticker symbols, used to indicate options
based on NYSE Euronext’s benchmark AEX-Index for Dutch stocks,
from their websites within four weeks, The Hague District Court
said in a preliminary ruling today.  Euronext market share of index options has fallen by 30
percent since TOM and BinckBank began offering options based on
the AEX-Index on Jan. 21, the exchange owner told the judges at
a hearing, according to the ruling. TOM, whose owners include
Nasdaq, BinckBank and ABN Amro Clearing Bank, has said it
expects to take as much as 40 percent of the Dutch options
market by the end of the year.  “It is now firmly stated that the AEX-Index and its
related symbols are valid trademarks from  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  that
cannot simply be copied by third parties,” James Dunseath, a
London-based spokesman for NYSE Euronext, said by e-mail.  The court didn’t rule on Euronext’s objections against
TOM’s use of other ticker symbols, saying there was no pressing
interest. Euronext has already filed for a case on the merits at
the court in The Hague, according to the ruling.  “It’s good news to know we can use the AEX in the product
description and that it must be removed only in the ticker
symbol,” TOM Chief Executive Officer Willem Meijer said by
telephone. “We have four weeks to adjust our ticker symbols and
are investigating now the IT impact for our customers.”  No Trading  TOM and BinckBank have to put a notice on their website
saying there is no trading in NYSE Liffe (Euronext) options
based on the AEX on TOM’s platform, and that these options are
not tradeable via BinckBank or its Alex unit, the court said.
They will have to pay 25,000 euros ($32,167) for each day they
fail to meet the court’s order, to a maximum of 1 million euros.  Nasdaq  is creating a new derivatives market, called NLX, in
 London  to compete with Liffe, Europe’s second-largest
derivatives market. The New York-based exchange will operate
TOM’s market and has an eight-year contract to provide trading
technology.  NYSE Euronext owns Liffe and bourses in Amsterdam,
Brussels, Paris and Lisbon in addition to the  New York  Stock
Exchange. The company has agreed to be bought by
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  In February 2011, TOM sued Liffe for membership of the
derivatives exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  