-- Thomson Reuters to Suspend Early Data Survey Release
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-08T18:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/thomson-reuters-said-to-be-probed-by-n-y-over-index.html
Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  will suspend
the early release of a consumer survey to select traders as part
of an agreement with the New York Attorney General’s office,
which is probing the matter.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is
investigating the release of the  Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  index of consumer sentiment to high-frequency traders
two seconds ahead of other Thomson Reuters subscribers, the
state said today.  The two-second advantage is enough time for traders to take
“unfair advantage” of access to the information, the attorney
general’s office said in a statement.  “The securities markets should be a level playing field
for all investors, and the early release of market-moving survey
data undermines fair play in the markets,” Schneiderman said.  Thomson Reuters  is fully cooperating with the review and at
the request of the attorney general will simultaneously
distribute the survey to clients at 9:55 a.m. effective July 12,
Lemuel Brewster, a company spokesman, said in a statement.  Voluntary Change  Thomson Reuters made the change voluntarily at the request
of the attorney general, Brewster said.  “Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and
information companies can legally distribute non-governmental
data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying
subscribers,” Brewster said in his statement.  Thomson Reuters’s agreement to discontinue the release two
seconds early removes a “prior distortion in the markets,” the
attorney general’s office said. It will remain in effect while
the state investigates, Schneiderman spokeswoman Melissa Grace
said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with New York-based Thomson Reuters in providing
financial news and information. Bloomberg publishes a Consumer
Comfort Index.  The University of Michigan data had been released bimonthly
in three tiers, according to a lawsuit filed by a former Thomson
Reuters employee. The first release to some subscribers occurred
at 9:54:58 a.m., followed by the release at 9:55 a.m. to what
the company calls desktop subscribers and then the release to
the public at 10 a.m., according to the complaint.  Head Start  The first release gives those subscribers a head start to
trade on the information, according to the former employee, Mark
Rosenblum.  Rosenblum said in the complaint that he believed the tiered
distribution violated insider-trading laws, and in June 2012, he
contacted the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Thomson
Reuters executives. He said in his complaint that he was fired
in August that year.  When the lawsuit was filed, Thomson Reuters said the
accusations were “unsubstantiated and without merit.”  The Rosenblum case is Rosenblum v. Thomson Reuters
(Markets) LLC, 13-cv-02219, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  