-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Advances to Highest in 14 Months
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-08T00:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-advances-to-highest-in-14-months.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Quebec Disaster Triggers Rail-Versus-Pipelines Debate for Crude  A train disaster in  Quebec  promises to touch off a debate
over the safety record of using railroads or pipelines such as
TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL to carry crude oil.  WTI Climbs to 14-Month High on U.S. Jobs Gain Amid Egypt Unrest  West Texas Intermediate crude rose to a 14-month high after
the U.S. reported adding more jobs than forecast in June,
boosting economic optimism, and on concern that unrest in Egypt
will escalate.  BP Withdraws Staff From Egypt Over Unrest; Operations Unaffected  BP Plc has withdrawn about 60 expatriate staff from Egypt
after political unrest led to a military overthrow last week,
says  Toby Odone , a co. spokesman based in London.  Mansour Seeks to Form Egypt Government Amid Rival Protests (2)  Supporters and opponents of deposed Egyptian leader Mohamed
Mursi rallied today in rival demonstrations that risked new
violence as interim leader Adly Mansour sought to pull together
a government to restore order.  Egypt To Resume Natural-Gas Supply to Jordan After Pipe Attacked  Egypt will resume pumping natural-gas to Jordan within 10
days once it has fixed a pipeline bombed in northern Sinai.  Shell Monitors Egypt Situation Closely as BP Withdraws Staff  Royal Dutch Shell Plc said it is monitoring the situation
in Egypt “closely” after political unrest led to a military
overthrow last week and drove BP Plc to withdraw about 60 staff
from the country.  Iraq Agrees With Kurds to Resolve Energy Issues: Moussawi  Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki agrees in rare Baghdad
meeting with Kurd leader  Massoud Barzani  to resolve oil, gas
issues by approving draft energy law, Maliki’s media adviser Ali
Al-Moussawi says in interview from Baghdad.  Oil Train Explosion in Quebec Town Kills Five, 40 Missing (3)  Five people have been confirmed dead and 40 are unaccounted
for after a runaway train carrying crude oil crashed and
exploded in a Quebec town. Police said a criminal investigation
was underway and fire crews continued to battle the blaze.  Natural Gas Forecasts Threatened by U.S. Bonanza: Energy Markets  The U.S. natural gas surplus that drove prices below $2
last year for the first time in a decade is poised to return,
threatening the forecasts of everyone from Bank of America Corp.
to Deutsche Bank AG.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Valero Emissions at Port Arthur Had No Production Impact  Bill Day , a company spokesman, comments on emissions early
today from VLO refinery in  Port Arthur , Texas.  Shell Has Emissions at Deer Park Refinery in Texas: NRC Filing  Shell reports emissions of benzene, ethylene, propylene
from Deer Park refinery in Texas, according to filing with U.S.
National Response Center.  Phillips 66 Borger Refinery Reports Process Upset  PSX’s refinery in Borger, Texas, reported emissions after a
process upset, according to a filing with the Texas Commission
on Environmental Quality  California Diesel Gains as Phillips 66 Plant Recovers From Upset  Spot diesel in California advanced against futures as
Phillips 66’s Rodeo refinery near  San Francisco  recovered from a
hydrogen plant upset with distillate stockpiles at a two-month
low.  Phillips 66 Says Hydrogen Plant for Rodeo Refinery Had Upset  Rodeo refinery in Northern California will flare gases
today as operations return to normal,  Rich Johnson , Co.
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Gulf Gasoline Falls After Phillips Says No Maintenance at Borger  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline weakened versus  New York  futures
after Phillips 66 said no planned maintenance is under way at
the Borger, Texas, refinery.  Shell Deer Park Emissions Report From Chemical Plant  Emissions reported at Shell’s Deer Park refinery complex
took place at the site’s chemical plant, Destin Singleton,
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Southern Copper Considers Shutting Down Ilo Refinery: Comercio  Co. is ready to close refinery should govt implement plan
to tighten rules on  air quality , Lima-based El Comercio
reported.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 5.7 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan fell 5.7 percent to 7.12 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Train Derails in Quebec, Setting Off Explosions; Five Die (2)  Five people have been confirmed dead and 40 are unaccounted
for following the crash of a train carrying crude oil in a
Quebec town as police said a criminal investigation was underway
and fire crews continued to battle flames caused by the runaway
locomotive.  ElBaradei Becomes Egypt Interim Premier After Deadly Clashes (3)  Nobel Peace laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei  took over as Egypt’s
interim prime minister a day after 36 people were killed in
clashes involving Islamist supporters of deposed President
Mohamed Mursi and his opponents.  Treasuries Slide as Dollar Jumps While U.S. Stocks Gain on Jobs  Treasuries sank, sending the 10-year yield to the highest
since August 2011, while the dollar rallied and gold tumbled as
faster-than-forecast jobs growth fueled bets the  Federal Reserve 
will begin to reduce its bond buying. U.S. stocks extended a
weekly advance.  BP and BG Withdraw Staff From Egypt Over Unrest, Telegraph Says  BP Plc and BG Group Plc have removed about 160 employees
from Egypt after political unrest led to a military overthrow
last week, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing the cos.  Batista Halts Mine in Latest Bid to Save Commodities Empire (3)  Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  cut output and jobs at
one of his iron-ore mines to contain spending in the latest move
to save his commodities empire.  Neil Eckert Plans GBP60M Listing of Green Energy Co., Times Says  Aggregated Micro Power Chairman Neil Eckert seeks to raise
GBP40m for green energy business via London share listing, which
would value co. at GBP60m, Sunday Times reports, without saying
where it got the information.  Spain Energy Law May Be Postponed Until September, El Pais Says  Spain govt may postpone energy law until September due to
disagreement between Budget and Industry Ministries on how to
handle power deficit, El Pais says, citing unidentified
government officials.  JPMorgan Deepens Iraq Business After Citi, Standard Chartered  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the latest international bank after
Citigroup Inc. and  Standard Chartered  Plc to expand business in
Iraq as OPEC’s second-largest producer boosts crude oil output
and rebuilds its economy.  Hurricane Sandy  Shows Utility Aid Lacking for Next Storm: Energy  Four days before Hurricane Sandy struck in October,
Consolidated Edison Co. sought 1,800 power- line-repair workers
from its fellow utilities to help respond to the massive storm
brewing in the Atlantic Ocean.  Nigeria LNG Expects Ruling on Maritime Agency Blockade on July 8  No out-of-court settlement reached between Nigeria LNG and
Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NLNG
spokesman Kudo Eresia-Eke says in e-mail.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen to Franc Sink on U.S. Jobs Data as Asian Stock Futures Slide  The yen and Swiss franc weakened against the dollar, while
oil and gold rose, as better-than- expected U.S. jobs data
fueled speculation the world’s largest economy is improving
enough to warrant a paring of monetary stimulus.  Hong Kong  and
Australian equity futures retreated.  Dollar Index Touches 84.55, Highest Level Since July 2010  Dollar rises to 101.47 yen, highest level since May 30, as
of 7:11am Tokyo from 101.20 on July 5.  Japan Mergers Fall to Nine-Year Low as Yen Volatility Surges  Japanese companies made the fewest acquisitions in a decade
during the first half as the yen’s volatility climbed to a four-year high, cooling buying interest.  Egypt Stocks Drop on Premier Disagreement, Protests; Saudi Gains  Egypt’s stock index dropped the most in two weeks as
political groups in the North African country disagreed over who
should be interim prime minister and before another round of
protests.  European Stocks Rise for Second Week on ECB, BOE Rates Guidance  European stocks rose for a second week as the  European
Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  said  interest rates  will
remain low for an extended period of time.  Mongolia Clears Rio’s Copper Mine to Start Shipments to China  Mongolia cleared Rio Tinto Group’s $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi
copper mine to begin shipments this week, in a sign tensions
between the government and the world’s second-largest mining
company may have eased.  Former Thai PM in Talks to Buy 24% Stake in Bumi, Times Says  Former Thai PM Thaksin Shinawatra in discussions to buy the
Bakrie family’s 23.8% stake in Bumi, Sunday Times reports,
without saying where it got the information.  Salafist Party Asserts Role in Egypt as the Brotherhood Teeters  The dethronement of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood party is
giving rise to a new political power.  Former President Bush Says Immigration-Reform Bill Can Pass (1)  The immigration-reform plan working its way through
Congress “has a chance to pass,” former President  George W.
Bush  said.  SPORTS  Lions Look Forward to 2017 After Rugby Drought Ends in Australia  The British and Irish Lions return home tomorrow after
ending their 16-year wait for a rugby series win by routing
Australia in the deciding match. Some are already looking ahead
to the combined team’s next tour in 2017.  Lions Beat Wallabies 41-16 to Win First Rugby Series in 16 Years  The British and Irish Lions beat Australia 41-16 in their
deciding rugby Test to secure their first series victory in 16
years.  Arsenal, Real Agree on $35 Million Higuain Fee: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers with clickable Internet links.  ENERGY PRICES  Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      103.85  +0.63  +0.6  Nymex     Aug.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    107.96  +0.24  +0.2    Ice     Aug.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         913.00  +5.00  +0.6    Ice     Aug.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       290.23  +0.55  +0.2  Nymex     Aug.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.64  +0.02  +0.6  Nymex     Aug.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    107.73  +0.12  +0.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            299.86  +0.89  +0.3  Nymex     Aug.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            84.50  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,212.70  -3.1
MSCI World Index     1,449.05  +0.1
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  