-- Orient Gets Approval to Offer Alibaba Loan-Backed Securities
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-08T10:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/orient-gets-approval-to-offer-alibaba-loan-backed-securities.html
Orient Securities Co. gained Chinese
regulatory approval to offer investment products backed by loans
made by an affiliate of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest e-commerce company.  The  Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission  approved the
products, which are securitized by an Orient unit from loans
made by Alibaba, according to a  filing  on the Shenzhen Stock
Exchange website. Orient may raise as much as 5 billion  yuan 
($815 million) for the securities, which will be traded on the
exchange, according to the statement.  Billionaire Jack Ma, chairman of closely held Alibaba, has
called for a revamp of China’s financial sector, suggesting it
needed an outsider to “stir things up”, according to
transcript compiled by state-owned People’s Daily. The CSRC
approval is a step forward for Ma’s plan to become a bigger
player in China’s financial industry, said Victor Wang, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “With this, Alibaba no longer has to rely on the
traditional financial institutions for funding,” said Wang.
“Selling securitized assets directly to customers means their
lending business can be funded directly.”  The underlying loans will be issued by Alibaba’s financial
arm, Alibaba Small and Micro Financial Services Group, which is
still in the process of formation. Alibaba Group, which is
expected by analysts to have an initial public offering as early
as this year, mainly engages in e-commerce.  “These asset securitization plans will further enhance
Alibaba’s ability to serve small businesses,” Alibaba
spokeswoman Chai Liang in an e-mail today.  Since the inception of Alibaba’s microloan business three
years ago, the company has provided financing to more than
320,000 small online businesses and entrepreneurs. It has lent
out more than 100 billion yuan, Alibaba said in an e-mailed
statement.  The average loan size stands at 40,000 yuan. As of the
second quarter of this year, the microloan business’s non-performing loan ratio was 0.87 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  