-- Orioles’ Chris Davis Joins MLB Home Run Derby on Cano’s AL Squad
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/orioles-davis-joins-cano-on-al-squad-for-mlb-s-home-run-derby.html
Chris Davis of the  Baltimore Orioles 
received the most fan votes for  Major League Baseball ’s All-Star
Game and will also be a part of the Home Run Derby.  Davis, who leads the major leagues with 33 homers, will
join defending champion Prince Fielder of the  Detroit Tigers  on
the four-man American League team captained by  Robinson Cano  of
the  New York Yankees , MLB said in a news release. Cano has yet
to select a fourth participant for his team.  “As much as the All-Star Game means to me, as a power
hitter, it’s something that I’ve watched since I was a little
kid and something that I’ve always wanted to do,” Davis told
reporters about participating in the annual Home Run Derby.  Davis is headed to the All-Star Game for the first time
after receiving 8.27 million votes in being selected as the AL’s
starting first baseman. The Home Run Derby is held July 15, the
day before the All-Star Game at New York’s Citi Field.  “I do Home Run Derby every day in batting practice,”
Davis said. “The biggest thing for me is to not go out there
and get hurt. I’m not going to swing and try to blow out my
back. Every day in BP, we get loose, and then the last few
rounds are, ’Alright, let’s see who can hit it farther.’ I’ve
been practicing for a few years.”  National League captain  David Wright  of the All-Star host
New York Mets will be joined by Bryce Harper of the Washington
Nationals and Colorado Rockies outfielders  Carlos Gonzalez  and
Michael Cuddyer. Gonzalez leads the NL with 24 homers.  Harper, 20, will be the second-youngest player to
participate in the Home Run Derby, 39 days older than Ken
Griffey Jr. was when he was in it for the first time in 1990.  The team competition for the Home Run Derby was introduced
in 2011 and the AL beat the NL 61-21 in last year’s competition
in Kansas City, with Fielder claiming the individual title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  