-- Total Corruption Charges Dropped in Iraq Oil-Food Case, AFP Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-08T13:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/total-corruption-charges-dropped-in-iraq-oil-food-case-afp-says.html
Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie had corruption charges over Iraq’s oil-for-food program dropped, according to  Agence France-Presse .  Europe’s third-largest oil producer also had charges of
misconduct dropped by a Paris court, the newswire said today.
Total officials weren’t immediately available to comment.  “When it bought Iraqi oil, the company did it totally
legally,” Total has previously said. “All received deliveries
were authorized by the United Nations.”  The UN oil-for-food campaign allowed  Saddam Hussein ’s
regime to sell crude from 1996 to 2003 to obtain food and
medicine that was in short supply because of sanctions. Iraq has
alleged its people lost $7 billion of humanitarian goods because
of the state’s corruption of the program. At issue was whether
18 people and two companies aided those at fault.  The CEO, 61, was accused of enabling the misuse of company
assets, while claims against Total included  influence peddling .  In 2005, an inquiry led by former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker  found Iraq began a kickback scheme in 1999 and more
than 2,200 companies paid almost $1.8 billion to win contracts.
About 60 percent of companies in the program paid surcharges or
kickbacks on humanitarian goods, according to the report.  In the French investigation, which began in 2002, Total was
accused of paying surcharges through intermediaries in the form
of mark-ups over the market price for oil. Total denied making
such payments and wasn’t faulted in the Volcker report.  In more than three decades at Total, de Margerie has held
positions including head of exploration and production, the
largest division. He was head of Middle East operations from
1990 to 1995 and took over as CEO in February 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  