-- Toyota Camry, Honda Civic Inventories Rise, RBC Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-08T21:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/toyota-camry-honda-civic-inventories-rise-rbc-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Civic, the top-selling mid-size and compact cars in
the U.S., face risk of reduced production as inventories of the
models rise, an RBC Capital Markets report said.  Toyota’s Camry exceeded its seasonal historical average
inventory by more than 15 days supply in June and Honda carried
about 25 days more Civics than usual, Joseph Spak, a New York-based analyst for RBC, said in yesterday’s report. Camry and
Civic were the only models identified as at risk for reduced
output among 16 of the top-selling vehicles in the U.S. market.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
all added U.S. market share in the first six months of 2013, the
first time that all three gained first-half share in 20 years.
Models such as GM’s Chevrolet Cruze compact and Ford’s Fusion
mid-size sedan, leading  Detroit ’s most competitive set of
passenger cars in a generation, may need additional production
to meet demand, according to RBC.  “Toyota is pulling out all stops to sustain its No. 1
market position against a slew of new competition,” wrote Spak,
who has outperform ratings on both GM and Ford. “We continue to
see downside risk to production schedules for the Civic line as
inventories remain well above historical levels.”  Toyota’s Camry inventory was at 55 days supply in June,
compared with 57 a year earlier, Carly Schaffner, a spokeswoman
for the Toyota City, Japan-based company said yesterday in an e-mail.  ‘Customer Demand’  “Camry has been running at a days supply in the 50s since
January,” Schaffner said. “Our production is flexible and
based on customer demand.”  Steve Kinkade, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Honda, said in
an e-mail yesterday that the company has about a 60-day supply
of Civics. Honda has no fleet sales unit and estimates about 98
percent of Civic deliveries are to individual buyers. Civic
inventory “is a positive for us in getting dealers vehicles,”
Kinkade said.  Growth by GM, Ford and Chrysler is driving industrywide
sales to the highest since 2007, with analysts projecting 15.4
million cars and light trucks sold this year, the average of 18
estimates in a survey by  Bloomberg News .  Sales of Detroit-based GM’s Chevy Cruze jumped 73 percent
last month to 32,871, trailing only Toyota’s Camry at 35,870
among the top-selling passenger cars for June.  “Based on current production schedules and recent demand,
it looks like the Chevy Cruze could use a little more stock,”
Spak wrote.  ‘Upside Potential’  Deliveries of Ford’s Fusion family car slipped 0.5 percent
in June, which the Dearborn, Michigan-based company attributed
to tight supply. Sales of the car climbed 18 percent in the
first six months, and Ford is adding a second shift of 1,200
workers to its Mustang assembly plant in Flat Rock,  Michigan , to
start building Fusions there later this year.  “Fusion stock is improving, and will continue to improve
as Flat Rock assembly gets up and running,” Spak wrote. “We
see upside potential to production as Ford would like to get as
many of these hot vehicles out.”  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, increased its
market share by 0.8 percentage points in the first half to 16.5
percent, according to Automotive News Data Center. Market share
for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler, the third-biggest
domestic carmaker, grew by more than 0.1 point to 11.6 percent.
GM, the top-selling automaker in the U.S. market, boosted its
share by less than 0.1 point to almost 18.2 percent.  Ford rose 0.7 percent to $16.81 at at the close yesterday
in  New York  while GM fell 0.1 percent to $34.64. Ford has surged
30 percent this year while GM has climbed 20 percent, both
exceeding the 15 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  