-- Paulson’s PFR Gold Fund Fell 23% in June, 65% This Year
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-08T15:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/paulson-s-pfr-gold-fund-fell-23-in-june-65-this-year.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-fund manager seeking to rebound from losses tied to bullion,
posted a 23 percent decline in his PFR Gold Fund last month,
according to a letter to investors.  The drop brings the loss to 65 percent since the start of
the year, the firm said in the July 3 letter, a copy of which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The fund, with about $300
million in assets, consists mostly of Paulson’s own money and is
the smallest at the firm, which manages $19 billion. Paulson’s
other funds are profitable this year.  The New York-based firm reiterated its commitment to
investing in bullion and stocks of gold producers for protection
against currency debasement as central banks pump money into the
global economy. Gold dropped 12 percent in June, the most since
October 2008, after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said he may start reducing bond purchases that have fueled gains
in financial markets globally.  “Although the timing is uncertain, if you have a long-term
view we believe the funds offer the potential for outsized
returns,” the firm wrote in the letter.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. at Walek &
Associates, declined to comment on the letter.  Main Strategies  The firm posted losses in its four main funds in June as
markets slumped on the Federal Reserve’s warning that it may
phase out stimulus. Those funds have all posted gains for the
year in the dollar share class. Investors can choose between
dollar- and gold-denominated share classes of most of Paulson’s
funds.  The firm said last month it would report returns separately
in the PFR Gold Funds, which takes its name from the initials of
Paulson and gold specialists Victor Flores and John Reade. It
was previously called the Paulson Gold Fund.  Paulson, 57, made $15 billion for his investors in 2007 by
betting against subprime mortgages before the housing collapse.
He’s seeking to continue a rebound from money-losing bets he
made in 2011 and 2012, including that the  U.S. economy  would
pick up, the European debt crisis would worsen and that bullion
and gold stocks would rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  