-- PBOC Moves Aimed at More Credit-Market Discipline, U.S. Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-08T21:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pboc-moves-aimed-at-more-efficient-financial-system-u-s-says.html
The U.S. expressed approval of steps
the People’s Bank of  China  took during a credit crunch last
month, as officials from the world’s two biggest growth engines
prepared to hold economic talks in Washington.  The PBOC’s delay in providing liquidity in interbank
markets in recent weeks signaled to market participants that
they need to have more discipline and greater prudence in
lending decisions, Obama administration officials said during a
briefing today. The U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue
is scheduled for July 10-11.  The PBOC withheld any comments for four days after the
overnight lending rate between banks hit a record 11.7 percent
June 20 before signaling on June 25 that any liquidity support
during the cash squeeze would be focused on banks that lend to
help the economy.  The U.S. has been urging Chinese officials to reduce
government involvement in the economy since the bilateral talks
started in 2006. An administration official praised the central
bank’s moves today as aimed at a more efficient, market-based
financial system.  The meetings this week will be hosted by Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew and Secretary of State  John Kerry  and will include
their counterparts from Beijing, Vice Premier Wang Yang and
State Councilor  Yang Jiechi . U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  will
open the talks and the Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
plans to attend, according to the officials, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks haven’t started.  Talks Agenda  The focus will be on growth, bilateral investments,
cybersecurity, trade and regional security issues, according to
the U.S. officials. Also on the agenda will be  climate change ,
 energy security , export credits and government procurement, they
said.  China’s leaders recognize they need to shift their economy
to rely more on consumption, innovation and services, and less
on investment, exports and heavy industry, one of the officials
said.  The Chinese delegation is likely to ask about the Fed’s
plans for tapering record monetary stimulus. Zhu Guangyao,
China’s vice finance minister, said at a July 5 briefing in
Beijing that while the Fed’s decision to exit its policy of
quantitative easing shows its confidence in the  U.S. economy , it
will have spillover effects. China wants to see more global
coordination over the timing and process, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  