-- Pentagon Workers From Pennsylvania to Ghana Hit by Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-07-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pentagon-furloughs-hit-bases-from-pharmacy-to-repairs.html
Furloughs of the U.S. military’s
civilian workers that began yesterday will show their effects as
the week goes on, from elimination of Saturday hours at a base
pharmacy in  Washington  state to a potential slowdown in repairs
on Patriot missile interceptors in Pennsylvania.  Months after Pentagon officials began warning that the
automatic spending cuts called sequestration would force unpaid
leave, the rolling furloughs started for 85 percent of its
civilian workforce.  While most of those affected are in the U.S., the cuts will
require that workers on American bases abroad take time off as
well, from 8,394 civilian employees of the Army and Air Force in
 Germany  to a single Navy worker in  Ghana , according to a Defense
Department report.  “Our core mission is to defend the American people and
U.S. national security interests,” Pentagon spokesman George Little told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday. “It’s not
going to be easy” under the reductions, which will be staggered
over each two-week pay period.  The move will cost as many as 651,542 employees 11 days’
pay through Sept. 30, according to Pentagon figures. The goal is
to generate $1.8 billion of the $37 billion in reductions the
Pentagon must come up with in the current fiscal year under the
cuts.  The cuts include 72,000 civilian defense workers facing
furloughs  in Virginia , the hardest-hit state, according to the
Pentagon report released last week.  Virginia  is home to the
Pentagon and major naval and Defense Department installations.  Recruiting Complicated  Representative Gerry Connolly, a Democrat who represents
Virginia suburbs of Washington with a high concentration of
defense workers, said the furloughs will make it hard to recruit
replacements for the 47 percent of the federal workforce
eligible for retirement by the end of the decade.  “How are you going to replace them?” Connolly said in an
interview. “Can you go on college campuses and talk about a
career in federal service, which may mean you get 20 percent pay
cut and disruption?”  For investors and analysts of defense stocks, “a minor
unknown” is how furloughs will affect the award and oversight
of defense contracts for the remainder of the year, said
industry analyst  Byron Callan .  “It’s an issue that analysts will be drilling down on when
defense companies report” earnings this month, Callan, director
of Capital Alpha Partners LLC in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Patriot Repairs  The forced leave also is hurting production at some
government facilities, according to Bill Dougan, president of
the Washington-based National Federation of Federal Employees.  At the  Letterkenny Army Depot  in Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania, work on Patriot anti-missile interceptors is being
slowed and “that could have a direct impact on military
readiness,” Dougan said in an interview.  Letterkenny is responsible for repairing and resetting Army
equipment including the Patriots, route-clearance vehicles, and
power-generation equipment, Lindsay Bryant, a spokeswoman for
the depot, said in a phone interview.  Even with people taking one day a week off for furloughs,
the “workload is there, so getting it done in the same time
frame is a challenge,” she said.  At  Joint Base Lewis-McChord  near  Seattle , the base posted a
series of office and service closings on its  website . The
outpatient pharmacy at the Madigan Army Medical Center on the
base will be closed on Saturdays and customers were warned that
they also may experience longer waits due to reduced staff.  In the base’s military personnel division, the pass and
identification office, retirement services, and soldier
readiness center will be closed on Fridays.  Tampa Base  Altogether, about 16,000 Army, Air Force and Navy civilian
employees face furloughs in Washington state, according to
Pentagon figures.  At  MacDill Air Force Base  in Tampa,  Florida , Colonel Scott
DeThomas, commander of the 6th Air Mobility Wing, said furloughs
will affect everything from family services to maintenance and
flying operations, according to the Tampa Bay Times.  The 72,000 workers placed on furlough in Virginia will lose
a combined $237 million in wages, according to Pentagon data.
California will see about 57,000 civilian workers furloughed at
a cost to them of about $189 million, followed by Texas with
45,000 workers idled with losses of $149 million, according to
the data.  Maryland, Georgia  Maryland ,  Georgia , Florida,  Alabama ,  Ohio ,  Oklahoma  and
 Pennsylvania  fill out the ranks of the 10 states set to
experience the biggest furlough effects.  The National Federation of Federal Employees, one of the
oldest unions representing U.S. workers, has started a Fight the
Furloughs campaign. It’s intended to “gain Congress’s attention
and action” to avoid further furloughs throughout government,
Dougan said.  The average federal worker earns $25,000 to $75,000 a year,
and a 20 percent cut in pay hurts the ability to pay routine
bills and meet home mortgage payments, Dougan said.  “A lot of them are not higher-grade employees, and a lot
of folks are living paycheck to paycheck,” he said. “Forcing
them to sit at home is bad for the country and bad for the
economy.”  For the Pentagon, the group is calling on lawmakers to
“grant the Defense Department the flexibility they need to
shift funds between accounts, to drastically reduce furloughs or
potentially eliminate furloughs.”  Next Year  While Little said the Pentagon won’t be able to provide
day-by-day totals for furloughs, “my assumption is that the
vast majority of that population will be on furlough at least
one day this week.”  “Make no mistake about it: We’re in a rough period,” said
Little, who said he is going on furlough on Fridays starting
this week.  Asked about the possibility that a continuation of
sequestration next year will require eliminating jobs, Little
said that “at this stage we are in the furlough period and no
decisions have been reached about what may happen going
forward.”  The Pentagon is planning to send Congress a letter as soon
as today outlining the impact of the additional $52 billion in
sequestration cuts scheduled to take effect when the new fiscal
year begins on Oct. 1.  This report is “very important as ideally it will provide
more granularity to what has so far been a vague discussion
about the fiscal 2014 sequester cut,” Callan said. “At the
least, it should show the hits to procurement and research and
development and ideally will highlight specific program
impacts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  