-- Perry Says He Won’t Seek Re-Election as Governor of Texas
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-08T19:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/perry-says-he-won-t-seek-re-election-as-governor-of-texas-1-.html
Rick Perry  of Texas, the longest-serving U.S. governor and a failed 2012 Republican presidential
candidate, won’t seek a fourth term next year.  Perry, 63, appearing before cheering supporters in San
Antonio today, didn’t rule out another run for president, saying
he’ll announce his plans “in due time.”  His decision will end a gubernatorial career that’s spanned
more than a decade and featured an agenda that included cutting
taxes, creating jobs, restricting abortion and taking on other
social issues that appealed to the conservative wing of the
Republican party.  “The time has come to pass on the mantle of leadership,”
Perry said. During his final 18 months in office, the governor
said he would “pray and reflect and work to determine my own
future.”  Perry faltered on the national stage in the last
presidential campaign. During a Republican presidential primary
debate in 2011, he forgot which U.S. government agencies he
would eliminate if he were elected. He later quit the race.  Preparation Time  Leaving the governorship gives Perry chance to prepare a
stronger presidential bid in 2016, Ray Sullivan, his former
chief of staff and communications director, told reporters today
after Perry spoke.  “He learned a lot last time, and one of the lessons was
get in early,” Sullivan said.  Texas  Attorney General Greg Abbott may seek the Republican
nomination for governor of the country’s second-most-populous
state. Abbott, who has been attorney general since 2002, has
raised $18 million to finance a run.  The governor’s announcement coincides with a second special
session of the legislature that he called in part to reconsider
abortion restrictions that lawmakers failed to approve last
month. The limits, which Perry backs, may cause abortion
providers to close by forcing them to upgrade clinics to meet
surgical-center guidelines.  Senator Wendy Davis, who attracted national attention by
trying to block the abortion by speaking for more than 11 hours
during a filibuster, may run for the Democratic nomination.  Perry was elected lieutenant governor in 1998 and took over
as governor in December 2000, when Republican George W. Bush
stepped down to become president. Perry was elected as governor
in 2002 and re-elected in 2006 and 2010.  Perry, whose party holds majorities in both chambers of the
legislature, opposed expanding Medicaid for the poor under
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. The governor also has
taken credit for creating jobs and lowering taxes.  Defining Party  “Perry has defined the Texas Republican Party as a
conservative who is frugal, money-wise, and favors restricting
the role of government, while appealing to the Christian
right,” said James Riddlesperger, a political-science professor
at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth. “To use one of
George W. Bush’s terms, many people have misunderestimated Rick
Perry, because he is a natural politician.”  Perry, speaking today at a  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  dealership
warehouse, emphasized Texas’s economic success.  “No other state can match what we have accomplished,”
said Perry, citing the addition of 1.6 million jobs in the state
since 2000. “Today, Texas is the envy of the nation.”  Marriage’s Sanctity  The governor also described how “We’ve protected the
sanctity of marriage, we’ve respected the values that have made
Texas the greatest state in the greatest nation.”  Perry’s efforts to adopt abortion restrictions may burnish
his appeal with voters who identify themselves as Christian
conservatives in  Iowa  and other key presidential primary states,
said Bill Miller, a political consultant in Austin who has
advised both Republicans and Democrats.  The governor ranked sixth among potential presidential
candidates for 2016, according to a survey of Texas Republican
voters by Public Policy Polling, based in Raleigh, North
Carolina. He trailed freshman U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas as
a presidential choice, 27 percent to 7 percent, according to the
poll released July 2.  Perry made his announcement in a warehouse owned by
Caterpillar dealer Peter Holt, owner of the National Basketball
League’s San Antonio Spurs and a longtime Perry donor.  “I didn’t know what he was going to say and  I don’t think
he even told his family until last night,” Holt said in an
interview. “I think his timing is good to be moving on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  