-- Peugeot First-Half Sales Drop 9.8% on European Decline
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-08T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/peugeot-first-half-sales-drop-9-8-on-european-decline.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, reported a 9.8 percent drop in first-half
vehicle sales because of slumping demand in its home region and
the end of component-kit deliveries to  Iran .  The company is counting on demand from China,  Argentina  and
 Algeria  for the 2008-model crossover and 208 hatchback to lead
to better performance in the second six months of the year,
Maxime Picat, head of the Peugeot brand, said today at a Paris
press conference. First-half group deliveries dropped to 1.46
million cars, sport-utility vehicles and vans from 1.62 million
units a year earlier, the company said.  Peugeot is struggling to return to profit as industrywide
car sales in Europe shrink a sixth consecutive year. Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Varin’s plan for reviving earnings
includes expanding in emerging economies and adding premium
models including the Citroen brand’s DS line-up, in addition to
production cuts at home. The carmaker opened its third assembly
plant in  China , the world’s biggest auto market, in early July.  “We’re targeting a better second half this year than
last,” Picat said. “It will be challenging, but we should be
able to do it with the model launches ahead of us.” He
reiterated a prediction that the  European car market  will
contract 5 percent this year.  First-half sales dropped 15 percent at the Peugeot brand to
808,000 vehicles and 1.7 percent at the Citroen marque to
653,000 units, Peugeot said today in a statement. Excluding kits
of parts ready for assembly into vehicles, a setup the company
is dropping because of trade sanctions against Iran, its biggest
customer for the technology, sales fell 1.1 percent at the group
level and 0.5 percent for the Peugeot nameplate.  Gains Abroad  Vehicle sales outside  Europe  accounted for 43 percent of
Peugeot’s total and 39 percent of Citroen’s, an increase of 8
percentage points at each brand, the divisions said separately.  “In the context of a lastingly depressed European market,
the group gained from its model introductions in the first
half,” the parent company said. “Almost one vehicle in five is
now in the premium segment, confirming the success of the
product-line upgrade strategy.”  The carmaker consumed 200 million euros ($257 million) a
month in cash last year, a figure that Varin is working to cut
by half in 2013 and eliminate by the end of 2014. Peugeot is
scheduled to shut a car factory in the Paris suburb of Aulnay
next year and will eliminate about 11,200 jobs in  France  by
then, or 17 percent of its  workforce  in the country.  First-half group sales surged 32 percent in China and 21
percent in  Latin America , the manufacturer said. Deliveries fell
13 percent in Europe and 22 percent in  Russia .  2008’s Orders  Orders for the 2008, which debuted in May, now exceed
30,000 vehicles, Picat said. Citroen’s model introductions this
year include new versions of the C4 Picasso minivan and DS3
compact.  Reorganization measures taken by the carmaker and its
Faurecia car-parts unit may lead to negative operational free
cash flow of 1.3 billion euros this year, narrower than the
manufacturer’s cash-burn forecast of 1.5 billion euros, Stefan Burgstaller, a London-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a note to clients almost a week ago. Europe’s economy
may be improving, helping revive industrywide car sales, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  