-- Pharmstandard to Spin Off Unit, Buy Singapore’s Bever
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-07-08T16:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pharmstandard-to-spin-off-unit-buy-singapore-s-bever.html
Pharmstandard,  Russia ’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, plans to spin off its business that
makes branded, non-prescription drugs and agreed to buy Bever
Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd. for $630 million.  Shares in the over-the-counter drug unit will be
distributed proportionally to Pharmstandard stockholders, the
Moscow-based company said in a  statement  today. The company
plans a conference call on July 10 to clarify details of the
spinoff, Pharmstandard said. The drugmaker announced the
purchase of Bever, based in  Singapore , in a regulatory filing.  Pharmstandard has been considering selling the over-the-counter unit, which may be valued at about $2.5 billion, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Today’s
announcement makes the prospect of a sale appear more likely,
said Natalia Smirnova, a Moscow-based analyst for Deutsche Bank
AG.  “It just shows that the company has intentions to sell
this business,” Smirnova said in a telephone interview.  Pharmstandard plans a shareholder meeting Aug. 17 to vote
on the purchase of Bever, according to the regulatory filing.  Citigroup Inc. was helping organize the sale process for
the over-the-counter unit, the people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. The business could provide a gateway to
the Russian market, where the government has limited the reach
of foreign drugmakers.  Market Share  Pharmstandard has said it held a 3.4 percent share of
Russia’s $24.9 billion pharmaceutical market last year, putting
it behind Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and French pharmaceutical
company  Sanofi. (SAN)   Over-the-counter drug sales fell 4.5 percent to 14.8
billion rubles ($445 million), accounting for 29 percent of
Pharmstandard’s revenue. Sales growth came instead from the
prescription-drug unit, with revenue rising 33 percent. Revenue
from third-party over-the-counter products also rose 30 percent
to 28.3 billion rubles.  Pharmstandard’s global depositary receipts fell 1.2 percent
to close at $20.10 in  London . Pharmstandard is also listed on
the Micex exchange in Moscow.  Irina Bakhturina, a spokeswoman for Pharmstandard, didn’t
answer her office phone and didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  