-- Pimco U.S. Funds Had $14.5 Billion of Withdrawals in June
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-07-08T17:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pimco-u-s-funds-had-14-5-billion-of-withdrawals-in-june.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s largest active fixed-income manager, had a
record $14.5 billion in net redemptions last month across its
U.S. mutual funds as investors fled bonds in anticipation of the
Federal Reserve scaling back its asset purchases.  The last time Pimco’s U.S. mutual funds had net withdrawals
was in December 2011, when investors pulled $2.1 billion,
according to Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , which
provided the June estimate. The redemption is Pimco’s highest
since Morningstar started estimating the monthly flows in
February 1993.  Withdrawals at Pimco were driven by a record $9.9 billion
pulled last month from  Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the
world’s largest mutual fund, which left it with $268 billion in
assets at the end of June. Pimco Total Return lost  4.2 percent 
this year through July 5, trailing 86 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 3.7 percent
over the past month, worse than 95 percent of comparable funds.  Retail investors, who fled volatile stock markets to pour
about $1 trillion into the perceived safety of bond funds since
the beginning of 2009, reversed that pattern in the past month
in anticipation of rising rates. Casey, Quirk & Associates LLC,
a consulting firm, in May warned that money managers that rely
on bonds could face a difficult future as investors shift $1
trillion away from traditional fixed-income strategies.  Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond funds in
June, the biggest monthly redemptions in records going back to
1961, according to estimates from the Investment Company
Institute.  Delivering ‘Value’  As of May 31, Pimco managed $590 billion in U.S. mutual
funds, excluding money markets and funds of funds, or more than
a quarter of its $2 trillion in assets. Pimco’s products also
include separately managed accounts.  “Pimco is a long-term investor and the Total Return Fund
has been one of the top-performing intermediate bond funds
during the fund’s 26-year history, delivering investor value
over myriad market cycles,”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in an e-mailed
statement. Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  