-- Poland’s Central Bank Cuts CPI, GDP Forecasts on EU Slowdown
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-07-08T09:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/poland-s-central-bank-cuts-cpi-gdp-forecasts-on-eu-slowdown.html
Poland ’s central bank trimmed its
forecasts for  inflation (POCPIYOY)  and economic growth over the next two
years after last week’s decision to reduce borrowing costs and
announce an end to its rate-cut cycle.  Inflation will slow to 0.8 percent this year, compared with
an earlier estimate for 1.6 percent, the central bank said in
its July inflation  report  today.  Economic growth  will decelerate
to 1.1 percent in 2013 compared with an earlier estimate for 1.3
percent expansion, the bank said in the report.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy is heading
into its worst slowdown in more than a decade as consumers curb
spending and the recession in the euro area saps demand for
exports. Poland’s central bank reduced its main rate by a
quarter point to a record 2.5 percent on July 3 and said it was
ending its easing cycle as the worst for the economy was over.  “Consumption growth will remain at a historically low
level,” economists at the central bank’s Economics Institute,
which prepares the forecast three times a year, said in the
report. They cited “moderately increasing wages and a decline
in unemployment” that will curb Polish households’ disposable
income “until the first half of 2015.”  Inflation will remain below the low end of the central
bank’s 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent tolerance range until the
first quarter of 2015, according to the staff projection.  Consumer prices are projected to grow 1.2 percent next year
and 1.5 percent in 2015, compared with the central bank’s 2.5
percent target. Gross domestic product will expand 2.4 percent
in 2014 and 3 percent in 2015 as the economy enters a recovery,
held back by weaker public investments, the central bank said in
the report.  Risks to the central bank’s projections are skewed to the
downside for both inflation and economic growth “due to the
likelihood of the economic downturn persisting in the euro area
and the scale of fiscal tightening exceeding the one assumed in
the central projection,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  