-- Pope Francis Condemns Indifference to World’s Migrants
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-08T13:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pope-francis-condemns-indifference-to-world-s-migrants.html
Pope Francis chose the tiny Italian
island of Lampedusa for his first trip outside of  Rome  today as
he condemned global indifference about the hundreds of migrants
who die every year trying to reach  Europe  by sea.  “The globalization of indifference has stripped us of our
ability to cry,” Francis told the crowd gathered to hear mass,
referring to people who lost their lives making voyages to
Lampedusa. “I felt that I had to come here today to pray, to
awaken consciences so that what happened won’t occur again.”  Before the mass, Francis threw a wreath into the waters off
the Sicilian island in remembrance of the dead. He then met a
small group of migrants, shaking their hands and listening to
their stories.  Located between Malta and  Tunisia  in the  Mediterranean Sea ,
Lampedusa often receives waves of migrants seeking a backdoor
entry into Europe. Every summer, when waters are calmer,
thousands of Africans brave the dangerous 110 kilometer (70
mile) voyage packed in small boats. Some never make it.  About 7,800 migrants and asylum-seekers landed on the
coasts of  Italy  in the first six months of this year, according
to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. About 40 people died
since the start of 2013 attempting to cross the Mediterranean
between North Africa and Italy, the UNHCR said.  ‘Better Life’  “Who cried for the deaths of these brothers and sisters?”
Francis said today, asking that Lampedusa become a symbol for
the world and have “the courage to welcome those that seek a
better life.”  Since his appointment last March, Francis has broken with
protocol, frequently plunging into crowds to shake hands and
dressing in simple white clothing with a silver ring in lieu of
the more elaborate dress and gold rings worn by previous popes.  Francis also surprised bystanders today as he offered best
wishes for the Islamic holy month of Ramadan to members of the
Muslim faith on the island, receiving applause from the crowd.  Islamic Faith  The gesture marks another break from the past. Francis’s
predecessor Benedict XVI had a difficult relationship with
Muslims after being forced to apologize in 2006 for a speech in
which he quoted negative comments about the Islamic faith made
by a 14-century Byzantine emperor.  Today, Francis directly attacked society’s lack of
compassion for migrants like the ones who wash up every year on
Lampedusa’s shores. The pope, whose own ancestors migrated to
 Argentina  from Italy, also denounced smugglers who take
advantage of people’s desperation.  He celebrated mass on a sports field and used a wooden
chalice carved from the wood of a migrant boat, according to the
website of Italian newspaper la Repubblica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  