-- Portugal Has Overcome Coalition Crisis, Schaeuble Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-08T16:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/portugal-has-overcome-coalition-crisis-schaeuble-says.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Portugal has surmounted the political turmoil
that threatened to bring down the government after the two
coalition parties reached an agreement to avert early elections.  “We know that the government crisis has been overcome in
Portugal,” Schaeuble said today in Brussels, where he was
attending a meeting of euro-area finance ministers. “Portugal
will continue on its successful path.”  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said two days ago that
Paulo Portas, the leader of the conservative CDS party, will
become vice premier. Portas will be responsible for coordinating
economic policy and the relationship with the so-called troika
of officials from the European Commission, the European Central
Bank and the International Monetary Fund that oversee an aid
program for Portugal ending in June 2014.  A new coalition agreement was needed after Portas said on
July 2 he was quitting as foreign minister in a dispute over
budget policy with the premier. Coelho, who lost Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar the day before, refused to accept the
resignation, citing Portas’s role as leader of a coalition
party. Portas never left the Cabinet because Coelho didn’t
submit his resignation to the president.  “Our baseline view is that Portugal will continue to
broadly fulfill the requirements of the financial-assistance
program despite its challenges due to the weakness in economic
activity,” Silvia Ardagna, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in a note to clients.  Parliamentary Majority  While Portas may be increasing his influence in the
Cabinet, the new accord also binds him closer to a government
that’s implementing unpopular austerity measures. Coelho, who
leads the Social Democrats, needs the smaller CDS party for a
majority in parliament to pass legislation and comply with the
terms of the EU-led bailout.  Portas hasn’t spoken publicly since announcing his
intention to quit.  Coelho presented the agreement between the two coalition
parties on July 5 to President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who still
has to assess the plan. Cavaco Silva, who as president has the
power to dissolve parliament and call early elections, is
holding discussions with political parties today and tomorrow.
He’s also meeting Bank of Portugal Governor Carlos Costa later
today.  ‘Pretty Relaxed’  Other proposed Cabinet changes are to be announced by the
president, the prime minister said on July 6. Antonio Pires de Lima, chief executive officer of brewer Unicer SA and a CDS
party official, may be named economy minister, the newspaper
Jornal de Negocios reported on July 5. Agriculture Minister
Assuncao Cristas and Social Security Minister Pedro Mota Soares
are the other CDS representatives in the Cabinet.  Portas said he was resigning after opposing the premier’s
decision to name Secretary of State for the Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque  as finance minister to replace Gaspar. Coelho has
confirmed that Albuquerque will remain finance minister.  “She was previously deputy minister and we all know her
very well and I believe there will be no change in substance,
and that’s why I’m pretty relaxed,” Schaeuble said.  Portugal’s bond yields fell today after the  10-year (GSPT10YR)  rate
jumped to a seven-month high of more than 8 percent on July 3 as
the rift in the coalition emerged. The yield dropped 20 basis
points to 6.93 percent at 4:42 p.m. in  London . That’s still up
from 6.45 percent on June 28, the last trading day before Gaspar
resigned on July 1, and from 5.19 percent on May 21, the lowest
in almost three years. The country pays 3.2 percent on its
bailout loans.  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting terms
of the 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) aid program is due to
start July 15, the Finance Ministry said last month. The
government has started raising cash to finance its 2014 deficit
after covering its needs for this year, Gaspar said in May.  Portas said May 5 the government was seeking a “more
realistic” budget deficit target for 2014 than the goal of 4
percent of gross domestic product set by the troika.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  