-- Pound Rises From Near 4-Month Low Versus Dollar on Data Optimism
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-08T15:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/pound-little-changed-against-dollar-euro-before-industrial-data.html
The pound rose from near the weakest
level in almost four months against the dollar before data that
analysts said will show industrial output expanded in May,
adding to evidence the U.K. recovery is gathering pace.  Britain’s currency snapped a two-day drop against the
greenback after Capital Economics Ltd. said the nation may be in
line for a period of “strong catch-up growth.” U.K. business
confidence and output both rose to 13-month highs in June, BDO
LLP said today. Sterling slumped below $1.49 last week after
 Bank of England  policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
signaled they will keep  interest rates  at a record low. U.K.
government bonds were little changed.  “For now we have a story of U.K. economic resilience,”
said  John Hardy , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Saxo Bank
A/S in  London . “If the data begins to turn the wrong way again,
you have a compelling case for more pound weakness.”  The U.K. currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.4940 at 3:41 p.m.
London time after sliding to $1.4859. It reached $1.4858 on July
5, the lowest level since March 12. The pound was little changed
at 86.15 pence per euro after weakening to 86.33 on July 4, the
least since April 17.  Britain’s economy could be in line for a period of “strong
catch-up growth” once it gets through the current weakness,
according to Capital Economics Ltd. The company also said the
arrival of Carney, who started in his role on July 1, “could
trigger more support from monetary policy.”  Industrial output  rose 0.2 percent in May after gaining 0.1
percent the previous month, according to the median estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s report
from the  Office for National Statistics .  Optimism ‘Tangible’  “There is a tangible sense of optimism currently with
respect to the outlook for the U.K. economy,” said Jane Foley,
a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
London.  The pound has strengthened 2.5 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained
4.9 percent and the euro appreciated 3.7 percent.  The U.K. recovery “remains weak” by historical standards
and rising market borrowing costs pose a threat to the
expansion, the Bank of England said in a statement after its
July 3-4 meeting. The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee kept
its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent and its
asset-purchase target at 375 billion pounds.  Tapering Stimulus  Carney’s first policy meeting followed a slump in global
bond markets sparked by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s comments that the U.S. central bank is considering
reducing asset purchases.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.48 percent after
climbing to 2.59 percent on June 24, the highest since October
2011. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in September
2022 was 94.03.  A business sentiment gauge climbed for a fifth month to
94.3 from 93.6 in May, while a measure of output advanced to
94.9 from 94.4, BDO said. Still, both remain below the 95
threshold that indicates growth, it said.  “While it’s encouraging to see confidence continuing to
improve, we should be mindful of the zig-zag trend that has
characterized U.K. business confidence since 2008,” BDO partner
Peter Hemington said.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 3.8 percent this year
through July 4, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds dropped 1.6 percent and Treasuries declined 3.9
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  