-- Priceline Climbs as Morgan Stanley Sees Shares Topping $1,000
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-07-08T20:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/priceline-climbs-as-morgan-stanley-sees-shares-topping-1-000.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the most valuable
online travel agency, rose to the highest price in more than a
decade after Morgan Stanley set a target price exceeding $1,000
for the shares.  Priceline, which has more than quadrupled since the end of
2009, climbed 3.9 percent to $888.63 at the close in New York,
the highest price since May 1999.  As Priceline gains market share globally, the economic
environment improves and more bookings move online, investors
will pay a higher price for the company’s earnings,  Scott Devitt , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research report
today. He upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight and
raised his price estimate by 33 percent to $1,010.  Aided by the European Booking.com unit, reservations
outside the U.S. are bolstering Priceline’s results even as
competition with rivals such as  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  intensifies. The
Norwalk, Connecticut-based company in May reported first-quarter
profit that topped estimates, with the international business
accounting for 85 percent of bookings.  “Priceline has gained market share in the European online
travel agency space amidst heightened competition from
Expedia,” Devitt said. “Booking.com will maintain its dominant
competitive position due to its strong value proposition to
hotels and customers.”  The increased price target makes  Morgan Stanley (MS)   more
bullish  than any of the 23 estimates tracked by Bloomberg. The
next highest price is $975 from Ascendiant  Capital Markets .
Devitt predicted the stock will trade at 20 to 21 times
earnings, up from a current multiple of about 17.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, has missed the recent
rally in Priceline shares. Devitt downgraded the stock to equal
weight in January. He maintained that rating after quarterly
results on May 9, lifting the stock price target the following
day to $760 from $740, while reiterating concern about “margin
compression.”  Since the close of trading on May 9, Priceline shares have
 jumped  20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  