-- Protests to Spur Better Returns on Roads, Rail: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-08T16:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/protests-to-spur-better-returns-on-roads-rail-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil  is boosting returns on
contracts to operate roads and railways to lure more private
investments as the biggest street protests in two decades put
pressure on the government to improve public services.  The government last week increased the rate of return on a
planned $15 billion bullet train from  Rio de Janeiro  to Sao
Paulo to 7 percent from 6.32 percent in an auction to be
completed by September. It follows a similar move in May, before
the protests, to sweeten contracts to operate interstate
highways to be sold by the end of the year.  Investors who shied away from contracts with low returns
and high risks will probably benefit after protestors brought
Brazil’s problems “into the mainstream,” said Ruchir Sharma,
managing director and head of  emerging markets  at Morgan Stanley
in  New York . The return for investors can be as high as 20
percent net of taxes because the government is offering to
finance the projects at subsidized  interest rates , Treasury
Secretary Arno Augustin said in an interview.  “The government is more committed than ever to try and
turn to the private sector,” Chris Garman, Latin America
director for Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview from
 Washington , adding that he expects the government to grant
higher rates of return to boost competition for the contracts.
“They need for these concessions to work.”  ‘Better Off’  The contracts valued at 187 billion reais ($83 billion),
which are attracting companies from TPI Triunfo Participacoes &
Investimentos SA to EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica SA,
are a part of President Dilma Rousseff’s plan to solve
infrastructure bottlenecks hindering growth in Brazil.  The difference in quality between publicly operated roads
and private ones is evident, said Triunfo Chief Executive
Officer Carlo Alberto Bottarelli.  “The government sees this clearly and has understood that
these things are better off in the hands of the private
sector,” he said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Protests last month swelled to more than 1 million people
and spread from Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and the capital
Brasilia to cities across the country. The demonstrations were
sparked by an increase in bus fares and quickly morphed into a
catch-all for discontent over poor public services, corruption
and inflation.  “Typically, it’s only when a government has its back to
the wall does it end up doing the right thing,” said Sharma,
whose 2012 book “Breakout Nations” was critical of Brazil for
neglecting government assets.  Winners and Losers  Not all industries are set to benefit as the government
responds to protestors demands. Utility  Cia. Paranaense de
Energia , or Copel, has plunged 13 percent since June 20 after
giving in to demands from the Parana state governor that it
suspend an electricity rate increase of as much as 15 percent.
Toll-road operator  CCR SA (CCRO3)  also declined after Sao Paulo Governor
Geraldo Alckmin canceled a toll increase on state roads. The
shares have partially rebounded after the state said it will
offset the lost revenue by lowering fees on operators, boosting
tolls on trucks and fining construction companies behind
schedule. CCR didn’t return an e-mail request for comment. A
Copel press official declined to comment on its decision.  Copel rose 1.6 percent to 28.53 reais in Sao Paulo trading
at 1:05 p.m., while CCR advanced less than 1 percent to 17.16
reais.  “From a purchasing power point of view, bus fares are
higher in Brazil than elsewhere, and the same goes for utilities
and telecom,” Eurasia’s Garman said. “These are types of
services where politicians may be a little more hesitant to pass
on to consumers.”  Companies may avoid auctions until returns are more
attractive, said Gabriel Gaetano, an analyst at Fator Corretora.
He cited a January auction for road concessions at 5.5 percent
returns that attracted no interest. Returns rose to 7.2 percent
in May.  “It makes sense to not support the concession,” he said
in a telephone interview in Sao Paulo. The government “ceded to
pressure from the companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  