-- Anger Mounts in Quebec Town as Tanker Crash Deaths Rise
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y ,   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-09T11:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/quebec-town-faces-water-contamination-after-train-wreck.html
As the death toll from a train that
exploded in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec  more than doubled to 13,
residents faced an agonizing wait to identify the remains of their
loved ones amid growing controversy over the cause of the disaster.  Thirteen people are now confirmed dead, up from five
yesterday, Lt. Michel Brunet, a spokesman with the Surete du
Quebec provincial police, said on Canadian television yesterday.
Brunet also raised the number of missing including confirmed
deaths to 50 from 40.  The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train carrying
72 carloads of crude oil crashed and burst into flames early
Saturday near the center of Lac-Megantic, about 250 kilometers
(155 miles) east of Montreal, and 10 miles from the U.S. border
with  Maine .  “It’s going to be a challenge to make positive
identifications because the fire was so intense,” Genevieve
Guilbault, a spokeswoman for the Quebec coroner’s office, said
by phone from the town last night. “We are only at the
beginning of the investigation. We are spending all our time
looking for bodies at the site.”  Guilbault said the coroner’s office has asked families to
bring in hats, razors, toothbrushes and hairbrushes to help with
the identification of the bodies using hair samples.  First Fire  With the flames extinguished and only residual smoke
visible, police and investigators moved in to step up their
inquiry into how the unmanned locomotive moved from its parking
spot outside Nantes, the next town over, before barreling into
Lac-Megantic.  Edward Burkhardt, president of closely held Rail World Inc.
of  Chicago , which owns  Montreal , Maine & Atlantic, said
yesterday that local firefighters, who put out an earlier fire
on the train, may have unknowingly switched off the air brakes
after the engineer had secured the train and left for the night.  “The shut down of the locomotive caused the brakes to
gradually release,” Burkhardt said on CBC TV.  A brief investigation his company officials did of the site
of the crash before it was locked down by police showed that
circuit breakers were turned off which would have shut down the
engine, releasing the train’s air brakes, he said. Burkhardt,
didn’t return telephone messages left yesterday at his office
seeking comment on the Quebec crash.  Nothing Wrong  Nantes Fire Chief Patrick Lambert denied his team did
anything wrong.  “Nothing the firefighters did could have put the train in
jeopardy,” he said on CBC TV.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic said in a statement July 7 the
train was shut down after the engineer left for the evening.
This “may have resulted in the release of air brakes on the
locomotive that was holding the train in place,” the company, a
short-line carrier owned by Rail World said in a statement.  The company earlier  said  the train had been tied down by
the engineer before he left as part of a crew change.  The remains of  oil tankers  are visible at the end of the
town’s main street where houses are burnt to their foundations,
surrounded by piles of red bricks. About 30 buildings were
destroyed in the blaze that left the downtown a smoldering ruin.  ‘Sadness, Frustration’  “People are angry, sad, frustrated,” said Guillaume
Comtois, a 31-year-old carpenter who lost a close friend in the
explosion and said he “knew pretty much everyone” who hung out
at the cafes and clubs downtown. “Sadness, because we lost a
lot of friends, and frustration because it’s not supposed to
happen. There’s been a human mistake, it should have been
prevented.”  Richard Fournier, like many of his neighbors, wants
answers. “It was an accident, but if there are people
responsible somewhere,” residents deserve to know, he said.  While still below the average pace of the past five years,
the number of railway accidents in  Canada  increased to 439 in
the first five months of the year, a 7.9 percent increase from
2012, largely due to derailments, according to  data  provided by
the Transport Safety Board. Accidents involving dangerous goods
rose to 57 in the first five months of the year from 48 a year
earlier.  Accident Record  Thomas Mulcair , leader of Canada’s main opposition  New
Democratic Party , criticized Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government for cutting spending for rail safety.  “We’re seeing more and more petroleum products being
transported by rail,” Mulcair told reporters July 7. “There
are attendant dangers involved in that, and at the same time the
Conservative government is cutting transport safety in Canada,
cutting back the budgets in that area.”  According to estimates of departmental spending plans,
Canada has forecast C$33.8 million in spending on rail safety
for the fiscal year that began April 1, down from C$36.9 million
the previous fiscal year.  “Our government has not cut any inspectors,” Denis Lebel,
Canada’s Minister of Transport, said yesterday in a media
briefing in Lac-Megantic, according to a transcript provided by
his office. “We have taken concrete action to increase rail
safety. In fact, we have invested over C$100 million in rail
safety since 2009.”  The government toughened penalties for rule-breakers while
railway companies are required by law to ensure the safe
operations of their trains, and fines have been raised 400
percent, Lebel said.  Oil Shipments  “We do not yet know the cause of this tragic derailment,”
Lebel said. “We do know that a Transport Canada inspector
inspected the locomotive involved in this incident just the day
before it happened, on July 5, and found no deficiencies.”  The crash is the latest in a series of accidents involving
oil on rails as Canadian producers turn to shipping crude by
train, with construction of pipelines such as the Keystone XL
conduit to the  Gulf Coast  delayed by environmental and
regulatory concerns.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  applied to build Keystone
XL five years ago and the Obama administration initially
rejected the project in January last year.  Liziane Bédard lives right beside the tracks about 5
minutes away from the blast site.  “The train came down the track very very fast, like
whoosh,” the 16-year-old said still in her pajamas after being
evacuated from her home. “It doesn’t normally go that fast, it
was supposed to slow down.”  The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train was carrying crude to
Irving Oil Corp.’s 298,800-barrel-a-day refinery in Saint John,
 New Brunswick , according to a statement on Irving’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  