-- Trayvon Martin Killer’s Defense Focused on 911 Call Yells
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-08T19:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/trayvon-martin-killer-s-defense-focused-on-911-call-yells.html
Lawyers for George Zimmerman, accused
of second-degree murder in the shooting death of  Florida 
teenager Trayvon Martin, have focused their defense of the
Neighborhood Watch volunteer on screams heard in the background
of a 911 call.  On the first full day of presenting their case to jurors,
Zimmerman’s lawyers called to the witness stand five of his
friends and two police officers who investigated the shooting to
cast doubt on the prosecution’s contention that the screams were
from Martin.  “Do you know the voice in the background screaming?” Mark
O’Mara, Zimmerman’s lawyer, asked Sondra Osterman today after
playing the recording in state court in Sanford, Florida.  “Yes, it’s Georgie,” said Osterman, who met Zimmerman in
2006 while the two worked at a mortgage company.  John Donnelly, a former physician’s assistant who has known
Zimmerman for a decade, recounted his days as an Army medic
during the war in  Vietnam , where he said he learned to discern
the screams of his fellow soldiers during combat operations.  “That is George Zimmerman, and I wish to God I didn’t have
that ability to understand,” Donnelly replied.  The 911 call, on which the screams end with the sound of a
gunshot, may be pivotal in the case where prosecutors allege
that Zimmerman, 29, was the aggressor. Zimmerman told police he
acted in self-defense after Martin, 17, punched him in face,
knocked him to the ground and threatened to kill him. The call
was placed by a resident of the condominium complex where Martin
was killed after she heard what sounded like a fight. There were
no eyewitnesses to the shooting.  Black Teenager  The Feb. 26, 2012, killing of an unarmed black teenager by
a man whose father is white and mother Hispanic prompted rallies
and protests across the U.S. and elicited a comment from
President  Barack Obama  that if he had a son, that child would
have looked like Martin.  Zimmerman faces a possible sentence of life in prison if
convicted of second-degree murder.  On cross-examination, prosecutors sought to rebut the
defense witnesses’ testimony by playing a call Zimmerman made to
police the night of the shooting and asking them about the
expletives he used to describe his frustration at the failures
of authorities to apprehend criminals in his neighborhood.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the Sanford, Florida, courthouse  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  