-- Victor Cruz Agrees With Giants on Six-Year Contract Through 2018
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-09T06:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/receiver-victor-cruz-agrees-with-giants-on-six-year-contract.html
Victor Cruz said he felt relief after
signing a new six-year contract with the  New York Giants  through
the 2018 National Football League season.  The deal between the 26-year-old Cruz and the Giants,
announced by the team in an e-mailed release, is worth $45.9
million, according to Fox Sports. That includes the one-year,
$2.88 million tender he signed last month and $15.6 million in
guaranteed money, Fox reported citing unidentified people
familiar with the package.  “I feel I can just kick back and play football again,”
Cruz, the Giants’ season record-holder for receiving yards, said
yesterday in a statement.  Undrafted out of the  University of Massachusetts  and signed
by the Giants in 2010, Cruz had a team-leading 1,092 yards
receiving and 10 touchdown catches last season. That followed
his first full year, when he caught nine touchdown passes and
had 1,536 yards receiving, a franchise season record.  In those two seasons, only five NFL wide receivers had more
catches than Cruz. A native of Paterson,  New Jersey , he had four
catches for 25 yards and a touchdown in the team’s 21-17 Super
Bowl victory over the  New England Patriots  following the 2011
season. He became a fan favorite with his salsa dancing
celebration following touchdown catches.  Cruz’s signing comes three weeks after the restricted free
agent told ESPN that he’d sign a one-year tender -- a mandatory
offer under the NFL’s labor agreement -- with the team while he
pursued a long-term contract to remain in New York.  Cruz didn’t attend the Giants’ offseason conditioning
program or last month’s minicamp because he didn’t have a
contract at that time, according to the statement. He said
yesterday that he’ll be ready to report to training camp later
this month.  “The work is just getting started for me,” Cruz said.
“It’s a whole new window of opportunity, a whole new world for
me after this contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  