-- Tropical Storm Chantal on Course to Caribbean’s Islands
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-09T12:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/tropical-storm-chantal-on-course-to-caribbean-s-islands.html
Tropical Storm Chantal churned across
the Atlantic on a course toward the Lesser Antilles, including
the islands of  Martinique  and Saint Lucia.  The storm was 45 miles (72 kilometers) north-northwest of
Barbados with top winds of 50 miles per hour, moving west-northwest at 26 mph, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
an  advisory  before 8 a.m.  New York  time. Chantal is forecast to
move through the Lesser Antilles today and approach the
Dominican Republic tomorrow.  “Tropical storm conditions expected to reach the
southeastern portion of the Dominican Republic by Wednesday
morning,” the Center said in the advisory. “Tropical storm
conditions are possible in Haiti by late Wednesday.”  Chantal is the third named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The powerful systems
can disrupt oil and natural gas production in the  Gulf of
Mexico , petroleum refining and fuel distribution along the Gulf
and East Coasts and threaten orange crops in Florida, the
second-largest producer behind Brazil.  An estimated 4.2 million homes with about $1.1 trillion in
property exposure are within storm-surge risk zones along the
U.S. Gulf and Atlantic coasts, according to  CoreLogic Inc.  in
Irvine, California, a property analysis company.  Storm Warnings  Tropical storm warnings have been issued for Martinique,
Saint Lucia, Barbados, Dominica, Guadeloupe and Puerto Rico as
well as the Dominican Republic’s southern coast from Cabo Engano
to Haiti’s border. Watches are in effect for Haiti,  St. Vincent ,
the  U.S. Virgin Islands , Vieques and Culebra and the Dominican
Republic’s northern coast, the Turks and Caicos islands and the
southeastern Bahamas, the hurricane center said.  A storm warning means high winds, rain and waves will
probably hit within 36 hours. A watch means those conditions are
possible.  Chantal will probably come within 100 miles of  Puerto Rico 
today, bringing gusty winds and rain to the island, said Dan Kottlowski, an AccuWeather meteorologist in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  Tropical storm-strength winds reach out 90 miles from
Chantal’s center. The storm is expected to drop 2 to 4 inches (5
to 10 centimeters) of rain, with some areas receiving as much as
6 inches.  Wind Shear  Chantal’s top winds  may reach  70 mph, under the 74 mph
threshold needed to be classified a hurricane, according to the
center. The mountains of Hispaniola will probably weaken the
storm.  Haiti and the Dominican Republic, the nations which share
Hispaniola, may get as much as 10 inches of rain as Chantal
skirts the coastline, Kottlowski said.  Haiti  in particular is
susceptible to landslides when heavy rains fall in its
mountainous areas.  “If it really slows down, we could be looking at a huge
amount of rain over Hispaniola,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 