-- Rudd Return Yields Bounce in Poll Before Australia Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-09T03:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/rudd-s-return-yields-bounce-in-poll-ahead-of-australia-election.html
Kevin Rudd ’s return to the leadership
has sparked a surge in support for Australia’s Labor government,
with a poll showing the party has closed the gap with Tony Abbott’s opposition ahead of this year’s election.  Labor rose to its highest level on a two-party preferred
basis in almost nine months and is tied on 50 percent with the
Liberal-National coalition, the Newspoll published today in The
Australian showed. On the question of preferred prime minister,
Rudd leads Abbott by 53 percent to 31 percent.  Rudd, who ousted  Julia Gillard  last month, is seeking to
tackle the number of asylum seekers arriving in Australia by
boat and overhaul a party tainted by corruption and infighting.
He has gone on the offensive against Abbott, labeling his style
of politics too negative and challenging him to a debate on the
state of the nation’s finances.  “The poll shows Rudd has quite a remarkable connection
with a lot of voters, who are welcoming him back,” said  John
Warhurst , a political analyst at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “This must be a worry for  Tony Abbott ,
who was heading toward an easy victory over Gillard but is now
falling even further behind as preferred prime minister and has
a real fight on his hands at the election. He’s under pressure
now to not be seen to be so negative and to get some real policy
in front of voters.”  Catastrophic Defeat  Rudd, 55, defeated the nation’s first female prime minister
on June 26 in a leadership ballot, three years after she toppled
him in a party coup. In challenging Gillard, he warned Labor
faced a catastrophic defeat in elections that must be held by
Nov. 30.  The margin between Labor and the coalition was 14
percentage points on a two-party preferred basis in a Newspoll
conducted June 21-23. The measure is designed to gauge which
party is most likely to form government under  Australia ’s
preferential voting system.  “It’s going to be a close election,” Foreign Minister Bob
Carr said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Singapore 
today. “The polling has been very encouraging to us, it sees
Labor recovering its position. There’s more of a view in
Australia that this election is contestable.”  Labor’s primary vote in today’s Newspoll rose three
percentage points to 38 percent, the same level it received in
the August 2010 election that resulted in Gillard forming a
minority government. The coalition fell one point to 42 percent
and the Greens were down two points at 9 percent.  The survey of 1,126 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points. Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News
Corp. Australia and 50 percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research company.  Abbott’s Challenge  “I always said it was going to be a contest,” Abbott told
reporters today and called on Rudd to say whether he will stick
with Gillard’s timetable for a Sept. 14 election or name a new
date. “Let’s have the election, stop running away from it,
bring it on now.”  In a meeting in Jakarta with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on July 5, Rudd secured support for his bid to stop
the flow of boat people to Australia from often war-town nations
in the  Middle East  and  South Asia . The Indonesian leader agreed
to host a meeting of officials from nations including  Thailand ,
 Malaysia ,  Afghanistan ,  Iran  and Myanmar.  The issue has plagued the Rudd and Gillard governments,
with some voters concerned asylum seekers were arriving
illegally and living on welfare payments.  Rudd yesterday proposed changing Labor rules to prevent
another mid-term coup. Under his plan, votes from Labor’s
membership would be weighted 50-50 with votes by party lawmakers
when deciding the leadership.  Rule Change  Labor would hold a ballot if it lost an election, if the
leader resigned, or when at least 75 percent of the caucus
signed a petition requesting a vote because the leader had
brought the party into disrepute. Currently, only Labor
lawmakers can vote on who leads the party and it is easier to
force a ballot.  “This rule change is clear: If a leader of the  Australian
Labor Party  takes the party to the election and they are
returned to form the government of the nation, that person
remains as leader of the party in the government for the
duration of that term,” Rudd said yesterday.  The caucus will hold a special meeting on July 22 to
discuss changing the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  