-- Rudd Bids to Change Labor Rules to End Mid-Term Leader Ousters
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-08T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/rudd-bids-to-change-labor-rules-to-end-mid-term-leader-ousters.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ,
who ousted  Julia Gillard  to reclaim the top post last month,
proposed changing the rules of his governing Labor party to
prevent another mid-term party leadership coup.  “This rule change is clear: If a leader of the  Australian
Labor Party  takes the party to the election and they are
returned to form the government of the nation, that person
remains as leader of the party in the government for the
duration of that term,” Rudd said yesterday. He’s proposing to
allow members of the party a vote on its leadership.  Rudd is seeking to unify Labor after a series of leadership
battles distracted the party and left it trailing  Tony Abbott ’s
opposition in opinion polls ahead of an election this year. He
defeated Gillard in a June 26 vote by members of the party’s
parliamentary caucus. Gillard herself ousted Rudd in a party
coup in 2010, a move that stirred voter discontent and raised
questions over her legitimacy in the role.  “This is a fairly sensible move designed to reduce the
likelihood of the party from going through yet another round of
internal instability,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political
analyst and lecturer in politics at  Melbourne ’s  Monash
University . “This is Rudd trying to stamp his authority on the
party in the small window of opportunity he has before the
election,” which must be held by the end of November.  New Guidelines  Under the proposed guidelines, votes from Labor’s
membership will be weighted 50-50 with votes by caucus members
when deciding the party’s leadership, Rudd said. Caucus will
hold a special meeting on July 22 to discuss changing the rules.  Labor would hold a leadership ballot if it lost an
election, he said. The changes would also allow a vote after a
leader resigned, at their request, or when at least 75 percent
of the caucus signed a petition requesting a ballot because the
leader had brought the party into disrepute.  “The federal parliamentary leader of the  Labor party  will
be elected jointly by the party membership across the nation and
the members of the federal parliamentary Labor party,” Rudd
said.  Rudd resigned from the top job in June 2010 after being
told by Gillard that she had the numbers in caucus to ensure
victory in a party-room challenge. He then became foreign
minister before resigning the post in February 2012 to challenge
Gillard, a contest he lost.  In March, he declined to vie for the job after Gillard, 51,
declared the leadership open. Last month he won a caucus ballot,
garnering 57 votes to Gillard’s 45.  Rudd’s Return  Rudd, 55, has said he returned to the leadership to avoid a
“catastrophic” election defeat for Labor. The party is
trailing the coalition by two percentage points on a two-party
preferred basis, from 14 points a week before his challenge,
according to the latest Newspoll.  The proposals mirror methods of electing the leadership of
the Labor party’s counterparts in Britain and  Canada , Monash’s
Ghazarian said.  “It’s designed to weaken the influence of factional power
players in the party and put a stop to the type of constant
leadership speculation that we’ve had over the past three
years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  