-- Rupee Plunge Spurs State Bank to Increase Rates: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-07-09T04:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/rupee-plunge-spurs-state-bank-to-increase-rates-corporate-india.html
State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, will raise interest rates for overseas credit to
protect its profit as the rupee’s plunge to a record raises the
risk of borrowers defaulting on their loans.  The state-owned bank will increase lending rates to cover
the probability of rising bad loans from unhedged currency
exposure and higher foreign-currency yields, said Managing
Director Hemant Contractor, who heads the lender’s international
operations. Overseas loans accounted for more than 16 percent of
State Bank’s 10.8 trillion-rupee ($177 billion) loan book as of
March 31, exchange filings show.  The failure by companies to protect against currency
swings, combined with rising U.S. Treasury rates, will boost
average costs for dollar-denominated debt, he said. The yields
for Indian companies surged in June at the fastest pace since
October 2008, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  indexes. Raising
lending rates for debt taken abroad may help State Bank improve
its  net interest margin  for international loans, which narrowed
to the lowest level in two years in the quarter ended March 31.  “Banks want to price in risks from rupee volatility and
global economic uncertainty,” Contractor said in an interview
in Mumbai. “Bond yields have gone up in overseas markets. Since
we have to tap the markets regularly for meeting the demand, we
will have to price loans higher.”  Net interest margin on international loans at the lender
narrowed to 1.5 percent in the three months to March 31, the
lowest in two years, exchange filings show. The measure was at
1.49 percent in three months to March 31 at state-run  Bank of
Baroda , compared with 1.68 percent a year ago.  Bad Loans  Bad loans at the international division of State Bank fell
to 1.66 percent of the total as of March 31 from 1.86 percent
the year before, exchange filings show. Most of the loans are
hedged, Contractor said. State Bank has an overseas “borrowing
pipeline” of more than $1 billion, he said.  “Banks are left with no choice but to raise the rates on
overseas loan book to protect profits,” said Nitin Kumar,
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Quant Broking Pvt. “Even on the
domestic front margins are under pressure for several banks
after the recent reductions in base rates.”  The  yield  on benchmark U.S. Treasuries has risen more than
once percentage point since May 1 to 2.69 percent. The rate
touched 2.75 percent on June 25, the highest since August 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average yields on Indian dollar-denominated bonds rose 127
basis points to 5.32 percent in June, the biggest monthly
increase since October 2008, according to HSBC indexes.  Worst-Performing Currency  State Bank’s  shares  rose 0.9 percent to 1,890.5 rupees at
9:23 a.m. in Mumbai. They have slumped 21 percent this year
while the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex remained little changed.  The rupee, which fell to an unprecedented 61.2125 per
dollar yesterday, gained 0.8 percent to 60.1250 at 9:24 a.m.
after regulators announced steps to curb speculation in the
derivatives market. The rupee is still Asia’s worst-performing
currency in the past three months.  The currency has been depreciating after speculation that
the U.S. Federal Reserve may pare stimulus measures led to a
flight of funds out of riskier emerging market assets. The rupee
plunged after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on May 22
first signaled a potential reduction in the monetary authority’s
monthly bond purchases.  “There is a concern on the way rupee is behaving, and its
impact on corporate balance sheet,” Contractor said. “If the
slide continues, it could become more worrisome.”  Unhedged Companies  The Reserve Bank is asking the lenders to increase the
rates on unhedged exposure to prompt companies to insure their
positions, said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst
at SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)   Companies in the South Asian nation, which borrowed about
6.2 trillion rupees from overseas markets till Dec. 31, left
about 60 percent of the loans unhedged as per Reserve Bank
estimates, Sanjay Mathur, head of research and strategy in
 Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a June
25 report.  The rupee’s drop prompted  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  to scrap a plan to
raise dollar loans to refinance part of its 280 billion rupees
of borrowings. Lower demand for foreign-currency denominated
loans may slow growth at State Bank’s international division,
which contributed 17 percent of the lender’s 141 billion-rupee
profit in the year ended March 31.  “We are still seeing requests from companies for loans at
low rates that prevailed earlier,” Contractor said. “But the
rates will have to go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  