-- Ex-Premier Fischer Selected as Czech Finance Minister
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-07-08T13:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/rusnok-selects-former-premier-fischer-as-czech-finance-minister.html
Czech Prime Minister Jiri Rusnok
chose former technocrat Premier Jan Fischer as finance minister
in his interim cabinet, handing this year’s presidential
contender an economy mired in a record-long recession.  Fischer was also nominated to serve as deputy prime
minister, Rusnok told reporters in Prague today. The 62-year-old
graduate of Prague’s University of Economics in statistics and
econometrics led a temporary cabinet for a year before 2010
general elections when the country suffered its deepest economic
contraction.  Rusnok is completing negotiations to form his
administration after President Milos Zeman named him prime
minister two weeks ago. The  Czech Republic , struggling to emerge
from the longest economic  recession  on record, plunged into a
political crisis after Premier Petr Necas resigned on June 17
amid a spying and bribery scandal. By picking Rusnok as prime
minister, Zeman snubbed the three-party coalition that had
backed Necas and said it held a majority in the 200-seat lower
house of parliament to stay in power.  “We both agreed that this country needs to revive economic
growth and fiscal policy should help to do so,” Fischer told
reporters today. “Restrictions and cuts need to be done for
sure, but return to growth is a priority.”  Record Yield  The yield on the Czech government’s 10-year koruna bond,
which reached an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, was little
changed at 2.26 percent today, holding 46 basis points below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  By law, Rusnok’s government needs to win a simple majority
at a confidence vote in the lower chamber within 30 days of
being appointed by Zeman. If it fails, it would stay in office
on a caretaker basis and Zeman has no constitutional deadline
for naming a replacement before the next scheduled elections in
May 2014.  The three-way coalition is trying to prevent early
elections demanded by the poll-leading  Social Democrats . The
main opposition party has pledged higher taxes and more spending
to pull the $217 billion  economy  out of the  recession .  Necas was forced to resign after police charged his closest
aide with illegal spying. The scandal added to public discontent
with austerity measures that hurt household spending. Necas, who
quit after three years in power, credited  deficit reduction  with
helping to cut borrowing costs.  Presidential Run  Fischer served as vice president at the London-based
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  starting in
September 2010. He left the EBRD before running for the Czech
presidency in the country’s first direct election for the post
this year, failing to garner enough support to advance to the
January run-off vote.  A former head of the Czech Statistics Office, Fischer rose
to prominence in 2009 when he was selected to lead a caretaker
administration after Mirek Topolanek’s government lost a no-confidence vote halfway through the country’s six-month term as
European Union president.  He led the country during the deepest economic decline on
record in 2009 as gross domestic product shrank 4.4 percent amid
the global financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The Czech fiscal  deficit  widened to a
six-year high of 5.8 percent of economic output that year.
Fischer’s mandate as premier was limited as lawmakers pushed
through changes to his 2010 budget draft that increased the
shortfall.  Limited Mandate  His powers to shape the state budget as the finance
minister may be curbed again, according to Jan Vejmelek, the
chief economist at Komercni Banka AS in  Prague .  “He won’t have a chance to do any profound steps as his
mandate’s length is limited,” Vejmelek said by phone today.
“The only major thing ahead of him will be the annual state
budget, but both revenue and expenditure frameworks are pretty
set and the political representation wouldn’t allow a caretaker
minister to push through any major changes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  