-- RWE Sees End of Europe’s 40-Year-Old Gas Pricing for Gazprom
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-07-09T16:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/rwe-expects-to-rid-gazprom-deals-of-oil-price-after-arbitration.html
RWE AG (RWE)  expects a 40-year-old system
for setting European gas prices that has cost  Germany ’s second-largest utility hundreds of millions of euros to be cast aside
after an arbitration ruling against Russia’s  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)   A Vienna tribunal decided RWE paid Gazprom too much from
May 2010 and the Moscow-based gas-export monopoly needed to
introduce market rates for the fuel, according to the German
power producer. In reaction, Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
defended the decades-old regime of linking rates to oil indexes.  “We have a solution which partly replaces oil indexation
by gas indexation,” said RWE Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Guenther in an interview at the company’s head office in Essen.
“Going forward we will claw the small money back which we might
now still lose on the remaining oil-indexed part.”  RWE, now in price talks with Gazprom, has fought to end the
tradition of linking supply deals to  oil prices  that was set up
before European gas markets for immediate delivery developed.
Weakening demand for gas means the amount utilities can charge
customers for the fuel has sunk relative to Gazprom’s prices.  The ruling “will be taken into consideration in the new
talks,” Guenther said. Seeking arbitration, instead of settling
with Gazprom like larger rival EON SE, was successful, he said.
RWE was the only European customer to complete arbitration.  Limited Links  RWE has declined by 9 percent in Frankfurt trading since
announcing the ruling June 27, while EON is down 1.1 percent.
RWE today advanced 0.6 percent to 22.39 euros by the close.  The ruling brought “quite limited” links to gas indexes,
Gazprom Export, responsible for contracts, said in a statement.
“We consider the ruling objective, weighted and taking into
account principles of long-term contracts, arguments from both
sides and objective processes that happened on the market.”  EON, Gazprom’s biggest European customer, reached a deal
with the Russian company on  gas prices  a year ago that added
about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to half-year results. RWE
said on July 1 the effect of the arbitration ruling was “in
line” with its expectations, without providing a figure. The
company will get a similar windfall to EON, Spiegel reported.  “The award was a necessary step to eliminate the
anachronism of oil-price indexation,” said Thomas Deser, a
portfolio manager at Union Investment GmbH who is responsible
for the fund’s 57 million-euro stake in RWE. The company may
have avoided raising its outlook after the ruling because of
possible losses in  Egypt  operations, he said.  Egypt Sale  RWE plans to sell its Dea oil and gas production unit in
the country to raise as much as 5 billion euros, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified.  The utility is also studying mothballing  power plants  where
losses are higher than the cost of closing them, Guenther said.  RWE is cutting capital and operating expenditure to ensure
it can generate cash and plans to reduce the ratio of net debt
to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
in the medium term to 3 from 3.5, he said. It won’t likely pay
down debt without disposals until 2015, when it can generate
cash after paying expenses and dividends, Guenther said.  In March, RWE abandoned a target of 7 billion euros of
disposals by the end of the year as asset prices were too low.  RWE’s shares, down 28 percent this year, have been “driven
by the developments in power generation,” Guenther said. It’s a
“kind of seismic shift from the old business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  