-- S. Korea’s Park Expresses Relief After North Korea Talks Advance
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-08T08:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/s-korea-s-park-expresses-relief-after-north-korea-talks-advance.html
South Korean President Park Geun Hye
expressed “relief” after negotiators made progress with  North
Korea  toward reopening a shuttered factory park, indicating a
thaw in ties soured by the North’s February nuclear test.  Negotiators yesterday ended 16 hours of talks at the
Panmunjom border village with a pledge to meet on July 10 in
Gaeseong, the industrial zone closed by North Korea in April in
protest U.S.- South Korean military drills and United Nations
sanctions. Leader Kim Jong Un, who has threatened nuclear
strikes against the U.S. and South Korea, began softening his
stance last month by proposing talks.  “It is a relief that an agreement was reached between
North and South Korea on Gaeseong,” Park told her advisers
today, according to a statement on her website. She said  South
Korea  must “prevent a relapse of wrongdoings to not only
resolve the Gaeseong issue but for future progress in inter-Korean relations.”  North Korea has often reneged on its commitments, firing a
missile last year and scrapping a plan for inter-Korean dialogue
last month days after proposing talks. The international
community backed U.S. and South Korean demands that the North
abandon its nuclear-weapons program before resuming talks.  The Koreas will “restart Gaeseong when ready” and will
discuss ways to prevent future closings at the next meeting,
according to terms of an agreement reported by North Korea’s
official Korean Central News Agency. South Korean businessmen
will be allowed to retrieve completed goods and materials from
the site and inspect equipment from July 10, KCNA said.  Building Relations  While South Korea sees this as the result of its bid to
resolve disputes through talks, it doesn’t mean it’s “simply
willing to go back to the way things have been,” Unification
Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters today in  Seoul .
“Conditions have to be created for the complex to be run not
only on a company level but also on the government level.”  Shares of companies operating in Gaeseong gained in Seoul.
Watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040)  gained 1.6 percent and  Ehwa Technologies
Information Co. (024810) , a producer of battery chargers and electricity
transformers, rose 2.6 percent. The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of
stocks fell 0.9 percent.  Three officials from each side held the initial talks at
Panmunjom, the site for the signing of the armistice that ended
the 1950-1953  Korean War  without a peace agreement, according to
the ministry.  Shut Down  “North Korea didn’t shut Gaeseong with a permanent closure
in mind, they were only trying to pressure the South,” said Koh
Yu Hwan, a North Korean studies professor at  Dongguk University 
in Seoul. “North Korea knows that it can’t afford to lose
Gaeseong for good,” he said.  The North on April 3 started blocking South Korean
businessmen from entering Gaeseong. Five days later it decided
to withdraw its workers from the industrial zone. On April 11,
an unidentified North Korean government spokesman called the
closing temporary, while blaming the South for a halt to
operations.  Last month, the North requested talks with the South on
Gaeseong, then scrapped the offer over a protocol dispute, and
less than a week later suggested high-level talks with the U.S.
on a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War.  North Korea faces increasing diplomatic isolation as  China ,
its biggest trading partner, tightens enforcement of UN
sanctions targeting financial transactions and joins the U.S.,
South Korea and  Japan  on no-tolerance for its nuclear ambitions.  Closing Gaeseong deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. Recalling nearly 54,000 of its workers employed
by 123 South Korean companies has disrupted the $100 million
that Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul, estimates the North earns in annual profits.  Panmunjom, about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northwest of
South Korea’s capital Seoul, is used for diplomatic engagements
and talks. It straddles the military demarcation line that runs
through the four kilometer-wide demilitarized zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  