-- S&P Raises Puffery Defense Against U.S. Ratings Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-08T20:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/s-p-to-argue-puffery-defense-in-first-courtroom-test.html
Standard & Poor’s , at the first court
hearing over the U.S. government’s claims that the rating
service defrauded investors, argued reasonable investors
wouldn’t have relied on its “puffery” about credit ratings.  John Keker, a lawyer for the  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) 
unit, today told U.S. District Judge  David Carter  in  Santa Ana ,
California, that S&P’s generic statements about its business
aspirations weren’t material to the banks buying securities and
didn’t meaningfully change the mix of information available to
investors.  “They’re seeking to blame the entire financial crisis on
Standard & Poor’s,” Keker said in court. “Those generic
statements don’t make a scheme to defraud. For a scheme to
defraud, there has to be a specific intent to harm the victim,
in this case the investor.”  Keker asked Carter to dismiss the government’s case, which
seeks as much as $5 billion in civil penalties, on the grounds
that the Justice Department didn’t adequately support its
allegations that the company defrauded federally insured
financial institutions by knowingly understating the credit
risks of securities linked to residential mortgages.  Carter heard arguments from both sides and adjourned the
hearing until 3 p.m. local time. He said he will give the
parties a tentative ruling they can discuss in the afternoon.  Reasonable Investor  S&P said in its request to dismiss the case that the
government can’t base its fraud claims on S&P’s assertions that
its ratings were independent, objective and free of conflicts of
interest because U.S. courts have found that such vague and
generalized statements are the kind of “puffery” that a
reasonable investor wouldn’t rely on.  The company also urged the judge to take into account that
the U.S. is pressing fraud claims “despite the fact that other
rating agencies issued ratings identical to those of S&P on the
same securities at issue, and despite the fact that its views
were consistent with those of virtually every other market
participant,” according to an April 22 filing.  “Where’s Moody’s?” Carter asked Assistant U.S. Attorney
George Cardona, who represented the  Justice Department  at the
hearing.  Cardona said the government had developed evidence against
S&P in this case without indicating whether the U.S. had
investigated Moody’s Investors Service as well. Keker said the
only difference between S&P and Moody’s was that S&P had
downgraded the U.S. credit rating.  Reassuring Investors  Cardona told the judge that S&P’s “puffing” about its
ratings being independent and objective was material because the
ratings were important in reassuring investors about the credit
quality of the securities they bought from investment banks.  The ratings weren’t independent and objective because S&P
let issuers influence its models and criteria, Cardona.  The U.S. sued New York-based S&P on Feb. 4, alleging its
credit ratings for residential mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations that included those securities,
contrary to what the company told investors, were based on a
desire to win business from issuers of the securities more than
on the credit risk of the investments.  Longest Recession  A surge in defaults of high-risk mortgages packaged in
securities that had helped fuel the U.S. housing boom until 2007
led to the country’s longest recession since 1933. S&P rated
$2.8 trillion in residential mortgage-backed securities from
September 2004 through October 2007 and $1.2 trillion worth of
CDOs, according the government’s complaint.  In evaluating S&P’s request to dismiss the case, the judge
will assume that everything the government said in its complaint
is true. If the judge finds the government’s allegations lack
the legally required specificity, he may give the Justice
Department an opportunity to address the deficiencies in a
revised complaint.  The lawsuit was brought by U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr.
in  Los Angeles  under the 1989 Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act, a law passed after the savings and
loan crisis to allow the government to seek civil penalties for
losses of federally insured financial institutions caused by
fraud.  In its 119-page complaint, the Justice Department cited
meetings, messages and memos to support its claims.  ‘Ironic’ Goal  S&P argued in its April 22 filing that it’s “ironic” that
the government seeks penalties for  losses  by the same banks,
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , that were creating and
selling the CDOs.  “The complaint charges S&P with intending to defraud these
financial institutions about the likely performance of their own
products,” the company said.  Banks create collateralized debt obligations by bundling
bonds or loans into securities of varying risk and return. They
pay ratings firms for the grades, which investors may use to
meet regulatory requirements.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  