-- Salfacorp Hits Four-Year Low on Economic Outlook: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-08T18:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/salfacorp-hits-four-year-low-on-economic-outlook-santiago-mover.html
Salfacorp SA (SALFACOR) ,  Chile ’s largest
engineering and building company, fell to its lowest level since
April 2009 amid concern that profits will be hurt as the
country’s economic growth slows.  The shares dropped 1.1 percent to 560 pesos per share at
1:32 p.m. in Santiago, extending their decline this year to 43
percent, the  worst performance  on Chile’s benchmark Ipsa index.  Salfacorp has tumbled 14 percent since July 1, when the
central bank said the Chilean economy will probably expand
between 4 percent and 5 percent in 2013, less than the 4.5 to
5.5 percent range it had expected three months earlier. Banks
restricted lending to property companies in the first half as
construction costs rose and new home sales decelerated, the
central bank also said.  “The market is under pressure from the central bank about
a slowdown in the economy and speculation on whether there’s a
real estate bubble,” Arturo Curtze, an analyst at Vantrust
Capital in Santiago, said in a telephone interview. “Cyclical
stocks are the first to go down.”  Salfacorp’s shares rose 10 percent on June 25 after its
board of directors canceled a planned breakup of the company
that would have included the spinoff of its real-estate
investment unit.  The Santiago-based company’s stock has dropped 67 percent
since the end of 2010, erasing all of its gains after an
earthquake that year boosted the Chilean  construction industry .
During the same period, the IPSA index has declined 22 percent.  Besalco, a Santiago-based construction and engineering
company, gained 0.5 percent today, paring its decline this year
to 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  