-- San Francisco Bay Bridge Span Delay May Cost Contractors
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/san-francisco-bridge-opening-put-off-toll-agency-says.html
The reconstruction of the  San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge , one of the largest U.S. public-works projects at $6.3 billion, fell further behind as officials
delayed the opening of the new east span, a move that may put
bonus payments to contractors at risk.  The Metropolitan Transportation Commission, based in
Oakland, announced the setback in replacing the 2.2-mile (3.5
kilometer) eastern section yesterday as it released a report
explaining the March failure of 32 seismic anchor rods.  Incentive bonuses of $20 million may be at risk for
American Bridge Co. and  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , contractors handling the
 work . The project will make the structure carrying  Interstate 80 
over  San Francisco Bay  more resistant to earthquakes. The
companies also face penalties of $100,000 a day after Nov. 30 if
they aren’t done by then, up to a maximum of $125 million,
according to a June 14 letter to local lawmakers from the Bay
Area Toll Authority, a commission agency.  “No determination as to whether the contractor has earned
any incentive payment will be made unless and until all
specified work is done,” Steve Heminger, executive director of
the toll authority, said in the June 14 letter. The penalties
that may accrue after Nov. 30 are based on reaching “seismic
safety opening” readiness, which may not coincide with allowing
traffic on the bridge.  Contractual Requirement  “The $125 million has always been part of the SAS contract
as the capped maximum amount of all disincentives and liquidated
damages that Caltrans can apply,” if certain deadlines aren’t
met, Keith Stephens, a Fluor spokesman, said yesterday by e-mail, referring to the state transportation department.  Construction began in 2002 on the eastern span between
Yerba Buena Island and Oakland, with completion forecast in
2007. Delays ensued after contractor bids exceeded cost
projections, lawmakers fought over how to cover the expense and
steel parts arrived 18 months late. The discovery of defective
welds and potentially phony inspections also slowed the work.
The cost has meanwhile more than doubled.  The latest delay was  announced  as an oversight arm of the
commission released a  report  on the 32 earthquake-safety bolts
that broke and an examination of other fasteners used on the
span. The review is expected to be done by Dec. 10, the Toll
Bridge Program Oversight Committee said in a statement.  Corrosion Issue  The report shows that designers failed to take corrosion of
the rods into account and to set specifications for fasteners to
resist the effects of stress and the environment.  The oversight panel will pick a new opening date based on
when the retrofit work is finished, weather conditions and the
effect on traffic, according to the agency statement. The
existing 8.4-mile (13.5 kilometer) west span will have to close
four days to accommodate switching traffic to the new structure,
the agency said.  The Bay Bridge carries about  270,000 vehicles  a day,
according to the transportation department. The double-decker
George Washington Bridge connecting  New York City  to  New Jersey 
over the  Hudson River  handled about 49.1 million vehicles on its
eastbound crossing in 2012, or a daily average of about 135,000
in that direction, according to the operator, the  Port Authority 
of  New York  & New Jersey.  Part of the Bay Bridge collapsed in the 1989 Loma Prieta
earthquake that was centered about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of  San Francisco  and registered 6.9 on the Richter scale.  Meeting Planned  The commission toll authority is financing the construction
using fees collected on seven state-owned spans around San
Francisco. The agency plans a special meeting on progress on the
project tomorrow in Oakland.  The issue of contractor incentives probably will be
discussed at the meeting, said John Goodwin, a spokesman for the
commission.  Fluor fell about 1.4 percent yesterday to $57.75 in New
York, the biggest decline in two weeks. Coraopolis,
Pennsylvania-based American Bridge is closely held. Kadi
Camardese, a company spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  When completed, the span will be the world’s longest
single-tower self-anchored suspension bridge, according to the
toll authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  