-- Sarkozy Signals Comeback With Party Meeting After Court Ruling
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-07-08T12:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/sarkozy-signals-comeback-with-party-meeting-after-court-ruling.html
Nicolas Sarkozy, who a year ago said
he was quitting politics, is making something of a comeback.  For the first time since he became the only French president
in more than 30 years to fail to win re-election, Sarkozy will
tonight attend a gathering of his political party.  Sarkozy’s meeting today with leaders of the  Union for a
Popular Movement Party  follows a campaign-finance decision by
 France ’s constitutional court to not reimburse 11 million euros
($14 million) the party spent on election expenses.  While stopping short of a formal return to politics,
Sarkozy’s attendance tonight comes as polls increasingly show
that UMP supporters want him to challenge Francois Hollande, the
least popular president in French history, in the next elections
in 2017.  Sixty-seven percent of UMP supporters want Sarkozy as the
party’s candidate, well ahead of 13 percent for the next most
popular choice, former Prime Minister Francois Fillon, according
to a CSA poll published last week. The poll surveyed 2,010
people, including 695 UMP supporters.  For the entire French population, 40 percent want Sarkozy
to run in 2017 and 59 percent don’t, according to an Ifop poll
for Journal du Dimanche yesterday. The poll questioned 1,005
people.  Sarkozy, who was elected in 2007, said he was leaving 
politics after losing his re-election bid to Hollande in May 
2012 by 51.6 percent to 48.4 percent. He was the second French 
president to a lose re-election bid since World War II after 
former President Valery Giscard d’Estaing's 1981 defeat.  Court Ruling  Since then, he’s given private speeches to business groups
around the world, not taking any fixed roles.  Last week, the constitutional court upheld a decision by
campaign-funding regulators that Sarkozy’s 2012 campaign spent
more than it was allowed, making the party ineligible for public
financing.  “I want to stress the following: that the fact of over-spending, which we contest, by 400,000 euros on a budget of 22
million, had the effect of denying the UMP 11 million euros of
public money,” party leader Jean-Francois Cope said in a
statement today. “I have spoken to Nicolas Sarkozy and we
agreed that faced with this threat, our political family must be
a block, as we must always in such testing moments.”  The party was riven by an inconclusive leadership contest
between Fillon and Cope last November that took a month to
settle.  The UMP’s website now carries request for donations. UMP
lawmaker  Henri Guaino  told TF1 television today that the party
has raised 2 million euros so far. According to the Journal du
Dimanche, the UMP has debts of 55 million euros. The press
office of the UMP declined to comment.  Facebook Posting  In a posting on his  Facebook (FB)  page -- his first since March
-- Sarkozy said the constitutional court’s decision “endangers
a party that must prepare the necessary alternative to
Socialism.”  Sarkozy said last week he was quitting the French
constitutional council after the body upheld the campaign-funding decision, Agence France-Presse reported.  During a state visit to Tunisia last week, Hollande said
Sarkozy should show more “respect” for the constitutional
court.  “No one can put in doubt the decisions of this institution
without putting all institutions in doubt,” he said during a
press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  