-- Serbia Won’t Cut Wages to Meet IMF Agreement Terms, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-07-08T13:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/serbia-won-t-cut-wages-to-meet-imf-agreement-terms-dinkic-says.html
Serbia won’t cut wages and pensions
by ten percent to meet an International Monetary Fund
requirement to renew a loan agreement, Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said.  The Washington-based lender, which stopped short of
discussing a new accord in May on evidence that Serbia slipped
on agreed fiscal targets, is “currently too tough and
insufficiently appreciates what we are going to do,” Dinkic
said at a conference in Belgrade today.  “In order to achieve an additional deficit reduction, the
IMF believes public wages and pensions need to be cut by 10
percent,” Dinkic said today. “Our government is not prepared
to accept that.”  Lawmakers approved a revised 2013 budget last week, raising
the full-year deficit target to 4.7 percent of economic output
from a previous forecast of 3.6 percent. Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, due to be reshuffled by July 27, plans to sell
or close 179 enterprises, which employ around 54,000 workers.
Keeping those companies costs as much as 750 million euros ($964
million) a year.  Agreeing on a new accord with the IMF is “important not
only for stronger financial support, but also as a clear
political signal to investors,” which will help reduce
borrowing costs, Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said.
“I wish the IMF was less tough on  Serbia ,” he said.  This year’s shortfall will be “1.5 percentage points lower
than last year” while cutting it by additional 1 percentage
point “is not realistic,” Dinkic said.  Fiscal Deterioration  The revised budget is a “step in the right direction”
though not “sufficient to avoid a risk of fiscal
deterioration,” IMF resident representative Bogdan Lissovolik
said at the same conference.  Wage and pension cuts are an option and Serbia could seek
alternatives in reducing subsidies or introducing a temporary
solidarity tax as proposed by the country’s Fiscal Council,
Lissovolik said. The government also needs a “credible plan to
lower the public debt.”  Serbia has two options available to cut its public debt,
which include repaying old costly borrowing with revenue from
asset sales or borrowing from a “friendly country at a lower
cost,” Dinkic said. First-quarter public debt was 62 percent of
gross domestic product and may top 65 percent by the end of
2013, according to the Fiscal Council, a three-member panel
appointed by parliament to oversee fiscal compliance.  The government has been in talks with the  World Bank  to
assist its asset-sale plan.  “We stand ready to provide support” and the World Bank
will decide in coming weeks “whether financial backing in
addition to technical assistance will be provided,” the World
Bank’s resident representative Loup Brefort said at the same
conference. The World Bank’s funding is usually conditional on
the country having an IMF-backed program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  