-- Silverstein Said in Deal With GroupM on 3 World Trade
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-09T16:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/silverstein-said-in-deal-with-groupm-on-3-world-trade.html
Larry Silverstein reached a
preliminary agreement for advertising firm GroupM to lease
offices at 3 World Trade Center, marking a key step for the
developer to proceed with building the 80-story lower  Manhattan 
skyscraper, two people with knowledge of the negotiations said.  GroupM, the media buying and planning division of  WPP Plc, (WPP) 
the world’s biggest advertising company, agreed to take more
than 500,000 square feet (47,000 square meters) in the tower,
which is designed to be 2.5 million square feet, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. A term sheet was signed yesterday, with a completed
lease expected by the end of the year, one of the people said.  A deal would allow Silverstein, founder of Silverstein
Properties Inc., to move toward obtaining financing and
government subsidies to erect the skyscraper, which would be the
third constructed on the 16-acre (6-hectare) site that was
attacked by terrorists almost 12 years ago. One World Trade
Center, being built by the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey with the Durst Organization, and Silverstein’s 4 World
Trade Center will be completed by early next year.  ‘Key Milestone’  A GroupM lease would be critical to “completion of our
efforts downtown,” David Samson, chairman of the Port
Authority, which owns the World Trade Center site, said in a
telephone interview. “There are a lot of different pieces that
need to come together in order to reach our objective of a fully
built-out, fully developed and fully operational site, but this
is certainly a key milestone.”  The lease would also provide a boost to lower Manhattan’s
office market, where almost 10 million square feet is available,
according to data released last week by brokerage Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. In addition to the space nearing completion at
the trade center site,  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ,
 downtown Manhattan’s  largest landlord, is looking to fill
offices at Brookfield Place, the complex formerly known as the
World Financial Center that housed Merrill Lynch & Co.’s
headquarters.  Lower Manhattan’s vacancy rate was 11.6 percent in the
second quarter, compared with 10.4 percent for the entire
borough, according to Cushman and Wakefield.  Lower Floors  GroupM agreed to a 20-year lease at 3 World Trade, the
people with knowledge of the deal said. The company would take
the lower part of the building, including some of the 68,000-square-foot base floors that were originally designed to be
trading floors for an investment banking tenant. Large
securities firms have been cutting jobs and reducing their space
needs in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  A call to Kelly Clark, North American chief executive
officer of GroupM, wasn’t returned.  Bud Perrone , a Silverstein
spokesman, declined to comment. The tentative deal was reported
yesterday on the website of the New York Post.  The deal would allow GroupM to consolidate its New York
offices into one building. The company now has three Midtown
locations, the largest being at 498 Seventh Ave., a tower in the
Garment District.  GroupM would be the first non-government tenant in any of
the three towers Silverstein has the right to build at the trade
center site. At One World Trade Center, the tallest building in
the Western Hemisphere, publisher Conde Nast Publications Inc.
has agreed to take more than 1 million square feet.  Public Support  Under the terms of a 2010 agreement, Silverstein must lease
at least 400,000 square feet in the tower and raise at least
$300 million of financing before he can qualify for $200 million
each of support from the Port Authority, New York City and New
York state, as well as $1.3 billion of tax-advantaged Liberty
Bonds and other funding.  That deal was negotiated with former Port Authority
director Christopher Ward, resolving a dispute in which Ward and
then-New York Governor David Paterson took a stand against
public subsidies for private offices. The authority had already
taken on the building of One World Trade Center, and 4 World
Trade is financed with more than $1 billion of Liberty Bonds.  The Port Authority is the anchor tenant at 4 World Trade
Center, which also will house city offices. The tower has about
1 million square feet still unrented.  Early last year, Silverstein and the authority discussed
capping 3 World Trade Center at 7 stories if the developer
couldn’t find enough tenants to make it worth completing,
according to two people with knowledge of the talks.  Under the 2010 agreement, 2 World Trade Center, to be the
second-tallest tower on the site, will be built based solely on
market demand, without public support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  