-- Sin City Republican Woos Asian Vote to Curb Defections
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/sin-city-republican-woos-asian-vote-to-curb-defections.html
In a meeting with local reporters,
Republican U.S. Representative Joe Heck made clear he doesn’t
support a Senate-passed immigration bill in its entirety. One
provision he did highlight, though, was an exemption from visa
limitations for children of Filipino veterans of World War II.  As it happens,  Nevada , Heck’s state, is also home to the
fastest growing Filipino population in the U.S. -- and many of
them live in his congressional district.  Heck’s method of communicating his stand on the immigration
debate was also distinct from most of his Republican House
colleagues. Two Asian and two Hispanic news organizations were
the only invitees to what he called an “ethnic media”
question-and-answer session last week.  The unusual meeting with the congressman in his  office 
south of the Las Vegas strip is the type of event Republican
leaders say must become routine if the party is to boost its
standing with the expanding Asian-American voting bloc.  “One of the problems is that so many folks realize four to
six months before an election that they need to do ethnic
outreach,” said Heck, who has represented the suburban and
rural 3rd congressional district since 2011. “For us, it is
part of the everyday process and that’s where we need to get as
a party.”  Heck, 51, will need the support of both Hispanics and
Asians as he seeks re-election in 2014. Last week, Democrat Erin
Bilbray-Kohn, a Las Vegas political trainer and daughter of a
former congressman,  announced  plans to challenge him.  Obama District  Among House Republicans, Heck represents the most heavily
Asian district that’s also in a presidential battleground  state ,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The district, which President
 Barack Obama  narrowly won in 2012, is 12.1 percent Asian,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  The Republican Party’s problem with Asians is in some ways
bigger than its more-documented challenges with Hispanics. While
exit polls showed Obama had a 44-percentage-point advantage
among Hispanics in the 2012 election, his 47-percentage-point
Asian margin over Republican  Mitt Romney  was even greater.  There were roughly three times as many Hispanic voters as
Asian voters in November’s election, although Asians are the
nation’s fastest-growing racial or ethnic group and are
projected to play an increasing role in politics. Health care
and education are key issues for them, as are taxes, giving
Republicans an opening of their own.  Presidential Shift  Karthick Ramakrishnan, a University of California-Riverside
political scientist and director of the National Asian-American
Survey, said Asians over the last two decades have shown the
biggest shift in presidential voting patterns among any
demographic group. They doubled their vote share for Democratic
presidential candidates to 62 percent in 2008 from 31 percent in
1992, before growing to 73 percent in 2012, he said.  Former Florida Republican Governor Jeb Bush, a potential
2016 presidential candidate, cited Asian-American demographics
as he made the case recently that the group should have a closer
affiliation with Republicans.  “Here’s a group that has higher intact families, more
entrepreneurial, higher-than-average incomes, higher college
graduation rates, and they support President Obama’s re-election,” Bush said at a June 13 Bipartisan Policy Center
forum on immigration in  Washington .  Bush Warning  “Asian-Americans are actually the canary in the coal mine,
I believe, for Republicans,” he said. “If we’ve lost
connectivity to emerging voters -- not because of our policies
so much, but because we are not engaged in issues of importance
to them -- I think we pay a price.”  Before Obama’s first election in 2008, Republicans were
competitive for the Asian vote. As recently as 2004, Republican
President George W. Bush received 44 percent of the Asian vote
in his race against now U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.  The movement toward the Democrats started with former
President Bill Clinton, who made public efforts to woo Asians,
including nominating the  first  Asian-American, Norman  Mineta (MINVP) , to
the Cabinet. Should Hillary Clinton run for the presidency in
2016, the former secretary of state could benefit from that base
of support.  “The Clinton family has been good friends with the Asian
community,” said Robert Young, chairman of the Las Vegas Asian
Chamber of Commerce.  Heck District  Just west of the city’s towering casinos lies the heart of
the Asian community, which is mostly Filipino and Chinese. Along
dozens of blocks of Spring Mountain Road, Asian restaurants,
markets and other businesses bustle with locals and tourists.  It’s rare for a Republican to represent a district with
such a large Asian-American  concentration . There are 54
districts where Asians account for at least 10 percent of the
population and Democrats hold 44 of them, the Bloomberg compiled
data shows.  Heck, who employs an American of Filipino descent, Eric
Guideng, to work solely on community outreach, has strong
support from those voters because he has done a good job of
staying connected to them, Young said.  “He’s doing extremely well with the Asian community
because the first time he was elected, he called us,” he said.
“Whenever he gets a chance, he comes to my chamber and that
kind of relationship is going to get this kind of swing vote.”  Among the nine states where both 2012 presidential
campaigns focused most of their attention, Nevada has the
largest Asian-American  population , at 7.7 percent. That’s partly
a reflection of its proximity to  California , where 13.9 percent
of the population is Asian.  Close Margin  In last year’s election, the Nevada Asian vote was narrowly
split between Obama and Romney. Asian-Americans represented 5
percent of the 2012 state electorate and among the group Obama
beat Romney, 50 percent to 47 percent.  Stronger Asian outreach was a central point in a report
released in March by the  Republican National Committee  that took
an introspective look at the party’s 2012 election losses.  “Inclusion efforts can no longer be lip service, but need
to be an organized effort within the community,” the report
said.  Persuading party activists and politicians to live by that
message has proved difficult.  One recent example came in  Virginia  when Republicans Tom
and Jeannemarie Davis tried to encourage more Asian-Americans to
attend a state party convention in May, including providing
busing for them, to support her bid for lieutenant governor.  Hostile Reception  “The hostility from the party establishment was
incredible,” said Tom Davis, a former Republican congressman
who represented counties in northern Virginia with Asian-American populations. “We should be a welcoming party. We were
taken aback by the reaction.”  Some of the prospective Republican delegates were denied
credentials because their current addresses didn’t match their
voter registrations, said Davis. Of those who did qualify, many
of whom were seniors, they found themselves seated in the
“rafters” of the convention hall, he said.  Asians should be a demographic “sweet spot” for the
Republican Party, said Davis. “They are strivers and upward-mobile and small business people who are not happy about high
 taxes  and regulations,” he said. “We’re not talking to them
and they are all around us.”  RNC Outreach  Earlier this year, the RNC hired two Asians to boost
outreach. Jason Chung is a new communications director for Asian
engagement and Stephen Fong is an Asian field director.  Finding issues where the Republican base and Asian-Americans see eye-to-eye could prove more challenging, said
Ramakrishnan, the Asian polling expert.  “Asian-American voters support the Affordable Care Act and
believe in the social safety net,” Ramakrishnan said, citing
polling he’s overseen on the Obama-backed  health-care  law.  Representative Ed Royce, whose southern California district
has the highest proportion of Asian-Americans among any held by
a Republican, pointed to his fellow Californian, Ronald Reagan,
who he said aggressively reached out to Asian voters during his
gubernatorial and presidential campaigns.  “We need to relearn that lesson,” said Royce, whose
district is 28.3 percent Asian-American. “We got away from the
grassroots. Much of that withered. One of things that happened
is that the techniques moved from the door-to-door and
community-based campaigning to more of a campaign conducted top
down through media.”  Heck counts on the support of constituents such as Arthur
DeJoya, a Filipino who lives in his district, leans Republican
and says the party should talk more about education and small-business issues.  “Education is a very key part of the culture,” DeJoya
said. “A lot of us are small-business owners and care about
regulations and taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Las Vegas at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  