-- Slovenia’s Bad-Loan Delay Threatens Bank Funding, UniCredit Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-07-08T11:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/slovenia-s-bad-loan-delay-threatens-bank-funding-unicredit-says.html
Slovenia risks leaving banks
vulnerable to market volatility and funding shortage by delaying
a transfer of toxic loans from lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. to a government agency, UniCredit Bank said.  Cleaning up the Slovenian banking system is being delayed
after the European Commission failed to give approval to the
first batch of non-performing loan transfers to the bank asset
management company by June 28, Carlos Ortiz, an economist from
UniCredit in  London , said in a report today. The deadline has
been moved to mid-July, when the results of Deloitte’s system-wide review of asset quality and  Oliver Wyman ’s stress tests
will be known, he said.  “The delay is not that significant, especially given that
we are dealing with a full banking system asset-quality
review,” Ortiz said. Any further delay beyond the third quarter
of 2013 “could reduce market confidence in the recapitalization
process and put bank funding at risk.”  Slovenian banks, burdened by rising bad loans as the
economy struggles with a second recession since 2009, are at the
center of concerns that the nation may be forced to seek outside
assistance after the Cyprus rescue in March put the spotlight on
Slovenia’s weak financial industry.  The risk of a bailout in the next 12 months has fallen
considerably, Ortiz said, as Slovenian banks look to have
sufficient collateral to more than double their current access
to traditional euro-system facilities at the  European Central
Bank .  Yield Falls  The yield on the benchmark government notes maturing in
2022 dropped for the first time in four sessions today,
declining 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.658
percent at 1:47 p.m. in Ljubljana after rising to a record high
of 7.52 percent June 24, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The fact that its long-term bonds continue to trade at
Portuguese levels also reflects how delicate the situation is,”
Ortiz said in the report. “Hence, this makes the need to meet
the bank reform targets by year-end even more necessary, as this
could constitute the last chance for Alenka Bratusek’s Cabinet
to safeguard investor confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  