-- SoftBank Cut to Junk by S&P After FCC Approves Sprint Deal
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-08T06:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/softbank-rating-lowered-to-junk-by-s-p-after-sprint-acquisition.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , led by billionaire
Masayoshi Son, had its credit rating cut to junk by  Standard &
Poor’s  after winning approval from the Federal Communications
Commission for its $21.6 billion bid to buy  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The rating was cut to BB+, the highest non-investment
grade, from BBB, with a stable outlook, S&P said in a statement
today. The FCC announced July 5 that the deal is in the public’s
interest, giving Son a position in the U.S. market.  Son, 55, wants to use the acquisition to help fulfill his
ambition of making the Tokyo-based company the world’s biggest
mobile phone operator. SoftBank won a bidding war for Sprint,
the third-largest U.S. carrier, when it raised its takeover bid
and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  abandoned a competing proposal.  “Sprint Nextel’s exposure to intense competition in the
U.S. market is unlikely to subside substantially in the next two
to three years,” S&P said in the statement. Still, “we expect
its operating performance to improve gradually, in part
reflecting cost reductions and other merger benefits.”  SoftBank reported  1.2 trillion yen  ($11.9 billion) in
short-term borrowings as of March 31 and 1.7 trillion yen of
long-term debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Outstanding debt includes 130 billion yen of  1.24 percent bonds 
maturing on Sept. 17.  A lower credit rating indicates a higher risk of a default
and can raise borrowing costs.  SoftBank  shares  fell 3.4 percent to 5,680 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trade in Tokyo, after the ratings cut.  On Review  Moody’s Investors Service and S&P put the Japanese
carrier’s rating on review in October, saying a cut to below
investment grade was possible. Japan  Credit Rating  Agency Ltd.
has said it may lower its ranking to three steps above junk.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint rejected Dish’s offer in
favor of a sweetened SoftBank bid. SoftBank will pay $16.6
billion to Sprint shareholders and inject $5 billion of new
capital into the target for a 78 percent stake, it said June 11.  SoftBank plans  capital spending  for Sprint of $8 billion
this year and in 2014 before dropping to $6 billion annually for
the four years after that.  Sprint separately bid for  Clearwire Corp (CLWR) , a mobile
broadband company it already majority owned, to gain access to
valuable wireless airwaves. SoftBank needs the spectrum to roll
out a fourth-generation network in the U.S. to challenge  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Billionaire Son  The FCC also approved Sprint’s offer to buy the half of
wireless operator Clearwire it doesn’t already own.  Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , abandoned its tender offer for Clearwire,
conceding a bidding war with Sprint on June 26. Dish’s decision
to move away from Clearwire came days after it scrapped its
$25.5 billion tender offer for Sprint.  SoftBank, which has about 42 million subscribers with its
units, is the fastest-growing mobile carrier in Japan. It ranks
behind  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  in Japanese sales.  Son is the 59th-richest person in the world with a net
worth of $14.1 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . His fortune has increased by $5.2 billion this year.  SoftBank wants to replicate its domestic success with
Sprint’s 55.2 million subscribers by improving networks and
services, Son said. Annual savings at Sprint will be about $2
billion in the first four years from cost cutting, he said at
SoftBank’s June 21 annual shareholder meeting.  Record Forecast  SoftBank benefited from being the sole Japanese carrier to
offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone from 2008 until last year, when KDDI
started selling the handset. SoftBank added 3.53 million new
subscribers in the year ended March 31, compared with 1.4
million for NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s biggest carrier, and 2.6 million
at KDDI, the second-biggest, according to data provided by the
companies.  Son forecast record operating income as acquisitions and
new subscribers using iPhones stoke earnings. The company bought
local competitor eAccess Ltd. to meet bandwidth demand for
smartphones.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, for SoftBank’s domestic businesses
probably will exceed 1 trillion yen in the year started April,
up from 745 billion yen a year earlier, the company said April
30.  SoftBank, founded in 1981, has made almost 100 purchases
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
owns stakes in more than 1,000 Internet  operations  including
 Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Ustream Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  