-- Sohu Gains as LDK Rallies on Import Duty Story: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-08T21:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/sohu-gains-as-ldk-rallies-on-import-duty-story-overnight.html
(Corrects Xu’s title in fifth paragraph.)  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  jumped in  New York  on
speculation it found a buyer for its search engine, while solar
makers gained after a report that China won’t impose duties on
polysilicon imported from  Europe .  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 0.1 percent to 84.35 yesterday.
LDK Solar Co. rose and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the
world’s biggest solar panel maker, climbed to a 14-month high
after  Germany ’s Handelsblatt reported China won’t impose  import
duties  on European Union-produced polysilicon, a raw material
for making panels.  NQ (NQ)  Mobile Inc. surged 6.7 percent and  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  slid.  Sohu rallied for a third day while  Qihoo 360 Technology
Co. (QIHU) , owner of China’s second-biggest search engine, reached a
record high after China’s Legal Evening News, in a report
carried by news portal ifeng.com that cited unidentified people,
said Qihoo will buy Sohu’s search unit as soon as this week. The
companies didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  “Gains in Sohu and Qihoo were probably stoked by the
latest market discussions on their possible merger,” Echo He,
an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Sohu is likely looking for a buyer.”  Jeff Bloker, Sohu’s U.S. media relations manager at
Christensen Investor Relations Group, couldn’t comment before
getting a response from Beijing-based Sohu. Alex Xu, Qihoo’s co-chief financial officer, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment after business hours in Beijing.  ETF Advances  The iShares  China  Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 0.4 percent to
$32.21. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.5 percent to a
three-week high as investors awaited the start of the second-quarter earnings season.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release June data
on inflation today. Consumer prices probably rose 2.5 percent
last month, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in May, according
to the median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Sohu, based in Beijing, advanced 3.5 percent to $66.4, the
strongest close since June 19. Trading volume on Sohu shares was
twice the daily average over the past three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. American depositary receipts of
Qihoo rallied 2.5 percent to $49.52, the highest level since its
initial public offering in March 2011.  Sohu’s Sogou search unit is talking with a few companies
and the result is still confidential, according to the report on
ifeng.com, which cited an unnamed person in Sogou’s marketing
department.  Market Share  Qihoo, which started a new search tool in August to compete
with Baidu Inc., accounted for 15 percent of online searches in
June, while Sohu’s portion was 8.8 percent, according to CNZZ, a
Chinese Internet data provider.  “Qihoo doesn’t have enough cash for an all-cash deal, so
most likely it will be a cash-plus-shares deal,” 86Research
Ltd. wrote in a note yesterday. “The deal would be dilutive to
Qihoo. On the deal announcement, investors should take profits
on share pop-ups in Qihoo/Sogou, and buy Baidu shares on the
dip.”  Baidu’s ADRs slid 1.1 percent to $90.50, after slumping 3.3
percent last week.  LDK, based in Xinyu, China, gained 2.9 percent to $1.42 in
New York, the highest price since June 19. Baoding-based Yingli
added 1.1 percent to $3.80, the highest level since May 1, 2012.  Import Duties  German polysilicon manufacturer  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  surged 6.7
percent in Frankfurt trading after Handelsblatt reported China’s
decision on solar import duties. The EU imposed tariffs as high
as 67.9 percent last month on solar panels from China in the
largest EU commercial dispute of its kind, seeking to help
revive a withering industry in Europe.  NQ, a mobile-security service company based in Beijing,
advanced to $9.50, the highest level since May 15.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , a Shanghai-based web game operator,
climbed 3.6 percent to $4.03, the first gain in a week.  Actoz Soft Co. (052790) , a South Korea-listed game company which is
majority-owned by Shanda, has surged 44 percent over the past
month.  Shanda Games “probably benefited from share price
increases in Actoz, whose mobile games such as Million Arthur
are doing well in Korea and Asia,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co, said by e-mail.  Dangdang’s ADRs slumped 3.4 percent to $6.75, the lowest
level in two weeks.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  slumped
1.6 percent to 9,063.30, after declining 1.1 percent last week,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 2.4 percent to
1,958.27, falling the most in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  