-- South Korea Unveils Bond-Market Aid Package as Yields Surge
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-08T07:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/south-korea-unveils-plan-to-bolster-bond-market-as-yields-surge.html
South  Korea  will provide as much as
6.4 trillion won ($5.6 billion) of refinancing support for the
nation’s corporate bond market as yields surge to the highest in
more than 10 months and debt offerings dwindle.  The nation will issue so-called primary-collateralized bond
obligations to provide more liquidity in the market, the
Financial Services Commission said in an e-mailed statement. The
securities will be backed by an 850 billion won guarantee using
funding from the government and central bank, it said.  Benchmark yields  for three-year AA-rated corporate notes
surged 10 basis points to 3.51 percent today, the highest since
Aug. 20, according to data from the Korea Financial Investment
Association. The interest rates climbed from a record-low 2.80
percent reached in March as the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled
plans to dial back record stimulus, spurring a rout across
global bond markets.  “This is a preemptive measure in a bid to prevent a
possible bond market crisis that may occur when the U.S. reduces
liquidity and other countries see more economic and financial
market volatility,” Jeong Chan Woo, FSC vice chairman, told
reporters in  Seoul  today.  Funding Squeeze  The aid package seeks to bolster funding for companies
facing a financing squeeze as growth in Asia’s fourth-biggest
economy slows. Industries including construction, shipbuilding
and shipping suffered liquidity problems this year, with
investors wanting to redeem debt outnumbering those willing to
buy it, according to the FSC.  “The amount the government is offering seems to be enough
to help the issuers with riskier bonds that may mature at the
end of this year, and support struggling sectors,” said Park Cheong Ho, a credit analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. in Seoul.  The collateralized securities will be backed by 150 billion
won of funding from the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund and 350
billion won each from the government and Korea Finance Corp.,
which will receive cheap loans from the Bank of Korea.  South Korea spent 5 trillion won helping businesses fund
themselves in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., as officials sought to protect the nation from a
global recession.  Korean companies raised 120 billion won selling notes last
week, with offerings slumping from an average 713 billion won
each week in the first three months of 2013, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  