-- Spitzer Says He’ll Run for NYC Comptroller, 5 Years From Scandal
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-08T03:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/spitzer-says-he-ll-run-for-nyc-comptroller-5-years-from-scandal.html
Eliot Spitzer, the former  New York 
attorney general and governor brought down five years ago after
patronizing high-priced prostitutes, intends to run for New York
City comptroller, he said yesterday.  Spitzer, 54, gained national prominence as New York
attorney general for bringing cases against Wall Street
securities firms and uncovering the failings of others before
resigning in humiliation two years and three months into his
four-year gubernatorial term in March 2008.  “I strayed, I erred, I violated a code of behavior that I
should not have and the public understands what I’m saying,”
Spitzer said in a telephone interview. “I have learned that the
peaks of public life are great fun, but the valleys are much
more instructive. They force you to look into your soul.”  Spitzer joins former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner in
seeking redemption after a sexual imbroglio by running for
office in the nation’s most populous city. Weiner, 48, who
resigned from Congress in 2011 after sending lewd photographs of
himself to women via Twitter, is seeking the Democratic mayoral
nomination.  New York City’s comptroller functions as its financial
officer with a staff of more than 700 accountants, lawyers,
economists and analysts empowered to audit government agencies
and monitor the budget. The official also oversees the $140
billion in assets held by the city’s five pension funds.  New Sentinel  Spitzer, who since his downfall has taught a public-policy
course at the City University of New York and appeared as a
television commentator on CNN, said he wanted to do for the
comptroller’s position what he did for the state attorney
general’s office: “Reimagine it, revitalize it, and use its
audit power to make sure New Yorkers are getting their money’s
worth from government.”  The man who came to be known as the sheriff of Wall Street
said he would use city pension funds’ shareholder power to act
as a watchdog on corporations’ governance and social impact.  He faces a July 11 deadline to collect 3,750 signatures
from Democratic voters to qualify for the Sept. 10 primary
ballot. He’ll be aided in that effort by past aides and
supporters, and said that if necessary he’ll hire professionals
get the petitions signed.  Spitzer faces competition from Scott Stringer, 53, the
Manhattan borough president who also served in the state
assembly. Stringer has been campaigning and raising money since
November. Spitzer intends to self-finance his campaign and spend
“enough money to compete,” he said.  Spitzer’s entry into the race wasn’t greeted with
enthusiasm by City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, 46, a
Manhattan Democrat who’s running for her party’s mayoral
nomination. She said in an e-mail that she continues to support
Stringer, describing him as having been “an exceptional borough
president with the highest ethical standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  