-- U.S. Downplays Spying Accusations in China Hacking Talks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/spying-accusations-shadow-u-s-china-cybersecurity-talks.html
American officials focused on the
hacking of corporate secrets during the first meeting of a U.S.-
China cybersecurity group in  Washington , downplaying their own
spying operations exposed by a former government contractor.  The Obama administration officials raised accusations
yesterday that the Chinese government is responsible for hacking
into companies’ computers to steal intellectual property,
according to an official at the meeting who asked to remain
anonymous due to the sensitive nature of the discussions.  U.S. accusations against the Chinese government have been
overshadowed in recent weeks by leaked classified material from
former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden,
including that the U.S. has hacked computers in Hong Kong and
mainland China since 2009.  The American official didn’t say whether Snowden and his
allegations were discussed in the meeting.  Chinese officials have demanded an explanation for
Snowden’s allegation that the U.S. has hacked computers in Hong
Kong and  China . Representatives from the Chinese embassy in 
Washington didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Participants in the bilateral working group had
constructive discussions, exchanged views and made proposals to
establish transparency and international rules for operating in
cyberspace, the U.S. official said.  International Rules  The working group lets civilian and military officials from
both nations discuss international rules for cyberspace, raise
concerns and set the tone for future bilateral talks, said a
State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record.  Secretary of State John Kerry and Chinese State Councilor
Yang Jiechi announced formation of the cyber working group in
April as part of the larger strategic security dialogue the two
countries hold every year.  The group is seen as an important mechanism in a broader
effort to build cooperation and manage key differences between
the U.S. and China, the State Department official said. The
chairmen of the U.S. contingent are Christopher Painter, the
State Department’s coordinator for cyber issues, and Eric Rosenbach, deputy assistant secretary of defense for cyber
issues.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has decided to
confront China with accusations that it is behind a campaign to
hack into U.S. agencies and corporations to steal trade secrets
and potentially disrupt computer networks operating banks, power
grids and telecommunications networks.  The Pentagon in May accused the Chinese military for the
first time of intruding into U.S. computers to steal sensitive
data. Army General Keith Alexander, who heads the NSA and U.S.
Cyber Command, has called the hacking of U.S. trade secrets the
greatest transfer of wealth in history.  China maintains that it’s a victim of hacking and opposes
such activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  