-- Stocks in Switzerland Rise Before Start of U.S. Earnings
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-07-08T08:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/stocks-in-switzerland-rise-before-start-of-u-s-earnings.html
Swiss stocks rose, after two weeks of
gains, before Alcoa Inc. kicks off the U.S. earnings season and
euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels.  Transocean Ltd. paced gains on the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) ,
climbing 2 percent. Cie Financiere Richemont SA added 2 percent
after Barclays Plc forecast an improvement in second-half
European luxury sales.  Charles Voegele Holding AG (VCH)  fell to its
lowest price since at least 1999 as Tages-Anzeiger reported it
would keep businesses in profitable markets and sell the rest.  The SMI advanced 1.1 percent to 7,867.11 at 10:06 a.m. in
Zurich. The index gained 1.3 percent last week as the  European
Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  said  interest rates  will
remain low for an extended period of time. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also added 1.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 25 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-area finance ministers discuss Greece’s progress in
meeting the conditions needed to obtain further aid from the so-called troika of the  International Monetary Fund , ECB and
European Commission. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said the
Greek government will probably reach a deal with international
creditors before today’s Eurogroup meeting.  In Germany, a report at 12 p.m. Frankfurt time may show
that industrial production declined 0.5 percent in May,
according to the median forecast of 38 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. It surged 1.8 percent in April.  Alcoa Results  Alcoa Inc. will unofficially start the second-quarter U.S.
earnings season after the market closes today, when the biggest
U.S. aluminum producer becomes the first company in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to report results.  Transocean, the world’s largest supplier of offshore oil
rigs, rose 2 percent to 46.44 Swiss francs.  Richemont (CFR) , the owner of the Cartier brand, gained 2 percent
to 86.15 francs. Barclays forecast a pickup in second-half
luxury sales in Europe, with strong sales in the U.S., and Japan
a positive surprise.  Swatch Group AG, the largest maker of Swiss timepieces,
added 2.1 percent to 541 francs.  Charles Voegele slid 5.8 percent to 7.49 francs, its fourth
day of losses. The Swiss clothing retailer will keep businesses
in profitable markets including Switzerland and Austria and sell
the rest, Tages-Anzeiger reported, citing people familiar with
the matter.  Zehnder Group AG (ZEH)  tumbled 6.8 percent to 39.55 francs. The
maker of radiators and ventilation systems forecast full-year
sales at the same level as 2012 and a drop in operating profit
as poor winter weather delayed construction projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  