-- Stravinsky’s Brazen ‘Spring’ Becomes Sappy ‘Rite’: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-07-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/stravinsky-s-brazen-spring-becomes-sappy-rite-stage.html
The invaluable  SummerScape  festival
opened this weekend up the Hudson River at Bard College,
offering another stimulating program of music, theater and dance
around a central theme; this year it is “Stravinsky and His
World.”  So what better way to start than with a nod to “The Rite of
Spring,” whose 1913 Paris premiere sparked a riot among the beau
monde, offended by its primitivism.  “A Rite” is the sometimes inspired but also fashionably and
generically anti-war collaboration between choreographers Bill T. Jones and Janet Wong and theater director Anne Bogart. There
were no cries of outrage at its local premiere on Saturday night
in Frank Gehry’s beautiful Fisher Center on the bucolic Hudson
Valley campus. (The piece was commissioned by Bard and the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where it was first
presented in January.)  Jones and Bogart are strong-willed visionaries who seem to
have agreed that “The Rite of Spring” works best as a
meditation on the unending horrors and occasional joys mankind
wreaked upon itself -- after the piece was written.  “A Rite” begins with the thundering final movement of the
work rather than the plaintive opening measures, which we get to
later. We are immediately dispatched to the battlefields of
World War I; there are readings from soldiers’ letters home
interspersed with childhood songs.  Jagged Thrusts  The mixed company of actors and dancers is flung around the
stage, costumed in vague camouflage -- gray, taupe and beige.
Their limbs precede their bodies in jagged thrusts. Some march
in lockstep. Others stop to observe a trembling leg before
moving on.  A soldier turns on a radio to hear a scratchy broadcast of
“The Rite of Spring,” one of many different versions of the work
quoted in “A Rite.” (None of the music is performed live.)  To help us understand it all, Bogart also throws in a
musicologist, played by actor Ellen Lauren, asking, rhetorically
of the premiere, “What is it about this particular riot...?”
It’s hard to tell whether she is for real or caricature.  At some points, the company sings the score, reminding me
of my youthful introduction to Bach through the Swingle Singers.
At other points, they dance the Jitterbug and Charleston to
swing versions of the piece. I found it hard to discern any
difference between the dancers and the actors, a measure of the
work’s success on at least that level.  There’s even a long interlude of readings from string
theorist Brian Greene, bringing us up to date on every possible
interpretation of the work at hand.  All of which was fascinating and perhaps even necessary in
a world inured to the violence Stravinsky divined in his brutal
evocation of humankind’s misbegotten attempts to appease nature.
But sentimentalizing “The Rite of Spring” reduced it to a kind
of PBS special, interesting for all its 65 minutes without ever
being deeply engaging.  SummerScape runs through Aug. 18 at Bard College,
Annandale-on-Hudson, New York. Dinner and post-performance
entertainment are available in the Spiegeltent. Transportation
by bus from  Manhattan  is available for certain performances.
Information: +1-845-758-7900;  http://www.fishercenter.bard.edu 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 