-- Sugar Harvest in India Topping Demand Seen Worsening Global Glut
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-07-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/sugar-harvest-in-india-topping-demand-seen-worsening-global-glut.html
Sugar output in  India , the second-biggest producer, is set to exceed demand for a fourth year as
the best start to the monsoon season in at least 12 years curbs
damage from a drought and boosts the outlook for exports.  The harvest will total 23.5 million tons in the 12 months
starting Oct. 1, according to the median of estimates from four
traders, five millers and two industry executives in a Bloomberg
survey. That compares with a crop of 25 million tons this year,
more than the 23 million tons needed to meet domestic use. A
survey in March had predicted an output of 23 million tons.  Shipments from India may add to a global glut that’s helped
to drive prices in  New York  to a three-year low, curbing global
food costs. The monsoon is the main source of irrigation in
 Asia ’s most-populous country after  China , and rains this season
have been the highest since 2001. There will be enough surplus
sugar to allow for exports, according to Abinash Verma, director
general of the  Indian Sugar Mills Association .  “India has several millions tons of sugar in stocks and if
the price is right we could see some or a lot of that sugar get
exported,” said  Charlotte  Kingsman, a New Delhi-based analyst
at broker and researcher Kingsman SA. “Indian exports can act
as a cap on world prices as a result.”  Futures are heading for a third year of declines, the
longest slump since 1992. Prices reached 36.08 cents a pound in
February 2011, prompting farmers from  Brazil  to China to boost
plantings. Raw sugar for delivery in October was 0.3 percent
higher at 16.31 cents on ICE Futures U.S. at 4:48 p.m. in Mumbai
yesterday. Futures tumbled to 16.24 cents on July 5, the lowest
price since July 2010, extending losses to 17 percent this year.  Global Surplus  Exports from India  totaled  736,000 tons between Oct. 1 and
July 4, said  Vinay Kumar , managing director of the National
Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd. Global supplies
will be 4.7 million tons higher than demand in the 12 months
starting in September, according to Kingsman SA, a unit of
 McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s Platts.  Inventories in India may jump 23 percent to 8 million tons
on Oct. 1 from a year earlier as output exceeds consumption,
Verma said. Imports climbed after global prices fell, prompting
a panel of ministers last week to recommend an increase in taxes
on overseas purchases of raw and refined sugar to 15 percent
from 10 percent.  Indian processors  imported  607,000 tons of raw sugar
between Oct. 1 and July 4 for sale in the local market,
according to Kumar.  ‘Enough Stockpiles’  “With good rains, a reasonable crop is expected and we
don’t want sugar to come into the country from overseas as there
is enough stockpiles,” Verma said.  The monsoon rainfall was 32 percent more in June than a 50-year average considered normal for the month and the highest
since 2001, according to the  India Meteorological Department .
Northwest India, the main wheat, rice and sugar cane region, got
120 percent more rain than normal last month, it said.  “These rains will be helpful for the crop,” said G.S.C. Rao, chief executive officer of  Simbhaoli Sugars Ltd. (SBSM)  “Yields
will increase.”  Sugar cane has been planted in 4.74 million hectares (11.7
million acres), 3.9 percent down from a year earlier, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said June 28. Parts of Maharashtra and
Karnataka, which together account for 45 percent of the
country’s output, have faced drought because of below-average
monsoon rains in the past two years.  A fall in cane area in Marathwada region in Maharashtra
state will be compensated for by an increase in planting in the
western parts of the state, the nation’s biggest producer The
decline in Karnataka will be negated by higher sowing in  Uttar
Pradesh , said Sanjeev Babar, managing director of the
Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  