-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall as Alcoa Starts Earnings Season
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-08T22:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-before-start-to-earnings-season.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined the most in more than a week as  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  started the
second-quarter season by beating analysts’ estimates. Duke
Energy  Indiana  issued $500 million in bonds in two-parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
3.9 basis points to a mid-price of 82.7 basis points at 5:20
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest daily drop since falling 4.3 basis points on
June 26.  Investors will look to companies’ earnings to assess their
ability to repay debt obligations. Alcoa, the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported earnings of 7 cents per share,
beating analysts estimates. Earnings at companies listed on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.8 percent last quarter, down
from a projection of 8.7 percent six months ago, according to
more than 11,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve been on a one-way path to widening for four
weeks,” Sharon Stark, fixed-income strategist at D.A. Davidson
& Co. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said in a telephone interview.
“It’s getting to an adjustment point where things may settle
out.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Dell Swaps  The cost to protect the debt of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  from default
climbed by the most in a week as Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. said investors should accept founder Michael Dell’s $24.4 billion leveraged buyout plan.  Five-year swaps tied to the PC-maker rose 15 basis points
to 392 basis points, Bloomberg prices show. The swaps rose the
highest since July 1.  CEO Dell and partner Silver Lake Management LLC proposed
repurchasing shares at $13.65 each.  Michael Dell  is contributing
his 16 percent ownership in the company at $13.36 apiece and
another $750 million in cash. The move would shelter
shareholders from risks associated with the computer  business ,
ISS said today.  Alcoa, the first Dow Jones Industrial Average member to
report results, rose 1.41 percent to $7.92 in New York. The
company, which had its  credit rating  cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service in May, reported after today’s close that its
earnings excluding one-time items was 7 cents a share, higher
than the 6 cents a share average of 15 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  FOMC Meeting  The default-swaps index rose 1.4 basis points on July 5
after it was reported that U.S. employers added more jobs than
forecast in June, adding concern that a strengthening labor
market may compel the  Federal Reserve  to begin curbing its $85
billion monthly bond-buying program. Payrolls grew by 195,000,
according to Labor Department figures, more than the median
estimate of 165,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Ten-year Treasuries rose for the first time in three days,
after yields surged July 5 by the most since August 2011.  “Markets have calmed down a little bit over the weekend,”
Kathy Jones, a New-York based fixed income strategist at Charles
Schwab & Co., said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen the
 bond market  already discount in the idea the Fed is going to
reduce purchases.”  Fed Minutes  The Federal Open Market Committee meeting will release
minutes from its June meeting on July 10, giving investors
insight into the central bank’s plans. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who will speak that day, said last month that policy
makers may “moderate” their asset purchases this year and end
them in mid-2014 if economic growth meets their forecasts.  “This week will still be quite volatile because of the Fed
minutes on Wednesday, which will remind the market that the Fed
is set on tapering bond purchases this year,” D.A. Davidson’s
Stark said.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 21.3 basis points to 410.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Duke Energy Indiana sold $500 million debt in two parts to
pay and refinance debt. The utility-provider sold $150 million
in three-year floating rate debt 35 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, and $350 million of 4.9 percent
30-year notes to yield 130 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Trace.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 13.8 basis points to 554.6 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  