-- U.S. Office-Market Recovery Stalls as Rent Growth Slows
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/u-s-office-market-recovery-stalls-as-rent-growth-slows.html
The U.S. office-market recovery
struggled to accelerate in the second quarter as occupancy gains
stalled and rent growth slowed,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  Effective rents , or what’s paid after any landlord
discounts, climbed 0.4 percent from the previous three months.
That’s down from 0.7 percent growth in the first quarter and 0.8
percent at the end of 2012, the New York-based property-research
firm said in a report today. Tenants paid an average of $23.23 a
square foot in the three months through June, up 2.1 percent
from a year earlier. The vacancy rate held at 17 percent.  “With the labor market unable to generate significant
office-using employment, demand for space remains enervated,”
Ryan Severino, senior economist for Reis, wrote in the report.  The firm expects the rest of the year to be little changed
from 2012, with sluggish  job growth , government spending cuts
and increases in taxes and  interest rates  weighing on the office
market. Without stronger demand, it will take years for rents to
return to the 2008 peak of about $25 a square foot, Reis said.  An average of 196,000 jobs a month were added in the second
quarter, Labor Department figures show. That’s down from 207,000
positions a month in the first quarter, a sign that the
employment-market recovery is “downshifting a bit,” Severino
wrote. Many of the jobs being created are in sectors that tend
to use less  office space , such as construction, manufacturing,
retail and health care, he said.  Vacancy Rate  While unchanged from the first quarter, the U.S.  office
vacancy rate  fell from 17.3 percent a year earlier. The rate has
been between 17 percent and 17.6 percent since the end of 2009.
It was 13.2 percent in the second quarter of 2008, before the
financial crisis, Reis data show.  “Without even modest demand, the decline in the national
vacancy rate will not accelerate,” Severino wrote.  Construction of new offices rebounded from a 14-year low in
the first quarter, more than tripling to 7.59 million square
feet (705,000 square meters) -- or about two and a half times
the size of  New York ’s 1 World Trade Center. It was the largest
amount of new space  completed  in three years, according to Reis.  Still, that number barely exceeded the 7.23 million square
feet of  net absorption , the difference between the amount of
space put on the market and the amount leased, Severino said.  “There is little to no demand for space in existing
buildings,” he wrote. “Clearly, the market is favoring new
space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  