-- U.S. Said to Plan Separate Leverage Ratios for Bank Firms
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2013-07-08T22:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/u-s-said-to-plan-separate-leverage-ratios-for-bank-firms.html
U.S. regulators may set two separate
capital standards for the largest banks, one for parent
companies and another for their government-backed lending units,
said a person with knowledge of the matter.  One  leverage ratio  would set capital at 6 percent of assets
and the other would be 5 percent under the joint proposal
scheduled to be published tomorrow by the  Federal Reserve , the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the person said.  The person, who asked for anonymity because the information
hasn’t been made public, didn’t specify which levels would apply
to the parent or lending unit. The global standard is 3 percent.  Regulators are raising ratios for the eight largest U.S.
banks as part of an international effort to prevent another
crisis like the one in 2008 that almost destroyed the financial
system. The leverage ratio represents a firm’s cushion against
losses when loans and other investments sour.  The FDIC plans to vote on the thresholds tomorrow in
 Washington . Spokesmen for the three banking regulators declined
to comment or didn’t respond to inquiries.  Letting holding companies meet a lower leverage requirement
than their lending units could help New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage, which keeps
most of its derivatives contracts at the parent company. Other
institutions hold almost all their contracts at banking units
insured by the FDIC.  Bank Impact  Five of the six largest U.S. lenders, including No. 1-ranked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , would fall under a 6 percent level
at the holding company level, according to estimates by Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. last month. KBW hasn’t calculated how they
would fare under a separate ratio for the banking units.  KBW had estimated Morgan Stanley’s holding company leverage
ratio to be 3.8 percent under new global rules.  The international standard was set at 3 percent in 2010 by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The group of central
bankers and regulators also compelled banks to count some off-balance-sheet assets that previously were left out, a change
that drives up the amount of capital needed.  Unlike the system that now prevails, the new leverage ratio
doesn’t give banks a break for less-risky holdings. Some of the
largest banks have been allowed to provide their own estimates
of how perilous their holdings were, a system known as risk-weighting. As doubts arose about the accuracy of those
calculations, U.S. regulators came under pressure to go beyond
the Basel minimum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  