-- UBS Global Favors Euro, Dollar as Crisis Fades Amid Hiring
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-08T06:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/ubs-global-asset-attracted-to-dollar-euro-with-fear-abating-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s asset management business
favors the euro and the U.S. dollar as easing financial and
political risks in the 17-nation region and employment gains in
the world’s biggest economy support the two currencies.  “The focus on getting rid of currency risk, particularly
euro-related risk, has decreased massively recently,” Jose Blanco, Zurich-based regional chief investment officer for
Europe, Middle East and  Africa  at UBS Global Asset Management,
said in a July 5 phone interview. “The level of fear of the
euro has abated a bit.” Europe’s shared currency and the
greenback are “attractive,” said Blanco, who is part of a team
managing almost 100 billion Swiss francs ($103.6 billion).  The dollar has climbed 8.1 percent this year, the best
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid bets the Federal
Reserve will start paring back stimulus measures after data last
week showed a larger-than-expected increase in U.S. payrolls.  The euro had the second-biggest gain, rising 4.7 percent
since Dec. 31, as Greek officials work toward reaching an accord
with international creditors to keep bailout funds flowing to
the country. The currency also held its advance after Portugal’s
10-year bond yield retreated from a seven-month high, as Prime
Minister Pedro Passos forged an agreement with coalition partner
CDS to hold the government together and avoid early elections.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus currencies of six major U.S. trade
partners including the euro and yen, touched a three-year high
of 84.588 before trading at 84.467 as of 7:21 a.m. in  London .
The euro was little changed at $1.2825 from $1.2829 on July 5
and traded at 129.57 yen, up 13 percent this year.  Losing Glimmer  UBS is “slightly underweight” on the franc and sees
potential for the currency to weaken toward 1.30 per euro in
coming weeks or months, according to Blanco. “In a situation
where risks are easing, the appeal of the Swiss franc as a haven
is losing its glimmer,” he said.  The Swiss currency lost 2.5 percent this year to 1.2380 per
euro, set for its first annual decline since 2007. It earlier
reached 1.2388, the weakest since June 10. It will probably
slide to 1.25 per euro by Dec. 31, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A separate poll
predicted it will weaken to 98 centimes per dollar by year-end,
compared with 96.51 today.  Bearish Aussie  UBS is “underweight” on the Australian dollar amid
expectations global growth will remain subdued and weakening
demand for commodities, according to Blanco. Expansion in  China ,
the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner, will also
struggle to rebound in coming quarters, he said.  The Aussie has tumbled 13 percent this year to 90.48 U.S.
cents, the biggest decline after the Japanese yen and South
African rand among 16 major peers. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, the top forecaster for the currency, sees it falling
another 4 percent to 87 U.S. cents by the end of this quarter.  “The Australian dollar has some room to depreciate a
bit,” Blanco said. “We think it should be valued about 10
percent below the current levels, around 80 to 85 cents, to put
it more in line with fundamentals. That’s the kind of move we’ll
have to see before we consider changing our views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  