-- Use Rewards Not Punishments to Help Bangladesh Workers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/use-rewards-not-punishments-to-help-bangladesh-workers.html
The U.S. is about to reimpose  tariffs 
on Bangladesh in response to the country’s  failure to improve 
safety in its factories. The European Union has threatened to
follow the U.S.’s lead -- a move that would hit Bangladesh much
harder. This punitive strategy is understandable, but there’s a
better way to advance a worthy cause.  More than 1,000 people died  when a garment factory near
Dhaka collapsed in April; a few months before, a factory fire
killed more than 100. Safety standards in Bangladeshi factories
are dire, and government efforts to effect improvements have
been paltry.  Under the  Generalized System of Preferences , a global
program that cuts or lowers tariffs on imports from developing
countries, the U.S.  requires compliance  with certain labor
standards.  Bangladesh  has failed to meet them, trade officials
in  Washington  say, and that’s why tariffs are being restored.  The announcement is little more than a symbolic gesture
because the U.S. doesn’t apply the GSP to many imports from
Bangladesh in the first place. In 2012, the program gave tariff-free access to just $35 million in imports, out of a total of
almost $4.5 billion. After the suspension of trade preferences,
nothing will change for garment imports: They already face
tariffs.  That’s not true of the EU. All imports from Bangladesh
currently enter Europe duty-free under Europe’s Everything But
Arms initiative. At a meeting July 8, Bangladesh dodged the
immediate prospect of losing those privileges by  promising  to
strengthen labor rights and hire additional workplace
inspectors. EU officials said the country could still lose its
GSP treatment if improvements were insufficient. If it does, the
blow will be serious.  So much the better, you might think. But if the goal is to
advance the welfare of Bangladeshi workers, let’s ask if there’s
a better way than threatening to destroy their jobs and collapse
their economy.  There is: The U.S. should sweeten the deal. As well as
promising to restore limited GSP coverage if Bangladesh improves
its safety record, the U.S. should promise to apply GSP to all
the country’s exports -- as Europe has for years -- as long as
there is measurable progress on safety.  Congress would have to go along, so this is no easy option
politically. In fact, the entire GSP will expire automatically
at the end of this month unless Congress finds time to renew it,
as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and others are  urging . Given the
will, though, the U.S. could be dangling an irresistible carrot
in front of Bangladesh rather than just waving a flimsy stick.
Meanwhile, the EU should refrain from withdrawing its duty-free
access.  In addition, U.S. companies should be doing more on their
own account. The  Accord on Fire and Building Safety in
Bangladesh , which  took effect  July 8, binds 70 retailers to
maintain or increase their current orders with their main
Bangladeshi factories for the next two years -- provided the
factories make safety improvements called for by independent
inspectors. (The retailers agreed to pay prices that enable the
producers to comply.) Many big EU companies, including Hennes &
Mauritz AB, Inditex SA and Tesco Plc, have signed; with the
exceptions of PVH Corp. and Abercrombie & Fitch Co., no U.S.
retailer has.  A group including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Gap Inc. is
drafting an  alternative safety program . If it contains the
funding and enforcement mechanisms of the  existing plan , it will
be redundant. If it doesn’t, it will be inadequate. A word of
support for the accord from a high-level U.S. government
official -- say, Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker -- could be
helpful in nudging them to sign.  There’s another reason, by the way, to favor the carrot
over the stick: Duty-free access is good for American and
European consumers. It makes things cheaper. And all countries
gain from a bias to expand rather than reduce trade. Unions in
rich countries sure don’t see it that way -- and it’s worth
bearing in mind that the petition to deny Bangladesh and its
U.S. customers GSP benefits was first lodged by the AFL-CIO.
Trade policy is always liable to be captured by groups that have
an interest in restricting competition.  It’s a tendency governments have an obligation to lean
against; in this case, they can do it by preferring rewards to
punishments.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 