-- Vilified U.S. Congress Shows Few Signs of Ending Gridlock
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-08T14:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/vilified-u-s-congress-shows-few-signs-of-ending-gridlock.html
With few signs of ending the gridlock
crushing public approval of Congress, U.S. lawmakers return this
week to confront a budgetary deficit, a loophole-riddled  tax
code  and a Senate revamping of immigration law given little
chance in the House.  Their conflicts don’t stop there. Republicans in the
Democratic-controlled Senate may block President  Barack Obama ’s
nominees to lead the Environmental Protection Agency and Labor
Department. The Republican-run House may try to revive farm
legislation while seeking a piecemeal approach to immigration
instead of the broad plan the Senate passed on June 27.  They will approach all this with a 15-percent public
approval rating. Even passage of an immigration compromise
wouldn’t be enough to uproot the view of a Congress that can’t
address the nation’s top challenges, said  Michael Dimock ,
director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center in Washington.  “One success in a row is not a pattern,” Dimock said.
“The real big-ticket items that people want to see action on
haven’t happened.”  Congressional inaction has slowed Obama’s legislative
agenda to a crawl in the first year of his second term, with the
prospect of even fewer accomplishments next year before the 2014
midterm congressional elections. Still, lawmakers, not the
president, are paying the price in public opinion, according to
a  Gallup Poll  report last month.  50 Percent  So far this year, an average of 50 percent of Americans
surveyed approve of the job Obama is doing as president, while
Congress is averaging 15 percent, according to Gallup. Obama’s
ability to appear above the fray of partisan debates gives him a
shield from anger over the  gridlock , the organization said.  Representative Gerald Connolly, a Virginia Democrat, said
he sees the measures most likely to pass this year -- farm
legislation, a debt-limit increase, an annual bill to
reauthorize defense programs and perhaps immigration -- as small
items considering that Americans are still struggling in a slow
economy. Even less will probably get done next year as midterm
elections loom, he said.  “That’s close to the agenda for the rest of the year,”
Connolly said in an interview. “There’s so much not addressed,
in terms of  jobs  and infrastructure and dealing with
sequestration,” he said, referring to automatic budget cuts
that kicked in earlier this year.  Hispanic Voters  Among the top goals Obama outlined Feb. 12 in his annual
 State of the Union  address, immigration is the only one seeing
action. Some Republicans view the issue as a way to boost the
party’s appeal among Hispanic voters, a fast-growing group that
gave Obama 71 percent of its support in the 2012 election.  The Senate rejected Obama’s bid for tougher gun laws
following the Dec. 14 killings of 20 schoolchildren and six
adults at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school. Going
nowhere are his calls for legislation to curb greenhouse-gas
emissions, $50 billion in infrastructure spending and raising
the minimum wage from $7.25 to $9 an hour by the end of 2015.  Senate Republicans’ opposition to his choices of Gina McCarthy to lead the EPA and  Thomas Perez  as labor secretary are
delaying his drive to complete his second-term Cabinet.  The president’s agenda also is being slowed by
congressional investigations into Internal Revenue Service
scrutiny of small-government groups seeking tax-exempt status,
the National Security Agency’s surveillance programs and the
Sept. 11 attacks at the consulate in Benghazi, Libya, in which
the U.S. ambassador was among those killed.  ‘Particularly Widespread’  “The administration is just putting out fires,” said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at  Rutgers University  in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey . “It’s a second-term problem, but it’s
particularly widespread and acute in this administration.”  In Congress, few measures have been signed into law this
year. Between the Jan. 3 start of the session and the end of
June, 15 pieces of legislation were enacted. One specifies the
size of National Baseball Hall of Fame commemorative coins and
another prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from restricting
fishing near dams in the Cumberland River Basin.  Just a handful of the measures had much weight, including a
$60.2 billion aid package to help rebuild communities devastated
by  Hurricane Sandy .  Going forward, there is little movement on big measures. A
drive for a “grand bargain” on  deficit reduction  is on hold
until September, when Congress will debate an increase in the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit.  Baucus, Camp  Congress’s top  tax  writers, Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus  and House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , are visiting
 St. Paul , Minnesota, today to promote a revision of U.S. tax
laws. Baucus, a Montana Democrat, and Camp, a Michigan
Republican, still disagree over a fundamental question: whether
a new tax code should raise more revenue for the government.  Some delays have real effects. The rate that college
undergraduates from poor families pay for  student loans  doubled
on July 1, to 6.8 percent, after senators left for a one-week
recess without agreement on a new  interest rate . Congress can
act retroactively if lawmakers work out a plan.  Some lawmakers, though, say they take heart in a few early
2013 gains. Senator Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses
with Democrats, said Congress deserves credit for  reauthorizing
programs that fight domestic violence.  Following the Senate’s June 10 passage of a $955 billion
agriculture plan, he said he still believes both chambers
probably will complete that measure this year even though the
House defeated its version of the farm bill on June 20.  ‘Not Perfect’  “It’s not everything I would have liked,” King said.
“It’s not perfect and it’s not where I would like it to be. But
there has been progress and the immigration bill is a very good
example of bipartisan work. I’m feeling very positive.”  House Republicans  plan a private meeting on July 10 to plan
strategy on immigration. The Senate passed its plan with 14
Republicans joining Democrats to back a proposal that pairs a
doubling of border security with a path to citizenship for an
estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  Many House Republicans oppose the citizenship path,
including Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, whose
panel is working on separate immigration bills in contrast to
the Senate’s comprehensive approach. Goodlatte has said he may
consider a path for children whose parents immigrated illegally.  Most Republicans  At the urging of his rank and file, House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio said last month he won’t advance an immigration
bill unless it has the support of most Republicans in the
chamber. That means he won’t let a bill pass with mostly
Democratic support, as he has in some previous votes, including
a 2011 measure that raised the federal debt ceiling.  “Each successive development raises questions about
whether the immigration bill will pass,” said  David Rohde , a
political scientist at  Duke University . “The House might pass a
bill, but I doubt it will accord with what’s going on in the
Senate. The chances of comprehensive immigration reform have
dropped.”  Even if lawmakers agree on a final immigration plan, it
might not boost the public’s view of Congress much because that
issue is far down the list of priorities for American voters,
said  Frank Newport , editor in chief of the Gallup Poll.  In a June 1-4 Gallup poll, 43 percent of Americans named
either the economy or employment and jobs as the No. 1 issue
facing the U.S., while 6 percent said immigration topped their
list of concerns.  At the same time, lawmakers are in a bind because failure
to get a measure to the president’s desk will still spark a
backlash, Newport said.  “Whenever they’re unable to get something done,” Newport
said, “their approval ratings dip lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  