-- LVMH Acquires Cashmere Clothier Loro Piana for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-09T08:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/lvmh-buys-italian-cashmere-clothier-loro-piana-for-2-6-billion.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
agreed to pay 2 billion euros ($2.57 billion) for 80 percent of
Italian cashmere clothier Loro Piana SpA, adding a high-quality
textile producer to its burgeoning portfolio of luxury brands.  The transaction, which is subject to approval by
competition authorities, values Quarona, Italy-based Loro Piana
at 2.7 billion euros, LVMH said yesterday in a statement after
the market closed. The family owners of the maker of  $1,385
cashmere sweaters  will retain a 20 percent stake in the
business, Paris-based LVMH said.  “This should be viewed as a positive, opportunistic deal
for LVMH,” said  Thomas Chauvet , a Citigroup analyst in  London ,
who recommends buying the shares. “Loro Piana has a potential
to grow sales and Ebit significantly in the niche, fast-growing
luxury daywear segment as well as creating some industrial
synergies with the rest of LVMH’s fashion and leather brands.”  Loro Piana, which would be LVMH’s biggest acquisition since
the 2011 purchase of Bulgari SpA, brings LVMH expertise in
textiles as well as helping it tap further into the market for
the most expensive  luxury goods , which account for the fastest-growing part of the industry. LVMH’s Louis Vuitton brand, its
biggest, has faced a slowdown as consumers from Barcelona to
Beijing seek more exclusive items.  Shares Advance  LVMH  rose  1.9 percent to 131.15 euros at 10:34 a.m. in
Paris today, paring this year’s decline to 5.5 percent. The
company, which also makes Celine handbags and owns Sephora
makeup stores, has a market value of 66.6 billion euros.  Loro Piana competes in the absolute luxury segment, which
Bain & Co. predicts will grow faster than the rest of the
industry until at least 2014. The company gets two-thirds of its
 revenue  from men’s and women’s clothing and other goods, which
it distributes via 130 stores worldwide, and the rest from
textiles such as vicuna, a rare wool from a South American
mammal, according to LVMH.  LVMH said it sees “significant  growth  potential” in
retail expansion and widening Loro Piana’s product offer,
including in leather and accessories. The Loro Piana family has
been trading wool and textiles since the beginning of the 19th
century and established the business bearing their name in 1924.  Earnings Boost  The transaction will boost earnings the first year after
it’s concluded, LVMH Chief Financial Officer Jean-Jacques Guiony
said on a call yesterday. There are put and  call options  for
three years on the Loro Piana family’s 20 percent stake, with
the price based on a multiple of trailing earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, he said. That
means LVMH can force the family to sell it or they can force
LVMH to buy it during the period.  Loro Piana sales are expected to reach 700 million euros
this year from 631 million euros in 2012, according to LVMH.
Ebitda will be more than 20 percent of sales, LVMH said. Ebit
was 97.9 million euros in 2012. The Loro Piana family will keep
their functions in the company’s leadership structure.  Assuming Loro Piana’s 2013 revenue goal and an Ebit margin
of about 17 percent, the transaction represents an acquisition
multiple of 22.7 times Ebit and 3.9 times sales, according to
Citigroup’s Chauvet. That compares to a sector trading average,
excluding  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, of 13.4 times Ebit and 2.9
times sales. Loro Piana rival  Brunello Cucinelli SpA (BC) , which
first sold shares to the public last year, trades at 25.2 times
Ebit, according to Chauvet.  Antitrust Clearance  LVMH said it expects to gain antitrust clearance for the
purchase in the fourth quarter. The deal will be financed by
available cash and new debt made up of short-term commercial
paper and a medium-term bond, according to the company. Gearing
is expected to be below 20 percent next year and the purchase
will have limited impact on LVMH’s debt profile and ratios, it
said.  Sergio and Pier Luigi Loro Piana approached LVMH Chief
Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  a month ago to discuss selling
a stake, according to a spokesman for LVMH.  “LVMH has proved that it respects and nurtures family
businesses and is most likely to respect the values and
traditions of our maison,” the brothers said in the statement.  Their father, Franco Loro Piana, started exporting fine
fabrics to international markets in the mid-1940s and since the
1970s the brothers have developed the brand and expanded into
luxury retail, according to LVMH.  Lotus Garments  In addition to vicuna, which Loro Piana was awarded the
exclusive rights to reintroduce to the market in 1994, the
company is the biggest “western” producer of cashmere and the
largest single purchaser of the extra-fine merino wools in
 Australia  and  New Zealand , according to LVMH. More recently,
Loro Piana has introduced the lotus flower fiber, preserving an
expertise that is only held by a few local artisans established
on Inle Lake in Myanmar, LVMH said.  LVMH, which in 2010 disclosed a stake in Hermes, was fined
8 million euros this month by the French financial-markets
regulator for breaching disclosure rules when it built its stake
in the maker of Birkin bags.  “A malignant interpretation would be that Loro Piana is
some kind of ersatz Hermes,” said  Luca Solca , an  analyst  at
Exane BNP Paribas in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  