-- Vue Selling Bonds to Fund LBO as Credit Risk Falls in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-08T14:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/vue-selling-bonds-to-fund-lbo-as-credit-risk-falls-in-europe.html
Vue Entertainment Ltd. is meeting
investors for a bond sale to fund its leveraged buyout as the
cost of insuring European corporate debt against losses
declines.  The cinema operator plans to sell the equivalent of 550
million pounds ($820 million) of notes in euros and pounds to
support its acquisition last month by  Ontario  Municipal
Employees Retirement System and Alberta Investment Management
Corp., according to a person familiar with the plan, who asked
not to be identified because the details are private. Corporate
credit risk fell in Europe to the lowest in more than two weeks.  Confidence is returning to credit markets after the
European Central Bank and the Bank of England both indicated on
July 4 they would keep interest rates low for longer than
investors expected. The cost of protecting corporate bonds fell
with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 speculative-grade companies dropping as much as 11 basis
points today to 444 basis points, the lowest since June 19.  “It’s going to be quite a volatile environment for a
while,” said Martin Reeves, head of high yield at Legal &
General Investment Management, responsible for about $2.45
billion of assets. “In a volatile environment, just getting the
deal done is the focus rather than securing the low yield. There
will be good weeks and bad weeks for issuance.”  Junk Sales  Non-financial junk bond issuance reached a record 37.2
billion euros ($48 billion) this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It slowed to the least since March 30
last week following a global selloff sparked by the Federal
Reserve’s plans to scale back quantitative easing.  An external spokeswoman for London-based Vue, who asked not
to be identified citing company policy, said she wasn’t
immediately able to comment on the financing.  Vue, which operates in countries including the U.K.,
Germany and Portugal, will sell seven-year, fixed-rate bonds in
pounds that may be redeemed by the company after three years and
seven-year, floating-rate notes in euros that are callable after
one year through its Vougeot Bidco Plc unit, according to the
person. Its two Canadian owners will also fund the deal using
their own cash.  “There has been a trend over the past 18 months or so for
companies to use bonds as an alternative to loans or in
combination with loans for LBOs,” said Torben Ronberg, head of
loans at ECM Asset Management Ltd. in  London . “Private equity
is behind an increasing part of the European high-yield
market.”  Debt Repayment  Vue’s proposed bonds have been assigned a provisional B2
rating by Moody’s Investors Service, five levels below
investment grade.  Some of the proceeds will be used to repay 386 million
pounds of Vue’s bank facilities, according to bond marketing
materials seen by Bloomberg News. Doughty Hanson & Co.’s buyout
of the company in 2010 was backed by 300 million pounds of
loans, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Vue obtained about 147 million pounds of loans last year to
fund acquisitions, a person familiar with the situation said at
the time.  The volume of high-yield bonds issued by non-financial
companies dropped below the year’s weekly average of 1.5 billion
euros for an eighth consecutive week last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield investors demand
to hold the debt declined to 6.06 percent after reaching a
seven-month high of 6.30 percent on June 25, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  High-Yield Pipeline  Also in European credit markets, Findus Group Ltd., a
British frozen food producer that underwent a debt restructuring
last year, plans to sell the equivalent of 410 million pounds of
junk bonds in pounds, euros and Swedish kronor, according to a
person familiar with the plan. The five-year notes, which may be
rated six levels below investment grade at B3 by Moody’s, will
be callable after two years, the person said.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier, plans to sell at least 500 million euros of five-year
bonds to help finance the early redemption of higher interest
debt, it said in a statement today. The Hanover, Germany-based
manufacturer will buy back 1 billion euros of securities paying
a coupon of 7.5 percent, according to the statement.  Kering SA, the Paris-based company that owns the Gucci
brand, raised 500 million euros in its first bond sale since
April 2012. The seven-year notes were priced to yield 98 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, sold 400 million euros of bonds due 2019 that were
priced to yield 135 basis points more than swaps. Part of the
proceeds will be used to refinance the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based company’s debt maturing in 2014, a person familiar with
that offering said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  