-- Australia Picks Ewen McKenzie as Rugby Coach After Deans Quits
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-09T05:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/wallabies-coach-deans-steps-down-australian-rugby-union-says.html
Ewen McKenzie was hired as Australia
rugby coach after  Robbie Deans  ended his record tenure following
the series loss to the British and Irish Lions.  McKenzie, the director of coaching at the Queensland Reds
Super Rugby team, was appointed through the 2015  Rugby World Cup 
and his first match in charge will be Aug. 17 against world
champion  New Zealand . He’s the first former Wallaby to go on to
coach the team in 34 years.  With Deans’s contract due to expire at the end of the year,
the Australian Rugby Union said it appointed an advisory group
to assess potential successors as the 2013 season progressed,
with consideration given to factors including leadership,
discipline, coaching records, values and playing style.  “Having established the necessary criteria, and spoken to
the relevant people, we were convinced that Ewen was the man to
take the Wallabies forward,” ARU Chief Executive Officer Bill
Pulver said today in a televised news conference in Brisbane.  McKenzie, 48, is charged with improving the Wallabies’ 58
percent winning ratio under Deans, a New Zealander who took over
as Australia’s first non-native coach in 2008 and oversaw a
record 74 Test matches. The ARU said Deans advised Pulver of his
resignation late yesterday, two days after the Wallabies’ 41-16
loss to the Lions in their series-deciding match in Sydney.  McKenzie, who won the  World Cup  as a player with the
Wallabies in 1991, said in March that he would leave the Reds at
the end of the season and seek a job with a national squad.  “Earlier this year I put my hand up and said this is where
I want to go,” McKenzie said. “I feel all the work I’ve done
in rugby has channeled me to this point. It’s been a long
journey. It was offered to me once before and I declined because
I wasn’t ready. Now I definitely feel ready.”  Transformed Reds  The former front-row forward supervised the Reds’
transformation from Super Rugby strugglers to title contenders
since taking over in 2010. The Brisbane-based team won its first
provincial title in the professional era in 2011 and this year
qualified for the playoffs for the third straight season.  McKenzie, who played 51 Tests as a prop for  Australia ,
previously coached the New South Wales Waratahs and French club
Stade Francais after ending a three-year spell as Wallabies
assistant coach in 2003. After retiring as a player in 1997, he
spent two years as coaching coordinator of the ACT Brumbies.  “Robbie just hasn’t been able to transform the Wallabies
side into the side that we all hoped it would be when he was
signed six years ago,” former Australia forward Brendan Cannon
said on Fox Sports News. “Ewen’s earned the right, he’s done a
long apprenticeship.”  Inconsistency, Indiscipline  Deans’s 5 1/2-season tenure was marred by inconsistent
results and instances of player indiscipline, the latest coming
two weeks ago when backs  James O’Connor  and Kurtley Beale were
photographed at 3:50 a.m. in a fast-food restaurant three days
before the second Test against the Lions.  Pulver today confirmed reports that two unnamed players had
missed the team bus for the Wallabies’ final training session
before the series-deciding Test against the Lions in Sydney.  McKenzie said he would ensure players understood their
responsibilities as members of the national squad.  “I’ll make it quite clear what I want from a Wallaby,” he
said. “It won’t be too complicated, but they need to understand
the opportunity to play for the Wallabies is a purely
representative one. It’s like a week-to-week contract and if
you’re not doing the right thing at the right time, that week-to-week contract might not be there.”  New Zealand Nemesis  While the Wallabies won their first Southern Hemisphere
championship in a decade under Deans, they also suffered a first
ever defeat to Samoa, twice lost to  Scotland  and were routed
53-8 by  South Africa  -- Australia’s heaviest defeat in 114 years
of Test rugby.  Deans was hired by the ARU in December 2007 after coaching
New Zealand’s Crusaders to four Super Rugby titles. He guided
the Wallabies to the Tri-Nations title in 2011, though the team
was upset by Ireland in the pool stage of the World Cup later
that year before losing to the All Blacks in the semifinals.  With Deans as coach the Wallabies won 43 of their 74 Tests
lost 29 and drew two. In 18 matches against New Zealand in that
span, the Wallabies managed just three victories as the All
Blacks extended their grip on the Bledisloe Cup contested
annually between the teams to 10 years.  “I’ll be picking the team that I think can beat the All
Blacks,” said McKenzie. “In the end we want the Bledisloe Cup
back. You couldn’t get a better opportunity to start. I don’t
want to ease my way in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  