-- Water Warming to Boost Hydro, Nuclear-Power Costs: Study
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-07-08T12:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/water-warming-to-boost-hydro-nuclear-power-costs-study.html
Waterways warmed by  climate change 
will increase electricity prices by as much as a third in
southern  Europe  as producers struggle to cool power stations, a
study showed.  Countries from  Romania  to Bulgaria and Slovenia face the
biggest price increases, according to research today from the
Laxenburg, Austria-based Institute for International Applied
Systems Analysis. Dutch, German and Spanish scientists
participated in  the study .  “The combination of increased water temperatures and
reduced summer river flow under climate change is likely to
affect both hydropower and thermoelectric power generating
capacity in Europe,” wrote the authors, led by Michelle van
Vliet, whose research focuses on how warming climate will affect
world river flows.  Freshwater is becoming more scarce as the globe copes with
climate change that shrinks glaciers, aquifers get depleted and
some regions become dryer as the world population rises to 9
billion by 2050. In addition to providing hydropower, water is
an essential cooling function inside nuclear and coal-fired
plants. The European report follows calls on U.S. energy
providers to boost climate-change adaptation.  “All kinds of energy infrastructure and all kinds of
critical infrastructure has to be planned with an understanding
that we are likely to have to adapt to some of the effects of
climate change,” Department of Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz
said last week in Vienna. Plants may have to swap cooling
technologies “that’s more expensive and makes the plant less
efficient,” he said.  Temperatures, Rivers  Europe’s hydropower potential is expected to decrease as
much as 5 percent from 2031 to 2060, according to the report.
Nuclear, coal and gas-fired plants in southern Europe will be
most adversely affected by rising temperatures and low river
levels, the study said.  “Considering the high investment costs, retrofitting or
replacement of  power plants  might not be beneficial from the
perspective of individual power-plant operators,” the study’s
authors wrote, adding that introducing more renewable energy
sources may help populations to cope with climate change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  