-- Why I Became a Chinese Shadow Banker
-- B y   J o e   Z h a n g
-- 2013-07-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/why-i-became-a-chinese-shadow-banker.html
In the fall of 2010, as deputy head
of  China  investment banking at UBS AG, I spoke to a group of
wealthy investors in Beijing about the outlook for Chinese
stocks. A rumpled, 50-something man from Hangzhou named Wang
Zhigang pulled me aside afterward and asked for my advice about
investing. Until then, he had made his money through curbside
lending, not stocks. But, he lamented, his returns had dropped
from more than 30 percent a year to a mere 23 percent. He
worried about his personal fortune, which he had built up from
nothing to almost 3 billion  yuan  (about $445 million back then).  He hardly needed my advice, I told him. “With your
performance, even Ba-Fei-Te should farm out some money for you
to manage!” I said, referring to  Warren Buffett ’s name in
Chinese.  Intrigued, I flew to Hangzhou a few days later to find out
how Wang had done so well. He drove me to the Haining Leather
Market to meet some of his customers. They were merchants of
leather shoes, handbags and accessories. Their network was wide
and close-knit, and they sold products globally through
traditional channels, as well as online.  Twenty years ago, these guys would have looked like small
fish to a traditional bank. Even after their businesses had
grown exponentially, they couldn’t supply the kind of collateral
that banks demanded. Yet these merchants needed money, and they
needed it fast. So they turned for help to “shadow” bankers,
like Wang.  Shadow Portfolios  There has been a lot of talk lately about  shadow banking in
China . Between curbside lenders, microcredit institutions,
pawnshops, trust loans, “wealth management products” from
banks and other components, this murky and unregulated
financial universe is now worth an estimated $5 trillion,
challenging the dominance of the traditional banking sector.
Such unrestrained growth naturally worries China’s central bank,
which fears that a flood of bad shadow loans could prompt a
financial meltdown similar to the U.S. subprime crisis in 2008.
A liquidity squeeze in June, when the central bank allowed
interbank lending rates to rise to as high as 20 percent before
intervening, was widely interpreted as a warning to banks to
clean up their shadow portfolios.  China’s shadow bankers are easy to demonize. Like Wang,
many are nicotine-stained and seemingly unsophisticated. Their
methods are unorthodox, possibly even unsavory. Their loans
don’t show up on any balance sheets. They look like a disaster
waiting to happen.  I believe these fears are misplaced, and I should know:
Eight months after my visit to Hangzhou, I became a shadow
banker myself. Since 2011, I have run a microcredit firm in
 Guangzhou , which provides loans to thousands of small-scale
entrepreneurs: florists, restaurateurs, fish farmers, vegetable
growers, roadside hawkers.  Although we charge about 24 percent annually for our money,
demand remains virtually unlimited. Our customers are too small
and too unstable to get traditional bank loans. At the same
time, because we keep our loan amounts small -- $20,000 apiece
on average -- and because we have close contact with our
clients, the business has proved reasonably secure. Our bad
debts have not strayed above 5 percent since the firm was
founded five years ago.  This month, I visited Wang in Hangzhou again. A few
borrowers had defaulted in recent months, he told me, but unlike
some of his competitors, he had been “extremely lucky.” He was
scrupulous about only lending to clients and businesses he knew
well, and years of experience had given him a good eye.  “This is my hard-earned money; I have to be careful,” he
told me. “My family was dirt-poor when I was a child. I am just
so afraid of becoming poor again.” Wang’s fortune had almost
doubled since I had last seen him.  Lower Leverage  One cannot defend a $5 trillion industry with a couple of
examples. Two of Wang’s colleagues had been wiped out in the
last year after large borrowers defaulted. Several other
informal lenders in Hangzhou had ended up behind bars after
disgruntled investors accused them of fraud. In recent weeks,
news reports have described mass bankruptcies among small
businesses that had borrowed heavily from shadow banks at
exorbitant rates.  But neither should one condemn all of shadow banking
because of stories like these. Shadow banking is well
diversified, and serves a legitimate customer base. By and
large, it has much lower leverage than banks or corporate China.
Losses at shadow banks are often absorbed by entrepreneurs
themselves, without affecting the taxpayer.  Even the “wealth management products” offered by regular
banks are not to be feared, because they are just deposits, pure
and simple, whatever the theoretical distinctions. I buy them
myself.  Certainly, the sector could stand to be brought under
greater supervision. But many of the regulations already in
place are vague and unreasonable. Authorities have never clearly
defined something as fundamental as what constitutes “illegal
fundraising.” Microcredit operations, like ours, are allowed to
borrow from no more than two banks for any more than 50 percent
of their equity capital. Why only two banks? Why only 50
percent? These restrictions are arbitrary, and they severely
limit our ability to lend to underprivileged customers.  The government and the media are scapegoating the wrong
culprit. Shadow banking has flourished in China for one simple
reason: financial repression. By keeping  interest rates 
artificially low, authorities have forced savers to search for
more lucrative financial products. By favoring banks -- which,
in turn, favor state-owned or well-connected private-sector
companies with loans -- they have forced small enterprises to
seek out people like me and Wang.  Meanwhile, projects that might look sketchy at 9 percent
interest rates suddenly look feasible at 6 percent. Under such
conditions, traditional banks have steadily lowered their
lending standards -- from prime loans to subprime and then to
simply silly loans.  Sound familiar? That’s how the 2008 financial crisis began,
too. Leaders are right to worry about the possibility of a
banking crisis in China. But instead of focusing their ire on
shadow bankers, they should raise benchmark interest rates in
order to reduce the amount of credit flowing to dodgy loans
through the formal banking sector. The threat to China’s
financial system is right there -- out in the open -- not
lurking in the shadows.  (Joe Zhang is the author of “Inside China’s Shadow
Banking: The Next Subprime Crisis?”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joe Zhang at  joe@chinamezz.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 