-- Twist in U.S. Health Law May Create Two-Tiered Medicaid
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/twist-in-u-s-health-law-may-create-two-tiered-medicaid.html
Colonoscopies, diabetes screenings
and other preventative services mandated by the U.S. health law
may be offered only to new Medicaid program enrollees next year,
leaving existing patients with second-tier care, a study found.  Excluding people already in the Medicaid program for the
poor may penalize a population more prone to chronic conditions,
researchers from George Washington University said in an  article 
published today in the journal Health Affairs. The 2010
Affordable Care Act guaranteed preventative screenings to almost
all who enroll in the expanded version of Medicaid and states
were given the option of whether to offer those services to
people already in the program.  While the law provides some money to avoid such disparity,
the federal incentives may be insufficient to change the minds
of governors and legislators. Some states, including  Virginia ,
 Utah ,  Montana  and  Vermont , have decided it’s not worth the
financial burden, said  Sara Wilensky , a faculty member at George
Washington University’s Department of Health Policy.  “Certainly a lot of poor people are going to be left out
from these preventive services,” Wilensky, the lead author of
the report, said in a telephone interview.  Most private and public insurance plans are required to
offer the services that the  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force 
gives either an A or B rating, indicating they are likely to
provide at least a moderate benefit to the patient. Such
services include cancer screenings, HIV testing, obesity
counseling and tests related to cholesterol and blood pressure.  Supreme Court  “If these services are so crucial to good health that
coverage of them is required for so many others, why were people
who are currently on Medicaid left off of health reform’s
prevention bandwagon?” the researchers asked.  About 25 million Americans are projected to gain insurance
under the health-care law, including 13 million through the
state-federal Medicaid program for the poor. The Medicaid
expansion called for every state to expand eligibility to people
making as much as 138 percent of the federal poverty level, or
about $32,500 for a family of four this year.  The  Supreme Court  ruled last year that requiring the states
to expand their Medicaid programs was unconstitutional. Since
then, most Republican governors have balked at the expansion,
citing costs to their states despite the federal government’s
plans to cover 100 percent of the tab for the first three years
and at least 90 percent in the years following.  As of July 1,  21 states  have said they won’t expand
Medicaid and 6 others are still debating what to do, according
to data tracked by the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit
group research based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Among the states that are expanding Medicaid, the
researchers couldn’t definitively say how many would end up with
a separate standard of preventive services for new enrollees
versus existing beneficiaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  