-- Withers, Baker & McKenzie, Milbank: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/withers-baker-mckenzie-milbank-business-of-law.html
Withers LLP (known as Withers Bergman
LLP in the U.S.) named Ivan A. Sacks global chairman as of July
1. He succeeded Anthony Indaimo, who stepped down after serving
the firm’s maximum of two terms as chairman.  Sacks, a private-client lawyer, was most recently the U.S.
regional senior partner and managing director of the firm’s  New
York  office. He is the firm’s first American chairman.  “Withers is committed to being the premier international
 law firm  dedicated to helping the owners of private capital by
providing integrated advice across the range of personal,
business and public-interested issues they may face,” Sacks
said in a statement. “I look forward to continuing to build on
that commitment and the quality of our services to our
clients.”  Sacks joined Withers as a partner in 2003. He has led the
firm’s development of the Latin American practice. He counsels
families and entrepreneurs on the structuring of their closely
held business interests, family offices and charitable
foundations, among other matters. He also advises banks and
trust companies on fiduciary matters, the firm said.  Withers has more than 370 attorneys in 10 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the British Virgin Islands who specialize
in personal wealth and estate planning matters.  Moves  Baker & McKenzie Adds Tax, Employment Partners in Australia  Baker & McKenzie  LLP announced that partners Ellen Thomas
and Sean Selleck will join the firm from King & Wood Mallesons.  Sydney-based Thomas focuses on general corporate, property
and banking tax advice, the firm said. She has acted for Westpac
on its issue of Westpac Subordinated Notes and worked on
infrastructure projects including the M7 Motorway and the
privatization of the Sydney desalination plant, the firm said.  Melbourne-based Selleck handles employment issues and
disputes and industrial strategies and disputes. He has a
special interest in nonstandard labor practices such as labor
hire, outsourcing, casual employment and independent
contractors, the firm said.  “Ellen and Sean will add a new dimension to our existing
tax and employment teams, and the advice we provide our
clients,” Baker & McKenzie national managing Partner Chris
Freeland said in a statement.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers at 74 offices
in 46 countries.  Litigation  Lending Discrimination Case at Supreme Court in Settlement Talks  The township of Mount Holly,  New Jersey , and a local
citizens’ group are trying to settle a dispute before the U.S.
 Supreme Court  that threatens to undercut the Obama
administration’s crackdown on lending discrimination.  “The parties are currently engaged in settlement
discussions to attempt to resolve the matter,” M. James Maley
Jr., counsel to the township, wrote in a  June 26 letter .  Maley said both sides want a 25-day extension of an Aug. 1
deadline for a brief to the court arguing the township’s case, a
filing that sets in motion other deadlines. That request was
granted, according to the Supreme Court  website .  Mount Holly is fighting a U.S. Fair Housing Act suit filed
by residents over the demolition of a predominantly minority
neighborhood. The town says the residents must prove an intent
to discriminate, not just that the project has a
disproportionate effect on minorities.  The case will test a legal theory, known as disparate
impact, that the Obama administration has invoked in lawsuits
against banks over housing and auto loans.  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  have agreed to
pay at least $480 million to settle claims since December 2011.  The Supreme Court agreed to consider the disparate-impact
issue during its 2011-2012 term in a case involving  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota . The city dropped its appeal in February, scuttling
the case.  The case in settlement talks is Township of Mount Holly v.
Mount Holly Gardens Citizens in Action, 11-1507, U.S. Supreme
Court ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  Video  BigLaw’s Scramble to Hire the Best Changes Recruiting  Jay Grushkin, hiring partner at New York’s Milbank Tweed,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about how the hiring
season has changed since the recession in BigLaw began in 2008.
Elite law schools have moved their on-campus recruiting weeks
earlier and earlier, in efforts to give their students the best
chance at getting a job. That’s forced firms to extend job
offers faster than before the recession began. He’d like to see
recruiting move from August to January of a student’s second
year, so firms have a better sense of their business needs.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Audio  Author Harper Sees Worst Job Market for Law Students  Steven Harper, a recently retired partner of Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis LLP and author of “The Lawyer Bubble: A
Profession in Crisis,” says only half of graduating law school
students will get jobs. Harper talks  with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene 
and Scarlet Fu on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. Click here to listen.  News  Supreme Court’s Mansour Is Egypt’s Fourth Leader Since 2011  Adly Mansour, a 67-year-old Egyptian Supreme Court justice,
served two days as the constitutional court’s head before he was
named  Egypt ’s interim president.  Mansour, who was deputy to the head of the court from 1992
until last month, was chosen to lead the country after the army
removed President Mohamed Mursi, the nation’s first
democratically elected civilian president July 3. Mansour, the
representative of an Egyptian judiciary that has repeatedly
clashed with Mursi, was sworn in July 4.  The anti-Mursi protests have united the Egyptian people,
Mansour said after he took the oath of office July 5. He saluted
what he termed the bravery of Egypt’s youth and the armed
forces, saying that the police have realized their place is on
the side of the public. He looks forward to the presidential
elections, he said.  A bespectacled father-of-three, Mansour studied for
postgraduate degrees at Cairo University’s Faculty of Law before
beginning his career in 1970 as an assistant representative at
the State Council, a judicial body that resolved disputes
between individuals and government agencies, according to his
biography on the Supreme Constitutional Court’s website. Mansour
won a scholarship to attend  France ’s Ecole Nationale de
l’Administration, according to  Al Jazeera .  The judge becomes the fourth man to lead the Arab world’s
most populous nation since 2011.  Hosni Mubarak  served as
president for about three decades before the army stripped him
of his powers two years ago following a popular uprising. He was
replaced by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, led by
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi. It handed power to Mursi,
a member of once-banned Islamist group the Muslim Brotherhood,
who held office for a year before the army stepped in again.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 