-- WTI Crude Falls From 14-Month High
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-08T19:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/wti-crude-falls-from-14-month-high.html
West Texas Intermediate crude dropped
from a 14-month high after an official said Egypt’s  Suez Canal 
is secure and ship traffic is “normal,” even as violence
escalated in Cairo.  WTI fell 8 cents as Tarek Hassanein, a Suez Canal Authority
spokesman, said that 55 ships were scheduled to pass through the
channel. Prices topped $104 a barrel today as Egyptian security
forces fought with supporters of ousted President Mohamed Mursi,
leaving at least 51 dead. Egypt runs the canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline, through which Middle Eastern oil moves
on its way to  Europe .  “Traffic on the Suez Canal has been unaffected by the
unrest in Egypt,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “There’s
relief that the traffic is still moving. There won’t be a major
fall in prices because the situation could spiral out of control
at any moment and threaten the flow of oil.”  WTI crude for August delivery settled at $103.14 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume of all futures
traded was 24 percent more than the 100-day average at 3:32 p.m.
Futures rose to $104.12 early in the session, the highest
intraday level since May 3, 2012.  Brent oil for August settlement decreased 29 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $107.43 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume for all contracts
was 2.5 percent above the 100-day average for the time of day.
The European benchmark grade traded at a $4.29 premium to WTI,
the least since Jan. 4, 2011, based on settlement prices.  Suez Traffic  A combined 2.24 million barrels a day of oil were shipped
to Europe and  North America  in 2011 through the canal and Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline from the  Red Sea , according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. The  Middle East  accounted for
35 percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this
year, International Energy Agency data show.  The military deposed Mursi on July 3, a year into his term,
after popular discontent with his leadership culminated in days
of protests against him. The flaring violence threatens to
deepen political polarization and derail efforts by the
country’s interim leaders to form a government.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have removed non-essential
staff from Egypt, officials at the companies said, while  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said it temporarily relocated some workers and
dependents. Oil and gas output hasn’t been affected by unrest,
the companies said. Egypt produced 728,000 barrels of oil a day
in 2012 and 60.9 billion cubic meters of natural gas, BP said.  Libyan Production  Libyan oilfields and ports are back to normal after sit-ins
that had stopped some production and loading, the state-owned
 Libya  News Agency said today, citing an official it didn’t
identify. The country has the largest proved oil reserves in
 Africa , according to BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Repeated closures at facilities such as the Es Sider and
Zueitina ports, led to fluctuations in the Libya’s oil
production and exports. Crude output fell to 1.13 million
barrels a day last month, the least since January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  WTI futures also slipped after a technical indicator
signaled that prices have advanced too quickly. The 14-day
relative strength index rose above 70 on July 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Some investors start selling
contracts when the reading is more than 70, a sign that
speculative buying has driven prices unreasonably high.  “The RSI shot above 70, which implies an overbought
situation,” Yawger said.  Financial Markets  Declines eased as U.S. equities climbed and the dollar
dropped against most of its peers. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.4 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
gained 0.6 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which measures greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trade partners, fell from a three-year high. A weaker dollar bolsters the appeal of commodities
denominated in the U.S. currency as an investment.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 22.8 percent, down from 24.4 percent July 5, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “There’s tension in the market today,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.
“Equities are higher and the dollar is off its highs, which is
sending a mixed message. In Egypt, there continues to be unrest,
but oil keeps flowing through the Suez Canal.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 656,154
contracts as of 3:32 p.m. It totaled 615,153 contracts July 5,
4.6 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.77 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  