-- WTI Crude Trades Near 14-Month High Before U.S. Inventory Data
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-07-09T13:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/wti-trades-near-14-month-high-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-declining.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
its highest level in 14 months before data forecast to show U.S.
crude supplies fell for a second week and as bloodshed in  Egypt 
stoked concern that Middle Eastern exports may be disrupted.  Futures were little changed in New York, after closing at a
14-month high on July 5, as the relative strength index signaled
prices may have advanced too quickly.  Crude stockpiles  probably
dropped by 3.1 million barrels last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before government data to be released
tomorrow. Egypt’s army yesterday shot to death at least 51
supporters of deposed President Mohamed Mursi, the highest daily
number of fatalities since his ouster.  “WTI is still underpinned by a positive U.S. macro-outlook,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
 London . “The U.S. benchmark has gained strongly the past week
amid expectations of decent refining demand this summer. The
situation in Egypt is very tense, keeping market participants on
edge.”  WTI for August delivery was at $102.59 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 55
cents, at 1:59 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 10 percent above the 100-day average. The contract
slipped 8 cents yesterday after closing at $103.22 on July 5,
the highest since May 2, 2012. Prices increased 6.9 percent last
week, the most since February 2011.  Chart Indicator  Brent for August settlement was down 16 cents at $107.27 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $4.62 to WTI
contracts. The spread was $4.29 yesterday, the narrowest based
on closing prices since January 2011.  WTI’s 14-day relative strength index closed above 70 for a
second day yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors typically sell contracts above that reading, when the
market is considered overbought. The RSI is at about 72 today.  Egypt’s political upheaval continued to fan concern that
strife in the most populous Arab country may spread. Interim
President Adly Mansour set parliamentary elections within seven
months in a 33-article constitutional declaration yesterday as
he sought to push ahead with a political transition.  Suez Traffic  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil were shipped from the Red Sea to Europe and North America in
2011, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show. Egypt
also borders Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest proven crude
reserves and is itself experiencing political unrest and
sporadic strikes at oil ports.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global crude
output in the first quarter of this year, according to the
International Energy Agency in Paris.  BP Plc, BG Group Plc and Eni SpA have pulled out “non-essential” staff from Egypt, while Royal Dutch Shell Plc
temporarily relocated some workers and dependents, said
officials at the European companies.  “Egypt is still spooking the market,” said David Lennox,
a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. The most recent
reported U.S. crude stockpile decline “was quite substantial,
and a further draw-down of that magnitude might certainly give
the market good reason to stay well over $100.”  Gasoline Stockpiles  U.S. gasoline inventories are forecast to have climbed by 1
million barrels in the week ended July 5, according to the
 median estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The EIA,
the Energy Department’s statistical unit, is scheduled to
release its weekly supply report tomorrow.  Refinery operating rates probably gained by 0.25 percentage
points, the survey shows. Processing rose to an average 92.2
percent of capacity in the previous week, the highest rate since
August. Refiners typically boost output this time of year to
meet increased motor fuel demand during the U.S. summer driving
season, which runs from late May to early September.  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
are projected to have risen by 1 million barrels last week.  The American Petroleum Institute will release its own
supply data in  Washington  today. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA.  Hedge funds increased bullish bets on WTI for the third
time in four weeks, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Money managers boosted net-long positions by
14 percent to 263,643 futures and options combined in the week
to July 2, its Commitments of Traders report showed yesterday.
The total was the most since February 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  