-- Wynn Says SEC Ends Probe on Donation, Won’t Take Action
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-07-08T22:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/wynn-says-sec-ends-probe-on-donation-won-t-take-action.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  said U.S.
securities regulators completed an informal inquiry into the
company and won’t be taking enforcement action.  The Salt Lake City office of the Securities and Exchange
Commission opened a probe of Wynn Resorts in February, focusing
on a donation by Wynn Macau Ltd. to the University of Macau
Development Foundation, the company said in a filing  yesterday .  The SEC’s decision marks a step forward for founder Steve Wynn and his company’s court battle against Japanese billionaire
Kazuo Okada, formerly the casino operator’s largest shareholder.
Okada had publicly questioned the donation. Wynn later seized
his former partner’s stock over alleged wrongdoing in the
 Philippines .  Wynn Resorts, the majority owner of Wynn Macau Ltd., sued
Okada last year for breach of fiduciary duty and redeemed his 20
percent stake in the casino operator, alleging he made
potentially illegal payments to Philippine government officials
that could threaten the company’s gaming licenses. Okada, 70,
filed counterclaims to undo the redemption of his shares.  The lawsuit was put on hold in May while U.S. authorities
pursue a criminal investigation into possible bribery of
Philippine officials by the Japanese billionaire.  Wynn Resorts, based in  Las Vegas , fell 0.1 percent to
$126.98 at the close in  New York . The stock has advanced 13
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a gain of 15
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Nevada Gaming Control Board in February advised Wynn
that it had completed an investigation of  Steve Wynn  and related
companies in Macau and found no violations of the state gambling
regulations, the company said in today’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  