-- Yandex Premium to Baidu Is Biggest Ever on Web Ad Boom
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-08T11:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/yandex-premium-to-baidu-is-biggest-ever-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , the owner of  Russia ’s
biggest online search engine, is trading at the biggest premium
to Chinese counterpart  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  on record as it wins market
share and increases advertising income.  Yandex is trading at 34 times earnings after jumping 28
percent since August in  New York , compared with a ratio of 18
for Baidu after its 32 percent drop. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.
added 0.8 percent last week, led by phone carrier OAO Rostelecom
and television network owner  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)   Yandex, which gets most of its  revenue  from online ads,
increased its share of Russian searches to an average 61.9
percent in April, the most since September 2011, according to
LiveInternet.ru data, while Baidu’s portion of  China ’s web
search  has shrunk  to 70 percent from 82 percent since Qihoo 360
Technology Co. started its search tool in August. Analysts
predict a 36 percent jump in net income for Yandex in 2013,
compared with a 1.8 percent gain for Baidu, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even though Yandex looks a bit pricey, it’s pretty tough
to argue against it if you look at the pace of its latest
earnings growth in comparison with global peers,” Erik Lam,
director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New
York, said by phone July 5. “Baidu is in the process of
figuring out its mobile strategy, and it also faces a number of
other headwinds including competition from Qihoo and the slowing
Chinese economy.”  Volatility Decreases  Futures (VEA)  expiring in June on the  RTS  gained 0.3 percent to
126,200 July 5 as the Bloomberg Russia-US gauge climbed to 84.77
last week. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, was little changed at $25.19 in
New York after posting losses every month from February to June.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
 stock futures , slipped 3.9 percent to 25.16. The 50-stock  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,346.41 by 2:58 p.m. in Moscow.  Shares of Yandex have surged 10 percent since April 25,
when the company boosted its 2013 sales target, citing growth in
online advertising. Yandex posted a 79 percent  increase  in
first-quarter profit last month and said revenue may rise 30
percent to 35 percent this year, up from a February forecast of
28 percent to 32 percent growth.  Internet advertising  in Russia will grow an average 26
percent annually from 2013 to 2015, after expanding 45 percent
on average in the 2009-2012 period, Yandex said in a June
 presentation  citing ZenithOptimedia data. Online ad revenue will
rise to account for 30 percent of total ad sales by 2015 in
Russia, the data showed, compared with an estimated 27 percent
for China.  ‘Biggest Share’  “Russia’s online advertising market is growing,”
Konstantin Chernyshev, an analyst at UralSib Capital who has a
buy rating on the stock, said by phone from Moscow. “Yandex
occupies the biggest share of the Russian web search market and
has all the chances to enhance its financial performance.”  Chernyshev has a price target of $31 for Yandex, a 13
percent upside from the last closing price.  Yandex’s performance this year is also due to a few
“positive” product developments this year, according to Alex Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Capital. “With Baidu, I
haven’t seen big developments this year,” he said.  Apple Inc.’s iOS7 mobile operating system will include
Yandex, Vedomosti reported June 11, citing unidentified Russian
software developers with access to the new operating system.  Qihoo Competition  Mail.ru (MAIL) , a Russian-language e-mail and social networking
company, is testing Yandex.Direct, a contextual advertising
service, spokeswoman Ksenia Chabanenko and Yandex spokesman
Vladimir Isaev said by phone July 4. Contextual ads use content
on Web pages to show related listings. The partnership could
potentially boost Yandex revenue by as much 10 percent a year
starting from next year, Otkritie Capital’s Vengranovich said.  Baidu’s market share in China’s online search market slid
to below 70 percent, as that for Qihoo rose to 15 percent,
TechinAsia  reported  July 5, citing Chinese data provider CNZZ.  Beijing-based Baidu bought PPS Net TV’s Internet video
business in May for $370 million, seeking to merge it with its
video site iQiyi.com, which it acquired in November. While the
service is still “burning money,” iQiyi is expected to become
profitable, Baidu Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said during
an April 26 earnings call.  Rostelecom surged 14 percent to $18 last week. The Moscow-based company is accepting buyout offers from investors who
didn’t vote or voted against its merger with OAO Svyazinvest
until Aug. 12, according to a statement.  CTC gained 7.7 percent to a two-week high of $11.98.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.3 percent to HK$3.06 in Hong Kong trading. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index fell 1 percent today after a stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs report added to the case for the  Federal
Reserve  to reduce economic stimulus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  