-- Yuan Weakens as PBOC Cuts Fixing to Two-Week Low Amid Slowdown
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-07-08T08:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/yuan-weakens-as-pboc-cuts-fixing-to-two-week-low-amid-slowdown.html
China ’s  yuan  fell for a second day as
the central bank set the currency’s reference rate at a two-week
low amid concern economic growth is slowing.  The People’s Bank of China cut the fixing 0.03 percent to
6.1807 per dollar, the weakest level since June 24. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against six major currencies,
climbed to a three-year high today after better-than-expected
U.S. jobs data spurred speculation the Federal Reserve will
scale back monetary stimulus. The yuan will weaken in the
remainder of 2013 as a slowing economy damps demand for China’s
stocks and bonds, according to Westpac Banking Corp, the most-accurate forecaster in Bloomberg Rankings.  “The dollar strength and slower Chinese growth are
weighing on the yuan,” said Daniel Chan, wealth management
director at Hong Kong-based China Silver Global Holdings Ltd.
“The yuan could depreciate from current levels in the next few
months as a weaker currency is more desirable for  exports. (CNFREXPY) ”  The yuan declined 0.02 percent to close at 6.1337 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices. The currency has lost 0.13 percent in two trading
days. The spot rate was at a 0.77 percent premium to the fixing,
compared with the maximum allowed divergence of 1 percent.  Exports probably rose 3.7 percent in June, a Bloomberg
survey showed before data due July 10, quickening after a 1
percent gain in May while still trailing last year’s average
growth of 8.3 percent. The yuan advanced 1.5 percent versus the
dollar this year, making it the sole gainer among Asian
currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Offshore Market  Switzerland plans to bid to become an offshore yuan trading
center in Europe, Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said
in Beijing on July 6. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and
Secretary of State John Kerry will meet Chinese government
officials July 10-11 for the fifth round of the bilateral
Strategic and Economic Dialogue.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.05 percent
to 6.2990 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts are at a 2.6 percent  discount  to the spot rate.
The offshore yuan traded in Hong Kong gained 0.02 percent to
6.1379 today, after the biggest one-day drop in five weeks on
July 5.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
decreased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.63
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  