-- Zynga’s Mattrick Looked to Buy Company While at Microsoft
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-08/zynga-s-mattrick-looked-to-buy-company-while-at-microsoft.html
Don Mattrick, the former head of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s entertainment division who takes the reins as
chief executive officer of  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  today, has been hankering
to run all or part of the social-gaming company for at least
three years.  In 2010, Mattrick negotiated with Zynga founder  Mark Pincus 
about buying the maker of such popular games as “FarmVille,”
according to people with knowledge of the matter. The idea was
to bolster Microsoft’s Xbox lineup with social games that then
were adding millions of users on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s network each
week. The discussions ultimately fell apart, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  Now, Mattrick, 49, is taking over Zynga from Pincus after
the company lost its spot as the top game maker on Facebook to
King.com. Its games have lost steam even as the social network’s
membership has swelled, and players are shifting to mobile apps
played on smartphones and tablets. Zynga is also grappling with
a talent drain, a stock price that has plunged around 66 percent
since a December 2011 initial public offering, and an ownership
structure that ensures Pincus will continue having the final say
even as he cedes the top job.  “Mattrick faces two challenges,” said  Erik Gordon , a
 University of Michigan  business professor. “He has to find a
way to turn around a company that went from cool to cold, and he
has work out his relationship to Mark Pincus, who won’t be CEO
but will be in control.”  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, declined to comment.  Guiding Principle  Steve Ballmer , Microsoft’s CEO, said in an e-mail to
employees last week that Don and his team had “accomplished
much” at the software maker and set the company on a “path to
completely redefine the entertainment industry.”  Frank Shaw , a
spokesman for Microsoft, didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  “Don is a veteran leader who has evolved with the game
space,” Trip Hawkins, founder of Electronic Arts Inc., where
Mattrick worked for more than a decade, said in an interview.
“He knows that consoles are being replaced by cloud-based
mobile games,” and “views companies like EA and Microsoft as
moving into the rearview mirror, whereas Zynga is on the road
ahead.”  A Vancouver native who didn’t attend college and formed his
first company at age 17, Mattrick earned his stripes in the
gaming world with his own startups and working at EA and
Microsoft. At those two technology giants, he earned a
reputation as a no-nonsense boss who was quick to ax projects or
reassign teams when he was unhappy with results.  Web Games  Zynga may present the biggest challenge of Mattrick’s
career. The San Francisco-based company’s revenue -- which comes
mostly from virtual goods sold in its games -- fell 18 percent
in the first quarter, and analysts predict it will drop for four
more quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Over the past year, Zynga has closed offices and shuttered
games as it attempts to focus on mobile. Though the company cut
520 jobs, or 18 percent of its workforce, last month, it may
still be too big,  Scott Devitt , an analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
wrote in a June 21 research report.  Mattrick may turn to his playbook at EA to revive Zynga. In
1991, Mattrick sold his startup, Distinctive Software, to the
game giant and later began overseeing EA’s North American
studios. Facing bloat that crimped profits and diluted focus, he
chopped the number of games in half to concentrate on titles
that would have wide appeal, such as “The Sims.” In the
ensuing years, he tripled sales -- even with the smaller batch
of games.  Joining Zynga  Mattrick announced his retirement in 2005, and then was
drawn back into the industry by the growing popularity of
casual, free games played on the Web. In 2007, he and some
former EA alums built a startup, called BigPark Inc., to cater
to that market. That same year, Mattrick joined Microsoft and
became a senior vice president, and in 2009, his new employer
acquired BigPark.  At Microsoft, Mattrick was known for high standards. He
told one team that the first iteration of the Xbox Music service
didn’t meet his expectations and quickly assigned a new manager
with his own group to fix it, moving them to  Seattle  from
Microsoft’s nearby headquarters in Redmond,  Washington , to help
them focus, a person familiar with the matter said.  He also led a push to turn the Xbox into an entertainment
device for the whole family, rather than just gamers. He signed
deals with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Hulu Inc.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN unit
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, letting the company offer an array of
video content through the device.  Full Potential  Since Mattrick’s 2010 discussions with Pincus to acquire
Zynga, the two men have kept in touch. They first discussed
opportunities for Mattrick at Zynga in March, when the two road-bike enthusiasts began going on rides together, a person
familiar with the talks has said.  A lucrative compensation package potentially worth more
than $50 million also helped lure Mattrick to the role. He will
receive a $5 million signing bonus, $1 million salary, $25
million in restricted stock vesting over three years, and
additional restricted shares and options valued at $15 million,
Zynga said in a filing last week.  Mattrick will still have to manage Pincus, who retains 61
percent of voting power over the board and remains as Zynga
chairman and chief product officer.  “To walk into a company that is not profitable, it’s not
growing, and you’ve got the founder and majority controlling
shareholder sitting in the office next to you -- what exactly
can you get done?” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .  Mattrick greeted employees at a companywide meeting in
Zynga’s  San Francisco  headquarters last week, according to a
person who was in attendance. When one employee asked the new
CEO what he plans to accomplish in the next six months,
Mattrick responded that he’s focusing on the next 30 days, using
the mantra “two ears and one mouth,” to describe how he plans
to prioritize listening to staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  