-- Lacker Says Fed Won’t Likely Need to Keep Low-Rate Plan
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-03T13:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/lacker-says-fed-won-t-likely-need-to-keep-low-rate-plan.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he opposed the Fed’s decision to
keep the main  interest rate  near zero through at least late 2014
because such accommodation probably won’t be necessary.  “Exceptionally low federal funds rates are not likely to
be warranted for this length of time,” Lacker said in a
statement today. “The Committee’s statement implies more
confidence about the persistence of low  interest rates  than I
believe is justified by the current outlook.”  Lacker dissented on Aug. 1 for a fifth consecutive Federal
Open Market Committee meeting after policy makers left unchanged
a plan to hold the benchmark Fed funds rate at a record low. He
released his statement before the Labor Department said payrolls
in the U.S. rose 163,000, more than forecast, while the jobless
rate unexpectedly increased to a five-month high of 8.3 percent.  “Significant uncertainty regarding the evolution of
economic conditions over the next few years makes the future
path of interest rates difficult to forecast,” Lacker said.  Equity futures and U.S. government bond yields extended
gains after the jobs report. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
contracts expiring in September rallied 1.2 percent to 1,377.80
as of 8:40 a.m. in  New York . The 10-year yield rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.55 percent.  The FOMC said on Aug. 1 it will pump fresh stimulus if
necessary into the weakening economic expansion to boost growth
and reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s been stuck at 8 percent
or higher for more than three years.  The central bank also said it will continue swapping $667
billion of short-term debt with longer-term securities to
lengthen the average maturity of its holdings, an action dubbed
Operation Twist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  