-- Activision Dips Most in 9 Months on User Loss: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-03T20:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/activision-dips-most-in-9-months-on-user-loss-los-angeles-mover.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest
U.S. video-game maker, fell the most in almost nine months after
losing more than 1 million “World of Warcraft” players and
issuing a forecast that disappointed some investors.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica ,  California ,  dropped  5.4
percent to $11.14 at the close in  New York , the biggest decline
since Nov. 9. The stock has lost 9.7 percent this year.  The “World of Warcraft” multiplayer online game, one of
its top titles, lost 1.1 million users in the second quarter to
finish at 9.1 million, Santa Monica, California-based Activision
said yesterday in a  statement . The company cited the pending
release of a new version, called “Mists of Pandaria,” and
competition from its “Diablo” title.  “The decline in ‘WoW’ subscribers spooked investors,”
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said in an e-mail. The game had weathered competition
from  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  in the first quarter, said Pachter,
who has an outperform rating on the shares, the equivalent of a
buy. “Everyone thought they would be stable. The decline was a
surprise.”  Second-quarter profit, excluding items, totaled 20 cents a
share, double the company’s May forecast of 10 cents and beating
the 12-cent average of 19 analysts’  estimates . Activision
yesterday raised its full-year earnings projection to 99 cents
from 95 cents previously.  “We think being prudent is the best path, and I think
that’s what we’ve done with our guidance,” Chief Financial
Officer Dennis Durkin said on a conference call with investors.  Possible Sale  Activision, led by Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick
since 1992, is 61 percent owned by Paris-based  Vivendi SA (VIV) , also
parent of  Universal Music . The French company is under pressure
from investors to boost its share price and Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou on July 12 said ‘it’s a possibility’’ his company may
sell Activision.  The Financial Times reported yesterday that Vivendi hasn’t
attracted interest in the game unit, citing people it didn’t
identify.  Second-quarter  sales , excluding changes in deferred
revenue, rose 51 percent to $1.05 billion and beat the $837
million average of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Total revenue fell 6.2 percent to $1.08 billion.  Net income fell 45 percent to $185 million, or 16 cents a
share, from $335 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier.  Industry Slowdown  Activision has weathered an industry slowdown in sales of
packaged discs for games played on consoles by releasing
additional content online for its shooter franchise “Call of
Duty.” It’s also nurturing a new title called “Skylanders
Spyro’s Adventure,” making both video games and action figures.  With the new “World of Warcraft” scheduled for release on
Sept. 25, the next “Skylanders” installment and a new “Call
of Duty” going on sale later this year, Activision projected
full-year sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue, to rise
3.1 percent to $4.63 billion. Analysts had  estimated  $4.59
billion.  For the third quarter, Activision forecasts $690 million in
revenue and profit of 7 cents a share, on that basis, compared
with analysts’ projections of a 12-cent profit and sales of
$730.9 million.  In the past two years, the company has exceeded estimates
for profit in every quarter and for sales in all but one,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  In the first half of 2012, “Skylanders” toys were the
top-selling action figures in the U.S., while the video games
ranked among the top three titles, Kotick said in the statement.  In July, Activision announced a multiyear partnership with
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , an Internet services provider, to deliver
a Chinese version of “Call of Duty” that is free to play and
sells in-game items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  