-- AIG Weighs Shutting Insurer’s Bank as Volcker Rule Looms
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-03T16:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/aig-chief-benmosche-weighs-shutting-bank-as-volcker-rule-looms.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, is considering whether to close its bank
unit as the company prepares for more  government regulation .  “We are discussing internally the effects the Volcker rule
could have on us,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
said today in a conference call discussing second-quarter
results. “We are giving thought to whether we should now close
the bank we have.”  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, is seeking to
limit U.S. oversight by getting rid of its bank status after the
 Federal Reserve  blocked buybacks and a  dividend  increase.
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., Allstate Corp. and
 Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  have also retreated from banking.
Insurance units are overseen by watchdogs in the 50 states.  “They can be subject to less regulation and all the
associated costs by simply disposing of the bank,” James Barth,
a finance professor at  Auburn University , said by phone. “If
the bank is a small portion of its overall activities, then one
has to say, ‘Why keep the bank?’”  Ownership of the bank would subject AIG to the Volcker
rule, which limits proprietary trading and investing in private
equity or  hedge funds , the New York-based insurer said in its
annual report. Some provisions may apply even if AIG no longer
has a bank, the company said.  Exemption’s Scope  The proposed rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , contains an exemption for trading by insurers for their
general accounts, “but the final breadth and scope of this
exemption is uncertain,” AIG said in the report.  AIG had $19.3 billion invested in so-called alternative
assets, including hedge funds and private equity, as of June 30,
the insurer said on its  website . Private equity added $325
million to profit in the second quarter while hedge funds lost
$36 million.  AIG Federal Savings Bank had 37 employees and $1 billion in
assets as of March 31, according to Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. data. The bank offers mortgages and certificates of
deposit through its website and over the phone.  AIG agreed in 2010 to sell a majority stake in its consumer
lender, American General Finance, to Fortress Investment Group
LLC. for $125 million. The insurer’s banking role made the
Office of Thrift Supervision its primary federal regulator prior
to the financial crisis.  ‘Fell Short’  The OTS said in 2009 that it “fell short” in its
oversight of AIG and failed to recognize the risk of the firm’s
credit-default swap portfolio. After the bets went against AIG,
the insurer received a U.S. rescue that swelled to $182.3
billion. Most OTS functions have since been assumed by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  AIG has reduced outstanding U.S. aid to about $30 billion
using proceeds from asset sales. The Treasury  owns  61 percent of
the insurer, and AIG has said in a filing that when the U.S.
stake falls below 50 percent, it will be probably be regulated
by the Fed as a savings-and-loan holding company.  The Fed blocked New York-based MetLife from raising its
dividend or buying back shares after reviewing how it would fare
in a severe economic slump.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, isn’t subject to the same
oversight and has boosted its dividend in 2009, 2010 and 2011.  AIG advanced 0.4 percent to $30.97 at 11:46 a.m. in  New
York . The shares have rallied 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  