-- AIG Has Third Straight Profit as Chartis, SunAmerica Gain
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-03T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/aig-has-third-straight-profit-as-chartis-sunamerica-gain.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer majority-owned by the U.S. government, posted its
third straight profitable quarter as results improved at the
Chartis property-casualty and SunAmerica life units.  Net income  rose 27 percent in the second quarter to $2.33
billion, or $1.33 a share, from $1.84 billion, or $1, a year
earlier, the New York-based insurer said yesterday. Operating
profit, which excludes some investment results, was $1.06 a
share, beating the  average estimate  of 60 cents in a Bloomberg
survey of 20 analysts.  Improving results at Chartis and SunAmerica may help Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, attract private capital
as the U.S. Treasury Department reduces its stake. AIG’s
strategy of pursuing more- profitable lines of business and
reducing risk is paying off, said Josh Stirling, an analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein & Co.  “Turnarounds make sense as long as management is committed
and actually does the work, and I think they’re showing so far
that they’re committed,” he said. “The reason you buy the
stock today is because it’s an underpriced option on a Chartis
turnaround.”  Chartis, led by CEO  Peter Hancock , posted a pretax profit
of $961 million, up from  $826 million  a year earlier. The global
property-casualty insurer spent $1.02 for every premium dollar
on claims and expenses, compared with $1.04 a year earlier when
tornadoes struck Missouri and  Alabama .  AIG Advances  AIG had gained 33 percent  this year  through yesterday, the
second-best performance on the 22-company  S&P 500 Insurance
Index (S5INSU) , which had advanced 6.9 percent. The shares added 32 cents
to $31.16 yesterday in late trading after results were
announced.  Policy sales at Chartis, which insures commercial property,
corporate boards and airplanes, fell about 1 percent to $9.1
billion from a year earlier as Hancock worked to reduce business
in areas that require the company to hold large amounts of
capital and increased the focus in  emerging markets .  “It looks like they’re kind of coming back into their own
this quarter,” Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP. said by phone. “You’re not looking for spectacular
results, you’re just looking for them to recover.”  Profit at AIG’s SunAmerica U.S. life insurance and
retirement services division, led by CEO Jay Wintrob, climbed to
$777 million from $766 million a year earlier. Premiums,
deposits and other considerations at SunAmerica fell 13 percent
to $5.4 billion from a year earlier as fixed-annuity business
was hurt by low  interest rates .  Brand Returns  The insurer is planning to restore the AIG brand to both
Chartis and SunAmerica this year as the firm’s reputation
improves, Benmosche said in June.  AIG increased its projected litigation liability by $719
million in the quarter, according to a regulatory filing. The
addition is based on “developments in several actions,” the
company said, without outlining the cost per case. Jim Ankner, a
company spokesman, declined to comment.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$60.58 a share on June 30 from $57.68 three months earlier. Net
realized  capital gains  climbed to $397 million from $75 million.
The change in the fair value of Maiden Lane contributed $1.31
billion while AIG’s stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  cost  $493 million  as
the Hong Kong-based insurer’s shares declined.  “Although Chartis and SunAmerica modestly beat our
forecasts, most of AIG’s 2Q12 outperformance again came from
outside of core operations,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. wrote in a research note.  Asset Auctions  AIG said it’s received $6.1 billion from auctions of assets
by the Maiden Lane III vehicle created in 2008 to aid in its
rescue, and expects another $1.9 billion in mid-August. Some
proceeds went toward repayment of a Fed loan to the vehicle. AIG
may use cash from the Maiden Lane III sales to buy back shares
from the U.S.,  Jimmy Bhullar , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst,
wrote in a July 10 research note.  The insurer said it purchased $7.1 billion in mortgage-
related securities from the Maiden Lane III rescue fund this
year as part of a plan to increase investment yields.  The Treasury has sold about $17.5 billion of AIG shares,
reducing its stake to 61 percent in three offerings. AIG has
bought about $5 billion of its stock in the two sales this year.
Analysts including  John Nadel  of Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. and
 Jay Gelb  at Barclays Plc said the Treasury may announce another
share sale in the current quarter.  Matt Anderson , a Treasury
spokesman, declined to comment before results were released.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  