-- Allianz, Axa Profits Beat Estimates on Life, Health Units
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h ,   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-03T10:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/allianz-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-on-life-health-unit-1-.html
Allianz SE (ALV)  and Axa SA,  Europe ’s
biggest insurers, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by higher earnings at their life and health businesses.  Net income at Munich-based Allianz rose 23 percent to 1.23
billion euros ($1.5 billion) in the second quarter, beating the
1.15 billion-euro average estimate of 13  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg. First-half net income at Paris-based Axa fell a
smaller-than-estimated 36 percent after year-earlier gains from
asset sales weren’t repeated.  Allianz reiterated its full-year operating profit target of
7.7 billion euros to 8.7 billion euros as the  insurance industry 
recovers from record claims related to earthquakes and floods in
 Japan  and  Thailand  last year. Insurers are struggling to cover
payments to life policyholders as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
depresses  interest rates .  “These results show good resistance,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500 million euros at Ofi Gestion Privee
in Paris, including Allianz and  Axa (CS)  shares. “These big insurers
dealt with sovereign crisis risks better than banks.”  Allianz  rose  3.7 percent to 81.49 euros by 11:46 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, bringing this year’s gain to 10 percent. Axa
advanced 3.6 percent to 10.05 euros in Paris, trimming its 2012
 decline  to 0.3 percent.  Property, Casualty  Europe’s biggest insurers and the reinsurers who help them
shoulder risks for clients used last year’s catastrophes to push
through higher prices for coverage. Natural disasters caused an
estimated $5.48 billion of insured losses for insurers and re-
insurers in the second quarter, down from more than $27 billion
a year earlier, according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  “Our operative business is stable and remains on course,”
Allianz Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann, 57, said in
the statement. “Despite the challenging environment, we confirm
our outlook.”  Allianz’s property and casualty unit, typically the most
important in terms of earnings, raised prices by 1.4 percent,
the insurer said. Profit at the business fell 15 percent to 807
million euros in the quarter after the company boosted reserves
by 120 million euros following last year’s Thai floods.  The unit’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio,
worsened to 97.4 percent from 95 percent a year earlier. That
compares with the average 96.6 percent estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. A ratio above 100 percent means an
insurer’s claims and costs exceed premium income, giving it a
loss from underwriting.  Life, Health  Allianz’s life- and health-insurance division saw net
income more than double to 506 million euros, helped by reduced
impairments and gains from selling assets. Operating profit at
the unit rose 21 percent to 821 million euros.  Net investment income advanced to 5.66 billion euros in the
quarter from 4.52 billion euros a year ago, helped by currency
gains, the company said in a presentation on its website.
Allianz wrote down its Greek debt holdings by 326 million euros
in the year-earlier period.  The firm’s asset-management unit, which includes  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co.,
posted an increase in profit of more than 19 percent to 345
million euros in the quarter. Assets under management rose
almost 16 percent to 1.7 trillion euros while third-party funds
the company oversees climbed to 1.4 trillion euros from 1.2
trillion euros.  Axa Targets  Axa’s asset management earnings rose 2 percent to 159
million euros in the first half. The business had 7.7 billion
euros of net outflows, mostly in the first quarter, figures from
Axa show. AllianceBernstein Holding LP, the New York-based fund-
management unit, had 5.2 billion euros of outflows in the half.  Axa, led by Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries, 57,
is expanding in  Asia  as it aims for 10 percent annual growth in
operating earnings a share through 2015. The French insurer last
year set a 2015 target to reach annual operating profit of 6
billion euros, compared with 3.88 billion euros in 2010. Axa is
“perfectly in line” with its cost-cutting and productivity
targets, de Castries said in an interview on Axa’s website.  Property and casualty earnings climbed 6 percent to 1.04
billion in the first six months of the year. Average price
increases of 3 percent boosted the unit’s revenue, the company
said in a statement today. The combined ratio improved to 96.4
percent from 97.2 percent.  Profit at Axa’s life-and-savings business, the insurer’s
largest, increased 7 percent to 1.41 billion euros, beating
analysts’ estimates. First-half annual premium equivalent, a
common measure of sales for insurers, rose 11 percent to 1.25
billion euros at health-and-protection, which includes coverage
for critical illnesses and long-term nursing care, Axa said.  “Our strategy has been for several years now to develop in
business lines that are not market sensitive -- property and
casualty, health, protection,” Chief Financial Officer Gerald Harlin said on a call with journalists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net 
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  