-- Amazon, Stater Bros. See Gains in Bankrupt San Bernardino
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-03T04:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/amazon-stater-bros-see-gains-in-bankrupt-san-bernardino.html
On the day San Bernardino,
California, became the second-largest U.S. city to seek
 bankruptcy protection , the biggest employer opened its largest
store and construction was under way on a new distribution
center for  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   A city of 209,000, on the main line of the biggest North
American railroad and crossed by three freeways, San Bernardino
has emerged as a hub for goods bound for the rest of the U.S.
from the ports of Los Angeles and  Long Beach  about 60 miles (100
kilometers) west.  San Bernardino is the third California city to seek
protection from creditors in six weeks. Across the most-populous
U.S. state, and the nation, municipalities have been hammered by
rising labor costs and falling tax revenue. The city’s growth as
a distribution center may help cushion bankruptcy-related cuts
in public services.  “There probably isn’t a more important time for us to step
up as a corporation than right now,” said Jack H. Brown, the
chairman and chief executive officer of Stater Bros. Holdings
Inc., the closely held operator of 167 Southern California
grocery stores and San Bernardino’s biggest employer.  Companies including  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , Kohler Co. and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) 
operate regional warehouses near San Bernardino International
Airport, a former U.S. Air Force base that closed in 1994.
Amazon is building a 900,000-square-foot (83,600 square-meter)
“fulfillment center” nearby, one of two planned in the state,
to open later this year.  ‘Corporate Responsibility’  “This is our hometown,” said Brown, native whose office
overlooks warehouses and the smog-dimmed San Bernardino
Mountains. “We are the home team. We have a corporate
responsibility to help the communities we serve.”  Brown’s company sponsors the Route 66 Rendezvous, a
classic-car show and street fair that fills 35 blocks of
downtown San Bernardino for four days each year.  The company, with about 3,400 workers in the city, moved
its headquarters to San Bernardino after outgrowing facilities
in another town, said Brown, 74. On Aug. 1, he and other Stater
Bros. executives were in Hesperia, a desert community north of
San Bernardino, opening a 57,600-square-foot store that is the
chain’s largest.  Geographic Advantage  “This city has an advantage,” said economist John Husing,
a former San Bernardino resident. “They have available land,
zoned industrial” at a lower cost than the  Los Angeles 
metropolitan area.  While businesses that rely on city services may be hurt as
the bankruptcy forces cutbacks, Husing said, “I don’t see
logistics businesses making any different decisions than they’re
making now. Their base is national and international.”  About 27 percent of San Bernardino residents live in
poverty compared with 14 percent statewide, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. The area’s jobless rate was near 16 percent
in May, when California’s was about 11 percent, U.S. Labor
Department figures show.  Brown, whose company has a 2.1 million-square-foot
distribution center in San Bernardino, said the movement of
goods is “absolutely” the region’s economic future.  “There isn’t a better position, geographically, than
here,” he said.  The new airport terminal has ticket counters and baggage
carousels, yet lacks any commercial service. Administered by a
regional authority that includes San Bernardino County and four
cities, the airport was the subject of a county grand jury
 investigation  last year that uncovered mismanagement and
financial irregularities.  Perot Development  Much of the undeveloped land near the airport is being
marketed by  Hillwood Investment Properties , a division of
Hillwood Development Co. in  Dallas , whose billionaire chairman,
Ross Perot Jr., is the son of H. Ross Perot, the 1992
independent presidential candidate.  John Magness, a Hillwood senior vice president overseeing
the company’s San Bernardino efforts, encouraged the City
Council July 18 to enter bankruptcy.  “No responsible developer including Hillwood will risk its
nationwide and worldwide relationships by getting its users to
locate in a city with such dire financial challenges unless you
take the next important step,” Magness told the council.  He didn’t respond to a telephone call yesterday seeking
comment. Media representatives of Mattel, Kohler and Lowe’s
didn’t respond to e-mailed messages seeking comment.  Amazon spokeswoman Kelly Cheeseman declined to comment
directly on the bankruptcy, while saying the world’s largest
online retailer is moving forward with the warehouse and expects
to have 1,000 workers.  “We’re excited to bring these jobs to the San Bernardino
community,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino,  California  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  