-- Manchester Utd. Faces Fight for Moura as PSG Makes Move: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-03T07:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/manchester-utd-faces-fight-for-moura-as-psg-makes-move-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  United Faces Fight  Manchester United is trying to tie up the transfer of Lucas
Moura from  Sao Paulo  for 30 million pounds ($46.5 million) after
French club Paris Saint-Germain moved in for the 19-year-old,
the  Daily Mail reported .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  watched the attacking
midfielder play for Brazil against  New Zealand  at the  Olympic
Games  two days ago, the Mail added.  Cole to PSG?  PSG is ready to offer Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  a three-
year contract and reunite him with former Blues manager  Carlo Ancelotti , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Cole, 31, has one year left on his current agreement and
although Chelsea will offer him a new deal, PSG wants to test
the European champion’s resolve to keep him, the Mirror added.  Wanyama Wanted  Arsenal is considering Celtic’s Victor Wanyama as a
replacement for Alex Song should Barcelona make a substantial
bid for the Cameroon midfielder, the  Mail reported .  Scouts from the Gunners and  Manchester United  have watched
the Kenyan, who is keen to move to England and would cost about
7 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Sahin Loan  The Gunners want to follow the 16 million-pound signing of
Malaga’s attacking midfielder Santi Cazorla by taking Real
Madrid’s Nuri Sahin on loan, the  Guardian reported .  The Turkey midfielder is in talks over an initial season-
long loan, having had limited opportunities in Madrid’s first
team, the Guardian added.  Rondon Bid  Tottenham Hotspur is set take advantage of the fire sale at
debt-ridden Malaga by offering 10 million pounds for 22-year-old
Venezuelan striker Salomon Rondon, the  Sun reported .  Spurs are also targeting Liverpool’s teenage midfielder
Raheem Sterling, who is said to be unsettled and would welcome a
move back to London where he started as a schoolboy with Queens
Park Rangers, the  same paper reported .  Decision Time  West Ham United is ready to move on if Liverpool striker
Andy Carroll doesn’t make up his mind soon about a proposed
switch between the teams, the  Mirror reported .  Hammers’ co-Chairman  David Sullivan  is pushing Carroll for
a decision after tabling an offer that would make him the club’s
best-paid player on 100,000 pounds a week, the Mirror said.
Carroll would rather return to hometown club Newcastle if he
leaves Liverpool, the paper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  