-- Manchester United Says GM Deal Will Generate $559 Million
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-03T23:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/manchester-united-says-gm-deal-to-generate-559-million.html
Manchester United Ltd. (MANU)  said its
 General Motors Co. (GM)  sponsorship agreement will generate $559
million through 2021.  As part of a deal to become the soccer team’s exclusive
jersey sponsor starting in the 2014 season, GM will pay about
$18.6 million in fees for each of the seasons this year and
next, according to a filing yesterday. GM will pay $70 million
in 2014, with the payments rising 2.1 percent each following
season, the soccer club’s filing said.  GM, the world’s top-selling automaker, ousted  Joel Ewanick ,
its chief marketing officer, after company officials questioned
the propriety of the  Manchester United  deal, people familiar
with the matter have said. Ewanick resigned because he didn’t
“meet the company’s expectations of an employee,” according to
an e-mailed statement by GM on July 29.  Ewanick’s departure places greater pressure on GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson, who has overseen several senior
leadership changes at the automaker. Ewanick had announced
marketing moves aimed at saving $2 billion over five years as
part of Akerson’s push to improve operating margins.  Nigel Currie, managing director of U.K.-based marketing
adviser BrandRapport, said GM’s deal with Manchester United is
the richest in soccer. Currie negotiated one of Manchester
United’s previous shirt sponsorship contracts with  Vodafone
Group Plc. (VOD)   “It’s incredible, unbelievable,” Currie said in a
telephone interview of the GM deal.  Chevrolet Logo  Under the sponsorship, GM’s Chevrolet brand logo will be
placed on the soccer team’s jerseys beginning in 2014.
Manchester United’s current shirt deal with  Aon Corp. (AON)  ends that
year. That contract is worth about 80 million pounds ($125
million) over four seasons.  Manchester United’s deal comes as the soccer team seeks to
raise as much as $333 million in a U.S. initial public offering.  The company and its selling shareholder, the Glazer family,
are offering 16.7 million shares at $16 to $20 each, according
to a July 30 regulatory filing. United, whose players include
England’s striker  Wayne Rooney  and Welshman Ryan Giggs, is
scheduled to price the U.S. IPO on Aug. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  