-- Tappan Zee Bridge Tolls Seen Almost Tripling When New Span Opens
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-03T13:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/tappan-zee-bridge-tolls-seen-almost-tripling-when-new-span-opens.html
Tolls on the new Tappan Zee Bridge
over the  Hudson River  may cost cash customers as much as $14,
almost triple the current price, when it opens in 2017.  It currently costs cash customers $5. Drivers with a
discounted commuter plan would pay $8.40 instead of the current
$3 and E-ZPass users about $13.30 rather than $4.75, Larry Schwartz, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s chief of staff, said
at a community meeting in Ramapo last night. Tolls would
continue to be collected in only one direction.  Building a new $5.2 billion span is a priority for Cuomo, a
54-year-old Democrat who likens the project to the 19th century
construction of the Erie Canal. Without the replacement, tolls
would rise to about $11.30 to cover the $3 billion to $4 billion
needed to make improvements to the 56-year-old span, according
to Schwartz.  “To me, it would emphasize that the only real option would
be to build a new bridge,” Schwartz said. “It’s the most
sensible affordable practical option on the table.”  The 3.1-mile (5-kilometer) bridge about 20 miles north of
 Manhattan  carries 138,000 vehicles, 40 percent more than its
design intended.  The state has applied for a $2 billion federal loan and
plans to sell toll-backed bonds to help build a replacement
Tappan Zee Bridge.  Three design teams led by  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , Bechtel Group Inc.
and  Skanska AB (SKAB)  submitted proposals July 27, which are being
reviewed by state officials. A fourth team that also was put on
a short list to compete for the project in February, which was
led by Grupo Dragados SA, didn’t submit a plan, the New York
Thruway Authority said in an e-mailed statement.  The final price for the new bridge, and therefore the cost
of the tolls on it, won’t be determined until a winning proposal
is selected. Cuomo has previously said the tolls would be in
line with other Hudson River crossings. When the new Tappan Zee
opens, which is expected in 2017, tolls on the George Washington
Bridge will be at least $14, Schwartz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  