-- Apple Reveals Tactics in First Week of Samsung Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-04T14:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/apple-s-schiller-relies-on-hollywood-free-media-to-market-wares.html
An Apple Inc. marketing executive
revealed the company’s reliance on free press coverage and
product-placement as it unveiled its case to jurors in the first
week of a multibillion-dollar patent-infringement trial against
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Apple accuses Samsung of copying features from its mobile
devices. Each company is trying to convince jurors that its
rival infringed patents covering designs and technology.  Apple executives, testifying in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , discussed early planning for the iPhone and
deliberations over whether to introduce a smaller version of the
iPad.  Phil Schiller , senior vice president of worldwide
marketing, described how Apple benefits from widespread media
attention.  The remarks offered rare glimpses of decision making at a
company that ordinarily goes to great lengths to shroud its
inner workings in secrecy. By lifting the curtain on its
internal operations, the company is attempting to win over the
jury to its argument that Samsung copied its ideas.  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion.  $2.5 Billion Claim  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea ,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents. Cupertino, California-based Apple also wants to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet computer, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Samsung lawyers have said Apple can’t claim a “monopoly on
a rectangle.” Apple’s lawyers have said the similarities
between its iPhone and iPad and Samsung’s smartphones and
tablets go beyond acceptable imitation.  One patent in dispute involves how the screen bounces back
when a user scrolls to the end of a Web page or picture. Samsung
adopted a similar feature for its smartphones, Apple claims.
Another patent at issue covers the use of two fingers to zoom in
on a picture or document, a feature that Apple alleges Samsung
also copied.  Punishing Lawyers  Before testimony yesterday, the third day of trial, U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh rejected Apple’s request to punish a
Samsung lawyer’s public disclosure of evidence excluded from
trial.  Apple, in an Aug. 1 filing with Koh, said the July 31
statement authorized by Samsung’s lawyer was designed to convey
to jurors, through the media, arguments contesting Apple’s
central allegations that Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad.  Koh said yesterday that Samsung and its lawyers at Quinn
Emmanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP chose to “highlight evidence
that they both knew was excluded,” and she reserved the right
to investigate the release further.  The judge interviewed each juror separately, asking if they
had read or heard anything about the case since testimony ended
July 31, concluding she was “satisfied” the jury could remain
“fair and impartial” and that they could remain in place.  7-Inch Tablet  Apple executives have also debated whether to unveil a
smaller iPad, according to yesterday’s testimony. An attorney
for Samsung showed an e-mail from Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice
president for Internet services, advocating for a 7-inch tablet,
compared to the 9.7-inch model now on the market. In the January
2011 e-mail, Cue discussed trying to persuade Apple co-Founder
 Steve Jobs  to build a smaller iPad.  Jobs died in October 2011.  Schiller, discussing the iPhone, said Apple decided not to
pay for any advertising during a brief period after the device
was introduced in January 2007 and when it went on sale later in
the year.  “We didn’t need to,” Schiller said. He read from several
rave reviews of the iPhone and iPad, explaining that such
stories did a better job than advertising to build buzz.  Schiller said Samsung is taking advantage of Apple’s design
and marketing work by introducing similar smartphones and
tablets, which “creates a huge problem” for marketing.  Product Confusion  “Customers can get confused about whose product is
whose,” he said. “It dilutes the way customers see Apple.”  On cross-examination, Samsung’s lawyer,  Bill Price , began
to challenge Apple’s contention that Samsung’s infringement
causes confusion among consumers between the two companies’
products. Price asked Schiller why Apple didn’t add a logo or
any kind of advertising to the top of its iPhone.  The plain face of the phone is “distinctive and unique and
I do think people recognize it as Apple’s,” Schiller said.  Schiller testified that he has looked at Samsung’s phones
at issue and concluded that they may be confused.  Consumers will “accidentally buy the Droid Charge thinking
it’s an iPhone?” Price asked.  “I believe they may be confused,” Schiller said.  “And that ‘may’ is the basis” for Apple’s billions of
dollars in damages, Price asked?  The question drew an objection from Apple’s lawyers, with
Koh agreeing and requiring it be withdrawn.  iPhone Development  Later in the day,  Scott Forstall , Apple’s senior vice
president in charge of iPhone and iPad software, described the
creation of the iPhone, and gave jurors the first detailed
testimony about one of the patents at issue in the in the trial.  Forstall said Apple started developing the iPhone in 2004
because company executives were frustrated with the features of
their own mobile phones. The company had already begun working
on the iPad, working with touch-screen technology. Apple set the
tablet project aside and incorporated the touch features into
the iPhone.  The iPhone project was top secret, Forstall said. He was
put in charge of the iPhone’s software and Steve Jobs said he
couldn’t hire anybody from outside the company to work on it.  Apple used colors to describe the work. The first iPhone
was called “Purple,” he said. The floor where Forstall’s team
worked was locked off from other employees and cameras were set
up for security, he said.  ‘Fight Club’  “We put a sign up that said ‘Fight Club,”’ Forstall said,
referring to the movie starring  Brad Pitt . “The first rule of
‘Fight Club’ is you don’t talk about ‘Fight Club.”’  Forstall said he is listed as an inventor on Apple’s ’163
patent being disputed in the case, which covers software
allowing users to navigate between pieces of content on a Web
page. The software allows users to double-tap a single news
article from a website, for example, and properly size and
position it for reading, he said.  Under cross-examination, Samsung lawyer  Kevin Johnson ,
asked Forstall if he was aware that certain claims, or elements,
of the patent had been narrowed as a part of it being accepted
by the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  Forstall said he wasn’t aware of that.  Johnson also asked if Forstall knew prior inventions,
called prior art, were found, and that was a reason the claims
were narrowed?  Forstall said he didn’t know that.  The trial is scheduled to resume Aug. 6.  Apple rose $7.91 to $615.70 in Nasdaq trading, its highest
since April.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Jose federal court
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  