-- Aramco to Widen Light-Heavy Spread to Five-Month High
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-08-03T01:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/aramco-to-widen-light-heavy-spread-to-five-month-high-correct-.html
(Corrects units in sixth paragraph of Aug. 2 story.)  Saudi Arabia  may raise the premium of
its light crudes over its heavier grades for buyers in  Asia  to
the most in five months to tap increasing profits from producing
fuels such as naphtha and diesel.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
will sell Arab Extra Light for September at $4.15 a barrel more
than Arab Heavy, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 11
buyers in Asia. That’s $1.15 higher than this month and the
largest increase since March. The premium is set to rise as
refiners benefit from improved margins for producing naphtha
while fuel oil’s value dropped, said the respondents.  “The lighter products and fuel oil spread has widened,
meaning the light-heavy crude differential will widen as well,”
said Osamu Fujisawa, an independent oil economist in  Tokyo  who
worked for Saudi Arabian Oil and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for a
combined 43 years. Extra Light yields more naphtha and less fuel
oil than the heavier grade.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, sets its export
differentials to buyers in Asia as a premium or discount to the
average of benchmark Oman and Dubai oil. It typically announces
prices on the fifth day of the month.  Arab Extra Light will be cut by 35 cents to a premium of
$2.35 a barrel to the marker grades, while Arab Heavy will drop
by $1.50 to a discount of $1.80 a barrel, according to the
survey.  The profit from processing crude into naphtha rose in Asia
to average $49.87 a metric ton during the last five days of
July, up from $34.83 during the same period in June, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Product Yields  Aramco’s Extra Light yields about 25 percent naphtha when
processed in a simple refinery, according to data from New York-
based  Energy Intelligence Group . Arab Heavy provides about 16
percent.  Fuel oil  averaged $1.51 a barrel less than Dubai oil during
the final week of last month, down from a 38 cent premium in
June, according to PVM data.  Arab Heavy yields 53 percent heavy residue such a  fuel oil 
during basic processing, compared to 42 percent for Arab Extra
Light, according to Energy Intelligence.  Price differentials for all grades will fall because of a
narrowing Dubai crude  backwardation , which is when the price for
prompt crude is higher than that for later deliveries. A
decreasing backwardation signals weakening demand from
refineries.  Dubai Backwardation  Dubai crude purchased one month in the future cost an
average 65 cents a barrel more than deliveries in three months
during the final week of July, compared with $1.37 during the
same period in June, according to PVM data.  “The backwardation is not so strong right now, so Saudi
Aramco will have to lower differentials for September,” for all
grades, Fujisawa said.  Arab Light and Arab Medium differentials will both be
reduced by $1 a barrel each to a premium $1.05 and a discount of
10 cents, respectively.  The following table gives the median of 11 responses to a
survey of oil buyers are refineries in  Japan ,  India ,  South
Korea , Singapore and  China . Prices for customers in Asia are set
as a differential to the average of Oman and Dubai grades as
assessed by Platts, the energy-information division of McGraw-
Hill Cos. Prices are in U.S. dollars a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  