-- U.S. Stocks, Metals Gain After Jobs Data; Treasuries Drop
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-08-03T20:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/asian-stocks-drop-as-draghi-fails-to-offer-quick-fix-oil-rises.html
U.S.  stocks  rallied to the highest
level since May, commodities gained and Treasuries declined as
American payrolls climbed more than forecast. Italian and
Spanish notes jumped as German coalition politicians signaled
support of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.9 percent to
1,390.99 at 4 p.m. in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
jumped 2.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields added nine basis
points to 1.57 percent, while Italian two-year debt sank 61
basis points to 3.13 percent. S&P’s GSCI Commodity Index
advanced 2.8 percent, its biggest gain in a month. The dollar
weakened against most major counterparts and a gauge of U.S.
corporate debt fell the most in a week.  U.S. payrolls climbed in July, boosted by a pickup in
employment at automakers, even as the  jobless rate  unexpectedly
rose to a five-month high, Labor Department figures showed.
Italian and Spanish two-year notes jumped as members of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties signaled they won’t
stand in the way of ECB chief  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
government bonds.  “We haven’t seen an upside surprise in a while and that’s
what the market is reacting to,” said Michael Mullaney, who
helps manage $9.5 billion as chief investment officer at
Fiduciary Trust in Boston. “It’s still not strong enough to
make a real dent in the overall growth of the economy and it’s
not weak enough to get the Fed acting.”  Payrolls increased 163,000 following a revised 64,000 rise
in June that was less than initially reported, according to the
Labor Department. The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a gain of 100,000. Unemployment
rose to 8.3 percent.  Central Banks  The  S&P 500  fell 1.5 in the previous four days as Draghi
and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to reassure investors on
immediate efforts to bolster the economy. The index has rallied
8.8 percent since its June 1 low amid bets on global central
bank action.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
increased more than 2.2 percent today to pace gains among the
biggest companies.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  surged 57 percent,
after tumbling 75 percent in two days, as it is said to have
told brokers it got financing to fund market making.  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD) , the biggest professional-networking website, surged 16
percent after forecasting sales that beat analyst estimates.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  advanced more
than 3.3 percent on better-than-estimated quarterly earnings.
About 73 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported quarterly
results have beaten estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales missed estimates at 59 percent of companies.  European Shares  More than 28 shares advanced for each that declined in
Europe’s Stoxx 600. Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, added
5.7 percent after second-quarter net income rose 23 percent. Axa
SA, the second-largest insurance company, gained 5.1 percent on
a smaller-than-estimated drop in profit.  Members of Merkel’s coalition parties signaled acceptance
of Draghi’s bond buying proposal. The envisaged move to purchase
troubled euro states’  government bonds  is “a wise middle way”
to solve the region’s debt crisis, Elmar Brok, a European
Parliament lawmaker and executive-committee member of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union party, told Deutschlandfunk radio
today.  Norbert Barthle, CDU budget spokesman, said German
lawmakers will have veto rights over bond purchases by the euro-
area’s rescue funds, which would operate in tandem with the ECB
under Draghi’s proposal. The temporary fund “was created for a
purpose and bond-buying is in the manual,” Barthle said
yesterday by phone.  ECB Plan  The ECB is edging toward a bond-buying program that
investors say could end up printing money, echoing efforts by
the Fed and other central banks to fix a credit crisis nearing
its sixth year.  Draghi yesterday left open the question on whether the bank
would neutralize future bond purchases, a step it has taken with
all of its interventions to date. He also said the size of the
new program would be “adequate to reach its objective” of
curbing Italian and Spanish borrowing costs, a contrast with the
“limited” scope of the previous approach.  The yield on Spain’s two-year note dropped 87 basis points
to 3.96 percent. The 10-year yield fell 32 basis points to 6.85
percent, below the 7 percent level that presaged bailouts of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  ‘Positive Takeaway’  “The major positive takeaway was that the ECB will be
allowed in the longer-term to purchase short-dated sovereign
bonds, that is positive for them,” said  Michael Markovic , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  Treasuries fell the most in a week as the jobs report
decreased speculation the Fed will resort to a third round of
asset purchases. The central bank said Aug. 1 after a policy
meeting it “will provide additional accommodation as needed”
to spur growth and employment, a tactic known as quantitative
easing, or QE, while it refrained from expanding monetary
stimulation this month.  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said today he
opposed the Fed’s decision to keep the main  interest rate  near
zero through at least late 2014 because such accommodation
probably won’t be necessary.  ‘More Confidence’  “Exceptionally low federal funds rates are not likely to
be warranted for this length of time,” Lacker said in a
statement. “The Committee’s statement implies more confidence
about the persistence of low interest rates than I believe is
justified by the current outlook.”  The 30-year bond yield rose 10 basis points to 2.65 percent
after touching an all-time low of 2.4405 percent on July 26.  The dollar dropped 1.6 percent to $1.2379 per euro, as the
euro erased a weekly loss. The U.S. currency appreciated 0.4
percent to 78.57 yen. Canada’s currency rose to parity with the
greenback for the first time since May.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
5.4 basis points to a mid-price of 103.7 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude, Copper  Crude climbed 4.9 percent, the most in a month, to $91.40 a
barrel in New York. Copper futures for September delivery rose
2.3 percent to $3.37 a pound. Gold jumped the most in more than
a week, increasing 1 percent.  Wheat and corn gained for the first time in four days as
the worst Indian monsoon in three years may curb global grain
production that’s already been hurt by dry weather in the U.S.,
Russia and Australia. Wheat jumped 3 percent while corn advanced
1.5 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent,
reversing earlier declines of as much as 0.7 percent. The Kospi
index fell 1.1 percent as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s
biggest exporter of consumer electronics, lost 1.6 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1 percent, the most in five weeks,
following a cut in transaction fees on share trading. Russia’s
Micex Index added 1.7 percent. Benchmark gauges in Turkey,
Poland and the  Czech Republic  rose at least 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  