-- Asian Dollar Debt Sales Slow, Bond Risk Rises on Draghi Inaction
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-03T05:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Dollar-denominated debt offerings in
the Asia-Pacific region slowed this week as European and U.S.
central banks failed to announce immediate measures to boost
global growth. Bond risk rose.  Sales declined 60 percent this week to $2.15 billion with
no issuance after the first two days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A gauge of bond insurance costs in  Asia  is set to
close at the highest level since July 27, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and the U.S.
Federal Reserve this week failed to announce new easing measures
to support global economic expansion, which strategists forecast
will dwindle this year to the slowest pace since 2009. Asian
exporting nations from China to South Korea are being buffeted
by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, with data this week showing
manufacturing and offshore shipments slowing.  “The ECB built the market up for a big resounding bazooka-
type outcome but that didn’t come true,” said Brayan Lai, a
Singapore-based desk analyst in emerging market credit trading
at Jefferies Group Inc. “There could be some issuers that try
to access the market on an opportunistic basis in August but a
material pick-up in activity will probably wait until
September.”  Bond Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced 4 basis points to 163 basis
points as of 1:26 p.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show. The gauge
is on track for its highest close since July 27, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Draghi said last month that the ECB would do whatever is
needed to protect the euro, interpreted by many as a sign that
the central bank would intervene in debt markets. Spanish and
Italian  government bonds  slumped as Draghi steered clear of
spelling out the full details of his plan.  U.S. central bankers led by  Ben S. Bernanke  concluded their
two-day meeting this week saying they “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to bolster the expansion.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index surged 8 basis points to
173 as of 3:40 p.m. in Sydney,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices
show. The measure is set for its highest close since July 27,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 11 to 196 as of 2:40
p.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The benchmark is on
track for its highest close since June 6, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net 
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  