-- Haslam Agrees to Buy Browns for More Than $1 Billion
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l ,   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-08-03T15:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/haslam-agrees-to-buy-cleveland-browns-for-more-than-1-billion.html
James Haslam III, a minority owner of
the Pittsburgh Steelers, agreed to buy the  Cleveland  Browns for
more than $1 billion, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the sale who requested anonymity.  Haslam bought 70 percent of the Browns, who last made the
playoffs in 2002, from Randy Lerner, the  Associated Press 
reported. Forbes in September valued Cleveland at $977 million,
ranking it 20th of 32 National Football League teams.  The Browns were 4-12 last season for last place in the
four-team American Football Conference North division. Cleveland
hasn’t won more than five games in a season since going 10-6 in
2007, one of three winning seasons since 1994. The Browns have
never been to the  Super Bowl  and won the last of their eight NFL
championships in 1964.  “To own such a storied franchise as the  Cleveland Browns ,
with its rich tradition and history, is a dream come true,”
Haslam said in a statement on the team’s website last night.
“We are committed to keeping the team in Cleveland and seeing
it get back to the elite of the NFL.”  Haslam will acquire the remaining 30 percent from Lerner
four years from the closing date of the sale, AP said, citing
people familiar with the deal.  The transaction, which requires Haslam to sell his minority
stake in the Steelers, is subject to approval by 24 of the NFL’s
32 team owners. The deal should close shortly after owners vote
on it, Lerner said. Until then, all senior executives will
remain in place.  Steelers spokesman Burt Lauten declined to say whether
existing owners will buy Haslam’s share or if he will put it on
the market to the highest bidder.  Truck Stops  Haslam, 58, is president of Pilot Travel Centers LLC, the
nation’s largest operator of travel centers and truck stops. He
is also the brother of Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam.  Cleveland was without an NFL franchise after the 1995
season ended when Art Modell moved the team to Baltimore and
renamed it the Ravens, 11 years after the late Robert Irsay
packed up the  Baltimore Colts  in the middle of the night and
moved them to Indianapolis.  The league subsequently promised to put a new team in
Cleveland and allow it to retain the Browns nickname and its
signature orange and brown team colors.  Lerner’s father, Al, was awarded the expansion franchise on
Sept. 8, 1998, for $530 million, then the highest price paid for
a North American professional sports franchise, exceeding the
$311 million paid by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports for the  Los Angeles
Dodgers .  Randy Lerner , 50, who also owns English Premier League
soccer team Aston Villa, took control of the Browns in October
2002 after his father’s death.  Operating Loss  The Browns had revenue of $247 million and an operating
loss of $2.9 million after the 2010 season, according to Forbes.  “While as a fiduciary I have always felt it was my
responsibility to listen to offers, I had not been approached
with a proposal that felt as natural and complete as Mr.
Haslam’s,” Lerner said in a statement. “He had done a lot of
work on the Browns and the city of Cleveland and, first and
foremost, gave me his personal assurance the team would remain
in Cleveland.”  After consulting with his sister and mother, Lerner said
all agreed “the proposal was strong, the buyers made sense and
the time was right for us to move on.”  Haslam became a part owner of the Steelers in 2008, the
first time the ownership of the franchise expanded beyond the
Rooney and McGinley families. Growing up a Dallas Cowboys fan,
Haslam had investigated other ownership opportunities before the
Steelers opportunity arose.  Haslam, who joined his father’s company in 1976, has seen
Pilot Travel Centers increase annual sales to 8 billion gallons
from 125 million gallons at 600 locations in 43 U.S. states and
six Canadian provinces.  Haslam’s wife, Susan Bagwell Haslam, is chief executive
officer of RIVR Media Enterprises LLC, a Knoxville, Tennessee-
based producer of television programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ; or
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  