-- Avis Is Said to Pass on New Merger Talks With Dollar Thrifty
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-03T20:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/avis-is-said-to-pass-on-new-merger-talks-with-dollar-thrifty-1-.html
Avis (CAR)  Budget Group Inc. has decided
against renewing its bid for  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. (DTG)  after meeting with the company in the past month, according
to a person with knowledge of the meeting.  Dollar Thrifty, which is the target of a stalled takeover
attempt by  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , contacted Avis to solicit
a new offer, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private. Avis ended a previous formal
pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in September 2011.  The decision may leave Hertz as the only potential suitor
for Dollar Thrifty, which has been an acquisition target for
Hertz for more than two years. Dollar Thrifty shareholders
rejected Hertz’s 2010 bid to buy the company for about $1.2
billion. Hertz made another offer last year that it later
withdrew, citing market conditions.  “It’s a little surprising that Avis outright rejected
it,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at
Avondale Partners, said today in a telephone interview. “But I
seriously doubt this whole thing is over with.”  Dollar Thrifty ’s market value is about $2.1 billion, based
on today’s close. Avis made its initial bid for Dollar Thrifty
in July 2010 before sweetening it to about $1.52 billion two
months later.  Too Expensive  Avis pulled its previous offer because it felt Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty was getting too expensive and
decided not to pursue another bid for the same reason, according
to the person familiar with the situation. Dollar Thrifty was
trading below $1 in March 2009.  Anna Bootenhoff, a spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or voice mail seeking comment. Alice Pereira, a spokeswoman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis,
and Richard Broome, a spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz, declined to comment.  While Hertz reaffirmed in a July 31 statement that it wants
to proceed with an acquisition, Dollar Thrifty Chief Executive
Officer Scott Thompson said Aug. 1 Hertz should make a
“compelling offer” or end the process.  “While we believe that things should finally come to a
conclusion, we are still open to the very real possibility of a
win-win transaction with another larger rental car company,”
Thompson said then.  Hertz is still trying to sell its Advantage unit to appease
Federal Trade Commission antitrust concerns about a purchase.  Dollar Thrifty rose less than 1 percent to $77.04 as of 4
p.m. New York time, after falling as much as 3.5 percent
earlier. The shares rose 8.8 percent this year through
yesterday. Avis dropped 2 percent to $15.17, while Hertz climbed
3.9 percent to $11.71.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  