-- Axa’s First-Half Operating Profit Rises 3% on Health Insurance
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-03T07:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/axa-says-net-falls-36-after-year-earlier-gains-from-asset-sales.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, reported a 3 percent increase in first-half operating
profit, helped by rising revenue from health and property-and-
casualty insurance.  Operating profit, which excludes  capital gains , one-time
charges and asset-valuation swings, rose to 2.3 billion euros
($2.8 billion), Paris-based Axa said in a statement today. That
compares with the 2.15 billion-euro average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net income  fell 36 percent to 2.59
billion euros after last year’s results were boosted by 1.4
billion euros of gains from asset disposals, Axa said.  “Very clearly, the shift toward health and protection
policies goes on,” said Francois Boissin, a Paris-based analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas with a buy rating on the stock. “The
savings business is benefitting from that.”  Axa, led by Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries, is
expanding in  Asia  as it aims for 10 percent annual growth in
operating earnings a share through 2015. The French insurer last
year set a 2015 target to reach annual operating profit of 6
billion euros, compared with 3.88 billion euros in 2010. Axa is
“perfectly in line” with its cost-cutting and productivity
targets, de Castries said in an interview on Axa’s website.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, reported a 23 percent
increase in second-quarter net income to 1.23 billion euros
today, topping analysts’ estimates, as earnings increased at its
life and health business.  Axa was little changed at 9.69 euros by 9:47 a.m. in Paris
trading, while Allianz rose 2.5 percent to 80.58 euros in
 Frankfurt . Axa has declined 3.6 percent this year, compared with
an 9.1 percent gain in Allianz and an 8.8 percent advance in the
26-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  Property, Casualty  Axa’s capital ratio, under Solvency II standards, declined
to 174 percent at the end of June from 183 percent at the end of
2011, the insurer said. Deputy CEO Denis Duverne told
journalists at a meeting in Paris today described the company’s
solvency level as “very comfortable.”  Profit at Axa’s life-and-savings business, the insurer’s
largest, rose 7 percent to 1.41 billion euros, beating analysts’
estimates. First-half annual premium equivalent, a common
measure of sales for insurers, rose 11 percent to 1.25 billion
euros at health-and-protection, a business that includes
coverage for critical illnesses and long-term nursing care,
according to Axa’s statement.  Property-and-casualty first-half earnings rose 6 percent to
1.04 billion, compared with analysts’ estimates for 1.01 billion
euros. Average price increases of 3 percent boosted the unit’s
revenue, Axa said.  “Our strategy has been for several years now to develop in
business lines that are not market sensitive -- property and
casualty, health, protection,” Chief Financial Officer Gerald Harlin said on a call with journalists.  Fewer Disasters  Europe’s biggest insurers are using last year’s
catastrophes to push through higher prices for coverage. Natural
disasters caused less than $3 billion of insured losses for
insurers and reinsurers in the first quarter, down from almost
$53 billion a year earlier, according to estimates from Aon
Benfield, the world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  Revenue from property and casualty insurance rose 5.4
percent in the first half, while life and savings revenue gained
2.8 percent. Asset management revenue fell 5 percent and the
business recorded 7.7 billion euros of net outflows, mostly in
the first quarter, according to Axa’s data.  “Outflows are slowing down,” Exane’s Boissin said. “It
isn’t so bad.”  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , the New York-based fund-
management unit, had 5.2 billion euros of outflows in the first
half. At Axa Investment Managers, based in Paris, clients pulled
a net 2.5 billion euros in the first half, with outflows
stopping in the second quarter, according to Axa’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 