-- Baht Weakens After Draghi Offers No Immediate Action on Crisis
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-03T08:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/baht-weakens-after-draghi-offers-no-immediate-action-on-crisis.html
Thailand’s baht dropped after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  refrained from
taking immediate measures to tackle the region’s debt crisis.
 Government bonds  rose.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares fell for a third day
after Draghi signaled yesterday the monetary authority intends
to join forces with governments to buy bonds in sufficient
quantities to ease the crisis, while conceding that Germany has
reservations about the plan. Non-manufacturing industries in
 China , Thailand’s biggest export market, expanded at a slower
pace in July than the month before, official data showed today.  “The fact that they failed to provide any immediate action
was a disappointment for the market,” said Shigehisa Shiroki,
chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “China’s condition remains
sluggish. It’s hard to be aggressively buying Asian currencies
until China recovers.”  The baht weakened 0.4 percent from Aug. 1 to 31.60 per
dollar as of 3:21 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency declined 0.3 percent this week.
Thailand’s financial markets were closed yesterday for a public
holiday.  The baht’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 51 basis
points from a week ago to 4.51 percent. The rate was little
changed today.  China’s purchasing managers’ index for non-manufacturing
industries fell to 55.6 last month from 56.7 in June, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said today. Fifty is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 declined
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.16 percent from
Aug. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was
little changed from a week ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  