-- Bank of Taiwan Chairman Burnishes Bid to Clear Yuan Transactions
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-08-03T04:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bank-of-taiwan-chairman-burnishes-bid-to-clear-yuan-transactions.html
Bank of Taiwan ’s role in implementing
government policy bolsters its case to be the island’s first
lender allowed to clear transactions in  yuan , Chairman Liu Teng- cheng said in an interview.  The central banks of  Taiwan  and  China  are discussing an
agreement that would allow settlement of transactions on the
island in the Chinese currency as relations warm between the
former rivals. The agreement would allow banks to meet rising
demand for yuan from Taiwanese companies with growing businesses
in the world’s second-biggest economy, Liu said in Taipei, where
the lender is based.  “We have long-term experience of carrying out government
policies and now we have a branch in  Shanghai ,” said Liu, who
is also a member of the Taiwanese central bank’s monetary policy
board. “If they take into account we are 100 percent owned by
the government, maybe we can shoulder the job.”  Taiwan joins  Singapore  and  London  in seeking to become
locations where companies can raise yuan to fund their
investments and operations in China. Sales of bonds denominated
in the currency in Hong Kong, the first region outside China
able to clear transactions in yuan, surged fourfold last year
from 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Just like Singapore and Hong Kong, Taiwan sees
opportunities in yuan internationalization,” said  Wang Aochao ,
head of research at UOB Kay Hian Investment Consulting
(Shanghai) Co. “Taiwan also wants to get on the big boat.”  China Expansion  Taiwanese companies including Foxconn Technology Group,
 Quanta Computer Inc. (2382)  and  Uni-President Enterprises Corp. (1216)  have
invested more than $117 billion in China, initially building
factories to take advantage of lower wages and then to tap
surging  consumer spending  powered by a 90-fold increase in the
the economy over the past three decades.  Bank of Taiwan, the island’s largest by assets, also plans
to open more outlets in China, Liu said in the July 31
interview, identifying the cities of Chongqing, Chengdu and
Tianjin as locations where the lender wants to expand. It’s also
considering setting up a subsidiary in China, he said.  “Being a bank with a long history, we know many local
companies well,” Liu said. “Their units in China are more
willing to do business with those they are familiar with. That’s
our advantage.”  Bank of Taiwan , which is responsible for businesses related
to the distribution of the island’s currency and manages
deposits for the military and civil service retirement funds,
was first established in 1899 when the island was a Japanese
colony.  It was restructured in 1946 after China’s Kuomintang-
controlled government took sovereignty of Taiwan. Three years
later, the Kuomintang fled to the island after its defeat by the
Communist Party on the mainland.  Ruled Separately  Taiwan has been ruled separately since then, with the
Communist Party claiming the island as a renegade province that
should be unified with China by force if necessary.  Relations have improved since Ma Ying-Jeou, who advocates
closer China ties, was elected president in 2008, replacing Chen Shui-bian, who supported greater independence for the island.
Taiwan and China have opened air links and eased investment
restrictions since Ma took office.  Tsai Ing-wen, who Ma defeated this year to win re-election,
is among those who’ve criticized his policy of closer China ties
as hurting Taiwan’s sovereignty.  Two-way trade between Taiwan and China rose 10 percent last
year to $160 billion, with the island recording a trade surplus
of $78.7 billion.  Taiwanese central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said in June
that it was in final talks with the People’s Bank of China to
sign a deal that would allow settlement of yuan transactions on
the island. Such transactions conducted by Taiwanese banks must
currently be settled through  Hong Kong .  Clearing Banks  Two clearing banks may be named for transactions in Taiwan,
with one chosen by the China and the other selected by the
island’s authorities, according to Christine Kuo, a vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service.  “Appetite for yuan from companies and individuals is
increasing due to closer investment relations,” Liu said.
“We’re confident of providing services immediately if we are
appointed as a clearing bank.” He added that talks for yuan
clearing between the central banks have gone “smoothly.”  The agreement would open more businesses to banks in
Taiwan, where competition between 37 local lenders, 32 foreign
competitors and more than 300 credit associations has narrowed
margins.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , the top underwriter of yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong, arranged the sale of 24.8
billion yuan of the so-called Dim Sum debt in the first six
months, a 25 percent increase from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuan Deposits  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong totaled 557.7 billion yuan at
the end of June, the city’s monetary authority said July 31.
That amounts to about 10 percent of total deposits, and based on
that level, Taiwan’s yuan savings may exceed 600 billion yuan
once an agreement with China is forged, Liu said.  Other regions are also seeking similar agreements with
China. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  discussed
the development of a yuan market in London with Chinese
officials when he visited Beijing in January. Singapore
announced in July that China was allowing a Chinese bank to
offer yuan clearing services in the southeast Asian nation.  In addition to China, Bank of Taiwan is also planning to
open branches in Sydney and  Vietnam  and a representative office
in Mumbai, Liu said. The lender already has branches in Hong
Kong,  New York ,  Tokyo , London,  Los Angeles ,  South Africa  and
Singapore along with 163 branches in Taiwan. It opened its
Shanghai outlet on July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  