-- Bank of Canada Merges Rate Announcement, Policy Reports
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-03T17:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bank-of-canada-merges-rate-announcement-policy-report-dates.html
The  Bank of Canada  is moving its
 interest-rate  announcements to Wednesdays from Tuesdays starting
in January and merging the release of the decisions with its
quarterly economic forecasts.  The last three decisions of this year will continue with
the current format of interest-rate decisions on Tuesdays at 9
a.m. in Ottawa unless there is a public holiday, the central
bank said today. There will be consultations to determine when
on Wednesdays the rate decisions, and Monetary Policy Reports
will be released together next year.  The move aims at providing more clarity to investors, who
must currently read the central bank’s two key policy documents
on separate dates to interpret its thinking.  “Publishing the MPR at the same time as the interest-rate
announcement provides full and immediate context for the rate
decision, which improves transparency and helps the bank explain
its monetary policy more effectively,” the central bank said.  Governor  Mark Carney  will continue to hold press
conferences after the MPR reports are released, the bank said
today.  “That’s all to the good, it allows financial markets to
have a better grasp of the central bank’s view of the economy,”
said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto. “In the past they could talk about growth
coming in faster than expected and give you a number but it
wasn’t clear where in the year the upward revision was.”  Fixed Dates  The central bank moved to fixed rate-announcement dates in
2000, and said today it “retains the option of making
unscheduled rate announcements at any time in the event of
extraordinary circumstances.”  The remaining rate decisions for this year are Sept. 5,
Oct. 23 and Dec. 4. The next MPR will be released Oct. 24 at
10:30 a.m.  Next year’s announcements are Jan. 23, March 6, April 17,
May 29, July 17, Sept. 4, Oct. 23 and Dec. 4. The quarterly
economic forecasts will be published with the decisions in
January, April, July, and October.  The benchmark  interest rate  has been at 1 percent since
September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  