-- Overnight Rate Swaps Rise for Second Day After ECB Holds Rates
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-08-03T12:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/banks-reluctance-to-lend-to-each-other-holds-at-one-year-low.html
An estimate of future average
overnight borrowing costs in euros rose to the highest in more
than a week, extending yesterday’s jump after the  European
Central Bank  kept rates unchanged.  The three-month Eonia overnight indexed swap rose to 8.8
basis points at 1:30 p.m. in London from 7.9 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure was about
5.5 basis points before the ECB left its deposit rate at zero
and its refinancing rate at 0.75 percent.  “The market’s re-priced after discounting some possibility
of a rate cut yesterday,” said  Laurence Mutkin , the global head
of interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “If you
look further out along the forwards you can see that it’s still
pricing in a reasonable chance of a rate cut in the near
future.”  The ECB doesn’t rule out lowering the deposit rate below
zero, though it’s currently “not a practical aspect that is
being discussed,” council member Ewald Nowotny said July 25.
The euro-region’s lenders still hold 324 billion euros ($397
billion) in overnight deposits at the central bank.  The European Banking Federation’s euro overnight indexed
average, or Eonia, of unsecured lending deals was set at a
record low 10.9 basis points yesterday from 11.2 basis points
the day before.  Overnight Lending  The volume of overnight lending as measured by the EBF in
Brussels has declined since the ECB lowered the deposit rate to
zero on July 5. About 19.2 billion euros ($23.5 billion) of
 transactions  were recorded in the Eonia market yesterday,
compared with a one-year daily average of 28 billion euros.  Three-month Euribor, the rate  banks  say they charge each
other for euro loans, held at a record low 0.375 percent today.
The benchmark, which is set by the same panel of banks that
contribute to Eonia, is expected to drop to 0.32 percent,
according to the implied rate on the Euribor futures contract
expiring in September.  The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was 0.439 percent yesterday from 0.442 the
day before, the lowest since Nov. 4. Libor is published by the
British Bankers’ Association.  The cost for banks to convert euro interest payments into
dollars fell to the lowest in a year. The three-month cross-
currency  basis swap  was 39.5 basis points below Euribor from
minus 46 yesterday, the lowest since July 26, 2011. The one-year
basis swap was 43 basis points less than Euribor from minus
45.5. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  