-- BayernLB Sues Barclays Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-03T18:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bayernlb-sues-barclays-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Bayerische Landesbank, Germany’s
second-biggest state-owned lender, sued  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-largest bank, over $274 million in residential mortgage-
backed securities.  The suit accuses London-based Barclays of making “material
misrepresentations and omissions” about the underwriting
standards used to issue the mortgages that were pooled together
into the offerings, BayernLB said in documents filed today in
 New York  state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “Plaintiff did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiabily relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” Munich-based BayernLB said in the filing.
“Defendants’ wrongdoing has led directly to plaintiff’s
damages, which include loss of market value on the securities.”  Mark Lane , a spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment on
the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  BayernLB has filed similar suits in New York state Supreme
Court during the past year against other lenders including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Morgan Stanley, seeking damages linked to more than $4 billion
in mortgage-backed securities.  Barclays has also been sued by other German lenders in New
York state Supreme Court over mortgage-backed securities,
including DZ Bank AG, Germany’s largest cooperative lender,
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and HSH Nordbank AG.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is  Bayerische Landesbank  v. Barclays Bank Plc,
652697/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  