-- Believing Default-Averse Fresno Returns 5.41% Love: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/believing-default-averse-fresno-returns-5-41-love-muni-credit.html
Fresno, California, leaders insist
that the state’s fifth-largest city isn’t going to go bankrupt.
That’s cheering investors who bought its debt at a record low.  Like Stockton and San Bernardino, California cities that
sought court protection from creditors in the past six weeks,
Fresno’s budget has buckled as labor costs rose while  tax
revenue  succumbed to the longest recession since the 1930s. The
city north of Los Angeles had its credit downgraded last month
as cash ran dry and talks to win wage concessions stalled.  The fiscal resemblance to its insolvent neighbors has put
Fresno “in the crosshairs,” Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a
report last month. As speculation built that the city of 500,000
would become the nation’s biggest to go bankrupt, the extra
yield on some Fresno bonds over AAAs soared to a record 2.71
percentage points last month. The debt has appeal at these
levels, given officials’ vows while municipal  interest rates  are
at 45-year lows, said Bud Byrnes at RH Investment Corp.  “In a market where there is no yield, I would think that
there are buyers who would look at this,” said Byrnes,
president and chief executive officer of RH, a muni-bond trading
company in Encino, California.  Fresno, in the middle of the state about 200 miles (322
kilometers) from  Los Angeles , is the hub of a farming county
that produced $6 billion of agricultural commodities in 2010,
including almonds, raisins and oranges.  Budget Challenge  Nonetheless, the recession helped open $100 million of
cumulative deficits in the city budget since February 2009 even
as Fresno cut a third of its worker positions. The metropolitan
area’s jobless rate was 15.3 percent in June, compared with 10.7
percent  statewide . Fresno, Stockton and San Bernardino were
among the 20 metropolitan areas with the nation’s highest
foreclosure rates in the first half of 2012, according to
RealtyTrac Inc.  San Bernardino filed for bankruptcy Aug. 1, becoming the
third municipality in the most-populous state to do so since
June. The mountain resort of Mammoth Lakes sought protection
last month. Stockton, with 292,000 people south of  Sacramento ,
in June became the biggest U.S. city to go bankrupt, amid rising
labor, pension and retiree health costs.  Fresno officials say they don’t intend to follow that path
and are developing plans to reduce expenses and borrow
internally to stave off insolvency.  ‘Very Thin’  “We are making ends meet,” Mark Scott, the city manager,
said in an interview. “We don’t even talk about filing
bankruptcy. It’s not even on our radar screen to do that. We
just know that we are going to have to operate very thin for a
while.”  The City Council adopted a budget in June that eliminated a
$16 million deficit with one-time fixes, in part because it
hasn’t been able to secure concessions through negotiations with
its police union.  After the failure of those talks, Fitch Ratings July 2 cut
the city’s credit rating one step to A-, the seventh-highest
mark, from A. Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 dropped the
ratings on $462 million of debt. The city’s rating fell one
level to A3, seventh-highest. Its pension-obligation bonds were
cut to Baa1, one grade lower, and its lease-revenue bonds to
Baa2, the company said in a statement.  Extra Yield  The city, through a joint powers authority, sold $53
million of lease-revenue debt in 2004 for capital projects. Tax-
exempt bonds from that sale that mature in 2034 traded July 30
at an average yield of 5.41 percent, according to trade
disclosure data. That was about  2.71 percentage points  more than
top-rated general obligations, the most since Bloomberg
Valuation data began in 2009.  Setting Fresno apart from Stockton and San Bernardino, its
two public pensions had at least 110 percent of the funds needed
to cover benefits as of June 30, 2010, annual reports show. The
funds of Stockton and San Bernardino were less than 70 percent
funded, according to data from the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System .  “There are some bright spots on the city’s ledger,”
Vikram Rai, a municipal strategist at Citigroup in  New York ,
said in an interview. “One of the most important things is that
it has a fully funded pension system.”  The bank in a July 13 research note stressed the importance
to the city’s finances that it trim public-worker compensation.  Cost-Cutting Dependence  “The city is very dependent upon cost-cutting to stave off
any more financial distress,” Rai said yesterday. “It’s very
important that negotiations with public-employee unions go
through. If there is a standoff, that won’t bode well.”  For some investors, the debt still carries too much risk.  “Fresno is not a credit that we would buy,” said Michael E. Johnson, a managing director in Solana Beach,  California , at
Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC, which manages $4 billion in
munis. “Looking at their deteriorating financial position is
why we have continued to stay away from that credit.”  Scott, the city manager, said the city will solve its
fiscal affairs.  “We are adamant we are not going to be bankrupt,’ he said.
“We have a short-term cash flow problem, but we do not have
long-term liabilities like those other cities do.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY is set to issue
on behalf of Continental Airlines $734 million of revenue debt
subject to the alternative minimum tax as soon as next week,
according to sale documents. Moody’s rates the bonds B3, six
levels below investment grade. (Added Aug. 3)  CHICAGO plans to issue about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds
for O’Hare International Airport to refinance debt, according to
bond documents. About $729 million of the offer will consist of
general airport senior-lien revenue debt, set to price as soon
as Aug. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s last month
downgraded O’Hare general-revenue bonds one level to A2, its
sixth-highest grade. In another segment of the deal, the city
will issue $443.3 million of passenger-facility charge revenue
bonds. Moody’s rates that sale A2. (Added Aug. 2)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  