-- Berkshire Profit Beats Estimates on Insurance, Railroad
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/berkshire-profit-falls-9-percent-on-buffett-s-derivatives-bets.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
on gains at insurance units, manufacturing operations, the
energy company and railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe.  Operating earnings, which exclude some investment results,
were $2,252 a share, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said
yesterday in a statement. That compares with the $1,777 average
 estimate  of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Buffett, 81, built Berkshire over four decades from a
failing textile maker into a company that produces energy, hauls
freight and sells products ranging from ice cream to underwear.
The billionaire chairman and chief executive officer has
highlighted his firm’s financial strength to investors and as a
lure to the managers of potential target companies.  “It’s a great balance sheet at the end of the day,”  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who recommends
that clients buy the stock, said in an interview before results
were announced. “There’s only a few balance sheets out there
that can stack up against it.”  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose in
the quarter to $177.4 billion from $176 billion at the end of
March. The cash hoard climbed to $40.7 billion from $37.8
billion three months earlier.  Berkshire’s  Class A (BRK/A)  shares rose 1.7 percent to $128,479
yesterday. They have advanced 12 percent this year, compared
with the 11 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Results were released after the close of regular trading.  Insurance Gains  The insurance division posted an underwriting profit of
$619 million, compared with a loss of $7 million a year earlier,
led by gains at the reinsurance business run by Ajit Jain.
Underwriting profit at the Geico auto insurance unit fell 2.5
percent to $155 million as the severity and frequency of claims
increased.  Buffett has used insurance premiums Berkshire holds before
paying claims to amass the largest equity stakes in companies
including Coca-Cola Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. Berkshire’s stock
portfolio fell 3.3 percent to at $86.2 billion on June 30 from
three months earlier.  Buffett’s biggest takeover, railroad Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe , was completed in 2010 in a $26.5 billion transaction.
The business contributed $802 million to earnings, compared with
$690 million a year earlier. Utility unit MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co. added $253 million to Berkshire’s profit compared
with $215 million in last year’s second quarter.  Manufacturing Results  Earnings from manufacturing, service and  retailing  units
increased to $1.03 billion in the second quarter from $789
million in the same period in 2011. The group of businesses
includes engine-additive maker Lubrizol; Marmon Holdings, a
manufacturer of construction materials; and Fruit of the Loom,
which produces underwear and other clothing.  Buffett has been positioning his firm for a rebound in
housing by adding to  holdings  of Wells Fargo, the largest U.S.
home lender, purchasing residential real-estate brokers and
bidding on the mortgage assets of bankrupt Residential Capital
LLC. He said last month that housing is starting to rebound,
while the rest of the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  “For the last two years, I’ve seen everything except
housing moving forward in the economy,” Buffett said. “In the
last few months, the rest of the economy actually has flattened
out. Housing is picking up.”  Net income slid 9 percent in the quarter to $3.11 billion
as losses on Buffett’s derivatives bets on equity markets
widened to $1.17 billion in the three months ended June 30 from
$271 million a year earlier.  Equity Derivatives  The contracts are tied to equity indexes in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Japan  and aren’t scheduled to mature until 2018 or
later. Berkshire’s liabilities rise when the benchmarks fall, as
they did in the second quarter.  “It was a long-term bet on those markets,” Doug Pawlowski, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said in an interview
before results were announced. “Given the accounting treatment,
he’s essentially stopped making that particular bet.”  Buffett wrote in a February  letter  to shareholders that new
rules around collateral have made the wagers less attractive.
The derivatives book will probably shrink under the company’s
next leaders, he said at the annual meeting in May.  In yesterday's filing, Berkshire said it entered into an
agreement with an unidentified counterparty after June 30 that
reduces by about half its $16 billion notional exposure on
derivative contracts that protect against municipal and state
defaults.  Divided Roles  Buffett has said his roles will be divided once he’s no
longer running the firm. He has suggested that his son Howard, a
company director since 1993, could be non-executive chairman. In
February, the billionaire wrote to shareholders that the board
has picked the next chief executive officer and has two back-up
candidates. None of the individuals has been identified.  Investments will be overseen by Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, former hedge-fund managers hired in the past two years.
They will oversee about $4 billion each, compared with $2.75
billion at the beginning of 2012, Buffett told  Betty Liu  in a
July 13 interview on Bloomberg Television. Combs and Weschler
have expanded equity holdings, taking stakes in companies
including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and MasterCard Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  