-- BHP’s Kloppers Gives Up Bonus After Writedowns on Shale, Nickel
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-03T16:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bhp-to-take-3-3-billion-in-charges-on-shale-assets-correct-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s  Marius Kloppers ,
the best-paid chief executive officer among London-traded mining
companies, will forgo his bonus after announcing $3.3 billion in
charges on gas and nickel assets.  The value of BHP’s Fayetteville shale-gas holdings in
 Arkansas  will be cut by $2.84 billion and its nickel sites in
Western Australia by $450 million, the Melbourne-based company
said yesterday in a statement. BHP, which paid $4.75 billion for
the Fayetteville assets last year, said Kloppers and petroleum
business CEO Mike Yeager won’t get paid a bonus for fiscal 2012
at their request.  BHP, which spent $20 billion in 2011 buying the shale
deposits, joins BG Group Plc and Encana Corp. in writing down
the value of the assets after natural gas prices fell to a 10-
year low this year. Kloppers’ decision to not take a bonus
follows a similar gesture by Rio Tinto Group CEO Tom Albanese
and Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott after Rio booked an $8.9
billion one-time charge on the value of its aluminum unit.  “The problem in the long run will always be the price that
they paid for it,” Tim Barker, who helps manage investments at
BT Financial Group Pty, including shares in  BHP (BLT) , said by phone.
“There’s no doubt that the timing of the acquisition was
perhaps not the best. That is something they’ll have to live
with.”  BHP’s Kloppers, a 49-year-old South African who was
appointed CEO in 2007, was paid a total of $11.6 million in
salary, benefits and bonuses in the 2011 fiscal year. That made
him the best paid CEO of the top-five European mining companies
including Rio, Xstrata Plc, Glencore International Plc and Anglo
American Plc, UBS AG said in a May 16 report.  Cash, Shares  Kloppers got a bonus in cash and shares of $4.7 million,
according to BHP. Yeager was paid $6.6 million last year,
including $2.75 million in cash and share bonuses, BHP said.  The writedown is less than what was expected by analysts.
Citigroup had estimated a $3 billion to $5 billion cut and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it had anticipated $3 billion to $6
billion.  “The market was already expecting large impairment charges
in U.S. shale,” JPMorgan analysts Fraser Jamieson,  Lyndon Fagan 
and Roger Bell wrote in a note to clients.  “However, with the
impairments coming in at the lower end of expectations, BHP may
slightly outperform peers in the wake of this announcement.”  BHP gained 3.3 percent to close at 1,918 pence in  London 
trading yesterday. It fell 2.3 percent in Sydney. BHP is due to
report full-year earnings on Aug. 22. BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest asset manager, said in March it had trimmed
holdings in BHP, citing the shale deals as a concern.  ‘Difficult Times’  “These are difficult times, particularly for those
companies and their shareholders who are being affected by
global uncertainty,” BHP Chairman Jac Nasser said in the
statement. “We are fortunate to have Marius’ leadership,
together with a strong management team supporting him, in these
challenging times.”  U.S. gas prices have declined about 38 percent since
Kloppers announced the company’s entry into shale on Feb. 22
last year with the purchase of the Fayetteville assets. He said
yesterday the charges were “clearly disappointing.”  The success of the shale venture is important for Kloppers
as it came after he had three deals totaling more than $100
billion aborted or rejected in the past four years, including
hostile bids for Rio and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Market Power  “They’ve been unfortunate in trying to put a number of
their acquisitions to bed for a number of reasons,” said BT
Financial’s Barker. “The scope of acquisition that BHP needs to
make is difficult to make because of the issue of market
power.”  Energy companies operating in the U.S. have been struggling
to adjust to lower prices since a glut in supplies from booming
shale production deflated gas futures. Producers have cut gas
output, shifted drilling to look for crude and curtailed
spending to compensate.  BHP last year bought  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s Fayetteville
assets and spent $14.9 billion, its biggest acquisition, buying
Petrohawk Energy Corp. BHP said in May it would assess the value
of its U.S. shale gas investments, while cutting back on
drilling gas until prices recover.  “We were surprised to see the Petrohawk assets unaffected
as a result of the assessment,” JPMorgan said. They had
expected the value of the Haynesville asset, acquired from
Petrohawk, to be written down, JPMorgan said.  Market Expectations  BHP’s Nasser said the board supports Kloppers and Yeager in
shifting current drilling from the dry gas fields in
Fayetteville and Haynesville to the liquids rich fields in the
Permian and Eagle Ford.  “Hopefully, what they can do now is continue to focus on
the liquids component of these assets in order to maximize the
returns on this investment,” Phillip Chippindale, a Sydney-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc who expected a
writedown of about $3 billion, said by phone.  Shale-rock formations require injection of water, sand and
chemicals to release gas. Environmental groups have opposed
using the process called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
because of concerns of air pollution and tainted water supplies.
Producers are also facing increased state and federal
regulation.  BHP in February cut the mining rate at its Nickel West
operation in  Western Australia  by 30 percent, citing lower metal
prices and the high Australian dollar. Nickel prices traded in
London have declined about 36 percent over the past year because
of growing supply and slowing demand. BHP said yesterday it had
cut the value of the unit because of margin deterioration.  BHP may seek to sell its remaining nickel assets, “however
this is likely to be challenging in the current environment,”
JPMorgan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  