-- Boeing, SpaceX Win $900 Million in Awards for Spacecraft
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-08-03T18:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/boeing-spacex-win-900-million-in-awards-for-spacecraft-1-.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  and Space Exploration
Technologies Corp. won $900 million in contracts from NASA to
develop spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts, the agency
said.  Boeing received a $460 million award, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration said in a press release
today. SpaceX, led by billionaire Elon Musk, got a $440 million
agreement, and Sierra  Nevada  Corp. won $213 million.  Two of the companies will probably be picked to build the
vehicles to transport crew to the International Space Station,
said John Logsdon, a professor and founder of George Washington
University’s Space Policy Institute.  “This is an important step,” he said in an interview.
“These are the substitutes for the shuttle.”  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , based in Arlington,  Virginia , was
among the companies that lost bids.  The U.S. retired its shuttle fleet last year and relies on
countries such as  Russia  to ferry astronauts and supplies to the
space station. The administration wants the private sector to
take over those jobs so  NASA  can focus on missions to asteroids
and Mars.  Russian Rides  NASA pays about $63 million per seat on Russian Soyuz
spacecraft.  “We’re in this kind of embarrassing situation of depending
on Russia for crew transportation,” Logsdon said. “These
systems are the way out of that.”  The latest funding is the third and final phase of a
program to design and develop the privately operated vehicles.  Excluding the funding announced today, NASA has awarded
$365 million since 2009 for work under its commercial crew
program.  “We have selected three companies that will help keep us
on track to end the outsourcing of human spaceflight and create
high-paying jobs in  Florida  and elsewhere across the country,”
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said during a press briefing
at  Kennedy Space Center  in  Cape Canaveral , Florida.  Boeing, based in Chicago, has about 250 employees working
on the program in Texas, California and Florida, mostly in
Houston, Paula Korn, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
With the new funding, Boeing sees that figure increasing to
about 350 in 2012 and to about 450 in 2013, she said.  Bullet-Shaped Capsules  After the system shifts from design to production in 2015
or 2016, the company expects to have about 550 employees at
Kennedy Space Center, Korn said.  Both Boeing and Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX are
developing bullet-shaped capsules that launch atop rockets and
are capable of carrying seven astronauts. Sierra Nevada, based
in Sparks, Nevada, is building a shuttle-like vehicle that is
lifted by a rocket and lands like an airplane.  SpaceX expects its first manned flight in 2015, two years
before NASA plans to begin regular manned missions to the  space
station  using commercial craft.  The company on May 25 became the first to dock a private
unmanned ship with the station. SpaceX and  Orbital Sciences
Corp. (ORB) , based in Dulles, Virginia, have won $3.5 billion in NASA
awards as part of a separate program to deliver cargo to the
station.  Losing Bidders  Seven companies competed for the latest round of funding,
William Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for NASA’s human
exploration and operations directorate, said today during a
separate press conference. The four losing bidders were Alliant,
Space Operations Inc., American Aerospace Corp. and Space Design
Inc., he said.  “The stronger proposals were really the three we talked
about,” he said.  George Torres, a spokesman for Alliant Techsystems, said in
an e-mail that the company was “disappointed” it wasn’t
selected. It teamed up with  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and a unit of
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. to develop a rocket
called Liberty to compete for U.S. business.  Torres said “it’s too early” to say whether the company
will seek to challenge the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  