-- Bond Trading Least Since 2008 as Dealers Retreat: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-08-03T13:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bond-trading-least-since-2008-as-dealers-retreat-credit-markets.html
Investors are stockpiling corporate
debt rather than trading as banks retreat from bond brokering,
with daily trading volumes in the U.S. slumping to the slowest
July in four years even as offerings reached a record.  Volumes averaged $9.97 billion last month, 8 percent below
July 2011 and the lowest for the period since two months before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure ignited the credit
crisis, according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
data. Investment-grade  sales  rose 58 percent from the same month
last year to $80.5 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fund managers are struggling to pry loose bonds in the
secondary market as new regulations to curb risk fuel an 82
percent  decline  in corporate-bond inventories at primary dealers
since 2007. Issuance is failing to satiate investors who have
plowed $63.5 billion into investment-grade bond funds this year,
seeking alternatives to government debt as the  Federal Reserve 
holds benchmark  interest rates  near zero through at least 2014.  “There’s such an imbalance between supply and demand right
now, investors aren’t willing to part with what they own,” said
Jonathan Fine,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s head of investment-
grade syndicate for the Americas in New York. “They’re just
focused on getting new product through the door.”  Primary Dealers  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed
have curbed  trading  of company bonds in the U.S. by 61 percent
to an average volume of $107.9 billion in the week ended July 25
from the peak of $278.6 billion in June 2007, according to Fed
data. Their  holdings  of the debt plunged to $37.5 billion as of
July 11, the least since March 2002.  “There’s been a general decline in liquidity over the past
few years, since the end of the financial crisis,” said Alex Gennis, a credit strategist at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in New York. “The
expectation is that liquidity will continue to deteriorate.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell by the most in a
week after a report showing payrolls climbed more than forecast.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 4.2 basis points to a mid-price of 104.8
basis points as of 9:10 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since July 27.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The payrolls increase of 163,000 followed a revised 64,000
gain in June that was less than initially reported, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a gain of 100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, fell 0.4 basis point to 21.25 basis points
as of 9:10 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of ArcelorMittal are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, a day after
the company’s debt rating was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s ,
with 19 trades of $1 million or more as of 9:11 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Trading Slowing  The world’s biggest steelmaker’s long- and short-term
ratings were cut to BB+/B from BBB-/A-3 by S&P, which cited
uncertainty about its debt reduction plan and a weakening steel
industry. Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal said the downgrade was
driven by a change in S&P’s view of the “macro-economic
environment.”  ArcelorMittal’s $1.4 billion of 4.5 percent notes maturing
in February 2017, which traded as high as 101.2 cents on the
dollar in May, rose 1.2 cents to 96.25 cents on the dollar as of
8:58 a.m. in New York, up from the lowest level since they were
sold in February, Trace data show.  Bond trading is slowing as rules from the  U.S. Congress  to
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  prod the biggest
banks to pare holdings of corporate  bonds . Primary dealer
company-debt holdings of $41.2 billion as of July 25 compare
with a peak of $235 billion in October 2007, Fed data show.  “Even if the dealers were actively stocking inventory,
their inventories would still be low because the demand on the
buy-side is so high,” said Scott Kimball, a  money manager  at
Taplin Canida & Habacht LLC, a BMO Financial Group unit that
oversees $7.2 billion. “Whatever inventories they have would be
purchased.”  Treasury Yields  Volumes slumped even as the amount of investment-grade
corporate debt grew 48 percent in four years to a combined face
value of $3.76 trillion, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index.  Borrowers sold a record amount of dollar-denominated
investment-grade notes in July as investors poured almost 13
times more cash into funds that buy the debt this year compared
with the first seven months of 2011, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  “The only real source of credit for the buyside is the new
issue market,” said Fine of Goldman Sachs. “We’re seeing very
little demand to trade those bonds in the secondary market.”  Corporates are luring investors with yields on benchmark
10-year U.S. Treasury  notes  sinking as low as 1.38 percent on
July 25. That compares with 3.065 percent on investment-grade
company bonds in the U.S. as of Aug. 1, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Corporate yields fell to an
unprecedented 3.037 percent on July 30.  Texas Instruments  The Fed says it plans to hold its target rate for overnight
loans between banks in a range from zero to 0.25 percent through
at least late 2014 with  unemployment  holding above 8 percent for
a 42nd straight month in July.  The central bank has reiterated its willingness to deliver
more stimulus measures if economic conditions fail to improve as
the  International Monetary Fund  lowers its 2013 global growth
forecast to 3.9 percent from the 4.1 percent estimate in April.  Texas Instruments Inc. and Unilever NV sold bonds last week
with record coupons of 0.45 percent on three-year notes,
Bloomberg-compiled data show. Texas Instruments sold $1.5
billion of debt in the Dallas-based company’s first offering in
more than a year with equal $750 million portions of three- and
seven-year bonds.  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker,
behind  Procter & Gamble Co ., issued $450 million of three-year
notes and $550 million of five-year debentures. The maker of
Dove soaps and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream last sold dollar debt in
February 2011, Bloomberg data show.  “Demand is extraordinarily high,” Fine said. “Investors
need that product, they have an acute shortage of product,
they’re looking for any product. Everyone is in the same
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  