-- Petrobras Had Surprise Net Loss in Quarter on Currency
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-03T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/brazil-s-petrobras-reports-surprise-net-loss-in-second-quarter.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the worst
performing global  oil company  this year, unexpectedly reported
its first loss in more than a decade after a depreciation of the
local currency increased costs in the second quarter.  Petrobras had a loss of 1.35 billion reais ($666 million)
compared with net income of 10.9 billion reais a year earlier,
the Rio de Janeiro-based company said today in a statement. The
loss missed the 2.94 billion-real adjusted profit average of
 nine analysts ’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It was
Petrobras’s first loss since 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A 9.1 percent depreciation of the local currency in the
quarter increased the cost of buying equipment and services that
are denominated in dollars, the company said.  Brazil ’s real is
the worst performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg this year, data shows.  “This result isn’t recurrent, and is the result of a group
of factors: the strong depreciation of the real against the
dollar,” Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said
in the statement. “Also the price gap between fuel sold in the
Brazilian market in relation to international parameters.”  Imported gasoline cost 22 percent more than domestic fuel
in the quarter because the government, which controls Petrobras’
board, fixed prices to rein in inflation, Auro Rozenbaum, an
analyst at Bradesco SA, said in a note to clients before the
report were released.  Dollar-Denominated Debt  “We had some issues that were very negative for Petrobras,
like the necessity to import more gasoline and more diesel,”
Lucas Brendler, who helps manage about 7 billion reais at Banco
Geracao Futuro de Investimento, said by telephone from  Porto
Alegre , Brazil, before the report. “Petrobras must buy this at
a higher price than what it can sell inside Brazil.”  The weaker local currency hurts profit as the value of the
company’s dollar-denominated debt increases, Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said in a May 22 interview.  “We finance ourselves from the international  capital
market  so our exposure to the dollar is high,” Barbassa said.
“We have to recognize the loss.”  The financial losses will “have an impact” on the amount
of dividends the company will pay this year, he said.  Profit was also hurt by a drop in oil production and rising
costs related to an increase in dry holes. A decline in
international fuel prices reduced the value of Petrobras’
inventories at foreign refineries, the company said.  Chevron Shutdown  Petrobras’s production rose 1.5 percent last year to 2.62
million barrels a day, on average, the slowest rate since 2007,
the company has said on its website. In the second quarter
output fell 1.1 percent from a year ago after the shutdown of
the  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 60,000-barrel-a-day Frade field, where
Petrobras has a minority stake. Output was also curbed by
maintenance-related platform shutdowns.  The company will continue adjusting domestic fuel prices to
eliminate losses on gasoline and diesel imports, Foster said.  “Since I became president of Petrobras five months ago,
I’ve continued reiterating our commitment to parity with
international prices,” she said. “These adjustments are
necessary to finance the business plan.”  Petrobras increased prices for gasoline 7.8 percent on June
25 to reduce the discount with international prices, the first
boost since November.  Deepwater Developments  Petrobras, the biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000
feet (3,048 meters), plans to more than double output to 5.7
million barrels a day in 2020. The company is investing $236.5
billion over five years to build refineries, develop deepwater
fields and ramp up output at Lula, the largest discovery in
Brazil’s history.  The company is developing fields in waters as deep as 2,800
meters that are trapped under a layer of salt.  Petrobras has lost 15 percent for investors this year in
U.S. dollar terms, the worst performance by a global oil company
with a market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  