-- Brazil Inflation Boosted by Farm Price Shock, Hamilton Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-08-03T17:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/brazil-inflation-boosted-by-farm-price-shock-hamilton-says-1-.html
Brazil ’s inflation was quickened by a
temporary shock from agriculture price increases and will slow
later this year, said Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s
director for economic policy.  Consumer prices  rose faster than analysts expected in the
month through mid-July, as adverse weather conditions in Brazil
and abroad pushed up food prices 0.88 percent from the previous
month. Brazil’s inflation will converge to the central bank’s
target during the second half of the year as the climatic
effects pass, Hamilton said to reporters in  Salvador .  “The shock to supply originated in climatic changes,”
Hamilton told reporters in Salvador while commenting on the
central’s bank’s quarterly regional report, released today. “We
have to wait to see its duration and intensity. Supply shocks
are understood to be temporary.”  The bank, which has cut the  benchmark rate  by 450 basis
points in the past year to a record 8 percent, targets inflation
of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points. Prices in
the month through mid-July rose 5.24 percent from the year
before.  Demand for  consumer credit  is strong, while the offer
remains slightly restrictive, Hamilton said. Credit in Brazil is
growing moderately, and the outlook for concession of credit is
improving, he added.  Credit Growth  Brazil’s central bank expects credit growth of 15 percent
this year. Household debt costs will fall gradually and loan
default rates will continue to improve, Hamilton said.  During the first five months of the year, the recovery in
domestic economic activity has been gradual, the report said.
Low employment and real wage increases will help drive gross
domestic product growth to a 4 percent annual rate by year-end,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini told reporters in late
July.  Swap rates on the contract maturing due in January 2014,
the most traded today in  Sao Paulo , rose eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage points, to 7.80 percent at 1:35 p.m. local time.
The real strengthened 1.2 percent to 2.0255 per dollar.  Brazil’s gross domestic product  grew  at a 0.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter. The central bank forecasts
growth of 2.5 percent this year, down from 2.7 percent last year
and 7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  