-- Bristol-Myers Insider Arrest Followed Probe of Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/bristol-myers-insider-arrest-followed-probe-of-deal.html
U.S. regulators were so suspicious of
the circumstances surrounding  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Nov. 21
announcement it was buying Pharmasset Inc. for $11 billion that
they opened an insider-trading investigation that day.  “The volume was huge and the deal premium was huge, so we
looked at the underlying trading,” U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission attorney Mary P. Hansen said in a phone interview.
“We were looking at anyone who bought shares.”  The probe, which the  Justice Department  joined, resulted
yesterday in the arrest of Robert Ramnarine, a  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  executive. Ramnarine, 45, was charged with making
$311,361 in illegal profit by buying  stock options  in three
companies targeted for acquisition. The SEC, which sued
Ramnarine yesterday, is continuing its probe.  Ramnarine held high-level jobs including executive director
of pensions and savings investments and assistant treasurer for
 capital markets . He helped the New York-based drugmaker evaluate
whether to buy targeted companies, including Pharmasset,
ZymoGenetics Inc. and  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , according to
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  arrest complaint.  As he conducted due diligence on pension and savings plans
of those companies, he bought options in all three, violating a
duty not to profit from inside information, the FBI said.
Ramnarine was released yesterday on a $250,000 bond after
appearing in federal court in Newark, New Jersey. His lawyer,
assistant federal public defender Peter Carter, had no comment.  ‘Apparent Epidemic’  “We are concerned about the apparent epidemic of insider
trading involving the securities of pharmaceutical and health-
care companies,” Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC’s Market
Abuse Unit, said in a phone interview. Ramnarine “was a well-
compensated person, and it’s alarming that a person of his
stature engaged in this kind of conduct.”  Bristol-Myers engaged in discussions from Oct. 13 to Nov.
17 of 2011 about potentially acquiring Pharmasset, which was
developing oral drugs for hepatitis C, or HCV. The company,
which had 82 employees, had a net loss of $91.2 million for the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30 and no products on the market.  Pharmasset took offers in a “limited auction process”
through its investment banking firm, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
LLC, according to the FBI complaint. Bristol-Myers withdrew on
Nov. 17. On the next day, a Friday, Pharmasset closed at $72.67,
with trading volume of 1.03 million shares.  Ramnarine’s Profit  When the companies announced the following Monday that
Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV medicines, would buy
Pharmasset for $137 per share in cash, a premium of 89 percent,
the volume rose to 7.1 million shares.  Ramnarine made $225,026 in illicit profit on the Pharmasset
deal, buying some of his options on his work-issued BlackBerry,
according to the arrest complaint.  To analyze the Pharmasset deal, the SEC collected trading
data from clearing brokers, aggregated it and analyzed it,
according to Hawke.  After the Pharmasset deal, Ramnarine also engaged in
 insider trading  in another deal, the Bristol-Myers purchase of
diabetes drugmaker Amylin for $5.3 billion. The deal was
announced June 29. Ramnarine made $55,784 in illicit profit on
the deal, authorities said.  “We were continuing to investigate his suspicious trading,
and he traded while we were conducting our investigation,”
Hawke said. “When we saw the trading in June, we decided that
we were going to have to act soon.”  Hepatitis C Drug  Bristol-Myers fell yesterday the most in more than 10 years
after it announced Aug. 1 that a patient in a clinical trial for
its experimental hepatitis C drug had developed heart failure.
The company halted testing of the drug.  Shares fell 8.6 percent to $32.55, after gaining 27 percent
in the previous 12 months. It was their worst one-day drop since
April 2002.  Bristol-Myers has been acquiring companies and developing
drugs to replace top-selling heart drug Plavix, which had $7.09
billion in sales last year.  Ramnarine, of East Brunswick,  New Jersey , is charged with
three counts of  securities fraud , each carrying a maximum prison
term of 20 years. The SEC seeks a court order to freeze his
brokerage account assets. Bristol-Myers said Ramnarine was
placed on administrative leave effective immediately.  “Bristol-Myers Squibb has clear and strict policies
prohibiting trading on material nonpublic information and is
cooperating with the government’s investigation,” Ken Dominski,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Office Searches  From his office in Princeton, New Jersey, Ramnarine
conducted Internet searches to determine whether he could be
detected by authorities, according to the SEC. One search was on
the term “can stock option be traced to purchase inside
trading,” according to the civil complaint.  Ramnarine’s illegal conduct began before Bristol-Myers
agreed to buy ZymoGenetics, authorities said.  Bristol-Myers reached a tentative agreement to buy
ZymoGenetics on Aug. 12, 2010, triggering three weeks of due
diligence, according to the FBI complaint.  Ramnarine bought ZymoGenetics options on Aug. 25 and Aug.
26 of 2010, and sold them two weeks later on Sept. 8, the day
after the deal was announced, for a profit of $30,551, according
to the FBI. In an application for one brokerage account used for
those trades, Ramnarine falsely stated that he worked at  Merck &
Co. (MRK) , the FBI said.  Ramnarine was hired in December 1997 and worked from March
2008 to June 2011 as director of pensions and savings
investments. He was then promoted to executive director in that
office. In July, he was promoted again, to assistant treasurer
for capital markets.  In April, he was responsible for advising Bristol-Myers on
how the Amylin transaction would affect the company’s capital
structure, cash flow and credit rating, according to the FBI. He
also spoke with the company’s investment bankers at  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and credit agencies.  The case is U.S. v. Ramnarine, 12-mj-8121, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York 
at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 