-- British-American Jumps to Highest in Two Months: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-08-03T12:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/british-american-jumps-to-highest-in-10-months-nairobi-mover.html
British-American Investments Co. (BRIT) , a
Kenyan company that owns money managers and insurance
businesses, jumped to the highest in more than two months after
returning to profit in the first half.  Shares of British-American surged as much as 7.8 percent to
6.20 shillings and closed 4.4 percent higher at 6 shillings in
Nairobi, the strongest since May 22.  Net income was 1.68 billion shillings ($20 million) in the
six months through June, compared with a loss of 197.7 million
shillings a year earlier, Managing Director Benson Wairegi said
yesterday. Gross earned premiums climbed 30 percent to 3.35
billion shillings, as investment income surged to 2.6 billion
shillings from 54.9 million shillings.  “The shares performance is mainly because of improvement
in the investment income,” Samora Kariuki, a research analyst
at Nairobi-based NIC Securities Ltd. said in a phone interview
today. “Because  interest rates  were high their fixed-income
portfolio did well and the stocks portfolio gained 1.2 billion
shillings.”  British American owns 21.37 percent of  Housing Finance
Ltd. (HFCL) , Kenya’s only publicly traded mortgage lender, and 10.63
percent in  Equity Bank Ltd., (EQBNK)  the country’s biggest lender by
customers. About 29 percent of its total investment portfolio is
in fixed income and 39 percent in equities, Wairegi said
yesterday.  Kenyan stocks, the worst performers in sub-Saharan Africa
last year, are this year’s best, as the central bank reins in
inflation and spurs a rally in the currency. The  Nairobi Stock
Exchange All-Share Index (NSEASI)  has surged 25 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  