-- British Olympic Women’s Soccer Team Seeks to Provide Pay Legacy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-03T02:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/british-olympic-women-s-soccer-team-seeks-to-provide-pay-legacy.html
Robin  van Persie  and Rachel Yankey
play as strikers for Arsenal in English soccer’s elite leagues.
The similarity ends there.  While Van Persie is a millionaire who’s told the club he
wants to leave and may get a contract worth as much as 150,000
pounds ($233,000) a week by joining a new team, Yankey juggles a
part-time job with her career. The 32-year-old says a strong
performance by Britain at the women’s Olympic soccer tournament
may improve pay and conditions for those who follow her.  “Hopefully, kids can be inspired and the Olympics leave a
legacy that we can pass it on to the next generation,” Yankey
said at the Athletes Village on Aug. 1, a day after Britain
qualified for today’s quarterfinal against Canada by winning 1-0
against  Brazil .  The Premier League’s 20 teams spent a total of 1.6 billion
pounds on player wages in the 2011 season, according to
accountant Deloitte. Yankey declined to say how much she earned
from soccer, saying it was “not enough to live off.”  Yankey, who is a part-time physical education teacher at an
elementary school, has become one of the U.K.’s most
recognizable women’s soccer players since she started playing
for Arsenal 16 years ago. Known for her speedy attacking runs,
she’s played 119 games for  England  since 1997.  The crowd of 70,000 at Wembley Stadium for the July 31
match against Brazil, the silver medalist at the last two
Olympics, was a record for a women’s soccer match in the U.K.
The British team will play  Canada  today in front of a sellout
crowd of 32,000 at the City of Coventry stadium.  Wembley Dreams  “A young boy dreams about playing Wembley, a young girl
would love to but it never happens,” Britain striker Rachel
Williams, 24, said in an interview. “Hopefully as the Olympics
is about legacy maybe we’ll do it for young girls coming up. I
don’t think we’ll see the major benefits of it, but hopefully
the next generations of young girls coming up will.”  Britons are taking note of the team’s performances as it
advanced to the last eight by winning all three of its  group
games  and not allowing a goal.  The victory against Brazil had a peak television audience
of 3.03 million on the same night U.S. swimmer  Michael Phelps 
was winning his record 19th career Olympic medal.  “It’s hard to explain,” Williams added. “The more we’ve
gone on the more it means to us, because we’ve seen the
following and support we’re getting. For me this is the best
thing I’ve been part of.”  With defending Olympic champion the U.S. and 2011 World Cup
winner  Japan  still in the 16-team competition, Britain’s players
say they aren’t letting national fervor distract them.  Yankey said she’s also managing to stay focused even though
she has to deal with mundane daily tasks such as doing the
laundry and grocery shopping. Van Persie and some of his fellow
Premier League players have those chores handled by staff, she
said.  “You wouldn’t get major stars doing that,” Yankey said.
“We’re just normal people, so there’s nothing different about
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Park in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  