-- British Airways Owner IAG Plans Iberia Job Cuts After Loss
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-08-03T15:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/british-airways-owner-iag-plans-iberia-job-cuts-following-loss.html
British Airways parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  plans to cut jobs at Spanish arm
Iberia as part of a revamp to be unveiled next month after the
Madrid-based unit pushed the company to a second-quarter loss.  IAG will reduce the workforce as it shrinks Iberia’s
business and reshapes the network in the near term in order to
boost unit revenue while seeking cost cuts in all areas, Chief
Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said today in a statement.  Shortfalls at Iberia mean London-based IAG will probably
record a “small operating loss” for the full year, the company
said, after earlier forecasting it would break even. The second-
quarter operating loss was 42 million euros ($51 million),
including costs from BMI, acquired in April from  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , versus a year-earlier profit of 134 million euros.  “There will be a thorough review of all parts of Iberia’s
business, from A to Z,” Walsh said on a conference call. “The
problems are deep and structural and the economic environment
reinforces the need for permanent structural change.”  IAG, founded in January last year via a merger of British
Airways and Iberia, fell 5.2 percent to 151 pence as of the
close in  London . The stock has advanced 2.4 percent this year,
valuing the company at 2.8 billion pounds ($4.4 billion).  Virgin Loss  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., BA’s No. 1 rival on the most
lucrative long-haul routes from Heathrow, had a pretax loss of
80.2 million pounds for the year ended Feb. 29 versus, a year-
earlier profit of 18.5 million pounds, it said today.  Walsh said his restructuring plan for Iberia will be ready
by the end of next month and will seek to address “a stark
difference in the performance” of IAG’s subsidiaries. He
declined to say how many jobs might be cut, while saying that
the revamp will take place over an extended period.  “The task for Willie Walsh and his team is now to
undertake the sort of surgery on Iberia which has already put
British Airways in good shape,” said aviation analyst  John Strickland , director of JLS Consulting in London.  Euro-Exit Study  Walsh said that while it was evident that Iberia would
require a revamp at the time IAG was formed, “Spanish macro
headwinds” have made the need to address the situation more
urgent, as have cost cutting programs at competitors  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s biggest airline, and Lufthansa, the No. 2.  A “Eurozone crisis management group” established to
evaluate the impact of the region’s sovereign debt crisis is
also meeting every two weeks to review scenario planning and
hedging policies, IAG said, while a “roadmap project” has
begun to consider commercial and other issues that would be
triggered by a Spanish exit from the common currency.  The Iberia review will examine its competitiveness and
profitability on routes to growth economies in  Latin America ,
where the Spanish company is the top European carrier and Air
France and Lufthansa have been adding capacity, Walsh said.  IAG’s quarterly result included 50 million euros of losses
from BMI, which was bought to add scarce operating slots at
British Airways’ London Heathrow hub, and the restructuring of
the unit, which is being folded into BA, also accounted for the
bulk of 38 million euros of one-time items, the company said.  Air France Gains  Second-quarter revenue advanced almost 12 percent to 4.61
billion euros, IAG said today. Analysts had expected a quarterly
loss of 35.6 million euros, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Air France-KLM and Lufthansa earlier this week reported
earnings that beat estimates as cost-savings programs kicked in.  Air France cut its operating loss by more than half to 66
million euros, aided by the introduction of a 2 billion-euro
savings plan, it said July 30. The stock jumped almost 19
percent, the most since the group’s formation via a Franco-Dutch
merger in 2004, and has advanced 9.2 percent this year.  Lufthansa boosted second-quarter operating profit almost 28
percent to 361 million euros after introducing a 1.5 billion-
euro efficiency program and has added 11 percent this year.  Still, IAG is probably the most likely of the three to make
cuts stick because of Walsh’s experience in restructuring BA,
where he faced down a cabin-crew strike last year, and Ireland’s
 Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , where he was also CEO, Strickland said.  ‘Sparks’  “We can expect some sparks, but Walsh is best-placed to do
this because he has already turned around BA and Aer Lingus and
absolutely knows what’s required,” the analyst said. “Iberia has
strong assets in its Madrid hub and exposure to Latin America
and it will be a case of persuading the unions that there’ll be
long-term growth. Otherwise it will just gradually shrink.”  Walsh had so far been seeking a Spanish turnaround through
the transfer of domestic and short-haul flights to a new unit,
Iberia Express, which aims to reduce the break-even point with
less-generous contracts. The unit was profitable in June, its
third full month of operations, IAG said, adding that the wider
Iberia restructuring plan may lead to extra costs this year.  Walsh will draw on his previous career as a pilot to help
win over Iberia flight crew as he did at BA, Strickland said.  Airline-industry net income will likely drop 62 percent to
$3 billion in 2012, the  International Air Transport Association 
reckons. While carriers will be profitable on average in most
regions, they’ll post losses in Europe and  Africa , IATA says.  Crawley, England-based Virgin Atlantic, controlled by U.K.
billionaire  Richard Branson , said today that the start to its
fiscal year has been “encouraging,” with sales in the three
months ended May 31 up 5.8 percent to 481.9 million pounds.  The carrier has accelerated an efficiency drive to deliver
savings of 50 million pounds, it said in a statement.  Capacity Plan  BA’s integration of BMI is “going well,” with completion
due by this year, IAG said. The purchase helped lift capacity
5.1 percent in July and for the full year will contribute a 2.3
percent increase, with the total about 3.8 percent, Walsh said.  Passenger traffic, or people carried times the distance
flown, increased 5.1 percent last month, IAG said today, with
the passenger total 8.6 percent higher at 5.4 million.  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s top discount carrier, said the number of
customers it transported rose 8 percent to 8.72 million.  British Airways has said it will use Heathrow slots gained
from BMI to open new routes to emerging economies in  Asia  and
Latin America, as well as to add feed from key European cities.  Bankia Exit  Walsh said that  Spain ’s Bankia group is likely to exit IAG
as a shareholder following its state bailout.  “My personal view is that it is not a question of if they
sell but when they sell,” he said. “I see no strategic value
to having Bankia as an investor.”  Asked about the possibility of another airline taking a
stake, Walsh said that’s nothing more than “rumor.”  The impact of the 2012 Olympics on IAG’s traffic has been
generally as predicted, Walsh said, with the proportion of
business bookings lower than the norm in July and August.  IAG is in talks with  Airbus SAS (EAD)  over A380 deliveries, with
the first handover likely to be delayed until the third quarter
of 2013, Walsh said. British Airways has firm orders for 12
superjumbos, of which Airbus has said it may deliver fewer
examples next year as it grapples with a fix for wing cracks.  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s deliveries are showing “a little
slippage” but remain due for handover next year, the CEO told
analysts. BA has 24 Dreamliners on order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  