-- Britain’s Victoria Pendleton, Men’s Team Win Cycling Gold Medals
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-03T19:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/britain-s-victoria-pendleton-men-s-team-win-cycling-gold-medals.html
Britain’s Victoria Pendleton won
track-cycling gold in the women’s keirin and the nation’s men’s
team took the 4,000-meter pursuit in world-record time.  It was a second Olympic gold medal for Pendleton, who beat
 China ’s Guo Shuang, with Lee Wai-Sze of Hong Kong third.  Pendleton was demoted in the women’s team sprint yesterday
for a rule infringement and will defend her individual sprint
title Aug. 7.  “It definitely makes up for yesterday, I’m delighted,”
Pendleton said. “I’m very glad to be retiring. It still goes
through my mind ‘Why do I put myself through this?' I didn’t want
to be stuck behind those girls, it was definitely a day to take
it on, and when there was an opportunity I took it.”  Pendleton started in the outside lane and was fourth as the
derny, a pace-setting motorbike, left the track at the Velodrome
in London.  Australia ’s Anna Meares, the reigning world champion,
had led the race before falling back and finishing fifth.  Pendleton, 31, wept on the podium as she sang the national
anthem. She won gold in the women’s sprint at the Beijing games
in 2008.  The keirin is a race in which riders follow a motorbike
that gradually picks up speed to 45 kilometers (28 miles) an
hour, then drops out with 600 meters remaining as the cyclists
race to the end.  Earlier today, the British men’s quartet of Edward Clancy,
27; Geraint Thomas, 26; Steven Burke, 24, and Peter Kennaugh,
23, crossed the line in 3 minutes, 51.659 seconds in the team
pursuit. Australia got silver and  New Zealand  won bronze.  ‘Comfortable’  “I never felt under pressure from the Aussies, we were so
comfortable,” Kennaugh said after the medal ceremony. “They
were at the limit and we were comfortable.”  The Britons, who are the defending Olympic and world
champions, did a lap of honor in front of a crowd that included
Bradley Wiggins, the first Briton to win the Tour de  France .  The previous record of 3:52.499 was set by Britain
yesterday.  “Geraint had a good dose of food poisoning about a week
ago and was pretty off form. If he was on his ‘A’ game we would
have gone quicker,” Clancy said. “British cycling is about the
Olympics, we wanted to peak here. It’s all come good. The
Aussies have pushed us to do that 51 today and good on them.”  Russian track cyclist Victoria Baranova, who was due to
compete in the women’s sprint, tested positive for testosterone
and has been sent home, Union Cycliste Internationale spokesman
Enrico Carpani said in a telephone interview.  The test was conducted in Belarus on July 24 and Baranova
returned home yesterday morning, Carpani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane at the Velodrome in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny at the Velodrome in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  