-- Brookfield Sees Slowdown in Re-Leasing of Merrill Space
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-08-03T20:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/brookfield-sees-slowdown-in-world-financial-center-re-leasing.html
Brookfield Office Properties (BPO)  is
falling short of its goal to lease soon-to-be-vacant space at
 lower Manhattan’s  World Financial Center by the end of 2012,
Chief Executive Officer Dennis Friedrich said.  A slowing economy and “uneven” business confidence
expected to last at least through the U.S. elections are
stretching out corporate leasing decisions, Friedrich said today
during New York-based Brookfield’s second-quarter earnings
conference call. That has made it more difficult to find new
tenants for 3.1 million square feet (288,000 square meters) of
former Merrill Lynch & Co. offices at the complex, he said.  “Although our level of serious activity and negotiations
on that space from a very diverse makeup of tenants is
consistent with what we have reported over the past few
quarters, our ability to advance those discussions to executed
leases has been challenging,” Friedrich said. “We haven’t
given up on the goal, but I would say it’s unlikely at this
point.”  Brookfield had said it wanted to have new agreements for at
least 1.5 million square feet of the space by the end of the
year. Merrill was the landlord’s largest tenant at the 8
million-square-foot financial center before  Bank of America
Corp.  acquired the investment bank in 2009. Last year, the bank
agreed to keep about 767,000 square feet of the 4.6 million
Merrill had leased. Those leases expire next year.  Brookfield fell following Friedrich’s comments. Its shares
dropped 0.7 percent to $16.82 at the close in  New York , after
declining as much as 2.1 percent in intraday trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  