-- BTG Pactual Said to Invest $1 Billion in Sete Oil-Rig Operator
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-03T17:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/btg-pactual-said-to-invest-1-billion-in-sete-oil-rig-operator.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA’s private-equity
funds invested $1 billion in Sete Brasil Participacoes SA, more
than doubling their stake in the oil-rig operator to 30 percent,
according to four people with direct knowledge of the deal.  EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based private-
equity firm, also invested in the Rio de Janeiro-based company
as part of a 5.4 billion-real ($2.7 billion) capital increase,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
shifts in ownership haven’t been announced.  BTG, Banco Santander Brasil SA and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  all 
held 13.7 percent stakes before the offering, according to Sete 
Brasil. Santander’s holding declined to 6.9 percent, while
Bradesco, which didn’t buy additional stock, had its
participation reduced to about 3 percent, the people said.  Sete Brasil is seeking capital as it plans to spend about
$27 billion by 2020 building deep-water drilling platforms that
will be rented by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  in pre-salt fields off
 Brazil ’s southern coast. The reservoirs are under about 6,500
feet of water and beneath 16,400 feet of sub-sea bedrock, sand
and salt. Petrobras, as the state-controlled petroleum company
is known, has said it holds oil reserves of as much as 8.5
billion barrels in five pre-salt fields.  Pension funds Petros and Funcef each held 19.2 percent
before the capital increase, while Previ and Valia, which are
also pension funds, had 10 percent and 5.5 percent,
respectively. Petrobras held the remaining 5 percent and is
keeping its stake.  BTG, Bradesco and Santander officials declined to
comment, asking not to be named in accordance with company
policies. Sete Brasil and EIG didn’t immediatly respond to e-
mails requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  