-- HTC Forecasts Drop in Sales, Missing Analyst Estimates
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-03T08:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/htc-forecasts-drop-in-sales-missing-analyst-estimates.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
smartphone maker, forecast a record drop in sales amid continued
market share declines.  Third-quarter revenue will be NT$70 billion ($2.3 billion)
to NT$80 billion, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said today.
Revenue is expected to  miss analysts’ estimates  for a fifth
consecutive quarter, with the average of 10  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg in the past 28 days at NT$87 billion.  Competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. has
forced the maker of HTC One, Sensation and Desire handsets to
 cut its workforce  to shore up profitability amid declining
revenue. New models from its larger rivals have prompted
analysts to forecast HTC’s biggest annual sales decline since it
listed in 2002.  “They’re going to face a lot of pressure because their
high-end models are facing a lot of competition,” Aaron Jeng,
who rates the stock reduce at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Taipei,
said before the earnings announcement. “HTC’s top-line sales
are declining so they need to cut expenses to help improve their
bottom-line profit.”  HTC on June 6  cut its guidance  for the second time in three
quarters, reducing its revenue forecast for the period by 13
percent to NT$91 billion.  Second-quarter net income dropped 58 percent to NT$7.4
billion, missing the NT$7.59 billion average of analysts’
estimates while revenue dropped 27 percent to NT$91 billion, it
reported July 6.  Record Sales Drop  The mid-point of HTC’s third-quarter revenue range, NT$75
billion, would be a 45 percent decline from a year earlier, the
largest drop since it listed in 2002.  The company’s share of the global smartphone market dropped
to 4.5 percent in the first quarter from a peak of 10.7 percent
in the second quarter of last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries.  HTC lost 3.7 percent to NT$277.50 at the close in Taipei
trading before the announcement, extending its decline this year
to 44 percent.  Last month HTC said it plans to close its South Korean
office after the Taiwanese company in June announced it would
shut a research and development center in  North Carolina  and an
office in  Brazil .  HTC’s operating expenses climbed to a record 18 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier as sales fell faster than
its ability to cut costs.  Margins to Shrink  HTC on July 21  announced  it would sell back about 25
percent of Beats, the headphones maker promoted by rapper Dr Dre
and pop-singer Lady Gaga, to its original shareholders for
around $150 million, less than a year after announcing it would
buy almost 51 percent of the  Santa Monica , California-based
company for approximately $300 million. A separate deal
 announced  the same day saw HTC lend Beats $225 million for
purposes that weren’t specified.  Gross margin, a key measure of profitability that tracks
the percentage of sales less cost of goods sold, will be about
25 percent this quarter, less than the 27 percent of the prior
period. The average of seven analyst estimates compiled since it
cut its guidance was for second-quarter gross margin of 27.1
percent, with that figure expect to drop to 26.6 percent this
period.  Operating margin  was 9 percent last quarter, only the
second time operating margin fell below 12 percent since HTC
began reporting consolidated data in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That figure will drop to 7 percent in the
current period, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 