-- Cameron Said to Drop Lords Overhaul Amid Tory Opposition
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-03T14:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/cameron-said-to-drop-house-of-lords-plan-amid-tory-opposition.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
set to abandon plans to overhaul the House of Lords amid
opposition from rank-and-file members of his  Conservative Party ,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The move threatens to inflame tensions with Cameron’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partners, for whom the introduction
of a largely elected upper chamber of Parliament is a priority.  Cameron had promised “one more try” to rescue Lords
reform after almost a third of Conservative lawmakers in the
House of Commons voted against fast-tracking the legislation
last month. The Liberal Democrats have threatened to block
changes to electoral boundaries that may help the Conservatives
at the 2015 general election unless the Tories back the bill.  “The coalition will continue to stagger on but it will
further weaken a relationship that has got more fractious in
recent months,” said  John Curtice , a professor of politics at
Strathclyde University in Glasgow. “The coalition is now more
vulnerable. It’s not a killer blow but it will increase the risk
that the  Lib Dems  pull out before the election.”  Failure to secure changes to the House of Lords would be a
blow to Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, who
in 2011 lost a referendum to change the voting system in general
elections. He could face voters in 2015 without having delivered
any of the constitutional changes he said he’d won in the 2010
coalition negotiations.  Cameron Plea  Cameron on July 15 wrote in the Sunday Times that the
coalition partners must surmount their “profound areas of
disagreement” and avoid descending into “division and navel-
gazing” after lawmakers from both sides openly questioned the
chances of the coalition lasting until the next election.  Cameron has been seeking to get the government back on
track after being forced to abandon several of the tax-raising
proposals announced in the March budget following a popular
backlash and after months of poor economic news. A  YouGov Plc
poll  completed on July 23 gave Labour 43 percent support, the
Conservatives 33 percent and the Liberal Democrats 9 percent.  Days after last month’s Commons rebellion, Cameron and
Clegg appeared together in public to pledge a new “slimmed-
down” agreement on government priorities until the election.
Cameron is also planning to reorganize his ministerial team
after his summer break, said a person familiar with the matter.  The government had been planning to put a new timetable
motion to lawmakers after they return from the parliamentary
recess in October, giving time to win over opponents. Clegg’s
office said talks are continuing.  Record Rebellion  Without an agreement, the bill has little chance of success
as opponents could kill it by dragging out debate until time
runs out. Last month’s rebellion saw ninety-one Conservative
lawmakers vote against the motion, the biggest revolt since the
coalition government came to power in May 2010.  Clegg’s former director of strategy has said that Liberal
Democrat lawmakers may oppose the redrawing of parliamentary
boundaries wanted by the Tories if the Lords bill fails.  “A deal’s a deal and it’s important you stick to that deal
and you stick to the contract,” Clegg told broadcasters last
month. “That’s why it is important that we deliver House of
Lords reform, because it’s a clear commitment in the coalition
agreement.”  The  House of Lords Reform Bill  involves replacing the
current 816-member chamber, made up of political appointees,
hereditary nobility and Church of  England  bishops, with a
smaller chamber of mainly elected members serving a single 15-
year term. The bill would reduce the size of the chamber by
almost a half.  Little in Return  Conservative opponents say an elected second chamber will
challenge the primacy of the Commons, the lower house. The
opposition  Labour Party  says it supports the legislation in
principle, but wants more time to scrutinize it. Critics on both
sides say Lords reform should not be a priority at a time when
the economy is in recession.  Labour said the deadlock over Lords reform showed the
Liberal Democrats had got little in return for supporting the
Conservatives’ “harsh and unfair” economic program.  “ Nick Clegg  may end up with nothing, ruthlessly exposing
his naivety,” said Sadiq Khan, who speaks for Labour on justice
policy. “Millions of people struggling through the tough
economic times will question his political priorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  