-- Canadian Dollar Rises to Parity as U.S. Job Gains Beat Forecasts
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-08-03T21:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/canadian-dollar-rises-as-stock-futures-gain-before-jobs-report.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated through
parity with its U.S. counterpart on an improved outlook for the
nation’s exports after America’s Labor Department reported
employers hired more workers than economists predicted.  The currency gained for a fourth week as stocks and crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, rallied. Futures traders
reversed their bets that the Canadian dollar will decline
against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  “It’s nice to see the Canadian dollar break through
parity, but you have to be a little bit disappointed with the
follow through,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst at
forexlive.com in  Montreal . “There seems to be plenty of eager
corporate sellers of the Canadian dollar around parity.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated 0.6
percent to C$1.0013 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after
advancing to 99.80 cents, the strongest since May 11. It’s up
0.2 percent this week. One Canadian dollar buys 99.87 cents.  Investors should buy higher-yielding currencies such as the
Canadian and Australian dollars against the euro, according to
 Greg Anderson  at Citigroup Inc. Canada’s dollar reached a record
high against the euro yesterday, trading as strong as C$1.2197,
before dropping 1 percent today.  Short Trade  “You should still short euro across the crosses and that’s
been a good trade all year,” said Anderson, head of G-10
currency strategy in  New York . “The euro has, in fits and
starts, impressively underperformed Aussie, the Canadian dollar
and  Sweden . That is still the trade.” A short position is a bet
that an asset will decline in value.  The difference in the number of  wagers  by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
12,449 on July 31, compared with net shorts of 2,432 a week
earlier, according to CFTC data.  The loonie extended gains today after the report showed
U.S. payrolls increased 163,000, more than the median estimate
of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, which called for a
gain of 100,000. July’s gains followed a revised 64,000 rise in
June that was less than initially reported, the report said.
Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.  Gains in higher-yielding assets may be short-lived if the
strength of the payrolls data diminishes odds of further
measures for quantitative easing from the  Federal Reserve , said
 Shaun Osborne  at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   Country Benefit  “What’s good for the  U.S. economy  is generally good for
Canada,” Osborne, chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion’s TD Securities unit, said in a telephone interview.
“However, it’s really all about the potential for central bank
action at the moment and this is a pretty decent number so it
reduces the pressure for quickish action from the Fed.”  Canada ships about three quarters of its exports to the
U.S., and is the biggest supplier of crude oil to the world’s
largest economy.  Canadian 10-year  bonds  are yielding the most relative to
their U.S. counterparts since last year on speculation Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will hold to a tightening bias while
his southern counterpart moves to stimulate the world’s largest
economy.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds yielded 1.77 percent
today, 21 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
securities, almost the widest  spread  since October. Canada 10-
year bonds yielded 12 basis points less than Treasuries in
March.  Bonds Trail  Canadian  government bonds  are trailing global peers after
posting better returns during the past two years as investors
turn to deeper markets, such as the U.S., or higher-yielders
including  South Africa . Canada’s government debt returned 0.3
percent last month, the third-least among 25 countries tracked
in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Sovereigns Broad
Market Plus Index.  “We’re one of the few central banks talking about taking
stimulus away, while everyone else is stimulating,” Hosen Marjaee, a  money manager  in Toronto at Manulife Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about C$17 billion ($16.9 billion) in
fixed-income assets, said in an interview yesterday. “There’s
rumors the Federal Reserve is preparing to come in and do
something else,” he said, referring to purchasing assets to
lower borrowing costs. “Those two reasons have made the U.S.
market outperform ours by quite a bit.”  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.9 percent. Crude-oil
futures rose 4.9 percent to $91.36 a barrel in New York.  Canada’s currency dropped against 11 of its 16 major
counterparts today.  “Even though the Canadian dollar has been very closely
correlated to U.S. stocks, it’s not one of the best performers
today,” said Forexlive’s Button, who predicted the loonie will
hover around parity for the rest of the month. “This isn’t the
kind of performance you might expect.”  Canada’s dollar has increased 2 percent this year against
nine major counterparts in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, while the U.S. dollar is down 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  