-- China Stocks Rise Most in Five Weeks on Trading-Fee Cut
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-03T07:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/china-s-stock-futures-rise-as-regulators-cut-transaction-fees.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in five
weeks as a cut in transaction fees on share trading overshadowed
the failure of central banks in  China ,  Europe  and the U.S. to
take immediate steps to support growth.  Sinolink Securities Co. paced gains by brokerages on
speculation the 20 percent reduction in fees will boost trading.
 Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the nation’s second-largest property
developer, rallied 1.8 percent after the Beijing Times said
speculation China may ban the selling homes before they are
completed is a rumor. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest
carmaker, sank 3.8 percent as the nation’s vehicle inventories
rose to a four-month high.  “The cut in transaction fee will boost the efficiency of
trading in China but it doesn’t help to improve the economy,”
said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “We need more policies that
aid the economy and that will drive liquidity to the market.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1 percent to 2,132.80 at
the close. The gauge gained 0.2 percent this week, snapping a
six-week losing streak. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.8 percent to
2,353.74. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost 0.8 percent to
85.67 in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 13 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
deepening and Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. Europe is
China’s largest export market, making up 18 percent of the
nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
declined to intervene in bond markets, while China’s central
bank said it will pursue a “prudent” policy and the  Federal
Reserve  a day earlier refrained from adding fresh stimulus.  Trading Fees  Sinolink gained 3.2 percent to 11.99  yuan , the biggest
advance since June 13. Northeast Securities Co. advanced 5.2
percent to 17.12 yuan.  The cut in transaction fees will save investors 600 million
yuan ($94 million) in the final four months of the year, the
China Securities Regulatory Commission said on its website
yesterday. Separately, the official Xinhua News Agency said that
China is also considering reducing stamp duty on share trading.  The lower fees are the latest measure to boost investor
sentiment. The CSRC in recent months urged listed companies to
pay more cash dividends and changed how initial public offerings
are priced. Publicly traded companies, especially those whose
stock prices are below their book values, have obligations to
buy back shares, the China Securities Journal said yesterday,
citing an unidentified CSRC official.  ‘Prudent’ Policy  China’s central bank said it will keep pursuing a
“prudent” monetary policy and the nation’s economy will
maintain stable growth even amid the risk the global recovery
will falter. The government will conduct policy fine-tuning at
an appropriate time and consumer inflation may rebound after
August, the People’s Bank of China said in a quarterly monetary-
policy report on its website yesterday.  The PBOC has cut  interest rates  twice since early June and
lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratio three times starting
in November as part of the government’s efforts to boost credit
and support economic expansion.  The property index rose 1.4 percent. Poly Real Estate
increased 1.8 percent to 10.48 yuan. Shanghai Lujiazui Finance &
Trade Zone Development Co. advanced 1.2 percent to 11.17 yuan.  China’s property stocks will probably slump a further 20
percent after sinking the most in more than 18 months yesterday
as the government takes steps to cool the real-estate market,
Bocom International Holdings Co.’s Hao Hong said.  ‘Strong Headwinds’  A  gauge  of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite Index
sank 4.9 percent yesterday, the most since Jan. 17, 2011, amid
speculation the government will introduce a capital-gains tax on
owners and ban developers from selling properties before they
are built, Hong, Bocom’s Hong Kong-based managing director for
research, said in an interview yesterday.  “Property stocks are running into strong headwinds,” said
Hong, the only strategist among 13 brokerages surveyed by
Bloomberg at the start of the year who forecast declines for
Chinese stocks in 2012. “I’m not touching them.”  SAIC Motor fell 3.9 percent to 12.38 yuan. FAW Car Co.
retreated 2.3 percent to 8.86 yuan. China’s vehicle inventory
index rose to the highest level in four months in June, the
China Automobile Dealers Association said in a statement on
their website on Aug. 1. According to global standards, an index
reading above 1.5 indicates inventories have reached
“cautionary levels,” the association said.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the  Shanghai Composite index (SHCOMP)  was
at 13.7. About 5.4 billion shares changed hands in the gauge
yesterday, 29 percent lower than the average this year. The
index is valued at 9.5 times estimated profit, compared with the
three-year average of 14.6.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1 percent to $33.96,
snapping a two-day increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  