-- China Money Rate Completes Weekly Increase as PBOC Drains Funds
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-03T09:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/china-s-money-rate-set-for-weekly-increase-as-pboc-drains-funds.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
posted the biggest weekly increase since June after the central
bank drained funds from the financial system and damped
speculation lenders’ reserve requirements will be eased.  The People’s Bank of China will keep pursuing a “prudent”
monetary policy and the economy will maintain stable growth, it
said in a quarterly report on its website yesterday. Capital
flows will be “basically balanced” in the second half, the
report added, suggesting an end to net inflows that boosted
money supply. The monetary authority withdrew 86 billion  yuan 
($13.5 billion) from the banking system this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign-exchange inflows have probably been lower, which
puts upward pressure on money-market rates,” said Kumar Rachapudi, an interest-rate strategist at Barclays Plc in
 Singapore . “Also, there were expectations for a reserve-ratio
cut, which has not been delivered.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage
point, from a week ago to 3.39 percent in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest weekly increase since the period
ended June 22. The rate slid nine basis points today.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , Bank of China Ltd. and  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  saw net deposits decline by about a combined
1.5 trillion yuan last month, 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing bank data.  Slower Growth  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a slower
pace in July as growth in new orders moderated, an official
survey indicated today. The purchasing managers’ index fell to
55.6 from 56.7 in June, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing
today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis points today to 2.62
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was little
changed on the week. The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds
due February 2022 was little changed at 3.275 percent this week,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 