-- China and Other Newbies Slice Way Into Fencing World
-- B y   R i c h a r d   C o h e n
-- 2012-08-03T00:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/china-and-other-newbies-slice-way-into-fencing-world.html
Over the past several days, I have
watched some extraordinary fencing, in a venue that has been the
most exciting and inspirational that the Olympics has ever
provided. And I have witnessed the overthrow of the old order.  True, in the women’s individual foil, Italy took all three
medals, and it swamped the opposition in the team event.
Hungary, as it has so often before, won the men’s saber.  But in the men’s foil, the Olympic title went to  China  --
its first in the event. The silver went to  Egypt , its first
fencing medal, and the bronze to  South Korea , another first. On
Wednesday night, the men’s epee was won by Venezuela, which last
won a medal in the  Olympic Games , in any event, back in 1968.
 Norway  took the silver, its first fencing medal, and South Korea
the bronze, its first, too. South Korea had no influence on
fencing even a decade ago; this week, the women’s saber, Kim
Jiyeon, defeated first the defending Olympic champion and then
the world champion to take gold.  In each of these three disciplines, the top seeds fell by
the wayside, and new champions, from new countries, emerged
triumphant.  One favorite who was beaten -- the most surprising loss,
and for American fans the most heart-rending -- was the
defending champion Mariel Zagunis. In the 2004 Athens Games she
got her chance at the last moment when a Nigerian sabreur
dropped out, and a spare place opened up.  American Loses  Zagunis not only fenced her way to the gold as a 19-year-
old rookie, but also repeated the victory four years later in
Beijing. She went into the London Games as the world No. 1 and
an overwhelming favorite.  For a long time she was on course. The four fencers in the
semifinals came from the top of the world rankings: besides
Zagunis, there was Sophia Velikaia, the reigning world champion;
Olga Kharlan, the world No. 3, who was viewed as Zagunis’s main
rival; and Kim, the No. 5 seed who wasn’t seen as a serious
contender. Zagunis took her on in the opening semi, and for the
first half of the bout all went according to expectation: The
American took a commanding 8-2 lead on her way to the 15 hits
she needed for victory.  In saber, when one fencer reaches eight touches there is a
minute’s recovery period. Who knows what went through Zagunis’s
mind in that interval? Her longtime coach,  Ed Korfanty , could be
seen advising her energetically, so it seemed he was taking
nothing for granted. On the bout’s resumption, everything
changed. Zagunis seemed incapable of finishing any attack,
taking so long to make her final thrust that the young Korean
had ample time to launch her counters.  In defense, it was even worse. Zagunis would often parry
her opponent’s attacks, and then hesitate so long before making
her riposte that Kim would make a second cut and get the hit. On
one terrible occasion (for all the American supporters) Kim made
an off-balance attack, ripe for a quick reply. Zagunis
hesitated, so Kim cut at her again. It fell short, and still
Zagunis held back. Not believing her luck, Kim cut a third time,
and secured the hit. Even as the scores came level at 10 each,
Zagunis seemed unable to change her game. When she finally lost,
13-15, it seemed that her anxiety to make sure that every hit
was carefully delivered had cost her the bout.  Eventful Epee  In the other semifinal, Kharlan, possibly seeing an easy
final ahead of her, also seemed overanxious, and Velikaia was
the narrow victor. But she too fell victim to the Korean’s
inspired form, losing 15-9. When Zagunis took on Kharlan to
contend the bronze, both women looked so shell-shocked that in a
lackluster match it was mainly a question of who would make the
fewer mistakes. Soon Zagunis was left with nothing, in fourth
position, and the U.S. hold on the Olympic saber crown, which
had been theirs alone since the event was included for the first
time in  Athens , was broken.  The bout that took one’s breath away was for the gold in
the individual men’s epee, where the Venezuelan Ruben Limardo
Gascon overwhelmed Norway’s Bartosz Piasecki, 15-10. The
Norwegian would advance with a quick step and then a lunge, but
Limardo picked up Piasecki’s rhythm, and timed his fleche
attacks to start just as his opponent began his advance. By the
time the 6-foot-4 Piasecki realized he had to change his game,
Limardo was ahead, 14-6. He pulled back four hits by parrying
the Venezuelan’s dramatic attacks, but it was too little too
late. Limardo took off his mask and raced to the small group of
his countrymen who were waving their flags in celebration. “Not
an irrelevant victory in  Venezuela ’s election year,” a friend
beside me said.  It is not as if these medalists train in a fencing country.
Limardo, like his two brothers who are also world-class
epeeists, is homegrown. The  young Egyptian , Alaaeldin
Abouelkassem, who won the world under-20 championships two years
ago, has a Polish coach, but mainly trains at home. All the
Koreans and Chinese have masters from their own country. China’s
new foil champion, Sheng Lei, destroyed the great Italian Andrea
Baldini in the opening semifinal.  Maybe the old order will be re-established in the team
events, which come next. The lack of a single European fencer on
the victory podium in men’s foil is a shock reverberating
through the fencing world. Outside of fencing, people have seen
the sport as a European monopoly, and now it no longer is.  The implications shouldn’t be lost on the officials who
make up the International Fencing Federation. Just a few years
ago the organization asked the  International Olympic Committee 
if women’s saber, a relatively new discipline, could be added to
the Olympic roster.  Crowd Favorite  The IOC, wary of increasing the number of events at the
games, and possibly scornful of the limited appeal that fencing
had, allowed women’s saber, but refused to grant an extra two
sets of medals; instead, fencing’s 12 events had to be limited
to 10, with two of the team disciplines to be left out each
Olympic cycle.  Now, with chanting fans filling the hall, fencing has come
of age in the way it is presented. Contestants from  Africa ,
Scandinavia,  South America , and most of all the medalists from
China and South Korea have widened fencing’s appeal. The fencing
federation has its chance.  Or so one hopes. This week we had the miserable case of the
South Korean woman epeeist,  Shin A Lam , sitting on the side of
the piste in her semifinal bout, crying her heart out as
officials took 80 minutes to debate her fate after a fault by a
volunteer timekeeper undid her victory over the German Britta
Heidemann. We now know that the secretary general of
international fencing, Maxim Paramonov, interrupted the judges’
deliberations by insisting, against all reason, that the two
women should fence an entire extra minute to decide the winner,
after Shin thought she had won. As indeed she had. Such official
bullying makes no friends. The old order needs to change, but in
the right way.  ( Richard Cohen , a five-time British saber champion, was on
the British team in four Olympics from 1972 to 1984. He is the
author of “By the Sword: A History of Gladiators, Musketeers,
Samurai, Swashbucklers and Olympic Champions.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
 Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind  “you didn’t build
that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Mohamed
El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the world; Handel
Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about ; Anthony B.
Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block mortgage
writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Cohen at  racohen12@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 