-- Citigroup, Texas Instruments Lead 7% Rise in U.S. Bond Offerings
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-03T14:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/citigroup-texas-instruments-lead-7-rise-in-u-s-bond-offerings.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, and analog chipmaker  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  led a 7
percent increase in dollar-denominated corporate bond sales this
week as yields fell to record lows.  Texas Instruments sold $1.5 billion of bonds at
unprecedented rates for three- and seven-year debt and Citigroup
raised $1.25 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales of $24.7 billion compare with $23 billion  last week  and a
2012 weekly average of $26.1 billion.  Issuers attained record-low coupons as borrowers sought a
haven from more volatile assets. U.S. bonds have recorded
positive returns for six straight quarters, while global stocks
have  fallen  for three of those periods. Investors are being
drawn to higher-grade bonds that “fit the bill” by providing
excess yield, diversification, duration and liquidity, said
 Thomas Chow  of Delaware Investments.  “Investment-grade is still a risk sector but, on a
relative basis, it should hold much better than high yield,
 emerging markets  and certainly equities if we get some left
field-type of surprises,” Chow, a  money manager  based in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell the most since July 24
yesterday after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
failed to reassure investors he was ready to take immediate
steps to support the economy, following his pledge last week to
do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro.  Yields on debt from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
borrowers dropped to a record-low 3.902 percent yesterday,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate &
High Yield Master  index. (MXWD)  The rate stood at 4.245 percent on June
30.  ‘Sweet Spot’  U.S. company bonds returned 2.25 percent in the second
quarter compared with a 6.36 percent loss in the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities.  Investment-grade sales of at least $16 billion this week
compare with $18.5 billion in the five days ended July 27 and a
2012 weekly average of $20.6 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Texas Instruments Inc. sold $750 million each of three-year
notes at 0.45 percent and seven-year bonds at 1.65 percent, the
lowest coupons on record for dollar-denominated bonds of those
maturities, Bloomberg data show.  Unilever NV (UN)  matched the three-
year coupon in its $1 billion sale of three- and five-year
bonds.  “Investment grade is really one of those sweet spot-type
asset classes where you have fundamentals that are sound and
valuations that are attractive, or, at a minimum, are
satisfactory,” Chow said.  Issuance Rush  Yields on investment-grade debt decreased to 3.03 percent
yesterday, the lowest ever, from 3.09 percent on July 27,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Master index. The extra yield investors demand to own the bonds
versus government debentures decreased 1 basis point to 194
basis points.  The  Federal Reserve  said it will ease policy further if
necessary to boost the economy and reduce unemployment in an
Aug. 1 statement following a two-day meeting in  Washington . The
central bank reiterated that economic conditions would probably
warrant holding the benchmark Fed funds rate near zero “at
least through late 2014.”  Companies rushed to issue bonds in the days before the
announcement, Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. The week got off to its busiest start since March 19
with $10.7 billion in sales on July 30, Bloomberg data show.  Citigroup Offering  Citigroup, in its first dollar-denominated benchmark
offering in five months, sold $1.25 billion of 2.25 percent
three-year notes at a spread of 205 basis points, the data show.  The rush helped U.S. issuance reach $102.7 billion and
global issuance reach $295.6 billion in July, both the busiest
on record for the month, the data show. Yields on global
investment-grade debt tumbled to an unprecedented 2.981 percent
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  The  European Central Bank  refrained from cutting  interest
rates  yesterday, leaving the benchmark rate at a record low of
0.75 percent. Draghi signaled the ECB intends to join forces
with governments to buy enough bonds to ease the region’s debt
crisis, while conceding that  Germany ’s Bundesbank has
reservations about the plan.  “It’s much more macro risks that are playing upon risk
sentiment,” Chow said. ”It’s not specific idiosyncratic risk.
We’re not expecting a large amount of defaults.”  CIT Issue  Sales from high-yield borrowers rose to $8.7 billion this
week compared with $4.5 billion in the period ended July 27 and
a 2012 weekly average of $5.5 billion, Bloomberg data show.  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the small-business lender that exited
bankruptcy two years ago, sold $3 billion of bonds rated B1, the
fourth-highest level of speculative-grade, by Moody’s Investors
Service, Bloomberg data show. The issue included $1.75 billion
of 4.25 percent, five-year notes at a spread of 364 basis
points.  Yields on junk debt decreased to 7.5 percent yesterday from
7.61 percent on July 27, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. Spreads decreased
9 basis points to 613 basis points.  High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Planned sales include a $750 million offering from New
Delhi-based Rural Electrification Corp. and a $250 million
offering from cable company WaveDivision Holdings LLC, Bloomberg
data show.  Bonds from higher-rated companies that issue infrequently
are seeing strong demand, Lurie said. These securities help
investors diversify, especially when they have filled their
allocations for buying debt from specific issuers.  Investors “are trying to figure out where to put their
money to use,” Lurie said. “The question that everybody keeps
asking is ‘Okay, well, who hasn’t issued in a while?”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 