-- Citizens Republic Said to Seek Buyers
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-08-03T20:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/citizens-republic-said-to-seek-buyers.html
Citizens Republic Bancorp Inc. (CRBC) , the
 Michigan  lender that has yet to repay a $300 million U.S.
government bailout, is soliciting takeover bids from
competitors, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The bank hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to find a buyer and has
contacted suitors in recent weeks, according to the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the effort is private.
The company, which had a  market value  of more than $700 million
yesterday, has also explored other ways to pay back its 2008
rescue, including by issuing equity, they said.  Huntington Bancshares Inc. (HBAN) , a Columbus, Ohio-based lender
that operates in Michigan, may be interested, said one of the
people. Flint-based Citizens Republic has lost more than $1
billion since 2007 on bad commercial and residential real-estate
loans, forcing the lender to operate under a supervisory
agreement with the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago.  Huntington intends “to significantly invest in Michigan”
and would like to expand in the cities of Lansing and Ann Arbor,
Chief Executive Officer Steve D. Steinour, 54, said in a July 19
conference call. The bank added 15 Michigan branches in April
when it bought failed Dearborn-based lender Fidelity Bank, which
had been taken over the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Huntington announced in May it plans to open outlets in
about 80 Meijer Inc. grocery stores throughout Michigan over the
next several years, which will give the bank more than 215
branches in the state.  Michigan Branches  Citizens Republic has 156 offices in Michigan, according to
the FDIC. Fourteen are located in the same counties as Lansing
and  Ann Arbor .  Kristine Brenner, director of  investor relations  at
Citizens Republic, declined to comment. A spokeswoman at
JPMorgan declined to comment. Maureen Brown, a Huntington
spokeswoman, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation or
rumor.  Citizens Republic climbed 9.1 percent to close at $19.24 in
 New York , the highest in more than three years. The shares have
gained 69 percent this year.  The U.S. Treasury Department appointed two directors to the
board last year after the bank stopped paying dividends on the
bailout funds. Michigan’s economy fared worse than the country’s
as a whole during the latest recession, and the jobless rate
stood at 8.6 percent in June,  compared  with 8.2 percent
nationally.  Beats Estimates  Led by Chief Executive Officer Cathleen H. Nash, Citizens
Republic’s book value per share was $25.85 and  shareholders’
equity  was $1.34 billion on June 30, up from $18.83 and $1.04
billion, respectively, at March 31. Tangible book value per
share climbed to $24.97 at the end of June. The lender operates
through its Citizens Bank subsidiary, founded in 1871.  Second-quarter profit, including a $277 million tax
benefit, rose to $297 million from $18.5 million a year earlier,
Citizens Republic said in a July 26 statement. Adjusted net
income, excluding the tax benefit, was 50 cents a share, beating
by 10 cents the  average estimate  of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Among the banks with the most deposits in Michigan are
Huntington and Fifth Third Bancorp, both based in  Ohio , and
 Pennsylvania ’s PNC Financial Services Group Inc., according to
the FDIC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  