-- Citigroup Says State AGs Probe Benchmark Rates
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-03T22:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/citigroup-says-rate-probe-spurs-legal-inquiries-to-bank-s-units.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked third by
assets among U.S. banks, received inquiries from state attorneys
general as part of an international probe into rigging of a key
benchmark used to set loan rates.  In connection with investigations into “various interbank
offered rates, certain Citigroup  subsidiaries  have received
additional requests for information and documents from various
U.S. and non-U.S. governmental agencies, including the offices
of the New York and Connecticut Attorneys General,” the company
said today in a quarterly filing.  Regulators have queried at least a dozen banks worldwide
about their roles in setting the London interbank offered rate,
or Libor, the most widely used benchmark for  interest rates ,
affecting more than $360 trillion in financial products. U.S.
prosecutors are preparing to file charges later this year
against traders from banks involved in a bid-rigging scheme to
manipulate Libor, a person with knowledge of the case has said.  Firms involved in setting Libor face mounting legal claims.
Berkshire Bank, a New York lender with 11 branches, sued 21
banks including  Bank of America ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Citigroup for
damages, alleging that Libor fraud lowered interest payments it
received. Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
stepped down last month after his firm was fined a record 290
million pounds ($454 million) for rigging the rate.  Massachusetts Probe  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman also served a
subpoena on a Citigroup affiliate in June, seeking information
about the firm’s MAT, ASTA and Falcon alternative-investment
funds, according to the filing. Massachusetts Attorney General
 Martha Coakley  served a “Civil Investigative Demand” on an
affiliate this month seeking similar documents and information,
the bank said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is probing how the
bank managed and marketed the MAT, ASTA and Falcon funds, which
invest in debt, Citigroup said in an annual filing in February.
The funds suffered “substantial losses” during the credit
crisis, the firm said.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ordered the
lender to pay at least $60 million to some investors in the MAT
and ASTA funds, who said that Citigroup pitched them a safe,
more profitable alternative to other fixed-income investments.  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment beyond the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  