-- Echeverry Seeks More Ammunition for Colombia Currency War
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-03T19:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/colombia-needs-more-ammunition-for-currency-war-echeverry-says.html
Colombian Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry stepped up pressure on the central bank to
boost dollar purchases and damp a rally in the peso that
threatens to undermine local industry and farmers.  “We are in a currency war and those who don’t fight
lose,” Echeverry said in an interview today in Bogota. “We
need more ammunition for this war.”  The comments come five days after Echeverry said several
policy makers agreed with him on the need to increase
intervention in the  currency market . That same day, July 27,
bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said the bank would keep buying a
minimum of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until at least
Nov. 2. The peso has rallied 8.5 percent against the dollar this
year, more than any other of the 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Echeverry also said local governments need to start
spending more money set aside for infrastructure in order to
achieve his growth target of as much as 4.8 percent this year.  “The best thing that can happen is with the wave of
spending that we’ll have and with currency measures, agriculture
and industry, which are the ones that are hit, can recover,”
Echeverry said. “Those measures would make it easier to
achieve that goal.”  ‘Strongest Signal’  Colombia ’s central bank on July 27 reversed course and
unexpectedly cut  borrowing costs  for the first time since 2010
to buoy growth as the  European debt crisis  hurts export revenue.
The bank also lowered its 2012 economic growth forecast to a
range of 3 percent to 5 percent from a previous 4 percent to 6
percent.  While all members voted for a rate reduction, according to
the  statement  following the decision, Echeverry told lawmakers
this week that he and another board member voted for a 50 basis-
point cut.  The quarter-point cut to 5 percent surprised 24 of 35
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, who had predicted no change.  “A couple of us thought the signal should have been
stronger, but we feel fine with the signal of 25 basis points,”
Echeverry said today. “The cut is what sends the strongest
signal. From here on we’ll see what is needed.”  The sale of  Ecopetrol (ECOPETL)  SA next year “isn’t indispensable,”
Echeverry said.  The government will present a bill to Congress this year to
allow it to sell a stake in Colombia’s largest oil company,
Echeverry said. The Andean country will only sell a stake when
it needs to, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 