-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Payrolls Rise More Than Estimated
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-03T22:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-payrolls-rise-more-than-estimated.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
fell to the lowest since May after Labor Department data showed
U.S. payrolls rose more than economists had expected.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
5.4 basis points to a mid-price of 103.6 basis points at 5:01
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest since the measure closed at 103.5 basis points
on May 9. Contracts on  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  fell.  The greater-than-expected rise in U.S. hiring may signal an
improvement in weak economic conditions that have stoked
investor concerns that companies may struggle to repay
borrowings. The  unemployment rate  remains at more than 8 percent
for a 42nd month. The  Federal Reserve  said this week it was
ready to unleash new stimulus measures if the labor market fails
to improve at an appropriate pace and growth falters.  “Expectations are so muted and there’s so much concern and
worry that given the decent number, all of a sudden that makes a
big difference on perceived risk,”  Maury Harris , chief
economist at UBS AG in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “This isn’t an impossible to believe number,” he said.
“Unemployment claims on a four-week average have been drifting
down.”  Job Gains  U.S. employers added 163,000 jobs in July, beating the
100,000 in payroll gains called for by the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The unemployment rate,
calculated from a separate survey, climbed to 8.3 percent last
month, up from 8.2 percent in June. The jobless rate has
exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest stretch in
monthly records dating back to 1948.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” the central bank said in an Aug. 1
statement at the end of its two-day meeting in  Washington .  The benchmark swaps index more than erased gains from
yesterday that were the biggest in almost a month after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to spell out details
of a plan to tame soaring borrowing costs in the euro area
through sovereign debt purchases.  AIG Swaps  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of AIG fell to
the lowest since May after the U.S. Treasury Department said it
would sell $4.5 billion of its stake in the company, with
credit-default swaps tied to the company declining 8.2 basis
points to a mid-price of 204.7 basis points at 5 p.m. in New
York, Bloomberg prices show.  AIG, the insurer whose government bailout swelled to $182.3
billion, plans to purchase as much as $3 billion of the shares.
The offering is the smallest of four share sales by the
government, whose stake in the New York-based company was cut to
61 percent from 92 percent after the first three auctions. AIG
said yesterday second-quarter net income jumped 27 percent to
$2.33 billion.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, fell 25.4 basis points to a mid-price of 557.1 basis
points, the lowest since March 27, Bloomberg prices show.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 18.5 to 149.7.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  