-- Daiwa Wins $8.5 Billion JAL Deal as Nomura Faces Regulators’ Ire
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-03T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/daiwa-wins-8-5-billion-jal-deal-as-nomura-faces-regulators-ire.html
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  won the
mandate to lead  Japan ’s biggest share sale this year, benefiting
from an insider-trading scandal that prompted regulators to
punish larger rival Nomura Holdings Inc.  Daiwa will coordinate Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion
global initial public offering, the second biggest this year
after Facebook Inc., while Nomura will play a supporting role,
the carrier said yesterday. Daiwa yesterday posted net income
that beat analysts’ estimates and was bigger than Nomura’s
first-quarter earnings.  Managing Japan Air’s sale will provide a “significant”
boost to revenue, Daiwa Chief Financial Officer Nobuyuki Iwamoto
said yesterday after cost cuts helped the Tokyo-based brokerage
post a profit. The  Financial Services Agency  ordered Nomura to
improve its business for failing to prevent staff from providing
tips to traders on at least three share sales in 2010.  “Nomura managers must want to end the turmoil here and now,
but corporate clients, issuers and investors won’t let it go so
easily,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst at Japaninvest Group
Plc in  Tokyo . “The benefits will go to banks that haven’t been
penalized.”  While regulators in June also found that a Daiwa employee
leaked information before an equity offering the firm managed
two years ago, the company wasn’t punished. After conducting an
internal investigation, Daiwa said on July 27 that the incident
was isolated.  Management Shakeup  The scandal at Nomura prompted its top two executives to
resign last week. Koji Nagai took over from Kenichi Watanabe as
chief executive officer on Aug. 1, a month after the firm
released a report revealing that equity sales staff were
“willing to do anything” to meet revenue targets. Atsushi Yoshikawa replaced Takumi Shibata as chief operating officer.  Nomura was relegated from a lead role in Japan Air’s
offering, people with knowledge of the situation said on July 18.
It also lost its place as Japan’s No. 1 bond underwriter last
month as some issuers dropped the bank in the wake of the
revelations.  State-owned  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. said on July 3
that it ditched Nomura as lead manager of a debt sale because it
wanted to avoid “any disruption.” Japan Housing Finance Agency
dropped Nomura as underwriter of residential mortgage-backed
securities six days later.  Japan Tobacco  Daiwa also lost at least one bond deal, as Kawasaki Heavy
Industries Ltd. excluded it from managing a sale on July 2.  In equity sales, Daiwa and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were
selected by the Japanese government to lead the global offering
of  shares (8604)  it holds in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , while Nomura missed
out. The Finance Ministry plans to sell as much as a third of
its 50 percent stake in  Asia ’s largest cigarette maker, which
has a market value of 4.8 trillion yen ($61 billion).  “Nomura may feel the effects in this quarter and next
quarter,” said Yoshioka at Japaninvest.  Daiwa’s  net income  was 2.7 billion yen for the three months
ended June 30, compared with a loss of 9.4 billion yen a year
earlier, it said yesterday. The result beat the median estimate
of seven analysts for 1.4 billion yen profit.  Chief Executive Officer Takashi Hibino is trimming costs to
cope with losses abroad, eliminating at least 500 positions in
Europe and Asia since October.  Cost Cuts  “Daiwa had good earnings as the effect of its cost cuts
emerged,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo.  Profit at Nomura tumbled 89 percent in the quarter to 1.9
billion yen as investment banking fees and brokerage commissions
fell, the Tokyo-based company reported on July 26.  Shares of Nomura have tumbled 32 percent since the first
leak was revealed on March 21, more than Daiwa’s 18 percent drop
and the 16 percent decline in the benchmark  Topix Index. (TPX)   Credit default swaps  offering five-year protection to
Nomura bondholders surged 105 basis points to 365 in the same
period, according to data provider CMA. Contracts for Daiwa rose
81 points. An increase in the swaps signals worsening
perceptions of creditworthiness.  The FSA’s order requires Nomura to implement preventive
measures it set out after an internal investigation, the
regulator said. Nomura must report to the agency on the status
of its remedies, which include ethics training and stricter
monitoring of communication with clients.  Restore Trust  “Nomura must push ahead with reforms to restore trust in
Japan’s financial markets,” Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita told reporters yesterday. Nomura said in a
statement that it will continue to enhance internal controls,
prevent similar incidents and regain public trust.  Nomura said in June that employees provided information on
share sales it managed for  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex
Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to traders who short-sold the
stocks before the offerings were announced in 2010.  Daiwa said last week it will cut CEO Hibino’s pay by 10
percent for three months to atone for an employee giving a tip
on a share sale it managed for Nippon Sheet Glass Co. in 2010.
The brokerage said it didn’t “systemically” leak information
on public offerings to clients.  Daiwa’s advantage over Nomura will fade over time, said
Yamanaka at Credit Suisse.  “They’ll win more business like Japan Air for the time
being because Nomura was penalized,” he said. “But things will
return to normal in the long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  