-- Danny DeVito Urges Putin to Free Punk Protest Girls Facing Jail
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-03T11:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/danny-devito-urges-putin-to-free-punk-protest-girls-facing-jail.html
Hollywood actor  Danny DeVito  urged
 Vladimir Putin  to free three members of an all-female punk group
facing as long as seven years in jail for a protest act against
the Russian president in Moscow’s Christ the Savior cathedral.  “Mr Putin...Pussy Riot...set e’m free,” DeVito said on
his  Twitter  Inc. account today, posting a link to the band’s
cathedral performance.  Amnesty International  has declared Maria Alekhina, 24,
Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 22,
prisoners of conscience, while music stars including Madonna,
Peter Gabriel and Sting have rallied to their defense.  The Pussy Riot band members are on trial for hooliganism
and inciting religious hatred after they performed what they
called a “punk prayer” in front of the altar at the country’s
main Russian Orthodox place of worship in February, calling for
the removal of Putin, 59, who extended his 12-year rule in a
presidential election in March.  A group of U.K. musicians including Jarvis Cocker, the lead
singer of Pulp, the Who’s  Pete Townshend  and the Pet Shop Boys’
frontman Neil Tennant signed an open letter in support of the
women, published in U.K. newspaper the Times yesterday.  Putin, who was in  London  yesterday to see Russian athletes
performing in the Olympics and to meet U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , told reporters that while he didn’t see “anything
good” in the behavior of the members of the punk group, they
shouldn’t be judged “too severely.”  The defendants rejected criminal charges of hooliganism at
the start of their trial on July 30. They argued that their case
should be treated as an administrative violation, while
apologizing for upsetting religious feelings.  Putin has responded to the largest demonstrations since he
came to power in 2000 by tightening controls over the Internet
and non-governmental institutions and prosecuting opposition
activists and leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  