-- Democratic Lawmakers Keep Obama at Distance in Campaigns
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-03T15:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/democratic-lawmakers-keep-obama-at-distance-in-campaigns.html
Democratic Representative Larry Kissell’s district is within 10 miles of the Charlotte,  North
Carolina , arena where the Democratic National Convention will be
held starting Sept. 4. Kissell isn’t planning to attend.  The lawmaker is among a growing number of Democrats in both
chambers of Congress who are keeping their distance from
President  Barack Obama  as they seek re-election this year in
Republican territory.  Kissell, who hasn’t endorsed Obama’s re-election, voted
with Republicans on July 11 to repeal Obama’s 2010 health care
law and on June 28 to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in
contempt of Congress. He declined to comment specifically on his
policy differences with Obama. Other Democrats in states or
districts where the president’s poll numbers are low are
emphasizing that they aren’t in lock-step with him on such
policy areas as energy, taxation and the environment.  Kissell’s North Carolina district, as redrawn by the
Republican-controlled state legislature, has “an oversupply of
those people who are just unalterably opposed to Obama,” said
Ferrel Guillory, director of the Program on Public Life at the
University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill . That means Kissell
has “got to make the race much more of a local race than a
national race” to win, Guillory said.  Control of Senate  Democrats’ efforts to retain control of the Senate and gain
seats in the House this November may hinge on their success in
races in Republican-friendly states including North Carolina,
North Dakota, Missouri and West Virginia, where Republicans have
been working to hurt their rivals by tying them to Obama’s
policies.  “The president simply isn’t going to be popular everywhere
and, to some extent, that’s true under any administration,”
said  John Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna
College  in Claremont, California. “The interests of the
president may diverge from the interests of his party’s members
of Congress.”  These Democratic candidates, for the most part, are keeping
a polite distance from Obama by emphasizing differences on
policy, skipping the nominating convention or not endorsing his
bid for a second term. Few congressional aspirants have gone as
far as North Dakota Senate candidate Heidi Heitkamp by overtly
criticizing his presidency.  ‘Failed’ the Test  Heitkamp, a former state attorney general who faces a
strong challenge from Republican Representative Rick Berg, told
the  Associated Press  in May that Obama “failed in the one test
America had for him, which was to unite the country.” She has
said Obama hasn’t done enough for the U.S. energy industry and
called on the president to expedite a Canadian oil pipeline.  Heitkamp spokesman Brandon Lorenz confirmed the comments
and said the candidate “believes in putting North Dakota’s
priorities before partisan politics.”  In North Dakota, a state that Obama lost four years ago by
8.6 percentage points, Republicans are trying to make Heitkamp’s
past support for Obama’s health care law a liability, blanketing
the state with more than 2,000 television ads.  “Some states -- I could name names but I won’t -- the
president might not carry the state, and the Democratic
candidate for Senate may disagree with the president more than
other states,” said Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the
chamber’s second-ranking Democrat.  Not Concerned  The president and his staff aren’t concerned that Obama’s
support among congressional Democrats running in Republican-
leaning areas has diminished, White House Deputy Press Secretary
 Josh Earnest  said July 30.  “This is something that happens, I think, every four years
on both sides,” Earnest said.  Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, is taking
steps to separate himself from Obama’s policies. He’s running in
a state where one in four voters in the May 8 Democratic primary
chose Keith Judd, an incarcerated felon, over Obama.  Asked in a Capitol Hill hallway whether he would vote for
Obama in November, Manchin wouldn’t answer. He told the
Charleston  Daily Mail  in April that he hasn’t spoken to Obama
since he was elected to the Senate in November 2010.  Manchin that year ran a  campaign ad  in which he promised to
“take on” the Obama administration and was shown using a rifle
to shoot through a mock copy of Democratic legislation capping
 carbon emissions . Manchin and House Democrats from West Virgina,
which favored Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  by
13.1 percentage points in 2008, also are skipping the Democratic
convention.  Republican Candidates  Some Republicans in contests that are expected to be close
also are skipping their party’s nominating convention in Tampa
starting Aug. 27. They include Senate candidates George Allen in
Virginia, Heather Wilson in New Mexico and Linda Lingle in
Hawaii. Former President George W. Bush and former Vice
President  Dick Cheney  also aren’t attending.  In his two-year Senate career, Manchin has forged a record
as a party outlier. He opposed Obama and congressional
Democrats’ push to extend a payroll tax cut for workers, and
last month said he would oppose any effort to continue the tax
break into 2013. Manchin also was the only Democrat to vote July
12 against moving forward an Obama-backed Democratic proposal to
offer tax breaks for hiring and capital investment.  Missouri Senator  Claire McCaskill ’s decision not to attend
the Democratic convention is notable because she was one of the
first senators to publicly support Obama in his 2008 primary
race against then-Senator  Hillary Clinton .  ‘By His Side’  A national campaign co-chair four years ago, McCaskill won
a speaking role at the Denver convention that nominated Obama,
where she boasted that she’s “seen Barack Obama in the Senate”
and “been by his side on the campaign trail.”  McCaskill’s campaign said she doesn’t attend national
political conventions when she is running that year. She said in
an interview that a decision by a lawmaker of either party to
skip the convention isn’t “any indication of anything other
than the fact that you’re in a hard race and you feel like you
need to be campaigning.”  “The only people who are criticizing me for not going to
the convention are Republican operatives,” she said. “They
want me away from the state. They know when I am at home, I am
campaigning.”  Republicans, who need to net four seats to win control of
the Senate, are working to defeat McCaskill by playing up her
past strong support of Obama, whose approval ratings in Missouri
have been consistently low.  Missouri Poll  A Mason-Dixon  poll  conducted July 23-25 showed McCaskill
trailing three of her potential Republican opponents, who will
face off in an Aug. 7 primary.  Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group that former  George W.
Bush  political adviser  Karl Rove  helped create, has been airing
a television ad in Missouri claiming that McCaskill “has voted
with President Obama 90 percent of the time” including for the
2010 health care overhaul.  “We have incumbents who are trying to act like political
independents when, in fact, they voted lock, stock and barrel
for the administration’s unpopular policies,” Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, who leads Senate Republicans’ campaign efforts,
said in an interview.  McCaskill was among several Democratic lawmakers who didn’t
back Obama’s endorsement of same-sex marriage May 9. At the
time, McCaskill spokesman John LaBombard told the Springfield
News-Leader that while McCaskill opposes discrimination against
homosexuals, she thinks states should “take the lead in
determining marriage equality.”  Different Views  In an interview yesterday, McCaskill said she doesn’t shy
away from expressing views that differ from Obama’s.  “I can be stubbornly independent and hard to get along
with about things I care about, and I am proud of that,” she
said.  Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat elected in 1996
when former President  Bill Clinton  was on the ballot, said
moderate Democrats sometimes need to draw contrasts with the
president.  “It’s very important to try, but it’s usually not that
difficult,” Landrieu said. “For those of us who are more
conservative or moderate, it comes naturally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  