-- DiaGenic Gains on Breast Cancer Test Patent in Japan: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-08-03T09:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/diagenic-gains-on-breast-cancer-test-patent-in-japan-oslo-mover.html
DiaGenic ASA (DIAG) , the Norwegian company
developing tests to diagnose illnesses including Alzheimer’s
disease, climbed the most in two weeks in Oslo after the company
said it received a patent for its  breast cancer  test in Japan.  Shares in the Oslo-based company gained as much as 25
percent, the most since July 19, and traded 18 percent higher at
3.60 kroner as of 11:05 a.m. in the Norwegian capital, making it
the biggest winner on the  Oslo Stock Exchange’s All-Share Index. (OSEAX)   The Japanese patent is “an important milestone which
strengthens our position in Asia,” Chief Executive Officer
Henrik Lund said in a statement today. The patent will be valid
until 2025 and follows similar awards in the U.S. and  Europe .  “The company will now have a broad patent protection in
Japan, one of the largest economies in the world,” Lund said.
The so-called family-3 patent covers the use of gene sequences
in blood samples for the detection and monitoring of breast
cancer, DiaGenic said.  The company has developed gene-expression technology that
uses blood samples to help researchers find patterns, or unique
genetic fingerprints, which characterize a specific disease. The
method helps detect illnesses including breast cancer and
Alzheimer’s, the sixth-largest cause of death in the U.S.,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association .  Shares in DiaGenic, which was founded in 1998, have
declined 30 percent during the last 12 months. The company’s
stock jumped as much as 23 percent on June 8 after it said a
study to develop a blood test for  Alzheimer’s Disease  had
started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  