-- Dollar Slides as U.S. Adds More Jobs Than Forecast; Rand Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-03T20:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/dollar-gains-versus-yen-as-u-s-payrolls-increase-beats-forecast.html
The dollar fell against most major
counterparts after U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast
in July even as the  unemployment rate  rose to a five-month high.  The U.S. currency slid as stocks gained amid continued
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start a third round of
asset purchases to spur the economy. The euro erased a weekly
loss versus the dollar after German lawmakers signaled they’ll
support the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy  government bonds 
to curb the region’s debt crisis. South Africa’s rand was the
biggest winner among major currencies as risk appetite swelled.  “You got in the sweet spot for risk because while you had
an upside surprise on the headline numbers, you still have the
possibility of QE3 because the unemployment rate went up as
well,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the
foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of  New York  Mellon.
“These forays into risk are very fickle, so one swallow does
not a summer make and Monday could be a very different day.”  The dollar dropped 1.6 percent to $1.2377 per euro at 4:27
p.m. New York time. It touched $1.2392, and lost 0.5 percent on
the week. The U.S. currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 78.57
yen, rising for the first week since June. Japan’s currency
tumbled as much as 2.2 percent versus the euro, the most since
June 29, to 97.40 before trading at 97.25.  The euro stayed below the high that it reached yesterday
versus the dollar, $1.2405, before ECB President  Mario Draghi 
failed to reassure investors that policy makers were ready to
take immediate steps to curb European fiscal turmoil. The single
currency, stocks and commodities slid as he spoke to reporters
after an ECB meeting in  Frankfurt .  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 1.2 percent.  The greenback lost 0.6 percent in the past week versus nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro weakened 0.1 percent,
while Sweden’s krona was the best performer, rising 1.9 percent.  U.S. payrolls added 163,000 jobs following a revised 64,000
rise in June that was less than initially reported, Labor
Department figures showed in  Washington . The median estimate of
89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a gain of
100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent, from 8.2 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Aug. 1 after a
policy meeting it “will provide additional accommodation as
needed” to spur growth and employment, while it refrained from
expanding monetary easing this month. The central bank bought
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of the stimulus strategy
called quantitative easing between December 2008 and June 2011.  ‘Left Open’  “The headline reading was good, but the supporting details
not so good, so we have a little support for risk sentiment but
not a game changer,” said  Greg Anderson , North American head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“The door is left open to easing, and now on the horizon it’s
back to what will  Europe  do about Spain, Italy and Greece.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rallied  1.9 percent, rising
for the first day this week. U.S. Treasuries fell, pushing the
yield on the 10-year note up nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.57 percent.  Canada’s dollar rose to parity against the greenback for
the first time since May, gaining for a fourth straight week.
The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated 0.6
percent to C$1.0014 per  U.S. dollar  and touched 99.80 cents, its
strongest level since May 11. The currencies last traded on a
one-for-one basis on May 15.  South Africa’s rand surged 2.3 percent to 8.1568.  Kiwi Record  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the  kiwi, rose to a euro-
era record versus the shared currency for the third consecutive
day after S&P affirmed the nation’s credit rating. The company
cited the country’s fiscal flexibility, resilient economy and
policy institutions.  The kiwi gained 0.5 percent to NZ$1.4967 per euro before
trading at NZ$1.5118. The South Pacific currency strengthened
1.1 percent to 81.87 U.S. cents and touched 81.99 cents, the
highest since April 30.  Gains in higher-yielding assets may be short-lived if the
strength of the payrolls data diminishes odds of further
measures for quantitative easing from the Fed, said  Shaun Osborne  at Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Japan’s yen fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. The Japanese currency declined against the dollar
for the first week since June 22, losing 0.2 percent.  ECB Plan  ECB officials are working on a plan to buy bonds to combat
the region’s mounting sovereign borrowing costs, and details
will be released in coming weeks, Draghi said yesterday. The
bank kept its key  interest rate  at a record low 0.75 percent.  “People are increasingly looking past the last week of
Draghi and the ECB toward more fundamentally what the ECB is
going to do that’s new,” Dan Dorrow, head of research in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “The fundamental that the market is latching onto
now is that total political support for the European debt relief
effort.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would consider
asking Europe’s bailout funds to buy Spanish debt if it were for
the best for the country, as he called for a crisis meeting of
the region’s finance chiefs. He spoke at a news conference in
Madrid. Yields on Spain’s  10-year notes  climbed to 7.44 percent
today, almost a euro-era high, before declining to 6.85 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 