-- Dow Posts Longest Weekly Rally Since October on Jobs Data
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/dow-posts-longest-weekly-rally-since-october-after-jobs-report.html
U.S. stocks  rose for a fourth week,
giving the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  the longest rally since
October, as better-than-forecast jobs data erased a four-day
drop amid investor disappointment with global stimulus efforts.  Technology companies climbed the most among the  10 industry
groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  jumped 5.2
percent amid speculation the company may join the Dow, while
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  soared 18 percent on surging profit. Better-
than-expected earnings at  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Frontier
Communications Corp. (FTR)  sent their stocks up at least 9 percent.
 Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc. plunged 61 percent after a trading
error spurred a $440 million loss.  The S&P 500 added 0.4 percent for the week to 1,390.99. The
benchmark index for American equities extended its 2012 gain to
11 percent. The Dow climbed 20.51 points, or 0.2 percent, to
13,096.17, the highest level since May 3.  “We’ve come to fall into this trap if you will, when it
comes to central banks, we want something from them immediately
and if we don’t get it, the market gets disappointed,”  Mark Freeman , who oversees about $13 billion as chief investment
officer at Westwood Holdings Group Inc. in Dallas, said in a
phone interview. “At the end of the day, the fundamentals
matter, and the fundamentals are doing OK.”  Equities reversed weekly losses on the final day, with the
S&P 500 jumping 1.9 percent, after a Labor Department report
showed American payrolls climbed more than forecast even as the
jobless rate unexpectedly rose. The benchmark index slumped 1.5
percent in the previous four days as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  failed to reassure investors on immediate efforts to
bolster the economy.  Debt Crisis  The  S&P 500  slipped as much as 9.9 percent from an almost
four-year high on April 2 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening and the global economy is slowing. The equity gauge
has since climbed 8.8 percent after central banks in Europe and
China cut  interest rates .  U.S. stocks fell on Aug. 1 as the Fed held off on stepping
up record stimulus, saying it will “closely monitor” economic
and financial developments and “will provide additional
accommodation as needed.” Equities slid the next day as Draghi
kept interest rates on hold and signaled the ECB intends to join
forces with governments to buy bonds, while conceding that
Germany’s Bundesbank had reservations about the plan.  The rally in stocks on the final day gained strength as
members of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties
signaled they won’t stand in the way of Draghi’s bond plan.  ‘Magic Bullet’  “The U.S. economy is continuing to plod along, not going
into a recession,”  James McDonald , chief investment strategist
at Northern Trust Corp., said in the phone interview. The
Chicago-based firm oversees $704.3 billion. “While Mario Draghi
did not give us the magic bullet, they’re clearly working
towards further intervention to help support the European
Monetary Union.”  Computer and software makers in the S&P 500 climbed 1.5
percent as a group. Apple rose 5.2 percent to $615.70, the
highest since April. The world’s largest company by market value
is considering a stock split and its decision in March to pay
its first dividend in 17 years makes it more likely the shares
could be added to the Dow index,  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a July 31 note.  First Solar surged 18 percent to $17.06 after second-
quarter earnings increased 81 percent. The world’s biggest maker
of thin-film panels boosted its full-year profit forecast.  Earnings Season  About 73 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported
quarterly results have  beaten estimates , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales missed estimates at 59 percent of
companies.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, jumped 9 percent to
$33.19 after profit beat analysts’ estimates on gains from
derivatives it uses to protect against a drop in interest rates.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  rallied 8.2 percent, the most
since December, to $52.03. The second-largest U.S. life insurer
said profit more than doubled as its international business
improved and the company recorded gains on derivatives.  Frontier Communications Corp. advanced 18 percent to $4.40
for the biggest increase in the S&P 500. The company, which
sells voice and broadband service to individuals and businesses,
reported per-share earnings that topped the average analyst
estimate by 70 percent, the most since 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Knight Plunges  Knight plunged 61 percent to $4.05. Errors related to the
company’s trading software sent stocks moving as much as 151
percent on Aug. 1, prompting the  New York  Stock Exchange to
review trading in 140 companies from Molycorp Inc. to AT&T Inc.
Transactions that occurred during the height of the volatility
were canceled in six securities, where prices swung at least 30
percent in the first 45 minutes.  Knight fought to preserve its business as concern grew
about its solvency. On the final day of the week, Knight told
brokers it received short-term financing, according to a person
familiar with the matter. As the company opened its books to
potential saviors, people with knowledge of the matter said KKR
& Co., TPG Capital and Silver Lake were among buyout firms that
had an initial interest -- while one said chances of a private-
equity deal are small.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  slumped 20 percent to $29.37 for
the biggest retreat in the S&P 500. The teen retailer cut its
annual forecast, citing an anticipated drop in same-store sales
in the second half of 2012.  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, tumbled
15 percent, the most since August, to $52.66, after reporting
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing sales
growth in North America.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  declined 11 percent to $21.09 for the week.
The world’s biggest social-networking website dropped to its
lowest level on Aug. 2. It was Facebook’s fifth straight day of
losses after reporting earnings that showed slowing growth. The
company snapped its losing streak on the final day of the week,
jumping 5.2 percent, after  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal
Research Group, said the company could step up revenue growth
with ad sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  