-- Draghi Reassessment Spurs Euro Credit Rally Amid Payrolls Boost
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-03T15:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/draghi-reassessment-spurs-credit-rally-in-europe-before-payrolls.html
An index of European credit risk
rallied the most in nine months after investors reassessed the
central bank’s bond-buying program and a U.S. employment report
gave cause for optimism.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated companies fell 52 basis points to a
four-month low of 597 at 4:31 p.m. in  London , implying an
improvement in investor sentiment. Contracts on  Spain  plunged 32
basis points to 539, snapping three days of increases on
expectations the  European Central Bank  will buy short-dated
bonds of peripheral euro-region countries.  “There were further statements of intent yesterday but a
lack of immediate action, so markets reacted quite negatively,”
said  Brian Barry , a fixed-income analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
London. “It does however look as if we’re likely to see some
form of intervention in the not-too-distant future, which is
supporting markets.”  Investors were initially disappointed when ECB President
 Mario Draghi  failed yesterday to spell out full details of a
bond-buying plan to ease the region’s crisis. U.S. payrolls
added a better-than-expected 163,000 workers in July even as the
jobless rate rose to a five-month high of 8.3 percent, according
to the Labor Department in  Washington .  Weekly Rally  The Crossover index fell the most since October, rallying
from its 29 basis-point jump yesterday which was the biggest
increase in high-yield European corporate credit risk since May
23, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge posted
a fourth weekly decline, falling 43 basis points since July 27.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 17 basis points to 151, the
lowest since May 8. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to
senior debt of 25 banks and insurers dropped 30 basis points to
249, after yesterday rising by the most since Nov. 1. A
subordinated bank-risk gauge dropped 42 basis points to 407,
Bloomberg prices show.  Sovereign bond risk fell, with the Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments
dropping eight basis points to 253, the lowest since this series
of the gauge started trading in March.  France, Italy  Swaps on  France ’s government bonds declined 15 basis points
to 151, the most since Jan. 19 and within five basis points of
the lowest level since August 2011.  Italy  fell 47 basis points,
the most since June 29, to 475 basis points. Ireland was 31.5
basis points lower at 481, the lowest since November 2010.  Speculation that the ECB’s bond-purchase program will focus
on shorter-dated securities meant Spain and Italy’s two-year
government notes outperformed their 10-year bonds today.  Christoph Rieger, the head of interest-rate strategy at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , warned that Draghi’s plan could be
“meaningless” if the central bank limits itself to buying
securities with a maximum one-year maturity.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.2 million) of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying notes or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  