-- Draghi Heads Toward Fed-Style QE Bond-Purchase Plan: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-03T07:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/draghi-heads-toward-fed-style-qe-bond-purchase-plan-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank  is edging
toward a bond-buying program that investors say could end up
printing money, echoing efforts by the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to fix a credit crisis nearing its sixth year.  ECB President Mario Draghi yesterday left open the question
on whether the bank would neutralize future bond purchases, a
step it has taken with all of its interventions to date. He also
said the size of the new program would be “adequate to reach
its objective” of curbing Italian and Spanish borrowing costs,
a contrast with the “limited” scope of the previous approach.  “You shouldn’t assume that we will not sterilize or
sterilize,” he told reporters in  Frankfurt . Spanish and Italian
bonds slumped as Draghi steered clear of spelling out all the
full details of his plan, which is being resisted by  Germany ’s
Bundesbank.  Spain ’s  10-year borrowing cost  jumped 17 basis
points to 7.33 percent at 8:17 a.m. London time.  “Bit by bit over the past two years, the ECB and all of
the euro-region governments have been capitulating,” said Neil Williams, chief economist at Hermes Fund Management, which
oversees 29.3 billion pounds ($46 billion) of assets, including
 government bonds . “I sense from Draghi’s comments he is inching
toward QE and now trying to get other ECB members to sign that
off. It seems to me inevitable.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
to cap borrowing costs. The ECB has bought about 220 billion
euros ($268 billion) of European government debt through the
Securities Market Program it announced in May 2010, though it
sterilized those purchases by taking the cash back as deposits
to avoid stoking inflation, and hasn’t used the SMP since March.  Bundesbank Objections  Draghi said “risk premia” in the bond market “need to be
addressed in a fundamental manner,” and details of the plan
would be fleshed out in coming weeks in consultation with
governments. “It is clear and it is known that Mr. Weidmann and
the Bundesbank have their reservations about programs that buy
bonds,” Draghi said, referring to Jens Weidmann, head of the
German central bank.  The ECB said July 31 that it drained 211.5 billion euros in
seven-day term deposits to neutralize the liquidity created by
its government bond purchase program. About 72 banks submitted
bids totaling 463 billion euros, up from 397.5 billion euros at
a previous operation. The marginal rate on the term deposits was
0.02 percent.  “It does seem that the ECB is inching closer towards
pushing the button on some version of QE, though details are
still somewhat hazy,” said Craig Veysey, head of fixed income
at Principal Investment Management Ltd. in  London , part of
Sanlam Group, which oversees $72 billion.  ‘Pyrrhic Victory’  Draghi said that any bond purchases would focus on short-
dated securities, leading Spanish and Italian notes to
outperform. The  yield difference  between Spain’s two-year notes
and 10-year bonds widened 17 basis points to 254 basis points,
the most since May. The so-called spread between Italian two-
year and 10-year securities reached 276 basis points, the most
since March.  Spain’s two-year yield  is 4.77 percent, down from as high
as 7.15 percent on July 25, though up from a one-year average of
3.77 percent.  ECB purchases would “encourage heavier issuance at the
front of the Spanish and to a lesser extent Italian curves,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument Securities in
London. That risks “exacerbating already burgeoning refinancing
issues in the next couple of years, thus quite possibly a
pyrrhic victory,” he wrote in a research note.  Moral Hazard  Draghi said countries would have to request help from the
European Financial Stability Facility, the euro area’s temporary
bailout fund, as a “necessary condition, but it’s not a
sufficient condition” for help in curbing bond yields. That
would produce a memorandum of understanding ensuring governments
don’t shirk their economic responsibilities, according to Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in London.  “You can definitely say the argument for not doing the
Fed-style QE has weakened now,” Kumar said. “It’s all about
moral hazards. The ECB was reluctant to do a Fed-style bond
purchase because it’s concerned the approach will reduce
pressure on troubled peripheral countries to reform. Now an MOU
is required before the ECB can intervene and it’s likely to keep
pressure on these countries.”  Serious Progress  The  yield premium  investors demand to lend to Spain rather
than Germany for 10 years rose to as much as 605 basis points
from 536 on Aug. 1. The average this year is 423. Italy’s 10-
year  yield premium  to bunds jumped 54 basis points since Aug. 1
to 510.  “Whatever the short-term gut reaction of markets, the ECB
announcement constitutes serious progress,”  Holger Schmieding ,
the chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in
research note. “The ECB explicitly vowed to do what it takes to
achieve its target and suggested that it may not sterilize the
liquidity injection. In a way, this is a cross of outright
quantitative easing and the successful announcement of the  Swiss
National Bank  to do everything to defend a cap for the Swiss
franc exchange rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net 
Emma Charlton in London at +44=207-392-0427 or
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  