-- Drought Seen Prompting Pause in U.S. Farmland Price Gains
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-03T17:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/drought-seen-prompting-short-term-pause-in-u-s-farmland-gains.html
Farming’s inherent risk, forgotten
during years of booming incomes that pushed  farmland values  to
records, may damp enthusiasm for investing even as government
subsidies buoy U.S. cropland returns, analysts and farmers say.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  today probably will  say
that farmland values reached an all-time high this year as crop
and livestock prices surged and export demand stayed near a
record. Still, the drought gripping the U.S. Corn Belt may lower
farmer appetite to buy up land and make some investors shy away
from an investment that may be less attractive in the short
term, said Brent Gloy, an agricultural economist at  Purdue
University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  “From an economics impact, one year shouldn’t have a big
impact,” Gloy said in a telephone interview. “From a
psychological impact, people won’t be as aggressive buying land
in places that didn’t have a crop.”  Farm income  will reach $91.7 billion this year, second only
to last year, according to a USDA forecast made before the
drought. Corn traded in  Chicago  surged 57 percent through
yesterday since June 15, as the drought spread into the Midwest,
while soybeans gained 23 percent. Cattle futures climbed 7.2
percent since mid-June. The USDA’s next estimate of farm profit
for 2012 will be at the end of this month.  ‘Macroeconomic Worries’  “Dramatic” gains in farmland prices in 2012 and “looming
macroeconomic worries” will slow increases next year, Rabobank
International said in a  report  last week. Values may may rise by
10 percent or less in the first half of next year, said Sterling
Liddell, a vice president of Rabobank’s food and agribusiness
research based in  St. Louis . Gains in some ares exceeded 30
percent during the 12 months through June, according to the
report.  In  Illinois  and Indiana, two of the hardest-hit drought
states, farmland prices rose about 50 percent from 2006 to 2011,
according to  USDA data . Such gains may be difficult to sustain
as farmers, seeing seared fields, decide to invest more
conservatively, said  David Carr , who grows corn and soybeans
near Macon, Illinois.  Small farmers, many of whom rent their land, faced with a
year of loss, may not be able to compete with larger growers and
investors in bidding for attractive parcels, he said. Still,
crop insurance, which in some cases will cover 85 percent of a
farmer’s expected revenue this year, should keep many growers
afloat, allowing sellers to argue that even in a drought,
farmland is a stable investment, Carr said.  Prices, Yields  “Something like this, you would think it would slow prices
down. But maybe it won’t,” he said. “Good commodity prices and
yields have been driving farmland, and if we can get back to
that, we should be OK.”  Pastureland used for cattle-ranching may fare worse than
cropland because of the lack of insurance support, said Jim
Farrell, president and chief executive officer of Farmers
National Co., based in Omaha,  Nebraska .  In parts of  Texas  and other areas where the dry conditions
have persisted for more than a year, “the drought could have a
weakening effect on some of those values,” Farrell, whose
company manages more than 5,000 farms across the Midwest and
Plains, said in an interview. Still, investors looking for
longer-term investments may take advantage of any pause in price
gains to snap up properties, he said.  “Some land, when you see it come up for sale, you may
never see it again,” Farrell said. “It’s a different dynamic”
from housing or other real-estate markets.  Interest rates  that have made long-term investments in
productive land attractive, along with high crop prices, will
remain the key determinants of what farmland is worth, said
Keith Collins, a former chief economist for the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  