-- Heineken Agrees to Buy F&N ABP Stake to Control Asia Brewer
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-03T16:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/heineken-agrees-to-buy-f-n-s-abp-stake-to-control-asian-brewer.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, agreed to buy  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) ’s stake in
 Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  for S$5.1 billion ($4.1 billion) to
gain control of the maker of Tiger beer.  F&N’s board of directors recommended Heineken NV’s offer of
S$50 a share for its 40 percent stake in APB to shareholders,
the Amsterdam-based company said in a statement today. Heineken
already owns a 42 percent stake and said on July 20 that it
would offer as much as S$7.5 billion for the rest.  Heineken is seeking full control of Singapore-based APB as
it attempts to protect its hold over a key emerging-market
asset.  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, last month bid for a 22 percent stake in F&N.
A company owned by his son-in-law also acquired about 8.4
percent of APB. Brewing assets in high-growth economies are in
short supply after a decade of consolidation in the industry.  “APB is a great business and it makes complete sense for
Heineken to want to bring it fully into the fold,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London , wrote
today. “We are also delighted that our anxieties about being
forced into a bidding war were unfounded and that Heineken did
not increase what was in our view already a very fair offer.”  Some analysts had expected Heineken to raise its offer to
secure control of APB, with which it’s been involved since 1931
and through which it distributes its brands in  southeast Asia .
Heineken will make a mandatory general offer at the same price
for all of the remaining shares of APB once a final agreement
with F&N’s shareholders has been reached, according to the
statement.  Shares Gain  Heineken rose 3.4 percent to 45.98 euros in Amsterdam
trading. APB’s  shares  closed on Aug. 1 at S$49.50, before
trading was halted yesterday in Singapore.  The offer price of S$50 a share is 19 percent above APB’s
closing price of S$42 on the day before Heineken announced its
plan, and also more than the S$45 a share that a company owned
by Sirivadhanabhakdi’s son-in-law, Chotiphat Bijananda, agreed
to buy its stake from  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  The average
premium paid in 45 takeovers of beermakers announced in the last
two years is 25 percent.  The purchase will be the latest step in the consolidation
of the industry as brewers buy each other or seek full control
of joint ventures.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest
brewer with an 18 percent share of the market, bid $20.1 billion
for the remaining 50 percent of Grupo Modelo SAB in June,
tightening its hold on the Mexican market.  Industry Consolidation  The APB deal will be Heineken’s largest after offering $7.4
billion in 2010 for the beer operations of Coca-Cola bottler
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUB) , or Femsa.  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of the company’s operating income
last year came from western Europe, where intense competition,
economic turmoil and already-high per-capita beer consumption
are holding back sales growth.  Besides the Singaporean Tiger brand, APB has rights to brew
Bintang beer in Indonesia, Anchor in China, Southeast Asia and
Sri Lanka, and Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  The transaction won’t be subject to due diligence, though
is conditional on F&N shareholder and regulatory approvals.
Rival brewer  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest beermaker by
market value, owns a 15 percent stake in F&N.  Kirin is mulling a bid for F&N’s soft drinks and dairy
business, three people familiar said July 26, as is  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , the world’s biggest soft-drinks maker, several people with
knowledge of the matter said August 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  