-- Emerging-Market Stocks Post Third Weekly Rise on U.S. Jobs Gain
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-03T22:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/emerging-stocks-fall-to-1-week-low-as-ecb-disappoints-investors.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  to a third week of gains, after payrolls in
the U.S. climbed more than forecast, signaling a recovery in the
world’s largest economy’s labor market.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent to
952.79, pushing the weekly advance to 1.2 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa stock index climbed to a 12-week high as homebuilder
Gafisa SA surged the most in two months. Electricity generator
E.ON Russia led gains on the Micex index. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  increased the most in five weeks as regulators cut
transaction fees on equities trading.  Equities rose as payrolls increased 163,000 following a
revised 64,000 rise in June that was less than initially
reported, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a gain of 100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.
The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined for the first time in
six days yesterday on concern policy makers around the world
won’t take additional steps to boost their economies.  “Today’s data is comforting to build a more positive mood
as it’s a message on global growth,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an
emerging-markets strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by
phone from  London . “At the end of the day people are expecting
something to happen from central banks, at least from the ECB.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, climbed 3.1
percent to $39.93, the highest level since May 11. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, declined the most since November, falling 12 percent to
23.90.  Brazilian Stocks Surge  Oil surged the most in a month and commodities jumped after
the U.S. payrolls data bolstered optimism about economic
strength in the world’s biggest crude-consuming country.  The Bovespa climbed 3.1 percent in  Sao Paulo , with Gafisa
climbing 14 percent.  Turkish bond yields retreated to the lowest in more than 1
1/2 years, while the lira jumped 1.3 percent against the dollar
after the central bank raised the amount of daily funding for a
second day.  E.ON Russia gained 4.4 percent to the highest since April
28.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
postponed action by demanding euro-zone governments turn to
existing rescue funds before the ECB intervenes. Draghi said on
July 26 the central bank would do “whatever it takes” to
preserve the euro.  Foxconn Slumps  China ’s government will conduct policy fine-tuning at an
appropriate time and consumer inflation may rebound after
August, the People’s Bank of China said in a quarterly monetary-
policy report on its website yesterday.  South Korea ’s Kospi index slid 1.1 percent, leading
declines among Asian emerging-market gauges. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
slipped 0.1 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index declined 0.2
percent.  Foxconn Technology Co. and  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
which announced in March plans to buy shares in Sharp Corp.,
tumbled after the Japanese consumer-electronics maker widened
its loss forecast. Hon Hai said it plans to renegotiate the
price.  Foxconn sank 7 percent in Taipei, the steepest drop since
Aug. 22, while Hon Hai Precision slipped 3.8 percent. Sharp
plunged 28 percent in  Tokyo  after the maker of Aquos TV models
forecast an annual  loss  of 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion).    Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) , Taiwan’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, tumbled 6.8 percent in Taipei. Deutsche Bank
AG cut its share-price estimate by 27 percent to reflect lower-
than-normal LCD demand. AU Optronics Corp. slumped to a record
low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  