-- Herbert Smith, Proskauer, Ropes & Gray: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-03T14:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/herbert-smith-proskauer-ropes-gray-business-of-law.html
Herbert Smith  LLP hired a team of six
commercial litigation partners from Chadbourne & Parke LLP, five
of whom will open a New York office in September, the firm’s
first in the U.S.  Thomas Riley, Chadbourne’s former litigation head, Gregory Loss, Chadbourne’s former products liability counseling and
defense practice group head, David Wallace, Allison Alcasabas
and Joseph Falcone will handle complex litigation ranging from
general commercial disputes to regulatory matters, securities,
investigations and product liability in the New York office.  A sixth partner, Philip Pfeffer, who is U.S. qualified and
based in London, will work in Herbert Smith’s dispute resolution
practice in London. Pfeffer focuses on product liability, public
international law and other commercial work including
shareholder disputes, the firm said.  “We remain committed to a strong products liability
litigation practice in the U.S. and internationally,”
Chadbourne managing partner Andrew Giaccia said in a statement.
“We wish the tobacco team well. They are distinguished lawyers
and good colleagues. We are grateful for the many contributions
that they have made to the firm.”  Herbert Smith’s New York office will focus solely on
disputes work, with particular emphasis on cross-border
investigations, international arbitration and cross-border
litigation for network clients. The new team’s primary focus
will be on advising international clients with U.S. litigation
issues, the firm said.  They will be joined in New York by international
arbitration partner Chris Parker, who is relocating from London
to establish an arbitration practice.  “We have recruited a very high caliber team whose
reputation will allow us to hit the ground running in New
York,” Jonathan Scott, Herbert Smith’s senior partner, said in
a statement.  Herbert Smith has more than 1,400 lawyers, including more
than 250 partners, in 17 offices in Europe, the Middle East and
Asia. The firm announced that it will merge with the Australian
 law firm  Freehills on Oct. 1, so the New York office will become
part of the new firm.  Duffie Named Head of Littler Mendelson’s Atlanta Office  Littler Mendelson PC named L. Traywick Duffie head of its
Atlanta office, succeeding Cameron Pierce.  Pierce, a founding shareholder of the office, was head of
the Atlanta office for more than 10 years. He will continue his
practice at Littler, focusing on employment litigation and
counseling.  “For more than a decade, Cameron has done a tremendous job
in building a strong and significant presence in the Atlanta
market and we thank him for his efforts,” said Marko Mrkonich,
president and managing director of Littler. “Traywick is the
ideal candidate to lead the office’s future growth with his
extensive experience in starting, growing, and managing law
offices and labor and employment practices.”  Duffie represents corporate clients in a range of
industries throughout the U.S. He has successfully defended
numerous class and collective matters and countered union
organizing campaigns in more than 40 states, the firm said.  Littler has more than 900 attorneys at 56 offices in  North
America  and South America.  Moves  Proskauer Hires Seyfarth Litigator, Begins New Practice  Proskauer Rose LLP hired employment litigator Steven J. Pearlman as a partner in the firm’s Chicago office.  Pearlman is a former partner and co-chair of Seyfarth Shaw
LLP’s national Sarbanes-Oxley whistle-blower team, Proskauer
said. He joins Proskauer’s labor and employment law department
as co-head, along with partner Lloyd Chinn, of its new
whistleblowing and retaliation practice group.  “Steve is one of the country’s foremost whistleblower
defense and employment litigators,” said Elise Bloom, co-chair
of Proskauer’s labor and employment law department and co-head
of the firm’s class/collective action group.  Pearlman has experience defending management against
whistle-blower claims arising under federal laws, state statutes
and common law. He also counsels clients on strategies to avoid
litigation, in addition to defending employers against class
action and single-plaintiff claims of discrimination, harassment
and violations of wage-and-hour laws, the firm said.  Pearlman is the latest in a series of lawyers who have
recently joined Proskauer’s labor and employment law department.
In April, the firm added Los Angeles partner Kenneth Sulzer as
co-head of its California labor and employment law and
class/collective action groups. In June, it added Cédric
Jacquelet as international counsel in Paris.  Proskauer’s labor and employment law department has more
than 160 lawyers globally. The firm has 13 offices worldwide.  Litigator Carl Buchholz Joins DLA Piper in Philadelphia  Carl Buchholz, a former Blank Rome LLP managing partner and
chief executive officer, joined DLA Piper LLP’s litigation
practice in the Philadelphia office.  Buchholz served as managing partner and CEO of Blank Rome
from 2006 to 2010. He concentrates on government relations and
complex commercial litigation. He is experienced in federal and
state administrative, regulatory and legislative matters;
government contracts; commercial and general litigation;
environmental law; insurance; and intellectual property and
patent matters, the firm said.  Buchholz also served as special assistant for  Homeland
Security  to President  George W. Bush  from 2001 to 2002 and
worked as transition team chairman for the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security. He was also co-chairman of the transition
team for Pennsylvania Attorney General Tom Corbett, who is now
that state’s governor, and worked as Pennsylvania general
counsel for the Bush-Cheney presidential campaign in 2004, the
firm said.  “Carl is an accomplished and well-known lawyer with a
proven track record,” said Robert Mathias, joint global leader
and U.S. chair of DLA Piper’s litigation practice. “In addition
to complementing our existing litigation and corporate
practices, Carl’s extensive government work will be a valuable
asset to the firm and our Philadelphia office.”  DLA Piper’s litigation practice comprises more than
1,500 lawyers globally. The firm has 4,200 lawyers in 31
countries and 77 offices throughout the Americas, the U.K.,
Continental Europe, Middle East, Asia and Australia.  Holland & Knight Hires IP Litigator Weiss to Head Practice  Holland & Knight LLP said Charles A. Weiss joined the firm
as a partner and head of its New York Intellectual Property
Group. He was previously a partner with Kenyon & Kenyon LLP, the
firm said.  Weiss has litigated patent, trade secret, license and false
advertising cases involving matters such as the expression of
recombinant proteins, controlled-release pharmaceuticals,
medical diagnostic agents, endocrine and hormone products,
nutritional supplements, food chemistry and processing, high-
caustic detergents, pipe liners and tube fittings.  “Charles’s vast experience with technology-driven
litigation and transactions, primarily in the pharmaceutical,
chemical and biotechnology areas, will prove beneficial to our
clients,” said John M. Hogan, chair of the firm’s litigation
section.  Weiss also has experience in the investigation of product
counterfeiting and pursuit of those responsible.  Holland & Knight LLP has more than 1,000 lawyers and other
professionals in 17 U.S. offices, as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing,
Bogota and Mexico City.  Deals  Bain Capital Agrees to Purchase Stake in Genpact for $1 Billion  Bain Capital Partners LLC agreed to buy a stake in
outsourcing company  Genpact Ltd. (G)  from General Atlantic LLC and
Oak Hill Capital Partners LP for $1 billion.  Ropes & Gray LLP is representing Bain on the deal. Cravath
Swaine & Moore LLP is representing Genpact. Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP advised the selling
shareholders, funds associated with General Atlantic and Oak
Hill Capital Partners.  The Ropes & Gray team was led by Boston corporate partner
Newk Stillwell. Additional corporate partners include Will
Shields, Alison Bomberg and Marcia Ellis. Finance partner Byung
Choi and tax partners Chris Leich and David Saltzman were also
involved.  The Cravath team was led by partner Sarkis Jebejian and
included partners Thomas E. Dunn, corporate; James C. Vardell III, finance; and Michael L. Schler, tax.  The Paul, Weiss team included corporate partners Matthew Abbott, Neil Goldman and David Lakhdhir and tax partners Richard Bronstein and David Sicular.  Bain, a private-equity firm, is buying about 30 percent of
Genpact’s stock outstanding for $14.76 a share, according to a
statement. The transaction is expected to be completed this year
after a special dividend of $2.24 a share to all shareholders,
including General Atlantic and Oak Hill.  Oak Hill and General Atlantic acquired 60 percent of the
company, formerly known as GE Capital International Services,
for $500 million in 2004.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Whitman Lawyer Challenges Motey’s Trial Testimony on Inside Tips  A lawyer for Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman tried
to undermine the testimony of a government witness who testified
that he passed inside information about  Marvell Technology Group
Ltd. (MRVL)  revenue to Whitman.  Karl Motey, a former computer-chip industry analyst,
testified at Whitman’s criminal trial that he got detailed non-
public information about Marvell’s revenue figures from two
sources inside the company and shared them with his clients,
including Whitman. He told jurors that Whitman knew the
information was illicit.  A defense lawyer cross-examined Motey yesterday, trying to
show that Whitman thought the information he was getting from
Motey wasn’t confidential because it had been widely disclosed.
Motey agreed with the lawyer, David Rody, a partner at Sidley
Austin LLP, that he told Whitman that “Marvell was leaky.”  Motey, one of the government’s two key witnesses, testified
for a second day in Whitman’s trial in Manhattan federal court.
Prosecutors claim Whitman used inside information from Motey and
from  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive, to make almost
$1 million for his Menlo Park, California-based hedge fund.  The trial is part of a broad government investigation of
 insider trading  involving hedge funds. Since August 2009, at
least 70 people have been charged with illegal trading by the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. More than 60 have pleaded
guilty or been convicted at trial.  Motey pleaded guilty in 2010 to conspiracy and securities
fraud. He told jurors Aug. 1 he’s testifying in hopes of
avoiding a prison sentence.  Rody showed Motey copies of research reports he published
on companies in the semiconductor industry, including Marvell,
before the time when Motey admits he was passing inside tips.  “Sources indicate MRVL’s storage segment remains strong,”
one report from 2005 read, referring to Marvell’s ticker symbol.  Whitman’s lawyers have told U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who is overseeing the trial, they are trying to show
that the words “source” and “mole,” which Whitman is alleged
to have used in discussing Motey’s contacts at Marvell, refer to
sources of legitimate company information.  Rody also got Motey to agree that some of the information
he got from his Marvell sources was inaccurate.  Marvell, based in Hamilton, Bermuda, makes computer chips
that run smartphones and that are used in computer hard drives.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  News  JPMorgan Lobbying Chief Scher to Add Oversight of Philanthropy  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said corporate-responsibility head
Peter Scher, who runs the bank’s lobbying staff, will also
supervise philanthropy, according to an internal memo obtained
by Bloomberg News.  Scher, who reports to Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
will oversee Kim Davis, president of the JPMorgan Chase
Foundation, according to the memo. The contents were confirmed
by  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, the largest in the U.S. by assets.  Scher, 51, joined JPMorgan in May 2008 after serving as the
managing partner of the law firm Mayer Brown LLP. He previously
was chief of staff to U.S. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, and in 2004 managed the vice presidential campaign of
 John Edwards .  The bank and foundation gave more than $150 million during
2010 in 28 domestic markets and more than 25 countries,
according to its  website . The foundation concentrates on
neighborhoods with high rates of poverty and historic
disinvestment, the company said.  Obama to Nominate Meade as Treasury Department General Counsel  Christopher Meade will be nominated for Treasury Department
general counsel, President  Barack Obama  announced Aug. 1, BNA
reported.  Meade is currently principal deputy general counsel at
Treasury and has served as acting general counsel since June.  From 2005 to 2010, he was a partner at Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP, where he was a member of the
litigation and securities departments, as well as the appellate
and Supreme Court litigation group.  Fees  Madoff Trustee Firm Charges $43.3 Million for Oct. 1-Jan. 31  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage,  Irving Picard , and his law firm put in a bill for $43.3 million in fees
for work from Oct. 1, 2011, through Jan. 31, according to a
federal court filing in Manhattan.  The firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, previously has been paid
$273 million for liquidating the estate since 2008.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence after pleading
guilty to running the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 