-- Merck Appoints SPG as Seller for Serono Geneva Offices
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-03T06:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/merck-appoints-spg-as-seller-for-serono-geneva-offices.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) , the German drugmaker
that’s closing the Geneva headquarters of its Serono unit, hired
 SPG Intercity  to sell the building, the companies said.  SPG has received expressions of interest from companies and
investors “from different regions of the world,” said Martin
Dunning, chief executive officer of the Geneva-based real estate
brokerage. He declined to identify any of the interested
parties.  “It’s going to be subject to offers, so people have to do
their due diligence and express a price for the property,”
Dunning said in a telephone interview today.  Merck obtained the 725,000 square-foot (67,000 square-
meter) building when it bought Serono from billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli for $13.3 billion in 2007. Construction was completed
that year at a cost of $1.25 billion, according to Emporis GmbH,
a Hamburg-based provider of building information.  Merck, based in Darmstadt,  Germany , said in April  that it
planned to close the Geneva site, which will involve cutting 500
jobs and moving another 750. Serono has two headquarters that
include research and development centers and Merck said it was
too costly to keep both open.  Phyllis Carter, a spokeswoman for Merck, said the company
plans to complete the relocation by the middle of next year. She
declined to comment on a possible price or when the property
might be sold.  Tilting Roof  The building, designed by architect Helmut Jahn , sits on a
6.5-acre (2.6-hectare) site overlooking Lake Geneva and features
an atrium with a 10,800 square-foot glass-and-steel roof that
tilts open to cool the space in warm weather, according to
Architectural Record.  It also has a water wall in the lobby that humidifies the
space in winter and allows for cooling in summer as well as a
thermal exchange system that uses water pumped from Lake Geneva
to provide 70 percent of the energy needed for heating and
cooling.  The property could be used as it is or turned into a multi-
tenant office complex, Dunning said.  “The first demand of the customer is to sell the property
as is,” Dunning said. “They have laboratories that are built
in, but they can be modified, so it’s not a serious issue. The
building can be used for different types of operations and
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  