-- Merkel Coalition Members Show Acceptance of ECB Bond-Buying
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-03T15:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/merkel-s-coalition-members-signal-acceptance-of-ecb-bond-buying.html
Members of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties signaled they won’t stand in the way
of European Central Bank chief  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
 government bonds .  The envisaged move to purchase troubled euro states’
government bonds is “a wise middle way” to solve the region’s
debt crisis, Elmar Brok, a European Parliament lawmaker and
executive-committee member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union party, told Deutschlandfunk radio today.  Norbert Barthle , CDU budget spokesman, said that German
lawmakers will have veto rights over bond purchases by the euro-
area’s rescue funds, which would operate in tandem with the ECB
under Draghi’s proposal. The temporary fund “was created for a
purpose and bond-buying is in the manual,” Barthle said
yesterday by phone.  With Merkel on vacation for another week and parliament in
summer recess, there was no official government reaction to
Draghi’s announcement yesterday of a blueprint to ease bond
markets and lower borrowing costs for Italy and  Spain  in return
for strict conditions. In her last statement on the crisis, on
July 29, Merkel echoed Draghi’s language, saying that she will
do everything to protect the euro.  Live With It  “This is a political form of bond-buying which Berlin can
just about live with,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy Ltd., said in an e-mailed comment. “In
German eyes there is no risk of unlimited and unconditional
support for Spanish and Italian sovereign debt -- precisely the
kind of intervention which the markets would deem credible.”  Stocks and the euro rebounded today as investors digested
Draghi’s proposal to buy Italy’s and Spain’s bonds on the market
as long as the bailout fund makes purchases directly from the
two countries’ treasuries, a move that is only possible if the
respective governments ask for aid and commit to tough
conditions. Draghi said the details would be worked out in the
coming weeks.  The euro gained 1.2 percent to $1.2327 at 4:51 p.m. Berlin
time. The DAX Index added 3.7 percent to 6,849.23, heading for a
weekly gain of 2 percent.  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today that he
would consider asking the bailout funds to buy Spanish debt if
it was “in the best interest of Spaniards.” He said he needs
to see more details on what the ECB is planning in terms of bond
buying and non-conventional measures before taking any decision.  ‘Right Balance’  German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, whose Free
 Democratic Party  is Merkel’s junior coalition partner and has
been skeptical of bailouts, told broadcaster N-TV that bond
purchases are “within the independence, the possibilities of
the central bank,” according to an e-mailed transcript. “One
always has to be careful to keep the right balance” to avoid
accelerating inflation, he said.  Alexander Dobrindt, general secretary of the third
coalition party, Bavaria’s  Christian Social Union , called for a
reform of ECB voting rules to give  Germany  a veto right in the
Governing Council, according to an interview in today’s
Tagesspiegel newspaper.  Handelsblatt, in a front-page article, focused on the
“isolation” of Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, whom Draghi
signaled was the only Governing Council member to oppose the
bond-buying plan. The business newspaper said that Merkel is
distancing herself from Weidmann, her former chief economic
adviser, and asked: “How long can he hold out?”  While  Europe ’s governments have spent too much and economic
reform measures as well as spending cuts have to be implemented,
more has to be done to solve the current crisis and the ECB will
now provide that short-term aid, Brok said.  “We’re at an epochal turning point,” Brok said. “We’ve
had 60 years of peace, freedom and welfare and now comes an
attack that could destroy this concept, which we have to
deflect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  