-- Leu Weakens to Record Low as Court Prolongs Political Turmoil
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-03T11:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/leu-weakens-to-record-low-as-court-prolongs-political-turmoil.html
The leu weakened to a record low
after  Romania ’s  Constitutional Court  delayed a ruling on the
results of a July 29 referendum to impeach suspended President
Traian Basescu, prolonging the political turmoil.  Romania’s currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent today
to 4.6520 per euro, the weakest intraday level on record, and
traded at 4.6480 as of 1:44 p.m. in Bucharest. The leu has
dropped 1 percent against the euro this week and lost 4.3
percent since the end of June, making it the world’s second-
worst performing currency after the Sudanese pound, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nine-member panel’s decision to postpone a ruling on
whether the ouster vote is valid is prolonging the battle
between Basescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta as the
government presents its progress on economic targets and stake
sales to a joint mission of the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union. The international lenders, which granted
Romania a 5 billion-euro ($6.1 billion) precautionary loan, are
in Bucharest for a quarterly review until Aug. 13.  “The ball remains in the Constitutional Court,” Vlad Muscalu, an economist at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note to
clients today. “The decision is quashing any remaining hope
that markets will see some relief in the near run.”  The court will hold a meeting to discuss whether the
referendum was valid on Aug. 31, it said in a statement on its
website today.  ‘Unprecedented’  “Such a situation is unprecedented,” Basescu told
reporters in Bucharest today. “Trying to change the results of
the referendum” after hearing the outcome shows the ruling
coalition “has no scruples and it’s clear that their only
interest is to control the judicial system,” he said.  The court postponed a judgment to have enough time to
review electoral documents and voter lists after receiving
conflicting data from the central electoral bureau, the  Interior
Ministry  and the statistics institute, according to a court
statement yesterday. The government must send an updated list of
voters to the court so judges can decide whether the minimum
turnout of half of eligible voters was met in order to validate
the referendum.  According to the electoral bureau, turnout for the
referendum, called by Ponta’s ruling coalition, was 46.24
percent, below the majority required under the constitution. Of
those who took part, 87.52 percent approved Basescu’s ouster,
while 11.15 percent chose to keep him in power. The lists
included 18.3 million eligible voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  