-- Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Contract for Sixth Month
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-08-03T08:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/euro-area-services-manufacturing-contract-for-sixth-month-1-.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted for a sixth month in July, adding to signs the
economy is edging toward a recession.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 46.5 from 46.4 in June, London-based
Markit Economics said in a final report today. Markit had
initially reported a reading of 46.4 for July. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  “With incoming new business falling at the fastest rate
for three years and service sector companies becoming the
gloomiest about the outlook since early 2009, there seems little
prospect of any improvement soon,”  Chris Williamson , Markit’s
chief economist, said in today’s report.  Europe ’s economy probably contracted 0.2 percent in the
second quarter after stagnating in the first three months,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
21 economists last month. Budget cuts have eroded  consumer
spending  just as companies stepped up job cuts and global demand
faltered.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
signaled the ECB intends to join forces with governments to buy
bonds in sufficient quantities to ease the euro area’s debt
crisis. Central banks from the  Bank of England  to the  Federal
Reserve  have in recent weeks increased stimulus, with the Fed
this week pledging new policy steps as needed.  ‘Irreversible’ Euro  The euro area is “seemingly headed for further gross
domestic product contraction in the third quarter after a highly
probable appreciable drop in the second quarter,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at Global Insight Ltd. “We expect the ECB
to trim  interest rates  sooner rather than later. We favor a move
in October, but would certainly not rule out a move as soon as
September.”  Draghi said yesterday the euro was “irreversible” He
signaled the new measures as the debt crisis threatens to
cripple Spain and Italy and break up the common currency.  A gauge of euro-area  manufacturing  fell for a twelfth month
in July to a 37-month low of 44 from 45.1 in June, Markit said
on Aug. 1. An indicator of services output rose to 47.9 from
47.1, according to today’s report.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG,  Germany ’s biggest private
broadcaster, said yesterday ad sales in its home market
declined. The Unterfoehring-based company’s Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Ebeling told reporters yesterday that he expects
advertising revenue in Germany to decline in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  