-- Ex-UBS Executives Gave FGIC Notice on Bids, Witness Says
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/ex-ubs-executives-gave-fgic-notice-on-bids-witness-says.html
Two former  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal-bond
executives accused of rigging bids gave a contact at a  General
Electric Co. (GE)  unit early notice of how much to bid on bonds, a
former colleague testified.  Mark Zaino, who worked on the bond desk at UBS with the
defendants, yesterday walked jurors in federal court in
 Manhattan  through three transactions, involving bond issues for
 Puerto Rico , the Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority
and a Rhode Island housing project.  Zaino testified that defendants Gary Heinz and Michael
Welty often worked with a contact at GE’s Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co. and gave FGIC early notice of how high or low to
bid on bonds. The men are on trial along with Peter Ghavami, the
former head of UBS’s municipal-derivatives group.  Zaino, whose testimony was met with frequent objections
from defense attorneys, said he hadn’t directly participated in
the Puerto Rico or Rhode Island deals and knew about them
because the group members discussed their work with each other.  “I routinely discussed the transactions I worked on with
Mr. Ghavami,” Zaino said, adding later that he consulted with
Welty and Heinz as well. Zaino said he was the primary agent on
the Massachusetts project and dealt with the same person at
FGIC,  Peter Grimm , that Welty spoke with for the Rhode Island
transaction.  Prosecutors asked Zaino to authenticate and explain
recorded phone calls between Welty and Grimm, and between Grimm
and Zaino.  ‘Bid List’  “My understanding is, Mike is asking Peter Grimm who
should be on the bid list,” Zaino said in response to one
portion of the tape. Grimm was convicted in May of conspiracy to
commit fraud by manipulating auctions for municipal bond
investment contracts.  Ghavami, Heinz and Welty are charged with conspiracy to
defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing the prices on the investing agreements.  Zaino told jurors during testimony earlier in the week that
he pleaded guilty to three criminal counts in 2010 and is
testifying now in the hopes of receiving less than the 35 years
in prison he faces for his crimes.  The case is U.S. v.  Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  