-- F&N Board Said to Recommend Heineken’s S$50 a Share APB Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-08-03T12:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/f-n-board-said-to-recommend-heineken-s-s-50-a-share-apb-bid-1-.html
Fraser and Neave Ltd. ’s board of
directors will recommend  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s S$50-a-share offer for
 Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  to its shareholders, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Heineken won agreement from F&N without having to increase
the bid, which it made on July 20, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the deal has yet to be announced. The
Amsterdam-based company already  owns 42 percent  of APB,
primarily through a joint venture with F&N, and said July 20 it
will offer as much as S$7.5 billion ($6 billion) for the rest.  Heineken is seeking full control of APB, the Singapore-
based maker of Tiger beer, through which it distributes its
brands in southeast  Asia . The Dutch company, which has been
involved with APB since 1931, made the offer to protect its hold
over a key emerging-market asset after  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) ,
controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, last month
bid for a 22 percent stake in F&N. A company owned by his son-
in-law also acquired about 8.4 percent of APB.  Heineken rose as much as 2.7 percent to 45.67 euros in
Amsterdam trading and traded at 45.34 euros at 2:09 p.m.  APB’s  shares  closed on Aug. 1 at S$49.50, before trading
was halted yesterday in  Singapore . Some analysts had expected
Heineken to have to raise its offer to secure control of APB.  Bid Premium  The offer values F&N’s 40 stake in APB, as well as some
smaller assets, at S$5.12 billion. The price of S$50 a share is
19 percent above APB’s closing price of S$42 on the day before
Heineken announced its plan, and more than the S$45 a share that
a company owned by Sirivadhanabhakdi’s son-in-law, Chotiphat Bijananda, agreed to buy its stake from Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. The average premium paid in 45 takeovers of beermakers
announced in the last two years is 25 percent.  The purchase would be the latest step in the consolidation
of the industry as brewers buy each other or seek full control
of joint ventures. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s biggest
brewer with an 18 percent share of the market, bid $20.1 billion
for the remaining 50 percent of Grupo Modelo SAB in June,
tightening its hold on the Mexican market.  Brewing assets in high-growth  emerging markets  are in short
supply following a decade of consolidation in the industry.  The APB deal would be Heineken’s largest after offering
$7.4 billion in 2010 for the beer operations of Coca-Cola
bottler Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, or Femsa.  Emerging-Market Presence  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of the company’s  operating income 
last year came from western  Europe , where high levels of
competition, economic turmoil and already-high per-capita beer
consumption is holding back sales growth.  Besides the Singaporean Tiger brand, APB has rights to brew
Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor in  China , Southeast Asia and
Sri Lanka, and Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  