-- Fed Begins Conducting Repo Agreements in Readiness Program
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-03T13:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/fed-begins-conducting-repo-agreements-in-readiness-program.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it’s
conducting “small-value” repurchase agreements as part of its
overall program to test it operation readiness.  The transactions, part of a series of temporary open-market
operations that began in 2009, don’t represent any change in
monetary policy, according to a statement posted yesterday on
the New York Fed’s  website .  All eligible collateral types will
be able to be used in the transactions, which will be conducted
with the central bank’s 21 primary dealers.  In June, the  Federal Open Market Committee  authorized the
New York Fed to undertake repos and outright purchases and sales
of securities, in addition to reverse repos, for such testing,
the New York Fed said. Prior to today, the central bank has only
conducted reverse repos as part of the readiness program.  The  New York  Fed hasn’t conducted a repo since Dec. 30,
2008 and since then has added six primary dealers, the firms
that act as counterparties to the central bank, and several
system changes and as well as adjustments to support the reform
of the tri-party repo market.  In repos, the Fed buys securities from dealers for a set
period, temporarily raising the amount of money available in the
banking system. At maturity, the securities are returned to the
dealers, and the cash to the Fed. In a reverse repo, the
opposite occurs.  The fed has historically used repos and reverse repos to
help maintain the proper level of money in the banking system to
keep overnight  interest rates  close to the central bank’s
target. The Fed has held its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  