-- Federer Beats Del Potro in Longest Match in Olympic History
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-03T18:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/federer-beats-del-potro-in-longest-match-in-history-of-olympics.html
Wimbledon champion  Roger Federer  beat
Juan Martin del Potro in the longest match in Olympic tennis
history, advancing to the final at the  London  Games.  The top-ranked Swiss right-hander defeated Del Potro, the
No. 8 seed from Argentina, 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 19-17 on Centre Court
at the All England Club. He advances to his first Olympic final
to play Serbia’s Novak Djokovic or Britain’s  Andy Murray  in two
days.  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia ,
the winners of the last two Grand Slam tournament titles,
reached tomorrow’s women’s final with straight-set victories.  Federer’s match lasted 4 hours, 26 minutes and broke the
mark of 3:57 set when Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of  France  beat Milos
Roanic of Canada 6-3, 3-6, 25-23 earlier this week. The third
set of that match took three hours, 17 minutes longer than the
final set today.  “Very tough from start to finish,” Federer said. “It was
very physical at the end and so mental. I feel bad and horrible
for Juan Martin but he can be very proud.”  It was also the longest three-set men’s singles match since
tennis turned professional in 1968, besting the 4:03 contest
between Djokovic and Spain’s  Rafael Nadal  in  Madrid  in 2009.  “It’s tough to speak now,”  Del Potro  said. “It’s not an
easy situation. Someone always has to win these matches and
today it was him.”  Although Federer, 30, won a gold medal in doubles in
Beijing in 2008 with Stanislas Wawrinka, he’s never won any
Olympic medal in singles in three previous appearances. His best
finish was the quarterfinals four years ago.  Dominant Servers  Federer and Del Potro both dominated on their serves, with
only one service break in the first two sets. That came from Del
Potro and allowed him to take the opening set. In the second-set
tiebreaker, Federer opened a 4-1 lead.  Five service break chances in the final set were wasted
before Federer broke for a 10-9 lead. Del Potro, 23, stayed in
the match by winning the next game on Federer’s serve.  After squandering three break points at 14-14, Federer
broke for an 18-17 lead. He then finished the victory on his
second match point as Del Potro put a shot into the net.  “Serving against the match so many times, it’s hard and it
takes its toll,” Federer said. “I liked my attitude today.”  Federer is playing his first tournament since winning a
record-tying seventh Wimbledon title last month. It was his
record-extending 17th major victory.  Del Potro lost to Federer in the quarterfinals of this
year’s Australian and French opens. He defeated Federer in the
2009 U.S. Open final for his only Grand Slam title.  Williams Wins  Williams, the Wimbledon women’s champion, routed Australian
Open winner and No. 1 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus 6-1, 6-
2. The match took 63 minutes, less time than both the second and
third sets of the Federer-Del Potro match.  Williams, 30, won the Olympic doubles title with her sister
Venus, in 2000 and 2008.  Sharapova, playing in her first Olympics, advanced with a
6-2, 6-3 win against fellow Russian  Maria Kirilenko .  “It’s incredible, not only to be part of this event and be
an Olympian, but to put yourself in with an opportunity to go
for gold,” said Sharapova, who carried the Russian flag during
the opening ceremony a week ago.  Sharapova, 25, won her first French Open title in June to
complete a career Grand Slam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 