-- Fidelity Is Said to Plan Jump Into ETFs With Active Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/fidelity-said-to-plan-jump-into-etfs-with-active-funds.html
Fidelity Investments , the asset
manager that watched from the sidelines as exchange-traded funds
went from zero to $1.5 trillion over the past 20 years, is
finally preparing to jump into the business, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Fidelity, based in  Boston , aims to become the first major
mutual-fund company to introduce ETFs run by active stock
pickers by opening a series of products based on its “Select”
line of industry-focused equity funds, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the plan isn’t public. The Denver-
based unit that would run the ETFs is headed by Anthony Rochte,
who was hired from  State Street Corp. (STT)  in March, the person said.  “Fidelity has the ingredients to make actively managed
ETFs successful,” Paul Justice, director of ETF research in
 North America  for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “They have a household name, a
distribution machine and a history of outperformance with the
sector funds.”  Fidelity, the almost 70-year-old firm led by Edward C. Johnson III known for such industry innovations as direct sales
to individual investors and income-oriented stock funds, trails
rivals in entering the ETF business. State Street Corp. runs the
oldest U.S. ETF, opened in 1993, and Vanguard Group Inc., known
for its low-cost  index funds , entered the market in 2001.
 BlackRock (BLK)  Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, joined the
fray when it purchased the iShares ETF business in 2009.  “At this time we’re not focused on specific products, but
rather on how we can best position Fidelity to further develop
its sector-investing capabilities in a manner that best meets
the needs of our clients,”  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman, said
in a telephone interview.  Gross’s ETF  Bill Gross  in March became the most prominent manager to
open an actively managed ETF, the Pimco Total Return Exchange-
Traded Fund. Its success in gathering $2.3 billion in assets has
paved the way for other firms to follow suit.  Almost all ETFs track indexes tied to benchmarks, appealing
to investors because of their trading flexibility and lower
costs. ETFs attracted $118 billion in assets last year,
according to the  Investment Company Institute . Actively managed
ETFs in the U.S. account for $8.8 billion, or less than 1
percent of assets held by exchange-traded products, including
exchange-traded notes, trusts and commodity pools, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Redemptions  Fidelity would join a growing number of active managers
looking to create ETF versions of their mutual funds as they try
to reverse redemptions from traditional mutual funds. Actively
managed mutual funds lost $31 billion to withdrawals last year,
according to the Washington-based ICI. Fidelity’s mutual funds
in the U.S. had $19.7 billion in withdrawals in the 12 months
ended June 30, according to Morningstar.  Fidelity’s entry “would make others contemplating when and
if to get into ETFs to think now is the time,”  Deborah Fuhr ,
the former head of BlackRock’s ETF research who now leads
London-based research firm ETFGI LLP, said in a telephone
interview.  Active managers have largely resisted offering ETF versions
of their products because the structure requires revealing
almost all holdings every day. Many fear that would allow
investors to replicate their strategy without having to pay
fees. Active managers also frequently take multiple days to move
into or out of a position. If other investors can detect that
movement, they might jump ahead of the manager and benefit from
resulting price changes, a tactic known as front-running.  BlackRock Permission  BlackRock and other firms have asked the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for permission to create actively
managed ETFs that don’t disclose holdings daily. Andrew Donohue,
then head of the SEC’s division of  investment management , said
in 2010 he worried the lack of transparency would disrupt the
proper pricing of ETFs. The agency hasn’t approved any of the
requests.  ETFs disclose holdings daily in order to keep their share
price in line with the market value of their holdings. When
those values diverge, market makers create or redeem shares in
large blocks, moving a fund’s share price back in line with
assets. To do that, market makers need to know a fund’s
holdings. Transparency is seen as less a threat to fixed-income
funds because it’s more difficult to replicate or front-run
managers in the over-the-counter  bond market .  Lynch, Danoff  Fidelity, which manages $1.6 trillion in assets, is known
for top-ranked stock pickers such as former Magellan manager
 Peter Lynch  and Will Danoff, manager of the Contrafund, the
firm’s largest stock fund. Under Johnson, the firm pioneered the
sale of mutual funds directly to individual investors rather
than through brokers, and abolished almost all of the firm’s 8
percent sales charges. The firm also introduced Fidelity Puritan
fund in 1947, among the first with a goal of investing in stocks
to generate income. Fidelity introduced money-market funds that
allowed customers to write checks like with bank accounts.
Fidelity allows investors to buy ETFs managed by other
investment firms on its website.  Rodger Lawson, formerly the president of Fidelity, said in
January 2010 the firm was considering actively managed ETFs
modeled on its sector funds. The firm’s Select lineup manages
$36.9 billion in 60 funds covering industries from banking and
pharmaceuticals to communications and air transport, according
to Loporchio and the firm’s website.  Rochte, based in Boston, is now president of Fidelity
Select Co., the new investment unit. He worked as a vice
president for investment services for Fidelity’s institutional
brokerage business from 1996 to 2000.  Former Employer  Rochte would be competing against his former employer.
State Street, the second-biggest ETF provider, has 40 industry
ETFs with $59.6 billion, said Marie McGehee, a spokeswoman.
IShares, the largest provider of ETFs worldwide, offers 77
industry-focused ETFs in the U.S. with assets of $30 billion,
according to Christine Hudacko, a spokeswoman.  Industry-based products, especially ETFs, have grown in
popularity in recent years among institutional investors and
financial advisers who like to rotate into and out of industries
based on what areas they believe will perform best,
Morningstar’s Justice said.  “More and more investors are using sector funds in lieu of
single securities,” he said.  Fidelity’s success in gathering assets to the new products
will ultimately depend on performance, Justice said.  The firm’s largest industry-focused fund with direct ETF
rivals, the $2.3 billion  Select Biotechnology Fund (FBIOX) , has returned
an annual average of 20 percent, after fees, in the three years
ended July 31. That beat the returns of BlackRock’s  iShares
Nasdaq Biotech ETF  by more than 0.5 percentage points a year,
and State Street’s  SPDR S&P Biotech ETF (XBI)  by 2.6 percentage points
a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  