-- Foxwoods Casino Owner to Restructure $2.2 Billion in Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/foxwoods-casino-owner-to-restructure-2-2-billion-in-debt.html
The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal
Nation, owner of the Foxwoods Resort Casino in southeastern
Connecticut, reached a preliminary agreement with lenders to
restructure $2.2 billion in debt.  The accord lowers the debt balance and extends maturities
at favorable rates, Foxwoods Chief Executive Officer Scott Butera said yesterday in a statement, without disclosing 
specifics. The tribe will work with lenders and bondholders to
build support for the agreement over the next several months.  “This represents a critical step forward for our
business,” Butera said in the statement. “It provides for a
 capital structure  that will support significant investments in
our gaming and hospitality businesses.  The tribe's senior secured credit facility and Kien Huat
loans will be restructured into two term loans with five- and 
seven-year maturities, according to the statement. Bondholders
will receive new securities with lengthened maturities of 13,
18 and 23 years based on the seniority of the existing bonds.  Holders of its subordinated special revenue obligations and 
8.5 percent notes will receive new debt at a discount to the 
face value of accrued principal and interest, the tribe said.   Bank of America and Wells Fargo will arrange a $30 million
working capital facility for the tribe with a 30-month term.  Hud Englehart, a spokesman for the tribe, declined to
discuss additional details of the proposal.  Foxwoods, among the largest casinos in the U.S. by gambling
space, is located on tribal land in the town of Ledyard. It
opened a casino hotel expansion under the MGM Grand brand in
2008 just as the recession began to pinch gambling revenue and
nearby states expanded their gaming offerings.  No Foreclosure  Foxwoods generated slot-machine winnings of  $614 million  in
the 12 months ending June 30, a 5.5 percent decline from the
same period last year, according to statistics from the State of
 Connecticut . In its peak year, 2005, slot winnings totaled $819
million.  Since it is located on tribal land, lenders cannot
foreclose and the property cannot be restructured in a Chapter
11 bankruptcy proceeding, Butera told the  New York Times  this
year. He described the situation as ‘‘sort of like being stuck
in no man’s land.’’  There have been nine Native American gambling defaults
since the recession, affecting more than $4 billion of capital,
according to Michael Paladino, a Fitch Ratings analyst.  ‘‘The marketplace will welcome the upcoming visibility from
the resolution of the largest and most complex Native American
gaming default to date,’’ Paladino said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  