-- Gain in Payrolls Probably Failed to Reduce U.S. Unemployment
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/gain-in-payrolls-probably-failed-to-reduce-u-s-unemployment.html
The pace of hiring in July probably
failed to reduce the U.S. jobless rate, which has been stuck
above 8 percent for more than three years, economists said
before a report today.  Payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers following an 80,000
increase in June, according to the median forecast of 89
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate was 8.2
percent for a third consecutive month, the figures may show.  Weakness in  job creation  will hold back  consumer spending ,
the biggest part of the economy, as a global slowdown and
impending U.S. tax changes weigh on businesses. Job cuts at
companies from Morgan Stanley to  Cisco Systems (CSCO)  Inc. mean
unemployment may remain elevated, one reason the  Federal Reserve 
this week said it is prepared to take new steps if needed to
boost growth.  “Payrolls are growing at a lackluster pace,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “The economy remains weak, and we still
have quite a few headwinds. Progress on the  unemployment rate 
will be key to further Fed action.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from increases of
50,000 to 165,000.  Private employment, which excludes government jobs, climbed
110,000 after rising 84,000 in June, economists forecast the
report will show.  Hiring Slowdown  Payroll gains slowed to an average 75,000 in the April to
June period, the weakest in almost two years and down from
226,000 in the first quarter, Labor Department figures show.  The jobless rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  Fed officials, after meeting this week, left unchanged
their statement that economic conditions would likely warrant
holding the benchmark interest rate target near zero at least
through late 2014. They said unemployment “remains elevated.”  Policy makers “will closely monitor incoming information
on economic and financial developments and will provide
additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market
conditions in a context of  price stability ,” the Fed statement
said. Economic growth is expected to “remain moderate over
coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  Stocks Climb  Stocks climbed for the past two months on speculation
global central banks will take measures to bolster growth and
employment. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday dropped
for a fourth day after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  failed to reassure investors on the outcome of policy
makers’ immediate efforts.  Through June, the U.S. had recovered about 3.8 million of
the 8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession
that ended in June 2009.  Employment and the economy are central themes in the
presidential campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  debating whose policies would
best boost the expansion.  Gross domestic product grew at 1.5 percent annual rate in
the second quarter after a 2 percent gain in the first three
months of the year, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of GDP, grew at the slowest pace in a year.  Today’s report may show manufacturing payrolls grew 10,000
in July, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The figures
may reflect fewer shutdowns at automakers for annual retooling
related to the new model year. Chrysler Group LLC and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  are among companies that said they would idle fewer plants.  Auto Sales  Demand for so-called big-ticket items like automobiles may
be cooling. Car and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual
rate in July, down from a revised 14.3 million in June and
indicating little momentum as the industry heads for the best
year since 2007, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  “Economic fundamentals have remained soft,” Jenny Lin,
Ford’s senior U.S. economist, said on an Aug. 1 conference call
with analysts. “Job growth as measured by non-farm payrolls is
modest.”  Cisco Systems , the biggest maker of computer-networking
equipment, plans to eliminate about 1,300 jobs, or 2 percent of
the workforce, as Europe’s debt crisis and sluggish corporate
spending threaten sales.  Bank Cutbacks  Financial firms are also trimming jobs as revenue softens.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  said its headcount will drop by about 700 in the
second half, bringing total 2012 reductions to 4,000. Credit
Suisse Group AG will eliminate 138 positions in  New York 
starting this month. Deutsche Bank AG will cut about 1,900 jobs
by year-end, mostly outside  Germany . The lender is also
shrinking compensation and benefits.  The so-called fiscal cliff, in which taxes will rise and
government agencies will reduce spending next year if Congress
doesn’t act, raises the risk of more cutbacks.  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense contractor, may have to
dismiss about 10,000 of its 120,000 employees if lawmakers don’t
act before $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts to federal
spending, according to Robert Stevens, the Bethesda, Maryland-
based company’s chief executive officer.  The Labor Department, in guidance posted on its website,
said it would be “inappropriate” for defense companies to send
60-day notices to employees given the uncertainty about whether
the reductions will occur or which jobs will be cut.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  is among companies looking to expand. The
Tokyo-based auto maker, which relies on U.S. vehicle sales for
more than half its profit, said it is investing $40 million at
its Greensburg, Indiana, plant that produces the Civic compact
and will hire 300 workers later this year.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  