-- GE Pays $12.9 Million as Energy Chief Is Kept From Rivals
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/ge-pays-12-9-million-as-energy-chief-kept-from-rivals.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s severance
accord with retiring executive  John Krenicki  will keep him from
competing with the company for three years. That may say more
about his value than the $12.9 million in cash he will receive.  Krenicki, 50, who will step down as chief executive officer
of GE’s energy infrastructure unit at the end of 2012, will be
restricted for about three times as long as what’s typical in
such cases, said  Alan Johnson , managing director of executive
compensation firm Johnson Associates in New York.  “They see him as a very big potential threat in the
marketplace,” Johnson said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“Usually, a year is normal, two years is kind of on the long
side and three years is a really long time.”  Krenicki pledged in 2011 to more than double annual revenue
at  GE Energy , the largest industrial unit, to $100 billion. A GE
employee since 1984, he will receive $89,000 a month until May
2022 along with a 2012 bonus of at least $2.9 million after
leaving, according to a July 23 regulatory filing, even as he
joins private-equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC in 2013.  The “retirement terms reflect his senior position, long
service and significant contribution to GE as well as our
interest in receiving strong non-compete and non-solicitation
agreement protections,” Deirdre Latour, a spokeswoman for
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, said in an e-mail.  Vice Chairman  CEO Jeff Immelt made Krenicki a vice chairman and chose him
to run the energy infrastructure business when it was created in
July 2008. Krenicki’s departure coincides with the division’s
breakup into three units with chiefs reporting directly to
Immelt.  GE’s payout is inexpensive compared with the potential risk
from Krenicki going to work for a rival, said David Schmidt, a
senior consultant at executive-compensation firm James F. Reda &
Associates in  New York .  “If you were to value a non-compete for someone who could
really cause competitive damage, $1 million a year is really not
a lot of money,” Schmidt said in a telephone interview. “When
you consider what the possible damage to GE could be, that’s not
a huge insurance policy.”  The retirement package will also allow Krenicki to take
advantage of  stock options  awarded to him as long as they vest
before the end of 2014, according to the filing. The Wall Street
Journal and Footnoted.com reported on the pay package earlier.  Krenicki decided “it’s a good time to kind of think about
other things he can do” and declined offers to take other roles
at GE, Immelt said July 20 on the company’s second-quarter
earnings conference call.  GE has said reworking the energy units will help cut
structural costs by $2 billion by 2014.  Steve Bolze , who leads
the GE Power & Water business; Dan Heintzelman, head of GE Oil &
Gas; and Dan Janki, in charge of GE Energy Management, will
report to Immelt starting next quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  