-- German Bunds Fall Before Euro-Region Retail Sales Report
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-03T16:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/german-bunds-fall-before-euro-region-retail-sales-report.html
Italian and Spanish two-year notes
jumped,  outperforming  the nations’ 10-year bonds, on speculation
the  European Central Bank  will buy shorter-maturity debt to help
quell the region’s financial turmoil.  Spain’s  two-year yields  completed the biggest weekly
decline this year as reports showed euro-area manufacturing and
services shrank less than economists forecast, and retail sales
beat estimates. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday any
bond purchases would focus “on the short end of the yield
curve.” Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would
consider asking the euro-area’s bailout funds to buy Spanish
debt if it was for the best of the country. German bunds fell.  “The major positive takeaway was that the ECB will be
allowed in the longer-term to purchase short-dated sovereign
bonds, that is positive for them,” said  Michael Markovic , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“We should see a curve steepening,” he said, referring to a
situation where the difference between shorter and longer
maturity yields widens.  Italy’s two-year yield dropped 61 basis points, or 0.61
percentage point, to 3.13 percent at 5 p.m. London time. The
4.25 percent bond due July 2014 climbed 1.11, or 11.10 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,239) face amount, to 102.095.  The nation’s 10-year yield fell 28 basis points to 6.05
percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
over their two-year equivalents expanded to as much as 308 basis
points, the  most  since March 8.  Draghi’s Offer  “There is a degree of thinking that maybe what Draghi was
saying was not that negative,” said Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London.
“He said if you need help, request it and the ECB will help
you, if you meet the conditions.”  The yield on  Spain ’s two-year note dropped 88 basis points
to 3.96 percent, extending this week’s decline to 135 basis
points, the most since the period ending Dec. 2. The 10-year
yield fell 32 basis points to 6.85 percent, below the 7 percent
level that prompted bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  “I will do what I always do, act in the best interest of
Spaniards,” Rajoy said at a news conference in  Madrid , when
asked whether he was considering a request. He said he needed to
see more details on what the ECB was planning in terms of bond
buying and non-conventional measures before taking any decision
on seeking support.  Spanish and Italian securities added to gains after members
of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties signaled
they won’t stand in the way of Draghi’s buying plan.  Most Volatile  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the second highest in euro-
area markets today behind  Finland , according to measures of 10-
year or similar-maturity debt, the spread between two-year and
10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Germany ’s 10-year yield rose 20 basis points to 1.42
percent, and the two-year yield climbed seven basis points to
minus 0.02 percent. Yields below zero mean investors who hold
the debt to maturity will receive less than they paid to buy
them. The two-year rate reached minus 0.097 yesterday, matching
the least since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1990.  A  composite index  of euro-area services and manufacturing
output, based on a survey of  purchasing managers , rose to 46.5
last month from 46.4 in June, Markit Economics said today in a
final report. Markit had initially reported a reading of 46.4
for July. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Retail sales 
gained 0.1 in June, compared with the drop of 0.1 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  German bunds also declined along with U.S. Treasuries after
a U.S. report showed employers hired more workers in July than
economists forecast. The increase of 163,000, followed a revised
64,000 gain in June.  German debt has returned 4.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 6.3 percent, and Italy’s debt rose 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  