-- Givaudan Drops Most in a Year on Operational Profit Miss
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-03T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/givaudan-drops-most-in-a-year-on-operational-profit-miss.html
Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the Swiss-maker of
flavorings for  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone SA (BN) , dropped the most in a
year after reporting first-half earnings below analysts’
estimates.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization increased 12 percent to 428 million francs ($435
million), missing the 451.7 million-franc average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Givaudan dropped as much as 5.5 percent
to 901.5 francs, its steepest intraday plunge since Aug. 4.  “It’s a bit light: the first-half is weak and in the
second half of the year I don’t think we will see a sharp
rebound,” Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Vontobel in
Geneva, said by telephone.  The world’s largest flavor and fragrance maker, which holds
a quarter of the market, aims to lure customers away from
smaller rivals as cash-strapped consumers in  Europe  spend less
on food, drinks and care products. Danone, the world’s biggest
yogurt-maker cut its full-year forecast for profit margins in
June, and said it saw rapid deterioration in consumer demand in
 Spain .  Shares of the Swiss company were 4.6 percent lower at 910
francs as of 11:55 a.m. in Zurich.  “I’m a bit surprised by the market reaction,” Chief
Financial Officer Matthias Waehren said in an interview. He said
part of the Ebitda miss came from using raw materials purchased
at high prices last year.  Givaudan is pushing through its planned 100 million francs
of price increases this year and has gained market share from
smaller local and regional rivals, Waehren said. The company has
a visibility of four to eight weeks on orders and has seen “no
change” in customer trends.  Additional pension costs and costly delays to a new
Hungarian facility also weighed on profitability. Givaudan
reiterated its annual target for sales growth of 4.5 percent to
5.5 percent through 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  