-- GM May Write Down Investment in Peugeot, Filing Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/gm-may-write-down-investment-in-peugeot-filing-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which acquired a
7 percent stake in  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  in March, said it may
have to write down its investment as the European auto market
heads toward its fifth straight annual sales decline.  The amount at which GM is carrying the investment in Paris-
based Peugeot exceeded its fair value at June 30, GM said
yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Detroit-based automaker said it plans to hold
the investment until the value recovers.  “They’re acknowledging that it was a bad decision,” said
Dennis Virag, president of Automotive Consulting Group in  Ann
Arbor ,  Michigan . “The writing is on the wall and they see that
in hindsight it was not a good investment.”  After rebounding from a government-backed bankruptcy three
years ago with rising U.S. auto demand, GM is struggling in
 Europe , where it has lost $16.8 billion since 1999. Industry
overcapacity and falling sales have led to mounting competition
and losses. The Peugeot alliance, under which GM paid about 320
million euros ($423 million) for its stake, is supposed to help
through cooperation for purchasing and vehicle development.  “We assessed whether the decline in value represented an
other-than-temporary impairment and concluded that the
impairment is temporary,” GM said in its filing yesterday on
the stake. “The recent economic uncertainty is weighing heavily
on the valuation of PSA. Should market conditions not recover in
the near-term, we may conclude the impairment is other-than-
temporary, resulting in an impairment charge.”  The filing didn’t give GM’s carrying value for the
investment.  ‘Good Progress’  “We continue to make good progress on all of our work
streams with PSA, which will create long-term value for both
partners,”  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  GM Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann told analysts on a
conference call Aug. 2 that “we have no intention of putting
any more money into PSA.”  Peugeot reported a 662 million-euro first-half loss at its
automaking unit on July 25. The carmaker has burned through 200
million euros in cash monthly for the last year. Peugeot plans
to cut 8,000 jobs and close a factory on the outskirts of Paris
to reduce costs.  The French automaker’s first-half sales in Europe fell 14
percent to 827,163 vehicles, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  Share Performance  Peugeot rose 0.7 percent to 5.91 euros at the close
yesterday in Paris. The  shares  have declined 56 percent since
Feb. 28, the day before the automakers announced that GM would
take the stake in the French company.  GM gained 4.7 percent to $20.04 at the close in  New York 
yesterday, as the broader U.S. markets rose.  The U.S. automaker is also trying to revamp its Opel unit
in Germany as the company tries to stem losses in the region.  Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, who became chairman of Opel’s
board in November and is interim leader of GM’s European
operations, is heading a plan to improve the business by
investing in new models, revising its brand strategy, reducing
costs and leveraging the Peugeot alliance.  “We haven’t moved fast enough to fix the things we can
control,” Girksy said in a statement Aug. 2 about Europe. “We
have a clear plan how to change that.”  GM wants to close an assembly plant in Bochum,  Germany , and
has been talking with union leaders about doing so.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told analysts Aug. 2
that Opel management continues to talk with German unions about
issues such as productivity, cost and capacity.  “We expect to have a comprehensive agreement in place
sometime this fall,” he said.  Rainer Einenkel, the top labor representative at Opel’s
plant in Bochum, said yesterday that the union will not
negotiate over the closing of factories in Europe. Talks will
resume at the end of August, he said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  