-- Google Should Pay $750 a Book, Authors Say in E-Book Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-03T21:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/google-should-pay-750-a-book-authors-say-in-e-book-suit.html
Authors suing  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over the
digitizing of books asked a judge to order the company to pay
$750 a book for illegal copying and distribution of their works,
according to a court filing today.  Google is being sued over its plan, announced in 2004, to
scan millions of books from public and university libraries to
provide snippets of text to people who use its Internet search
engine. A Manhattan federal judge in May rejected Google’s
argument that lawsuits by the Authors Guild and the American
Society of Media Photographers should be dismissed because the
groups lacked standing to sue for copyright infringement.  The Authors Guild today asked the judge for a ruling in its
favor on three legal issues, one of which is a claim for damages
of $750 a book. The guild also says it wants a ruling that
copying books isn’t a “fair use” under copyright law, as
Google has said it will argue.  Last month,  Mountain View , California-based Google sought
dismissal of the Authors Guild’s suit, arguing that authors
benefit from the project because their books can be more readily
found, bought and read, while the public gains “increased
knowledge.”  University Libraries  Google said in a February filing that it has scanned more
than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts in
English from more than 4 million of them. The project began with
the digitizing of books from the libraries of the  University of
Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University , Oxford
University and the  New York Public Library .  The Authors Guild, individual authors and publishing
companies sued in 2005, claiming Google hadn’t sought
authorization from the owners of the digitized works.  Besides the guild, the plaintiffs include authors Joseph
Goulden, Betty Miles and Jim Bouton, the former  New York  Yankee
who wrote “Ball Four.”  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136, and
the visual artists’ case is American Society of Media
Photographers v. Google, 10-cv-02977, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  