-- Li Ka-shing Backs Victor as Heir, Bankrolls Younger Richard
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-08-03T01:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/li-ka-shing-backs-victor-as-heir-bankrolls-younger-richard-1-.html
Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man,
backed his heir Victor to make a success of running the $68
billion property-to-ports empire and pledged to provide other
son Richard with funding “any time.”  The 84-year-old last month transferred Richard’s stake in
the family trust that controls  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and
flagship developer  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1)  to Victor.  The elder Li has been nicknamed “Superman” by the local
media after building Cheung Kong from a plastic flower factory
he opened after World War II into Hong Kong’s second-biggest
developer. A smooth succession at Hutchison is critical for a
group with investments in ports, telecommunications, utilities,
retail, property and energy in more than 50 countries.  “Li Ka-shing trusts Victor,” said Francis Lun, managing
director at Lyncean Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based brokerage.
“Victor is frugal and after helping his father for such a long
time, he knows how to handle the business.”  Li Ka-shing, 14th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with
a net worth of $24.1 billion, has so far given no indication
that he plans to retire from running the companies.  Victor Li, 48, is currently deputy chairman of Cheung Kong,
a position he’s held since 1994.  “He has followed me for over twenty years,” the elder Li
said of Victor at a briefing yesterday. “His character is
similar with mine and he is prudent when dealing with things.”  Cashed Up  He said in May that Victor Li will run Cheung Kong and
Hutchison in the future and that he will offer financial support
to allow Richard Li, 45, to build businesses outside of the
family’s companies.  “Richard has his own business and he has a couple of other
business with good prospect,” the elder Li said yesterday. “I
shall do my best to support him. I have the cash in the bank and
he can take it anytime. It’s for him but I’m not encouraging him
to take them all now.”  Richard Li , chairman of Hong Kong fixed-line operator  PCCW
Ltd. (8) , acquired a fund management firm from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 and has pursued an independent
business career since quitting as a director of Hutchison
Whampoa in 2000. He is in talks with “several sizeable
enterprises” for possible acquisitions, the elder Li said in
May, without identifying the targets.  PCCW, which owns assets including the Now Broadband pay-
television unit and a controlling stake in developer  Pacific
Century Premium Developments Ltd. (432) , has risen 6 percent since Li
Ka-shing announced the succession plan on May 25, compared with
the 5 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  ‘Big Spender’  Victor Li was kidnapped in the 1990s by Hong Kong gang boss
Cheung Tze-keung, nicknamed “ Big Spender ,” according to local
media reports. Cheung was sentenced to death in 1998 after being
tried by authorities in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou
for a series of crimes including the kidnapping of  Walter Kwok ,
then chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong Kong’s
biggest developer by value.  Victor Li’s holdings in the trust will increase to about
HK$290 billion, a spokeswoman for Cheung Kong said on July 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  