-- Michael Phelps Bows Out of Individual Racing With Butterfly Gold
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-03T23:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/michael-phelps-bows-out-of-individual-racing-with-butterfly-gold.html
Record Olympic medal-winner  Michael Phelps  ended the last individual race of his career the way
he’ll be remembered: as a winner.  The American yesterday captured the 100-meter butterfly
title, taking his 17th Olympic gold medal and last one in an
individual swimming event. It was the 21st medal overall for
Phelps, who also won the event in Athens and Beijing. He’ll swim
the last race of his Olympic career today in the 400-meter
medley relay.  “It’s a big race for our country,” Phelps said in a news
conference. “It’s the last night, the very last day, on the
eighth day, and we’re excited.”  Phelps, 27, has helped push the U.S. to the top of the
medal standings in London. The Americans have 43 medals, 21 of
them gold.  China  is second with 42 medals, including 20 golds.  Phelps has said the London Olympics, his fourth, will be
his last. He’s retiring after today’s race, having made his
Olympic debut as a 15-year-old at the 2000 Games in Sydney.  Four years ago in Beijing, Phelps swam the third leg in the
men’s 400-meter medley relay and then cheered from the pool deck
at the Water Cube as teammate Jason Lezak finished off the race
for the U.S. in world-record time.  “Being part of the U.S. relay team was a goal of mine a
long time ago,” Phelps said yesterday.  In Beijing, American swimmers won a total of 31 medals,
including 12 golds. In  London , the U.S. so far has 28 medals,
half of which are gold, with four events remaining.  Younger Teammates  Phelps has been sharing the spotlight at the London
Olympics with some of his younger teammates.  Missy Franklin, 17, a Colorado high school senior who
describes Phelps as her mentor, completed a backstroke sweep,
winning the 200 meters in world-record time yesterday, adding it
to the 100-meter title she earned earlier in the meet. A third
American, Katie Ledecky, 15, the youngest member of the U.S.
Olympic swimming team, captured the 800-meter freestyle crown.  The only non-U.S. gold medal in the pool yesterday was won
by Florent Manaudou, 21, a first-time Olympian from  France , who
sprinted to victory in the 50-meter freestyle final ahead of
Cullen Jones of the U.S.  Brazil ’s Cesar Cielo, who hadn’t been
beaten over 50 meters at a major international meet in four
years, failed to defend the title he won in Beijing and finished
third.  Phelps won six gold medals at the 2004 Athens Olympics and
followed that with a record eight in Beijing four years ago.
He’s now earned three gold medals and two silvers in London.  Phelps hasn’t given much thought to retirement yet, he
said.  “I thought it would hit me harder than what it is right
now,” he said. “A lot of those emotions haven’t really come
through my brain in the last week. Once I’m done, there’s going
to be a lot more emotion. I’m kind of in a meet mode. You have
15 or 16 sessions, you start and then you finish and then it’s
over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  