-- Michael Phelps Caps Individual Career With Butterfly Gold
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-03T20:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/michael-phelps-caps-individual-career-with-butterfly-gold.html
Michael Phelps  won his 17th Olympic
gold medal and last in an individual swimming event, taking the
100-meter butterfly for the third straight games.  Phelps, a 27-year-old American, added to his Olympic record
for most gold medals and most total medals, now at 21.  Missy Franklin, 17, a Colorado high school senior who
describes Phelps as her mentor, completed a backstroke sweep,
winning the 200 meters in world-record time, adding it to the
100-meter title she earned five days ago. A third American,
Katie Ledecky, 15, the youngest member of the U.S. Olympic team,
captured the 800-meter freestyle crown.  Phelps won the 200-meter individual medley yesterday at
London’s Aquatics Centre to become the first male swimmer to win
the same race at three straight Olympics. He repeated that feat
today in the butterfly by finishing in 51.21 seconds, ahead of
Chad le Clos of  South Africa  and Evgeny Korotyshkin of  Russia .  Phelps was seventh after 50 meters before charging to
victory. His mother, Debbie, could barely watch from the stands,
clenching her fingers as Phelps made his final push.  “I don’t even want to complain about going slower or
having a bad turn, I’m just happy that the last one was a win,”
said Phelps. “That’s all I really wanted.”  Phelps has said this Olympics, his fourth, will be his
last. He’s retiring after London, having made his Olympic debut
as a 15-year-old at the 2000 Games in Sydney. One more race,
tomorrow’s 400-meter medley relay, should complete his career.  Gold Medals  Phelps won six gold medals at the 2004 Athens Olympics and
followed that with a record eight in Beijing four years ago.
Phelps has now earned three gold medals and two silvers in
 London .  Franklin, who has shunned offers of sponsorship to retain
her college eligibility, led her race from start to finish,
getting the meet’s sixth world record in 2 minutes, 4.06
seconds, breaking the mark of 2:04.81 set by Kirsty Coventry of
 Zimbabwe  in 2009. Anastasia Zueva of Russia was second, 1.86
seconds behind, and Elizabeth Beisel of the U.S. was third.  “I think it is awesome that so many swimmers have been
able to break world records when a lot of people didn’t think
we’d be able to,” Franklin told reporters.  Franklin had won the 100-meter backstroke on July 30 in a
U.S. record and added another gold with the U.S. 800-meter
freestyle relay team. Franklin, who’s entered in seven events,
the most attempted by a U.S. female swimmer, also took bronze in
the 400-meter freestyle relay.  High School  The U.S. added its 14th gold of the swim meet and third of
the night as Ledecky, a high school student from Bethesda,
 Maryland , controlled the 800 freestyle for the final 300 meters.  Ledecky clocked 8:14:53, 4.13 seconds ahead of  Spain ’s
Mireia Belmonte Garcia, 21, in second place. Britain’s Rebecca
Adlington, the defending champion who was cheered by the
majority of the 17,000 crowd, took bronze.  “I just didn’t know until the 700-meter mark that I’d done
it,” Ledecky told reporters.  Tonight’s gold medals extended the U.S.’s lead in the
swimming competition above  China  and  France . Half of the U.S.’s
28 swimming medals are gold, while China has nine total medals,
including four golds. France also has four golds out of the
seven it has won in the swimming pool.  Brazil ’s Cesar Cielo, who hadn’t been beaten over 50 meters
at a major international meet in four years, failed to defend
the title he won in Beijing. Florent Manaudou, 21, a first-time
Olympian from France, sprinted to victory in 21.34 seconds, 0.2
seconds ahead of Cullen Jones of the U.S. Cielo, 25, got the bronze.  Tosses Flowers  Phelps smiled and laughed with le Clos and Korotyshkin
following his final solo appearance on the podium before
throwing his flowers to a young family member.  The American’s meet in London started slowly. He failed to
get a medal for the first time in an Olympic event since Sydney
when he finished fourth behind teammate and friend  Ryan Lochte , 28,
in the 400-meter individual medley.  He then lost the 200-meter butterfly to le Clos after
missing the wall and finishing second. His first gold arrived as
he anchored the U.S.’s 800-meter freestyle team.  Phelps took another silver medal when France came from
behind to beat the U.S. in the 400-meter freestyle relay.
Yesterday he led from start to finish to win his first
individual gold of these games, beating Lochte.  No Repeat  The 100-meter butterfly was one of the most dramatic in the
pool in Beijing. Phelps’s bid for eight golds looked about to
fail as Milorad Cavic of  Serbia  stretched for the wall before
the American. With a final half-stroke, Phelps got there first,
winning a race that required swimming’s governing body to review
the finish down to thousandths of a second.  “This one was a bigger margin of victory than the last two
combined, so we can smile and be happy,” said Phelps. “It was
fun.”  Cavic finished fourth today in 51.81 after leading at the
halfway mark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Aquatics Centre at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  