-- Michael Phelps Gets 16th Gold as Record Olympic Run Nears Finale
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-03T00:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/michael-phelps-gets-16th-gold-as-record-olympic-run-nears-finale.html
Michael Phelps , with a record 20
medals, is nearing the end of his Olympic career in triumph
after a slow start.  It took Phelps, 27, four races to win gold in his fourth
and final games. He finished fourth in the 400-meter individual
medley on the opening day, the first time he’d failed to reach
the podium since swimming at the Sydney Games as a 15-year-old
in 2000.  His first gold of 2012 came in the 800-meter freestyle
relay on July 31 when a trio of teammates gave Phelps a
commanding lead. He extended his medal haul to 20 last night
with his 16th gold as he led from start to finish in the 200-
meter individual medley, becoming the first male swimmer to win
the same race at three straight Olympics.  “I fell short in the first couple of events,” Phelps said
in a news conference. “To be able to do something no male has
done in the sport is pretty cool.”  His win in the relay allowed him to break the mark of 18
total medals set by former Soviet Union gymnast Larissa Latynina.  Yesterday’s race was the last duel between Phelps and U.S.
teammate  Ryan Lochte , who took Phelps’ 400-meter individual
medley crown and had talked about dominating in London just as
Phelps had done in Athens and Beijing, where he won six and a
record eight golds, respectively.  The two Americans started side by side, with Phelps in lane
three and Lochte in four. Phelps took command from the start and
was as much as 0.22 seconds ahead of the pace needed to break
his own world record after the butterfly and backstroke portions
of the race.  ‘Toughest Competitor’  Upon touching first, Phelps, who also has two silvers in
London, rested against the wall, smiled broadly and turned to
speak with Lochte, who finished second.  “He’s the toughest competitor that I’ve ever had to deal
with,” Lochte told reporters.  Lochte, who turns 28 today, had 31 minutes before the 200-
meter medley after the final of the 200-meter backstroke, in
which he gave away a lead and ended up with a bronze medal. The
gold went to U.S. teammate Tyler Clary, 23.  The loss to Phelps ended Lochte’s Olympic run. He told
reporters the U.S. swim coach had left him off the 400-meter
medley relay tomorrow.  “I’m done,” said Lochte. “It’s my birthday and for the
first time in years, I don’t have to swim.”  For Phelps, there’s one more individual race. He’ll swim
the 100-meter butterfly today after coming from behind to win
his semifinal in 50.86 seconds five minutes after stepping off
the podium with his medley gold.  Last Semifinal  “It was the last semi ever, we’re kind of chalking up the
last of certain things and tonight was a tough turnaround, but
I’m very pleased with going 50.8,” Phelps said. “It’s my
fastest time this year in the race. The final will be a good
one.”  Lochte leads the individual medal standings at the games
with five, including two golds. The total was “a little above
average,” he said, after arriving in  London  and repeatedly
saying that it was “my time.”  “I definitely wanted to get golds in everything,” Lochte
said. “I can’t be too disappointed because I’m bringing home
five Olympic medals to my country. I’m pretty happy for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Aquatics Centre at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  