-- Michigan Emergency-Manager Law Goes on Ballot, Court Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-08-03T20:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/michigan-emergency-manager-law-goes-on-ballot-court-says.html
A challenge to  Michigan ’s emergency-
manager law, which allows the state to take over the finances of
fiscally troubled cities, must appear on the Nov. 6 ballot, the
state’s supreme court ruled.  The Michigan Supreme Court today ordered the state’s board
of canvassers to put the repeal of the rule before state voters.
The board earlier rejected petitions for a vote because papers
filed by the law’s opponents didn’t use the right size type.  “A majority of this court holds that plaintiff is entitled
to a new writ of mandamus requiring the Board of State
Canvassers to certify its petition as sufficient,” Justice Mary Beth Kelly wrote. The type size used met the state requirement,
she said.  The Michigan law, signed by Governor  Rick Snyder  last year,
gives emergency managers the right to terminate employee
contracts and suspend collective bargaining. Opponents contend
the law is anti-democratic and lets unelected officials rule
over local governments.  The 2011 law will be suspended after the state board
certifies the election petitions. The effect of this suspension
is in dispute and will probably trigger additional court
battles, according to lawyers on both sides.  Detroit’s Agreement  Opponents of the law who collected more than 226,000
signatures to repeal it have said the suspension should cover
Detroit’s agreement with the state over city finances even
though it was reached before an emergency manager was appointed.  “Because the consent agreement was pushed down the throats
of the city of Detroit, the agreement should be invalidated,”
said Julie Hurwitz, attorney for Stand Up for Democracy, which
opposes the law. “The state’s going to resist that. This will
go to the courts.”  The financial stability agreement between the city of
Detroit and the state will remain in effect, Mayor Dave Bing
said in a statement today.  Despite the suspension of the current law, “we will
continue to execute our fiscal restructuring plan,” he said.
The city is bound by the consent agreement to continue to
restructure city government and impose new labor terms, he said.  “The court’s decision is not expected to affect the  bond
issue  we need to maintain the city’s cash flow,” Bing said.  Suspension of the law “may adversely affect Michigan
communities and school districts mired in financial
emergencies,” Snyder, a 53-year-old Republican, said today in a
statement. “It promises to make eventual solutions to those
emergencies more painful.”  ‘Full-Blown Crises’  The law was intended to “identify financial emergencies
before they become full-blown crises,” Snyder said.
“Suspending the law limits the state’s ability to offer early
intervention and assistance.”  Suspension would create uncertainty for cities and school
districts operating under emergency managers, as well as
municipalities in fiscal distress,  Fitch Ratings  said in a
statement today.  The ruling may weaken Detroit’s ability to continue fiscal
reforms and improve its  credit rating  under its consent
agreement with the state, an alternative to emergency manager
rule, Fitch said.  Under the emergency manager law, the consent agreement
gives the city authority to suspend collective bargaining after
employee union contracts have expired -- a rule that Mayor Dave Bing has used to order a 10 percent wage cut for most unions.
Unlike an emergency manager, the Detroit consent agreement
doesn’t allow the mayor to nullify existing union contracts.  ‘Extralegal’ Action  Today’s ruling will block further actions by already-
appointed emergency managers over cities or school boards, said
William Goodman, another attorney for Stand up for Democracy.  “Any action taken will be extralegal,” he said in an
interview.  A prior law allowing emergency managers should cover those
appointed to oversee cities including  Benton Harbor  and Pontiac,
said John Pirich, an attorney for Citizens for Fiscal
Responsibility, which supports the 2011 measure.  “The 1990 act would be reinstated,” Pirich said. “It’s
not the same act, but we’ve had emergency managers since 1990.”  Interim Effect  The 1990 law will “govern in the interim” between the
suspension and the election, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said in a statement before the  Supreme Court  ruled. The
2011 law remains in effect until state election officials
certify the petitions from opponents, Schuette said.  The 2011 law replaced a 1990 law that gave weaker authority
to emergency managers. The newer law allows them to fire
employees, sell assets and unilaterally alter union contracts.
Proponents of the stronger law said it’s needed to more quickly
turn around financially failing cities and school districts.  The earlier law will be revived when the petitions are
certified, Snyder said today. The 1990 law “will ensure
continuity for local units of government currently in financial
emergencies,” he said.  Decisions already made by emergency managers would stand,
Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon said at a press conference in
Lansing today. The current managers will be reappointed under
the previous law, Dillon said. A new manager would have to be
named for Flint, he said.  The Michigan legislature may consider a new emergency
manager law Aug. 15, Dillon said. A new law should provide for
quicker and smoother termination of emergency managers once
finances are under control, he said.  The ballot initiative was rejected by Michigan’s board of
state canvassers because the signature forms didn’t comply with
a legal requirement that petition headings had to be in 14-point
type.  ‘Substantial Compliance’  Stand Up for Democracy appealed the decision, contending
the variance was minor, that the petition was in “substantial
compliance” and its rejection would thwart the will of Michigan
citizens.  The Michigan Court of Appeals ordered the board to place
the measure on the ballot, finding that the petitions complied
substantially with the heading type-size requirement.  The state supreme court today found that complying
substantially with a requirement wasn’t enough to put the
measure on the ballot. Justice Kelly found, however, that the
“plaintiff actually complied with the type size requirement.”  Different fonts, or print styles, can appear to be larger
or smaller than others, and the characters as measured by a
ruler may vary as well, she said. “Plaintiff’s evidence
established that its printer used a 14-point Calibri font,” she
said. Opponents to placing the measure on the ballot “simply
failed to rebut” this, she said.  The 2011 law gave the state “considerably more power” to
take over the financial affairs of a city or other municipality
or school board, Hurwitz said.  “The emergency manager becomes essentially a dictator,
with unilateral power to invalidate contracts, to sell property,
to literally run the government,” she said.  The case is Stand Up for Democracy v. Board of State
Canvassers, 145387, Michigan Supreme Court (Lansing).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  