-- IMF Urges Serbia Not to Make Central Bank Buy Public Debt
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-03T15:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/imf-urges-serbia-not-to-make-central-bank-buy-public-debt.html
The  International Monetary Fund  urged
Serbia not to allow legislation directing the central bank to
buy  government securities  on the secondary market, a day after
Governor Dejan Soskic resigned.  Parliament’s finance committee today proposed scrapping the
article, which was filed as part of a larger government plan to
curtail the central bank’s independence. Bogdan Lissovolik, the
IMF’s representative in Belgrade, said in a statement that the
entire draft law, which will be debated by lawmakers over the
weekend, is “damaging in many respects.”  “We heard that the provision that permits” central bank
“purchases on the secondary market of securities issued by the
public sector may be deleted by a further reverse amendment,”
said Lissovolik. “This would be a step in the right
direction.”  The European Union, the  World Bank  and the IMF have
criticized newly appointed Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s proposal
to limit the autonomy of the central bank, which has the support
of more than 100 lawmakers in the 25-seat legislature. Serbia
needs the IMF to release a suspended $1.3 billion precautionary
loan to secure financial support from other lenders, such as the
World Bank, which has booked $400 million for projects in the
Balkan country and will make the funds available only if Serbia
has an IMF agreement.  ‘Serious Concerns’  The IMF sent a letter to Dacic yesterday expressing
“serious concerns that the amendments undermine NBS
independence and effectiveness, and create significant risks for
macroeconomic stability.” Soskic’s resignation from the on the
same day was the result of pressure by the government, said
Lissovolik.  “The governor resigned, but this does not change the fact
that the amended law is damaging in many respects,” he said.
“It would still be important to stop, or at least delay, its
consideration. We note with regret that some damage to the NBS
independence has already been done.”  Parliamentary Control  The draft law aims to restore parliamentary control over
the National Bank of  Serbia . The bill proposes creation of a
supervisory body to take an “active role” in monetary
decision-making and have the power to “prevent any banks from
abusive international-payment operations” and “money
laundering” activities, according to the draft.  It also calls for the central bank governor and vice
governors to step down. Debate on the law continues tomorrow.  Serbia has also asked the IMF to carry out a fact-finding
mission in the country, Lissovolik said. “a decision on this is
pending,” he added.  The IMF suspended the loan program in February after it
became clear Serbia would slip on agreed fiscal deficit and
public debt targets.  Dacic’s Cabinet is trying to live up to a pre-election
pledge and avoid having to freeze public wages and pensions to
curb the budget gap, which rose to 7.3 percent of GDP at the end
of March amid a contracting economy and rising unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net  