-- India Phone Companies to Pay at Least $2.5 Billion for Airwaves
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-08-03T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/india-phone-companies-to-pay-at-least-2-5-billion-for-airwaves.html
Indian mobile-phone operators will
have to pay more than 140 billion rupees ($2.5 billion) to buy
wireless spectrum in an auction this year.  The country’s cabinet yesterday approved the reserve price
for selling the airwaves for a nationwide service in the 1,800
megahertz band, Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  said in
New Delhi. The  Telecom Regulatory Authority of India  in April
proposed a price of 180 billion rupees, an 11-fold increase over
the previous sale.  The cost may hurt operators in  India  grappling with high
debt and low revenue, said Hemant Joshi, a telecommunications
analyst with Deloitte Haskins & Sells. Mobile-phone companies in
the country have a debt load of $30 billion, even as competition
in the world’s second-biggest mobile phone market has reduced
tariffs to among the cheapest globally.  “The telecom industry is reeling under tremendous stress
due to high debt, banks’ unwillingness to lend and falling
revenue,” said Joshi. “These can only be cured with a
strategic government policy and not by some poor thought out
rebates.”  The nation’s  Supreme Court  in February canceled 122 mobile-
phone licenses in connection with a graft probe into their award
in 2008. India’s auditor said in 2010 that the sale of the
wireless permits two years earlier may have cost the exchequer
as much as $31 billion as they were sold at “unbelievably low
prices.”  The local joint ventures of Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and Russia’s  AFK Sistema (AFKS)  were among
those who lost their licenses. India’s top court set a deadline
of Sept. 7 for auctioning the airwaves.  The reserve price for countrywide spectrum in the 800
megahertz band, used by operators that run code division
multiple access, or CDMA, networks is set at 1.3 times the 1,800
megahertz price, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  