-- Intesa Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Higher Bad Loans
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-08-03T11:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/intesa-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-bad-loans-lower-revenue.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest bank, posted a smaller-than-estimated 37 percent decline
in second-quarter  profit  after a tax gain cushioned the impact
of rising bad loans and lower revenue.  Intesa rose as much as 8.6 percent in Milan trading after
posting net income of 470 million euros ($575 million), above
the 323 million-euro  average estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Intesa benefitted from a 173 million-euro credit that
helped cut its taxes by 67 percent to 152 million euros.  “The beat is mostly coming from trading and a one-off tax
benefit,” Alberto Cordara, an analyst at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients. “The capital
position has also come in stronger, which is a positive,” he
said.  Intesa, the only Italian lender among the top five that
hasn’t needed additional capital to comply with European Banking
Authority requirements, said its core Tier 1 ratio rose to 10.7
percent on June 30 from 10.5 percent at the end of March. The
bank is eliminating jobs and reducing costs to strengthen
finances. Chief Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani is
reviewing the company’s five-year business plan as Italy’s third
recession in a decade affects  credit quality  and profitability.  The shares were up 6.3 percent to 1 euro by 1:38 p.m. in
Milan, valuing Intesa at 16.2 billion euros. The stock has
declined 23 percent this year. That compares with a 35 percent
decrease in  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, which will also
publish results today.  Balance Sheet  “Intesa ended the period with an extremely solid balance
sheet,” said Cucchiani, 62, in a statement. “Our liquidity is
high, the provisions against doubtful loans are sufficiently
robust and reflect a prudent and conservative strategy,” he
said.  Loan-loss provisions increased to 1.08 billion euros in the
quarter from 823 million euros a year earlier, as the recession
reduced the ability of borrowers to repay loans, forcing lenders
to set aside more funds.  Trading income, which includes a 105 million-euro gain from
the sale of Intesa’s stake in London Stock Exchange Group Plc,
fell 70 percent to 161 million euros in the quarter, above
analysts’ estimate of 87 million euros. Net fees declined 6
percent to about 1.32 billion euros.  “In the light of the positive revenue performance in the
first half of the year, operating performance for 2012 is
expected to remain broadly stable, net of last year’s non-
recurring items,” the bank said in the statement, confirming
the outlook published three months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  