-- Third Point’s Loeb Profits on ‘Fat Pitch’ Europe Credit Wager
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-08-03T17:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/third-point-s-loeb-profits-on-fat-pitch-europe-credit-wager.html
Third Point  LLC, the $8.7 billion
hedge fund run by  Daniel Loeb , is profiting from dislocations in
European credit markets fueled by the region’s sovereign crisis.  The firm sold protection on the riskiest slice of a
derivative index tied to the debt of European companies,
speculating the market in June was pricing in the likelihood of
too many failures, the New York-based firm said in a July 31
client letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
The contract was trading at an upfront premium of 40 percent
that’s declined to 20 percent, Third Point said.  The fund said it looks for “fat pitches” resulting from
panicked selling, opportunities that have increased as a fiscal
crisis in Greece has spread to Spain. Measures of corporate
credit risk that in June soared to the highest levels in five
months have subsided as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled officials are prepared to do whatever is needed
to preserve the euro.  “We anticipate Europe’s dysfunctional capital markets to
continue generating a steady stream of similar event-driven,
attractive ideas for us,” Third Point said in the letter.  Elissa Doyle, a Third Point spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Third Point sold default insurance on the first-loss
portion of the so-called Series 9 of the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index, built in 2008 and linked to the debt of 125 then-
investment-grade companies. The contract expires in June.  The trade would start losing money after four defaults,
according to the letter. The firm viewed that as “extremely
unlikely” without a euro zone breakup and also bought hedges
that would pay out in the event of a collapse, the firm said.  Fund Gains  The upfront premium on the so-called equity tranche, which
is exposed to the first 3 percent of losses in the index, fell
to 20 percent from 40 percent. By selling it at 40 percent, they
received 4 million euros in advance and 500,000 euros annually
to insure 10 million euros of debt.  While Third Point gained 4.4 percent in the first half of
the year, its performing credit strategy returned 4.8 percent in
the last quarter and is up 16.4 percent year to date, according
to the letter. Its distressed credit rose 4.3 percent in the
three-month period and 15.3 percent in 2012.  Hedge funds  have returned an average 1.1 percent in the
first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third Point said its most profitable investments in the
second quarter included  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)   The hedge fund had pushed to shake up Yahoo’s board since
September and flagged discrepancies in former Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Thompson ’s resume, which resulted in Thompson’s
decision in May to step down. Third Point said unprofitable
investments included Delphi Corp. and teen retailer  Abercrombie
& Fitch Co. (ANF)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 Mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  