-- Service Industries in U.S. Expanded at Faster Pace in July
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-03T14:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/ism-services-index-in-u-s-rose-to-52-6-in-july-from-52-1.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in July at a faster pace than a month earlier, helped
by a pickup in orders.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index rose to 52.6, from 52.1 in June, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. The median forecast of 73 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for no change from June. A reading above 50
signals expansion.  The measure is below the 54.2 average over the last six
months, indicating services that make up almost 90 percent of
the economy are hindered by slower global growth and concerns
about the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff. The group’s gauge of
 employment  fell to the lowest level since September, a sign
households may also stay reluctant to step up purchases.  “It’s clear at this point that domestic demand for goods
and services is on the decline,” Guy LeBas, fixed income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
before the report. “Uncertainty about both economic conditions
and political ones are triggering hesitancy on the part of
firms.”  Estimates of the 73 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 50.5 to 53. Before today’s figures, the index
averaged 53.4 since the recession ended in June 2009.  Another report today showed payrolls climbed more than
forecast in July even as the  jobless rate  unexpectedly rose to a
five-month high. Employment rose 163,000 last month after a
revised 64,000 gain in June that was less than initially
reported, the Labor Department said. The  unemployment rate 
increased to 8.3 percent.  Business Activity  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s measure of  business
activity  climbed to 57.2 from 51.7, which was the lowest since
November 2009. The gauge of new orders increased to 54.3 from an
eight-month low of 53.3. An index of prices paid rose to 54.9
from 48.9.  The employment gauge decreased to 49.3, the first
contraction in the measure of jobs this year, from 52.3 in June.  “The employment picture is a little bit of a concern,”
 Anthony Nieves , chairman of the Institute for Supply Management
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee, said on a
conference call with reporters. “Overall, non-manufacturing has
been resilient. We’re still on the path for continued growth.”  The ISM services survey covers a broad mix of industries
including utilities, retailing, health care and finance.  Today’s data follows reports earlier this week that showed
global weaknesses in manufacturing and  consumer confidence .  Manufacturing Measure  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in July for a
second month, reflecting a drop in orders that threatens to
undercut a mainstay of the recovery. The Institute for Supply
Management’s  factory index  was 49.8 last month, little changed
from a three-year low reached in June.  Beyond the nation’s factories, retailers used discounts to
lure consumers last month.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and Macy’s Inc. posted same-
store sales that topped analysts’ estimates as promotions and
warm weather boosted shopping traffic.  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent, beating the average projection for a 3.8
percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics
Inc. Macy’s, the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, posted a 4.1 percent rise in same-store
sales, topping the 2.5 percent average estimate.  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) , based in Naperville,  Illinois , is among
retailers battling softness in consumer demand entering the
back-to-school shopping season.  “The economy’s clearly not providing any tailwind,”
OfficeMax Chief Financial Officer Bruce Besanko, said on an Aug.
2 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  