-- Jackson Deal Expands Beal’s Municipal-Bond Presence in Southeast
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-08-03T14:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/jackson-deal-expands-beal-s-municipal-bond-presence-in-southeast.html
M.R. Beal & Co.’s acquisition of
Jackson Securities LLC will combine two of the U.S. municipal-
bond market’s black-owned investment banks and boost Beal’s
business in the Southeast.  M.R. Beal said yesterday it would acquire Jackson
Securities, founded by Maynard Jackson, the late former mayor of
Atlanta. The merger will allow M.R. Beal, which is based in New
York and has offices in  Illinois ,  Texas  and  California , to
expand into Georgia and  Florida , said Stanley Grayson, M.R.
Beal’s chief operating officer. Terms weren’t disclosed.  “This gives us a real solid beachhead in the Southeast,”
said Grayson, a former New York City deputy mayor, in a
telephone interview. “They’ve been around for a number of
years, so they’ve got relationships all over the country.”  M.R. Beal, founded in 1988 by Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Beal, acquired Jackson Securities from Atlanta Life
Financial Group, a 107-year-old black-owned insurance and asset-
management firm.  “Jackson’s parent has great relationships both on the
corporate and municipal side, and their willingness to lend that
leverage to us in our new business efforts is a huge plus,”
Grayson said.  M.R. Beal employs about 40 bankers, traders and operations
staff, Grayson said. Jackson Securities employs about 20.  Maynard Jackson, Atlanta’s first black mayor, founded
Jackson Securities in 1987 after serving two terms from 1974
through 1982. He later served a third term from 1990 to 1994.  Jackson played a prominent role in the expansion of
Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport, which became the
world’s busiest. To honor Jackson after he died in 2003,
Atlanta’s City Council renamed the airport Hartsfield-Jackson
Atlanta International Airport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  