-- Japan Foreign-Bond Debate May Boost BOJ Stimulus Odds: Economy
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-08-03T03:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/japan-foreign-bond-debate-may-boost-boj-stimulus-odds-economy.html
An emerging debate over authorizing
the  Bank of Japan  to buy foreign-currency bonds may spur the
central bank to take alternative stimulus action next week, as
board members seek to forestall an option they have opposed.  Seiji Maehara, the policy chief of  Japan ’s ruling party,
yesterday said it was “desirable” for the government and BOJ
to reach a deal allowing purchases of foreign securities. A
former BOJ deputy governor has advocated a 50 trillion yen ($640
billion) initiative to combat the yen’s gains through foreign-
debt buying.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is among BOJ officials who have
opposed the idea, which would challenge the bank to identify
appropriate foreign assets and manage the domestic liquidity
that would result. The BOJ has instead focused asset purchases
on Japanese government bonds and a limited amount of other
items, including real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds. The BOJ next meets Aug. 8-9.  “Political calls on the BOJ to help curb the yen’s
strength are gaining momentum,” said  Chotaro Morita , a fixed-
income strategist at Barclays Plc in  Tokyo . “Should
politicians’ calls for such foreign debt-buying intensify, the
BOJ may be forced to seek some other monetary stimulus step as
an alternative.”  Asset-Purchases  With  interest rates  near zero, the asset-purchase program
is the bank’s main policy tool for fighting deflation and
stimulating the economy. Shirakawa hasn’t clearly stated his
view on the effectiveness of buying foreign bonds as part of
this program. Such a policy would be aimed at easing yen
appreciation and currency intervention is the jurisdiction of
the finance minister, Shirakawa said at a news conference on May
23.  “Leaving aside whether this policy is right or wrong, it
can be done even now by using the foreign reserves special
accounts,” Shirakawa said at the press conference. “Whether
its right or not to implement this policy is for the government
to decide.”  Takehiro Sato, a former economist at Morgan Stanley who
joined the BOJ board last month, said July 24 that buying
foreign bonds is one option for the central bank. Takahide Kiuchi, a fellow newcomer to the board, said the same day that
the bank may need to consider “new forms of monetary easing.”  Regional Slowdown  The BOJ gathering is one of several central bank meetings
in  Asia  next week, with  Indonesia ,  South Korea  and  Australia 
also set to decide on interest rates. Economic data from the
region have added to evidence of a slowdown, with an official
report today showing that China’s services industry expanded at
a slower pace in July.  Services purchasing manager indexes are also scheduled to
be released for European nations and the U.S. The European
Union’s statistics office may say retail sales fell in June,
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict.  The U.S. Labor Department may say payrolls rose by 100,000
in July, following an 80,000 gain the month before, according to
a Bloomberg survey. The  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent
last month, the report may show.  The strength of the Japanese currency is adding to
manufacturers’ woes.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  said yesterday that it will cut
5,000 jobs after widening its annual loss forecast as demand for
televisions slumped.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are also
planning to eliminate workers following record losses.  Kazumasa Iwata, a former deputy governor of the BOJ and
currently president of the Japan Center for  Economic Research ,
said in a Jan. 25 interview that even companies like  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , which has built up a tolerance to an appreciating
currency over the years, have been “screaming” about the yen.  The yen traded at 78.15 per dollar as of 11:12 a.m. in
Tokyo today, up almost 7 percent since mid-March. The currency
reached a postwar high of 75.35 in October and strengthened to
an 11-year high against the euro this month.  Japanese Bonds  One of the central bank’s key monetary-policy tools, an
asset-purchase program, is encountering difficulties because the
BOJ wants to buy more Japanese  government bonds  than holders of
the securities are prepared to sell. The latest failure to meet
its purchase targets was on Aug. 1.  “We want to proceed with asset purchases steadily and
surely while examining whether yesterday’s failure to attract
enough bids will continue or whether that’s something we can
address by the creative management of the operation,” BOJ board
member Yoshihisa Morimoto told reporters in Kanazawa yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  