-- Japan Shifting to Brazilian Corn From U.S. on Record Prices
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-08-03T05:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/japan-turns-to-brazilian-corn-as-u-s-drought-spurs-record-price.html
The worst U.S. drought in more than
half a century will spur  Japan , the world’s biggest corn
importer, to buy a record amount from  Brazil  after record prices
increased costs for feed makers and meat producers.  Importers have purchased about 850,000 metric tons so far
this year from Brazil, the fourth-largest exporter, said
 Nobuyuki Chino , president of Continental Rice Corp. in Tokyo.
Shipments from the South American nation may top 1 million tons
in 2012, surpassing last year’s 887,861 tons, as shippers are
offering the grain at prices more than $20 a ton cheaper than
from the U.S., he said in an interview.  Corn climbed to a record $8.205 a bushel in  Chicago  on July
31, surging 62 percent from June 15, as drought scorched crops
in the U.S., the top exporter, triggering concern that global
food costs will rise. The Department of Agriculture cut its
forecast for the world’s biggest corn harvest by 12 percent last
month, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Rabobank International
have said they expect output to drop further.  “Brazil’s corn-export capacity has increased as the debt
crisis and economic slump in  Europe  reduced the region’s demand
for chicken imports, cutting corn consumption by Brazil’s feed
industry,” said  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at commodity broker
Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo. “Corn shipments from Brazil to  Asia  are
rising as users seek cheaper alternatives to U.S. corn.”  Feed Wheat  Japan’s imports may drop about 2 percent this year from
15.3 million tons in 2011, the lowest level since 1986, as feed
makers are substituting feed wheat and dried distillers’ grains
with solubles, or DDGS, for expensive corn, said Chino, who has
traded grains for three decades.  Corn from the U.S. may represent less than 80 percent of
this year’s imports, the lowest ever level, after Japan boosted
purchases from the  Black Sea region  including Ukraine and
 Romania  in the first half, Chino said. Ukrainian corn is offered
to Japanese buyers at prices $3 to $4 a ton higher than Brazil
for shipments in the quarter starting October, he said.  The U.S. supplied 85 percent of Japanese corn imports in
the five months ended May 31, with Ukraine representing 10
percent and Romania 1.2 percent, government data showed.  Brazil, the third-largest producer of corn, can “easily”
export as much as 12 million tons this year without harming
stockpiles for internal consumption, Secretary of Agriculture
Policy Caio Rocha said in an e-mailed statement on July 31.  Smithfield Foods (SFD)   The country’s corn output may reach a record 70 million
tons this season. The decline in U.S. corn production due to dry
weather has raised prices and may cause Brazilian farmers to
sell their production abroad, Rocha said.  Smithfield Foods Inc., the world’s largest pork producer,
will import corn from Brazil, a move that reflects how surging
costs for U.S. feed grains are rippling through the livestock
and meat industry, the Wall Street Journal reported July 24.  Japan imported 6.51 million tons in the five months ended
May 31, 0.8 percent more than a year earlier, according to the
agriculture ministry. Of the total, grain for feed production
amounted to 4.36 million tons, declining 3.1 percent from the
same period last year, reflecting a shift to feed wheat and
other alternatives. The remainder was used for food, sweetener
and industrial purposes.  “Tight supplies mean less corn is available to meet
growing feed demand, forcing feeders to look for alternatives,”
U.S. Wheat Associates, the export-promotion organization, said
in a report yesterday. “Feeders will likely rely more heavily
on wheat this year than in prior years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  