-- Jobs Surveys Offer Conflicting Views of U.S. Employment Outlook
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-03T19:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/jobs-surveys-offer-conflicting-views-of-u-s-employment-outlook.html
Depending on which data you look at,
employment in the U.S. either picked up in July or dropped by
the most in a year.  Employers added 163,000 workers to payrolls last month, the
biggest gain since February, according to the Labor Department’s
so-called establishment survey released in  Washington  today. A
separate poll of households showed  hiring  dropped by 195,000,
the largest decline since June 2011, as the jobless rate climbed
to a five-month high of 8.3 percent.  The figures are being closely watched by economists for
clues to the outlook at a time when the  European debt crisis  and
the risk of U.S. fiscal cutbacks raise concern the world’s
largest economy will slow. The mixed survey readings make it
important to step back and look at the broader contours of the
labor market, according to economists such as Bruce Kasman.  “When you look at both the surveys smoothed out over three
months, the divergence almost disappears and it feels like a
mediocre labor market,” Kasman, chief economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York , said in an interview. “There’s a sort
of sigh of relief that we’re not slipping into something
particularly weak, but we’re also not holding strong momentum
here by any means.”  Payrolls grew by 105,000 on average from May through July
and household employment climbed by 118,000, the data showed.  Survey Details  The jobless rate is derived from a survey of about 60,000
households that is conducted by the Census Bureau and includes
groups like the self-employed and agricultural workers that are
not captured by the payroll figures. The latter is calculated
based on a Labor Department survey of almost 500,000 worksites.  After  adjusting  the data to make it comparable to the
payroll count, the household figures showed a 108,000 gain in
hiring in July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Since the previous expansion ended in December 2007, adjusted
household employment has decreased by 4.09 million compared with
a 4.74 million drop based on the payrolls survey, the data show.  The household survey may be more accurate at turning points
in the economy because it is more likely to pick up hiring and
firing at small companies and new firms that may be under the
government’s radar. Yet the benefits of that real-time
information are offset by the fact that the survey is much
smaller and the results are therefore more volatile than the
establishment figures, Kasman said.  Coming into the July jobs report, indicators suggested a
softening in growth, yet the broad message from today’s numbers
is that “the downward shift in the momentum may be starting to
arrest itself,” Kasman said. At the same time, at best the U.S.
is creating about as many jobs as would be needed to hold the
jobless rate roughly stable, he said.  Fed Announcement  The  unemployment rate , which climbed in July from 8.2
percent in June, has been stuck above 8 percent since February
2009, one reason why the  Federal Reserve  this week said it is
prepared to take new steps if needed to boost the economy.
Today’s employment report probably doesn’t change the odds of
further easing by Fed policy makers at their next meeting on
Sept. 12-13, Kasman said.  “It hasn’t shifted the bar enough to take the Fed’s
September meeting off the table,” Kasman said. They need to see
“more upside surprises” to make them reconsider.  One way to get a better read is to look for patterns in an
array of about a dozen labor market indicators, including weekly
jobless claims and the  Institute for Supply Management ’s surveys
on manufacturing and services, Kasman said. That provides a more
consistent picture, he said.  At this time, “companies are being hurt by uncertainty and
weakness abroad, and being helped by an increase in earnings in
past quarters and by the fact that the economy is growing,” he
said. “We have a business sector that is expanding, but
expanding cautiously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  