-- Obama Duels With Romney on Jobs Data as Voters Set Views
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-03T16:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/jobs-data-gives-romney-opening-as-obama-shifts-to-tax-debate.html
Today’s jobs report gave President
 Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  data to buttress their campaign
messages on the economy while trying to sway a narrow slice of
voters who remain undecided three months before the election.  Payrolls rose by 163,000, more than forecast, yet the
jobless rate increased to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent, a five-
month high, the Labor Department reported.  Obama seized on the payroll number, saying it marks the
29th consecutive month of job growth and demonstrates the
world’s largest economy is steadily, if slowly, mending from the
recession. Romney called the rise in the unemployment rate
“another hammer blow to the struggling middle-class families in
America.”  The two candidates appeared almost simultaneously to
address the Labor Department report, Obama in  Washington  and
Romney in North Las Vegas,  Nevada . Yet most voters aren’t likely
to make up their minds based on the July figures, said  Dan Schnur , a campaign adviser to Republican presidential candidate
 John McCain ’s first bid for the White House.  “Voters already know what they think about the economy,”
Schnur, director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles , said yesterday
before the figures were released. “What’s left is for them to
decide who can do something to make it better.”  Dominant Issue  The economy is the dominant issue in the presidential race
and the two campaigns are taking divergent approaches to framing
the debate.  “This is an extraordinary record of failure,” Romney said
in an appearance at a trucking company in Nevada, the state with
the highest  unemployment rate , 12.6 percent. “The president’s
policies have not worked.”  In an effort to highlight his background and contrast it
with that of Obama, Romney said his plans are not based on
economic theory and that he’s “had a job in the private
sector.”  The Romney campaign issued a “white paper” yesterday
written by four of the candidate’s economic advisers arguing
that the  U.S. economy  is “stuck in a low-growth trap” because
of Obama’s “economic errors and poor choices,” such as an
economic stimulus financed by government debt.  While Romney is trying to keep the focus on the state of
the world’s largest economy and an  unemployment rate  that has
been stuck at more than 8 percent for more than three years,
Obama is pursuing a strategy of pleading for patience while
accusing Romney of favoring wealthy taxpayers at the expense of
middle-income Americans.  Seeking Patience  “Let’s acknowledge, we’ve still got too many folks out
there who are looking for work,” Obama said at an event at the
Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House grounds.
“We haven’t had to come back from an economic crisis this deep
or this painful since the 1930s.”  Obama called on Congress to extend tax cuts for families
making less than $250,000 a year and said it was
“disappointing” that House Republicans have refused unless the
tax rate cuts for the wealthiest Americans also continue.  Without mentioning Romney by name, he said his Republican
rival’s plan isn’t simply “top down” economics, it’s “upside
down economics.”  That followed the line of attack Obama has been using
against Romney in recent campaign appearances. In  Florida 
yesterday, Obama called the tax proposal that Romney has laid
out “trickle-down fairy dust” that would add to the deficit
and favor the wealthy over middle-income Americans.  Jobs Forecast  Private forecasters had expected the unemployment rate to
hold steady at 8.2 percent and payrolls to increase by 100,000
after an 80,000 gain in June, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The increase in payrolls for July was boosted by a pickup
in employment at automakers as they kept more plants open during
annual retooling related to the new model year. Chrysler Group
LLC and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among companies that said they would
idle fewer plants.  Employment at private service-providers increased 148,000,
the most in five months and reflecting more jobs in education
and health services. Construction companies cut payrolls by
1,000 workers and retailers added 6,700 employees.  Government payrolls decreased by 9,000 for a second month.  Following the Labor Department’s release, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 2 percent to 1,391.66 as of 11:26 a.m
in  New York . Ten-year Treasury yields added nine basis points to
1.57 percent.  Voter Views  Obama has an edge over Romney in national polls. He led the
challenger 51 percent to 41 percent in a July 16-26 poll of
registered voters conducted by the Pew Research Center in
Washington. The survey has an error margin of plus or minus 3.2
percentage points.  He also leads in some key swing states. A Quinnipiac
University/New York Times/CBS News poll in Ohio and Florida
showed Obama with a six-percentage-point advantage in each state
and 11 points in  Pennsylvania .  The poll of likely voters conducted July 24-30 indicated
that a torrent of  television advertising  appears to be
resonating in Obama’s quest to define Romney before many voters
are very familiar with him. The polls found that more likely
voters say Romney’s experience was too focused on making profits
at Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, rather than the kind of
experience that would help create jobs.  Few Undecided  Both men are ultimately appealing to a small fraction of
the population, the polling found. Just 4 percent of voters in
the battleground states surveyed say they are undecided, and
about one in 10 who have picked a candidate say they might
change their minds.  The dwindling number of undecided voters also diminishes
the political impact of new economic data such as the
unemployment figures, said Christopher Wlezien, a political
science professor at  Temple University  in Philadelphia and co-
author of the forthcoming book “The Timeline of Presidential
Elections.”  “As time goes by, more voters have made up their minds,”
Wlezien said. “Because of that, what happens in the future has
less marginal impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in North Las Vegas, Nevada at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  