-- Joyce Faces Knight Extinction as Computers Erase Profit
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-03T01:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/joyce-faces-knight-extinction-as-computers-erase-profit.html
Thomas Joyce, the chief executive
officer of Knight Capital Group Inc. who turned around the
hobbled market maker a decade ago, is now fighting to keep the
firm afloat after a trading breakdown spurred losses bigger than
its profits in the last  two years .  “Tom’s a really solid guy, a good leader,” Paul Roy, the
founding partner of London-based investment firm NewSmith
Capital Partners LP, said in a telephone interview. Joyce worked
at Merrill Lynch & Co. through 2001 with Roy, who was head of
the global equity markets division. “They reacted speedily and
they’ve diagnosed the issue and quantified the problem. Whatever
he’s now putting into place, I’m sure it’s not going to happen
again.”  Knight hired Joyce, 57, just as regulations that had
concentrated trading in  U.S. stocks  on the biggest venues were
changing to promote competition. Joyce boosted profit and sales
by expanding the market-making business and pushing it toward
electronic trading, relying on computers that could execute
transactions more cheaply than humans on the floor of the 220-
year-old Big Board.  Errors related to trading software on Aug. 1 caused losses
of $440 million and Knight, whose market-making unit executes
about 10 percent of U.S. share volume, saw its stock plunge 75
percent in two days.  Analysts (KCG)  at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities
and Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said bankruptcy was a possibility
should the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based firm fail to get
financing.  Nasdaq Losses  The company had already suffered from technology mishaps,
losing $35.4 million from trading Facebook Inc. shares after the
social-networking service’s initial public offering in May was
marred by delays and malfunctions. Joyce, whose net worth has
shrunk by $9.5 million this week, was one of the most vocal
critics of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s handling of the IPO, calling
the exchange’s plan to compensate customers for losses
“underwhelming at best.”  The  New York  Stock Exchange reviewed trading in 140 stocks
from Molycorp Inc. to AT&T Inc. on Aug. 1. Transactions that
occurred during the height of the volatility were canceled in
six securities, whose prices swung at least 30 percent in the
first 45 minutes.  “It’s somewhat ironic that he has problems within the same
area that Nasdaq had with the  Facebook IPO ,” Dan Teed,
president of Wedgewood Investors Inc. in Erie,  Pennsylvania ,
said of Joyce in a telephone interview. “I don’t know if it’s
karma, or it’s just a situation where you’d better take care of
your own house before you start criticizing other houses.”  ‘Large Bug’  The Aug. 1 disruptions were triggered by what Joyce called
“a bug, but a large bug” in software as the company, one of
the  biggest  U.S. market makers, prepared to trade with a NYSE
program catering to individual investors.  As the swings mounted, the company told some of its market-
making clients that a “technical issue” was affecting its
systems and advised them to route orders elsewhere. The issue
was confined to that unit and its other operations were
unaffected.  The issues that affected  Nasdaq  and Knight are “apples and
baseballs when you compare them,” Joyce said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program yesterday.
“Technology breaks. It ain’t good. We don’t look forward to it.
What happens next is what matters, how you escalate it. We’re
very proud of the fact that we escalated it directly to our
clients and got them out of harm’s way.”  Design Flaw  In the May 18 debut of Facebook, a design flaw in software
used to auction shares delayed the open while Nasdaq’s efforts
to fix the problem prevented trade reports from being sent out
for more than two hours. Joyce blamed Nasdaq and called its
mishandling of the IPO a setback for the securities industry.  “Nasdaq made decisions that created this problem that the
industry suffered through, and it’s up to Nasdaq to create a
solution,” he said at a June 7 conference hosted by Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York.  Knight was founded in 1995 and grew during the bull market
of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of technology
stocks. It hired Joyce in May 2002 after annual revenue plunged
46 percent during the prior year. It had 1,423 employees at the
end of 2011, according to a  regulatory filing , growing through
more than 15 mergers and acquisitions since 2000.  Profits, Sales  Joyce increased profits and sales by building the firm’s
 market-making  business and taking advantage of regulations that
spread trading across more than 50 venues including electronic
communications networks and dark pools. Revenue reached a record
$1.36 billion in 2011, more than doubling in nine years, while
earnings increased to $115.6 million. Shares climbed 85 percent
during his  tenure  as CEO through the end of last month.  The company earned $337.1 million in pretax income during
2011 and 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘He was able to turn it around,’’ Matthew Andresen, co-CEO
at Headlands Technologies LLC, a market-making firm based in
 Chicago  and  San Francisco , said in a phone interview. “When he
took over that company, they were essentially a manual trading
operation. He overhauled that firm into a real electronic
trading powerhouse. There’s not a lot of precedent for doing
that.”  Joyce joined Knight from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., where
he was the head of global trading of the firm’s institutional
brokerage business for less than a year. He’d previously spent
15 years at Merrill overseeing electronic trading and worked on
the company’s $914 million acquisition of Herzog Heine & Geduld
Inc. in 2000.  Harvard Baseball  “I’ve known Tommy for 25 years and he’s as honest as the
day is long,” said Buzzy Geduld, chief executive officer of
Cougar Trading in New York, who sold his firm Herzog Heine &
Geduld to Merrill. “If you want to be in the market making
business, they’ve got a real franchise,” he said.  Joyce, known as TJ, lives in  Connecticut  with his wife of
33 years, Lisa Joyce, and their three children. He grew up in
Weymouth,  Massachusetts , near  Boston , where his father worked as
a lineman at Boston Edison, and his mother was a homemaker. He
graduated from  Harvard College  in 1977 with a degree in
economics. At Harvard, he was captain of the baseball team and a
linebacker in football, earning him induction into the college’s
athletic hall of fame.  He serves on the board of directors of  Special Olympics  of
Connecticut and Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation. He joined
the Ronald McDonald House New York board of directors in October
2010, according to Knight’s  website .  Joyce hobbled back to work after having knee surgery on
July 31. His personal wealth declined by $9.5 million over the
past two days, based on his reported stock holding in Knight,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “His main criticism of Nasdaq was that not only did they
bungle it, they tried to make their customers eat the losses,”
James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s
business school in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.
“It is one of those little ironies in the business that these
glitches could happen to anyone. It’s happened to Nasdaq, it’s
happened to Knight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  