-- Kinross CEO Shakeup Signals Breakup or Sale of Gold Miner
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-03T20:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/kinross-ceo-shakeup-signals-breakup-or-sale-of-gold-miner.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K) ’s switch to a new
chief executive officer is fueling speculation  Canada ’s fourth-
biggest gold miner will be broken up or sold.  Kinross, which has lost 34 percent of its market value this
year, announced Aug. 1 that J. Paul Rollinson, previously vice
president for corporate development, would replace Tye Burt. The
CEO for more than seven years, Burt led Kinross in four
takeovers, including the C$8 billion ($8 billion) acquisition of
Red Back Mining Inc. in 2010 that led to a C$2.49 billion
writedown 17 months later.  Gold miners struggling with rising costs at multibillion-
dollar projects may be tempted to acquire Kinross or buy parts
of it, Adam Graf, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose &
Co., said in a telephone interview.  “I think the majors have to be scratching their heads and
saying, I don’t want to buy anything that’s pre-production
because my shareholders don’t have the patience for it,” Graf
said. “Someone buying Kinross or breaking up Kinross a la
Placer Dome could be on the minds of some of the larger mining
companies.”  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  acquired competitor Placer Dome Inc. for
$10.2 billion in March 2006 to become the world’s biggest gold
producer. As part of the deal,  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  paid about $1.6
billion for some of Placer’s assets in Canada. Barrick and
Goldcorp are now the two largest Canada-based gold producers by
market value, followed by  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)   ‘Extract Value’  Rollinson, a former investment banker with a background in
geology and mining engineering, needs to present a clear plan to
get the best value from the assets of his Toronto-based company,
said Greg Orrell, president of Orrell Capital Management.  “It’s certainly all on the table for them,” Orrell, who
manages about $200 million including Kinross shares, said
yesterday by phone. “They’ve got to figure out what’s the best
way to rationalize that asset base going forward and extract
value.”  Steve Mitchell , a Kinross spokesman, declined to comment
beyond a statement on Aug. 1, when Kinross said the CEO change
was needed to guide the company through its “capital and
project optimization process.” Rollinson wasn’t available to
comment, Mitchell said.  Kinross’s decline this year in Toronto compares with a 20
percent drop in the 59-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector Index. (SPTSGD) 
The company, which trades at 0.7 times book value, said in
January it was reviewing scheduling and development plans for an
expansion at Red Back’s Tasiast mine in Mauritania after it
compiled more data on the gold deposit.  Development Delays  In February, it announced the writedown on Tasiast and said
it would delay development of mines in Ecuador and  Chile .  The CEO change may indicate that there is bad news on the
way regarding the Mauritanian mine,  Anita Soni , an analyst at
Credit Suisse AG, said in a note. The expansion project may cost
as much as $4 billion, compared with Kinross’s previous forecast
of $3.2 billion to $3.7 billion, she said.  Burt “staked his reputation on Tasiast” when he asked
investors to trust him that it was worth the purchase price,
Soni said. Kinross shareholders approved the Red Back deal, even
with a recommendation by investor adviser RiskMetrics Group Inc.
that they vote against the acquisition because production would
have to be “significantly higher” than market consensus to
break even.  Asset Rationalization  “We believe Mr. Rollinson has been hired to lead the asset
rationalization and restructuring process for Kinross which may
include a divestment of Tasiast,” Soni said.  Before the Red Back acquisition, Kinross acquired Bema Gold
Corp. in 2007 for C$3.7 billion in shares to add assets in
Russia and Chile. The following year, the company bought
Aurelian Resources Inc., also for stock, for its Fruta del Norte
project in Ecuador. Under Burt, Kinross also acquired Underworld
Resources Inc., which owned a project in the Yukon, for C$90.76
million in 2010.  Development has yet to begin on Fruta del Norte while the
company negotiates investment terms with the Ecuadorean
government.  “The things that they’ve done don’t give any confidence to
investors that they have the capability to run the company,”
Orrell said. “They just got to the point where there was no
confidence through the organization and through the whole
investment community right on down.”  Potential Buyers  To be sure, anyone looking to buy or break up Kinross would
probably need the support of the company, which may not be
interested in offers,  Barry Allan , a Toronto-based analyst at
Mackie Research, said in a phone interview.  The pool of potential buyers is also limited,  John Goldsmith , portfolio manager at Montrusco Bolton Investments in
Toronto, which manages C$5 billion in assets, said by phone.  “There’s no slam-dunk suitor that would come in and be
happy with absolutely everything,” he said.  Kinross, which also has  operations  in the U.S., Brazil and
 Ghana , has forecast production this year of 2.6 million to 2.8
million of so-called gold-equivalent ounces, which includes
silver production.  Kinross’s CEO announcement comes less than two months since
Toronto-based Barrick ousted CEO Aaron Regent and replaced him
with Jamie Sokalsky, who had been chief financial officer, after
the company said it was “disappointed” by its share-price
performance.  ‘Production Gaps’  Barrick, which reported  earnings  July 26, said at the time
its biggest development project, the Pascua-Lama mine on the
Chile-Argentina border, may cost 50 to 60 percent more and would
start up a year later than expected.  “Barrick has foreshadowed what their own major project has
done on a capital cost line in a remote location,” Mackie’s
Allan said. “What does this mean for Tasiast?”  Kinross rose 2.5 percent to C$7.75 at 4:17 p.m. in Toronto.
Barrick gained 1.2 percent to C$32.83.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the biggest U.S.-based gold producer,
could be a potential buyer of Kinross or some of its assets,
Allan said.  “Newmont really hasn’t done anything much over the last
number of years to bridge their own production gaps,” he said.  Rollinson may look at selling projects like Lobo-Marte or
the company’s 25 percent stake in Barrick’s Cerro Casale
project, both in Chile,  David West , an analyst at Salman
Partners in  Vancouver , said by phone.  “They may decide to trim some of the flesh off, and that
would include Lobo-Marte and Cerro Casale,” West said.
Potential buyers for the assets could include Chinese companies,
he said.  Provide Continuity  Rollinson , 50, joined Kinross as executive vice president
of new investments in September 2008. Before that, he was deputy
head of  investment banking  at  Scotia Capital , a unit of Toronto-
based  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  Rollinson, like Burt, also worked at
Deutsche Bank AG and  BMO Nesbitt Burns .  The appointment of a new CEO “would have been a lot more
positive if they had gone external,” West said. “Maybe a
change in culture would have been healthy at this point,” he
said. Considering that Rollinson was previously head of
corporate development, “there’s some questions as to just what
role he had in these acquisitions,” that were negatively viewed
by the market, he said.  Still, Rollinson’s familiarity with Kinross’s assets and
management team should provide continuity and mean less
disruption for the development of its projects, David Haughton,
an analyst at BMO Capital Markets said in a note yesterday.  ‘Different Personality’  “Kinross is building a substantial asset on another
continent in a really challenged region and hiring internally is
important here,” Don Poirier, vice-president of corporate
development at  Hecla Mining Co. (HL) , a U.S. silver producer, said in
a telephone interview. “With Kinross well into a big capital
spend, Paul knows the people and where to get things done
without making a fundamental error.”  Rollinson is a “different personality to a Tye Burt, in
the sense that he’s more of a conservative, practical type
personality,” Allan said. “Tye Burt is ‘command and control.’
Paul is much more about looking at how do we best get it done.”  It may be some time before Rollinson makes any significant
changes, Goldsmith said.  “If I was running the show, I would be cleaning stuff up,
cutting the chaff as much as I possibly could, and then see
where are we going, what do we want to do with this asset, is
this asset a core asset for us?” Goldsmith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  