-- Knight Trading Loss Exceeds Balance-Sheet Cash: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-03T11:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/knight-trading-loss-exceeds-balance-sheet-cash-chart-of-the-day.html
Comparing  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s
loss from trading errors to its cash on hand shows the severity
of the company’s financing issues, according to Robert Rutschow,
a Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY illustrates how the $440 million
pretax loss stacks up against end-of-quarter cash balances for
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Knight ended last quarter with $364.8 million, or 17 percent
less than the loss from trades tied to flawed software.  Knight has relatively little bank financing to bridge the
gap, according to a report by Rutschow yesterday. The New York-
based analyst estimated that the firm has $70 million left to
borrow under a revolving-credit agreement. The trading loss
exceeds the latest cash balance by $75.2 million.  “We are worried about Knight’s viability,” he wrote.
“The risk is that loan covenants will be broken.”  Knight’s bank agreements allow the company to borrow no
more than $2.25 for every dollar of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the past four quarters,
according to regulatory filings. The condition applies to the
 credit line , totaling $200 million and running through next
June, and a $100 million loan due in June 2014.  Rutschow lowered his rating on Knight, based in Jersey
City,  New Jersey , to sell from outperform after the loss. He’s
the only one of 10 analysts covering the company to recommend
selling, according to a Bloomberg survey. His share-price
estimate of $3 is the lowest among seven analysts.  Knight shares plunged 75 percent in two days, closing
yesterday at $2.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  