-- Knight Said to Draw Interest From KKR, TPG, Silver Lake
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-03T22:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/knight-said-to-draw-interest-from-kkr-tpg-silver-lake.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Silver
Lake are among the buyout firms that have initial interest in
making an investment in Knight Capital Group Inc., according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The firms are taking a preliminary look at Knight and
chances of a deal are small since Knight’s future is uncertain,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. Knight, seeking a deal to  survive  a $440
million trading loss, has already opened its books to suitors,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  “Part of what private equity does is provide liquidity,”
said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business. “It’s not a typical deal, and a quick
rescue is hard to structure.”  Citadel LLC, a Chicago-based hedge fund that also has a
market-making unit, has expressed interest in Knight, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Bank of America Corp.  also
was among several potential partners in talks with Knight
yesterday, said another person. Knight is working with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP as an adviser on the rescue talks,
according to another.  Two Sigma  Two Sigma Securities LLC, a market maker and broker that
competes with Knight and Citadel, is interested in acquiring all
or portions of Knight’s business, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public. The New York-based firm, a U.S.
equities wholesaler that executes orders for retail brokers, is
affiliated with Two Sigma Investments LLC, a diversified
 investment adviser  with about $10 billion in assets.  Silver Lake , the largest technology-focused private-equity
manager, already backs Virtu Financial LLC, another market
maker. Representatives at Silver Lake, TPG, KKR, Citadel and Two
Sigma declined to comment. John Yiannacopoulos, a Bank of
America spokesman, declined to comment. Kara Fitzsimmons, a
spokeswoman for Knight, didn’t return phone calls and e-mails
requesting comment.  Knight told brokers it obtained short-term financing to
fund market making, giving the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
firm money for today, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. The stock climbed 57 percent to close at $4.05 in New
York, trimming its weekly decline to 61 percent.  Market Maker  Knight, one of the biggest U.S. market makers, is exploring
strategic and financial alternatives after a software
malfunction cost the company almost four times  what it earned 
last year. The firm’s shares lost 75 percent in two days after
its computers flooded the market with unintended trades, sending
dozens of stocks into spasms.  Knight fought to preserve its business amid concern about
its solvency. Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities said
bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get financing. The
trading fault, which caused stocks to swing as much as 151
percent, left the firm with a “large error position,” Knight
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  yesterday.  While the company’s balance sheet was “severely
impacted,” its broker/dealer subsidiaries are in compliance
with  capital requirements , according to a statement.  ‘Capable People’  “We’re talking to a lot of capable people, people who are
in touch with situations like this,” Joyce said. “This was an
anomaly, not one we’re proud of.”  Citadel’s electronic-trading and market-making business is
a unit of Citadel Securities which says it executes about 10
percent of U.S. equity volume, according to its website, a
similar amount to Knight.  “The businesses they are in are attractive to other
players,” Justin Schack, managing director for market-structure
analysis at Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said in a phone
interview. “The likely candidates include banks that have an
equity capital markets business and firms that want to get into
market making.”  Knight (KCG)  had $365 million of cash as of the end of June, with
about $70 million in its revolving  credit line , Robert Rutschow,
a New York-based analyst with CLSA, wrote in a report. He said
there’s a risk it will break loan covenants and cut his rating
on the stock to sell from outperform.  Working Capital  “Without finding a buyer, it’s going to be tough to have
the working capital to keep the firm afloat for much more than a
week,” Matthew Heinz, a  St. Louis , Missouri-based analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview. “You may be
able to secure some emergency funding to hold them off before a
buyer can come in. That’s the game plan for Knight right now.”  Knight’s $440 million loss compares with net income of
$115.2 million in 2011 and is more than the company’s market
value of $253 million at the close yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company was worth  as much as  $4.8 billion in
2000 and valued at more than $1 billion before yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The programming bug swept through the market at the open of
exchanges on a day when Joyce, a 57-year-old Harvard College
graduate known as TJ, limped into work following knee surgery.
Joyce said that while the bug sent “a ton of orders, all
erroneous” into the market as the firm prepared to trade with
the  New York  Stock Exchange’s new so-called retail liquidity
program, it had “nothing to do” with the NYSE.  “Technology breaks,” Joyce told Bloomberg TV. “It ain’t
good. We don’t look forward to it.” He added that the problem
is mainly one for his firm, and “we did not harm individual
investors, we got them out of the way.”  Exchange Shares  Knight’s market-making unit executed a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June, according to its
website. The unit traded 711 million exchange-listed shares a
day in June, according to data compiled by the company and
Bloomberg.  The software was fixed, he said, and some clients of the
market-making business were executing with the firm by the end
of Aug. 1 after Knight told them initially to go elsewhere.  The NYSE reviewed trading in 140 stocks from Molycorp Inc.
to AT&T Inc. as the market’s Aug. 1 open was disrupted. Trades
that occurred during the height of the volatility were canceled
in six securities, where prices swung at least 30 percent in the
first 45 minutes. Trades in all of the other stocks were allowed
to stand.  Flash Crash  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market still haunted by the
May 2010 market crash, the botched initial public offering of
Facebook Inc. and failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  “It appears Knight and other firms reliant on software to
execute trades do not have the testing and quality-assurance
function figured out yet,” said  Bruce Weber , dean of the Lerner
College of Business and Economics, who co-wrote “The Equity
Trader Course” with  Robert Schwartz  and Deutsche Boerse CEO
Reto Francioni. “As we’ve seen the consequences of weak testing
and bugs that slip through is enormous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  