-- Knight Capital Shares Rally After Report of Credit Line
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-08-03T13:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/knight-capital-shares-rally-after-report-of-credit-line.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  shares
rallied following a report the firm advised some clients it
obtained a line of credit, easing concern the market maker will
collapse following a $440 million loss from a software bug.  Knight shares jumped 23 percent to $3.17 at 9:47 a.m. after
the Wall Street Journal said the  credit line  will allow the
company to operate for the day and Knight asked firms to resume
routing trades as usual. The newspaper cited people familiar
with the matter. Knight spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment. The shares had
plunged 75 percent in the previous two sessions.  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight, one of the biggest
American market makers, is exploring strategic and financial
alternatives as a software malfunction cost the company almost
four times  what it earned  last year.  Knight fought to preserve its business as concern grew
about its solvency. Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities
said yesterday bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get
financing. The trading fault, which caused stocks to swing as
much as 151 percent, left the firm with a “large error
position,” Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  yesterday.  Knight’s $440 million loss compares with net income of
$115.2 million in 2011 and was more than the company’s market
value of $253 million at the close yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company was worth as much as $4.8 billion in
2000 and valued at more than $1 billion before the incident,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  