-- Kommunalkredit Profit Soars as Revenue Up, Charges Down
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-08-03T12:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/kommunalkredit-profit-soars-as-revenue-rises-writedowns-decline.html
Kommunalkredit  Austria  AG, a bailed-
out municipality lender seeking private sector buyers, returned
to profit in the first half of the year as writedowns on Greek
holdings didn’t recur and revenues rose.  Net income in the six months to June 30 was 12.25 million
euros ($15 million), compared with 866,600 euros a year earlier
when Greek writedowns weighed on profits, the Vienna-based bank
said in a statement. Kommunalkredit, which had a loss of 148.8
million euros in 2011 because of  Greece ’s debt swap, expects to
remain profitable in the second half as it revamps its business
to grow in more lucrative segments.  “The new positioning of our business strategy shows
success in the operating result of Kommunalkredit,” the lender
said in the statement. “This is expected to continue in the
second half of the year.”  Kommunalkredit, nationalized in 2008 when it was near
collapse after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy,
must be returned to private ownership by June 2013. Austria
hired Morgan Stanley to find buyers and invited bids last month.
A sale would leave Austria with Kommunalkredit’s “bad bank” KA
Finanz AG, which is winding down securities, loans and swaps
that aren’t part of Kommunalkredit’s main business.  Net interest income rose 15 percent to 27.2 million euros
in the period, driven by new business that has higher margins
than Kommunalkredit’s legacy loan book, Chief Executive Officer
Alois Steinbichler told reporters in Vienna. Fee and commission
income, which is also a focus of the bank’s new strategy,
expanded 10 percent to 7.5 million euros.  Bad Assets  KA Finanz, also led by Steinbichler, reduced its risk by
about 1.5 billion euros to 16.2 billion euros in the three
months to June 30 taking the total reduction this year to 3.1
billion euros, and to 13.3 billion euros since the
nationalization in 2008. KA Finanz’s exposure consists of loans,
bonds, and guarantees such as credit default swaps.  It took a loss of about 1 billion euros when Greece swapped
its debt this fall which included charges because of CDSs it had
written on Greek government bonds. Remaining risks in countries
that are part of the euro area’s periphery stood at 2.7 billion
euros, KA Finanz said.  Steinbichler said the  risk reduction  probably wouldn’t
continue at the same pace in the second half of the year because
the losses the bank is taking in active asset sales can’t be
covered without more state aid. KA Finanz isn’t seeking more
capital from the government now, Steinbichler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  