-- N. Korea’s Kim Hosts China Visitors in First Diplomatic Act
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-03T06:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/n-korea-s-kim-dines-with-china-visitors-in-first-diplomatic-act.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met
with a delegation of  China ’s Communist Party in Pyongyang in his
first act of diplomacy reported by the state-run  news agency 
since he took power in December.  Kim hosted a dinner yesterday for the Chinese group led by
Wang Jiarui, head of the Communist Party’s international liaison
department, the Korean Central News Agency said today. Kim sent
his regards to Chinese President  Hu Jintao , according to KCNA.  While Kim has been in power for almost eight months, most
diplomatic correspondence and the receiving of visiting foreign
dignitaries have been undertaken by Choe Yong Rim, head of
Cabinet, or Choe Thae Bok, head of parliament. Kim consolidated
his control over the military last month by taking the top rank
of marshal, days after removing the army chief.  “This is the first official event and diplomatic meeting
that Kim is hosting since becoming leader,” said Yoo Ho Yeol, a
professor of North Korean Studies at Korea University in  Seoul .
“It’s very natural that Kim Jong Un is now able to act like a
statesman because he has finally obtained all of the official
titles to justify his status as leader.”  Trading Partner  China is  North Korea ’s biggest trading partner and ally,
with commerce last year accounting for 89 percent of North
Korea’s total, at $5.6 billion, according to data collected by
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency in Seoul. North
Korea doesn’t release economic data.  China urged restraint from North Korea after it fired a
long-range rocket on April 13, in a sign of tension between the
the two countries. North Korea announced that the rocket launch
was a failure.  “The friendly nature of the meeting with the Chinese
signals that the tenseness caused by the April rocket launch has
thawed,” said Yoo.  The launch cost North Korea a deal with the U.S. for
240,000 metric tons of food that was promised in exchange for a
moratorium on nuclear and missile tests. The  United Nations  said
in June that about 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people
suffer from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates,
and deep-rooted economic challenges.  Rains, Flooding  North Korea, hit by torrential rains and flooding last
month, has asked for emergency supplies, including food, the UN
said yesterday.  The government in Pyongyang “requested that the UN release
its pre-positioned emergency stocks, including food and fuel”
after more than 100 people died and 100,000 lost their homes,
 Martin Nesirky , spokesman for Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon,
said in a statement on Ban’s website. Nesirky didn’t say whether
supplies will be provided.  North Korea needs immediate food assistance and better
access to clean water to avoid diseases, the office of Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident coordinator in Pyongyang, said in an e-
mailed report yesterday after making two visits with the  Red
Cross  and other NGOs on July 31 to the three most affected
counties.  While the U.S. would “carefully evaluate” sending
assistance if requested by the North Korean government, it isn’t
“at that point,” State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell
told reporters yesterday in  Washington , according to an e-mailed
transcript of the briefing.  The North Korean government hasn’t requested U.S.
assistance, Ventrell said.  Typhoon Khanun  The rainy season in North Korea began on July 18 as Typhoon
Khanun struck the Korean peninsula, hitting northwestern coastal
areas the hardest. Torrential rains and flooding between July 18
and 24 inundated or washed away tens of thousands of homes,
roads, farmland and embankments. The rains set in after the
country’s worst drought in a century threatened wheat, barley
and potato harvests.  Rains on July 29 and 30 further destroyed or damaged more
than 4,900 homes and flooded 8,530 others, leaving 21,370 people
homeless, KCNA said yesterday. More than 179,000 tons of coal
were washed away, and scores of mine pits inundated northeast of
Pyongyang, the news agency said in a separate report.  Damage to the  mining industry  endangers the nation’s
ability to export its underground minerals, one of the few
legitimate ways for the impoverished regime to earn foreign
currency. Last year, North Korea exported $1.2 billion of
minerals, 97 percent of which went to China, North Korea’s
biggest trade partner and ally, according to a June 1 report  by
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  