-- Natural Gas Matches Coal as Top U.S. Power Fuel: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/natural-gas-matches-coal-as-top-u-s-power-fuel-bgov-barometer.html
Natural gas matched coal as the
primary fuel for U.S. power generation this year for the first
time since the government started collecting data.  The BGOV Barometer shows natural-gas fired plants provided
32 percent of generation in May, close to coal’s 34 percent
share, after the two fuels were in a virtual tie in April,
according to the Energy Information Administration. Low prices
are benefiting power generators such as  Calpine Corp. (CPN) , the
biggest U.S. producer of electricity from natural gas.  “Natural-gas generation is becoming the preferred
generation of choice since it’s cheaper and more efficient, more
flexible and environmentally cleaner than coal,” Jack Fusco,
chief executive officer of Houston-based Calpine, said during a
July 27 conference call with analysts. “Coal-fired generation
is in a secular decline, facing pressure from both environmental
regulations and lower natural-gas prices.”  The expansion of gas production from shale using technology
known as fracking has pushed prices down 69 percent over the
past four years. An Environmental Protection Agency mercury and
air toxics rule, released in December, will lead to a reduction
of 4.7 gigawatts in coal-fired generation, the agency estimated.
FBR Capital Markets & Co. in  New York  estimated the drop might
more than 10 times that much.  Regain Lead  Coal may regain its lead later this year following a
rebound in  gas prices , said Brandon Blossman, director of coal
and power research at Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in Houston.
Natural gas rose 37 percent to $2.92 per million British thermal
units yesterday from a 10-year low of $2.126 on March 30.  The Energy Information Administration projects that coal
will provide 38 percent of U.S. power generation mix in 2035,
compared with 45 percent in 2010. Natural gas will rise to 28
percent from 24 percent, according to a July 30  study  by the
agency.  “Coal is about as dirty a  fossil fuel  as there is,
clearly,” Mark Brownstein, the chief counsel of the
Environmental Defense Fund in New York, said in an interview.
“There are benefits to substituting natural gas for coal, but
the natural-gas industry is missing a huge opportunity to
maximize these benefits by failing to adhere to the highest of
production practices.”  Conservation groups including the Environmental Defense
Fund and the  Natural Resources Defense Council  seek regulation
of gas production to require companies like  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  or
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to disclose all chemicals used in the
process of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and minimize
methane leaks during production.  Calpine said on July 27 that its adjusted net income was
$14 million in the second quarter, compared with a $55 million
loss in the second quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  