-- Nomura Ordered to Improve Business by FSA on Insider Leaks
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-03T07:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/nomura-ordered-to-improve-business-by-fsa-on-insider-leaks-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , whose top two
executives resigned last week to take responsibility for an
insider-trading scandal, was ordered by Japanese regulators to
improve its securities operations.  “Nomura must push ahead with reforms to restore trust in
 Japan ’s financial markets,” Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita told reporters in Tokyo today. “Employees
and executives should all take this order very seriously.”  The action concludes an investigation started in April that
revealed Nomura failed to prevent employees from providing tips
to traders on at least three share sales in 2010. Nomura has
lost equity and bond underwriting business amid the probe,
missing out on coordinating the global $8.5 billion initial
public offering of Japan Airlines Co. announced today.  “This issue damages Nomura’s reputation significantly, and
the penalty ordered today is credit negative,” Maki Hanatate,
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in  Tokyo ,
said in a telephone interview. “We need to examine how it will
affect Nomura’s business, including mergers advisory, equity and
bond underwriting, and trading.”  Nomura said in a statement today that it will continue to
enhance internal controls, prevent similar incidents and regain
public trust.  Unfair Trading  The  Financial Services Agency ’s order, the second for
Nomura in four years, requires the company to implement
preventive measures it set out after an internal investigation,
the regulator said in a statement today. Nomura must report to
the agency on the status of its remedies, which include ethics
training and stricter monitoring of communication with clients.  The FSA’s penalty comes after its investigative arm found
that Nomura Securities Co. solicited clients by giving them
privileged information on companies, and failed to prevent
unfair trading before public offerings it managed, the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission said on July 31.  Koji Nagai took over from Kenichi Watanabe as CEO on Aug.
1, a month after Nomura released a report by outside lawyers
revealing that equity sales staff were “willing to do
anything” to meet revenue targets. Atsushi Yoshikawa replaced
Takumi Shibata as chief operating officer.  Nomura said in June that employees provided information on
offerings it managed for  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex
Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to traders who short-sold the
stocks before they were announced in 2010.  Shares Fall  Shares of Nomura fell 2.6 percent to 268 yen at the close
of trading in Tokyo. The  Topix Index (TPX)  dropped 1.2 percent. Nomura
has tumbled 32 percent since the first case was revealed on
March 21, about double the pace of decline in the Topix.  Credit default swaps  offering five-year protection to
Nomura bondholders have surged 105 basis points to 365 in the
same period, according to data provider CMA. An increase in the
swaps signals worsening perceptions of creditworthiness.  The FSA is examining whether leaks by securities firms may
be more widespread, after also finding breaches by employees of
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  ahead of a
share sale they underwrote for Nippon Sheet Glass Co. in 2010.  The agency last month asked 12 brokerages including Nomura,
Daiwa, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to explain how they
handle non-public information. The firms’ reports are due today.  Nomura may have given tips in more than the three cases
identified, an SESC official told reporters on July 31, speaking
on condition of anonymity due to the commission’s policy. The
remarks echo a statement by Nomura last week saying there are
“high possibilities” of other leaks.  Past Breach  Today’s punishment isn’t the first for Nomura over insider
trading-related breaches. The FSA ordered the firm in July 2008
to improve internal controls over how it handles corporate
information after an employee was convicted of  insider trading .  Nomura lost its place as Japan’s No. 1 bond underwriter
last month as some issuers dropped the bank in the wake of the
revelations. State-owned  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. said on
July 3 that it ditched Nomura as lead manager of a debt sale
because it wanted to avoid “any disruption.”  Daiwa, Japan’s second-biggest brokerage, was named global
coordinator of Japan Airlines’ IPO, with Nomura and other firms
to help underwrite the domestic offering, the carrier said
today. Nomura was demoted from global manager, two people with
knowledge of the matter said on July 18.  Daiwa posted a second straight quarterly  profit  today on
cost cutting. Net income was 2.7 billion yen ($34.5 million) for
the three months ended June 30, compared with a loss of 9.4
billion yen a year earlier, it said.  By comparison, Nomura’s profit tumbled 89 percent to 1.9
billion yen in the quarter as investment banking fees and
brokerage commissions fell, it said last week.  Daiwa last week said it will cut Chief Executive Officer
Takashi Hibino’s pay by 10 percent for three months to atone for
the leak on the Nippon Sheet Glass share sale. The brokerage
said it didn’t “systemically” leak information on public
offerings to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  