-- North Korea Requests Emergency Flood Aid From United Nations
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-03T04:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/north-korea-requests-emergency-flood-aid-from-united-nations.html
North Korea requested emergency
supplies, including food, as it tries to recover from last
month’s torrential rains and flooding, the  United Nations  said.  The North Korean government “requested that the UN release
its pre-positioned emergency stocks, including food and fuel”
after more than 100 people died and 100,000 lost their homes,
 Martin Nesirky , spokesman for Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon,
said yesterday in a statement on Ban’s website. Nesirky didn’t
say whether supplies will be provided.  North Korea needs immediate food assistance and better
access to clean water to avoid diseases, the UN resident
coordinator’s office in the capital, Pyongyang, said in an e-
mailed report yesterday after making two visits with the  Red
Cross  and other NGOs on July 31 to the three most affected
counties.  Natural disasters more severely affect the communist
nation, which has suffered for decades from chronic food
shortages, economic mismanagement, and growing isolation from
the international community because of its nuclear weapons and
missile programs.  The UN expanded sanctions against  North Korea  for firing a
long-range missile on April 13, a test that failed. The launch
cost North Korea’s new leader Kim Jong Un a deal with the U.S.
for 240,000 metric tons of food that was promised in exchange
for a moratorium on nuclear and missile tests.  South Korea  isn’t considering any aid to address North
Korea’s flood damage, Unification Ministry spokeswoman Park Soo
Jin said today.  Rainy Season  North Korea’s rainy season began on July 18 as Typhoon
Khanun struck the Korean peninsula, hitting northwestern coastal
areas the hardest. Torrential rains and flooding between July 18
and 24 inundated or washed away tens of thousands of homes,
roads, farmland and embankments. The monsoon season set in after
the country’s worst drought in a century threatened wheat,
barley and potato harvests.  Heavy rains on July 29 and 30 further destroyed or damaged
more than 4,900 homes and flooded 8,530 others, leaving 21,370
people homeless, the official Korean Central News Agency said
yesterday. More than 179,000 tons of coal were washed away, and
scores of  coal mine  pits inundated northeast of Pyongyang, KCNA
said in a separate report.  Damage to the  mining industry  endangers the nation’s
ability to export its underground minerals, one of the few
legitimate ways for the impoverished regime to earn foreign
currency. Last year, North Korea exported $1.2 billion of
minerals, 97 percent of which went to  China , North Korea’s
biggest trade partner and ally, according to a June 1 report by
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency in Seoul.  North Korea doesn’t report economic statistics.  About 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates, and deep-
rooted economic challenges, Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident
coordinator in Pyongyang, said in a June 12 statement. As many
as 2 million people have starved to death since the mid-1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  