-- NYSE Second-Quarter Earnings Beat Estimates as Costs Cut
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-08-03T17:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/nyse-second-quarter-earnings-drop-20-percent-beat.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest U.S.
exchange operator, reported second-quarter earnings that beat
estimates and cut its cost guidance for the year. The shares
rose for the first time in five days.  Second-quarter profit excluding some items fell to 51 cents
a share, compared with 61 cents a year ago as equity and
derivatives trading dropped. That exceeded the  50-cent average
estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose projections
ranged from 48 cents to 52 cents. Net income declined 20 percent
to $128 million from $160 million a year earlier, the New York-
based company said in a statement.  “Ongoing strategic initiatives, combined with our cost
reduction plan and lower share count from stock repurchases,
should position the company for a return to earnings growth in
2013 and beyond,” said Chief Financial Officer Michael Geltzeiler in a statement today.  Average daily volume of U.S. exchange-listed securities
during the second quarter fell 4.5 percent to 6.82 billion
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext’s
revenue benefits when trading volume rises. Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer  lowered his forecast in June for the
company’s technology business, a unit meant to bring in a
greater portion of revenue over the next few years.  The exchange said costs for 2012 will be under $1.58
billion, compared with an earlier estimate of as much as $1.6
billion. The shares rose 1.7 percent to $25 at 1:43 p.m. in  New
York  today.  Trading Breakdown  Niederauer said today that the exchange’s software is
robust and wasn’t at fault after Knight Capital Group Inc. had a
trading breakdown. NYSE Euronext reviewed 140 securities,
including Bank of America Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and Pfizer
Inc. In a decision made with regulators that it said isn’t
subject to appeal, NYSE canceled trades in six where prices
swung at least 30 percent in the first 45 minutes.  “As we said Wednesday, the systems on the NYSE performed
normally,” he told analysts on a call today. “The market model
we have here helped us flag this issue sooner than I think
others would have been able to. Within minutes we were in
contact with Knight to begin working through the issue with
them.”  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., (NDAQ)  the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange operator, posted second-quarter earnings that exceeded
analyst estimates on July 25.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , in  Frankfurt ,
reported higher-than-projected profit on July 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  