-- NYSE CEO Says U.S. Must Fix `Crisis of Confidence'
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-08-03T17:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/nyse-ceo-says-u-s-must-fix-crisis-of-confidence-.html
Regulators must address a “crisis of
confidence” as the complexity of U.S. market structure rattles
investors,  Duncan Niederauer , Chief Executive Officer of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said today as market-maker  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
fought for its life after a trading error.  “The growing fragmentation and uneven regulation across
what is now hundreds of competing platforms continue to fuel a
crisis of confidence among investors,” Niederauer told analysts
today after the company released earnings. “It’s just too hard
for them to understand how the markets works.”  Knight’s shares lost 75 percent in two days after its
computers flooded the market with unintended trades, sending
dozens of stocks into spasms. The programming bug swept through
the market at the open of exchanges on Aug. 1. Knight rebounded
30 percent today following reports that it told some clients it
had secured short-term financing to avoid collapse.  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market still haunted by the
May 2010 market crash, the botched initial public offering of
Facebook Inc. and failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  “Market structure has gotten incredibly complex,”
Niederauer said. “It’s virtually impossible to explain to a
policy maker or an investor any more.”  The  New York  Stock Exchange reviewed trading in 140 stocks
from Molycorp Inc. to AT&T Inc. as the market’s Aug. 1 open was
disrupted. Trades that occurred during the height of the
volatility were canceled in six securities, where prices swung
at least 30 percent in the first 45 minutes. Trades in all of
the other stocks were allowed to stand.  ‘Clearly Articulated’  “The market model we have here helped us flag this issue
sooner than I think others would have been able to,” Niederauer
said. “Within minutes we were in contact with Knight to begin
working through the issue with them. Subsequent to that they’ve
clearly articulated what the problem was.”  Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle  yesterday that while the bug sent “a ton of
orders, all erroneous” into the market as the firm prepared to
trade with the NYSE’s new so-called retail liquidity program, it
had “nothing to do” with the NYSE.  “Tom Joyce has handled this rather unfortunate situation
as well as he could have, from my point of view, in terms of how
he’s communicated, how upfront he’s been and how accountable
he’s been,” Niederauer said. “He’s to be commended for that.”  ‘Error Position’  Knight has been fighting to preserve its business as
concern grew about its  solvency . Analysts at CLSA Credit
Agricole Securities said yesterday that bankruptcy was a
possibility if it failed to get financing. The trading fault,
which caused stocks to move as much as 151 percent, left the
firm with a “large error position,” Knight’s Joyce said.  The world’s biggest stock exchange today reported second-
quarter profit that beat estimates and cut its cost guidance for
the year. Second-quarter earnings excluding some items fell to
51 cents a share, compared with 61 cents a year ago as equity
and derivatives trading dropped. That exceeded the  50-cent
average estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose
projections ranged from 48 cents to 52 cents.  “The structure that has evolved over the last decade in
the U.S. has led to inexorable fragmentation, really an emphasis
on speed, a feeling that if something is faster, then by
definition it’s better,” Niederauer said. “We are
understanding that speed is not always better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 