-- Oerlikon Raises Profit Forecast as Efficiency Measures Take Hold
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/oerlikon-raises-profit-forecast-as-efficiency-measures-take-hold.html
OC Oerlikon AG (OERL) , the world’s largest
maker of textile machinery, said profitability will rise more
this year than it previously anticipated, as efficiency measures
take hold at its textile and drive systems divisions.  Earnings before interest and taxes, excluding a one-time
gain from the disposal of property at the textiles unit, will
advance by half a percentage point to about 11.5 percent of
sales this year, Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said.
Buscher had said in April that profitability at the Pfaeffikon-
based manufacturer may improve, without providing a number.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes increased
by 24 percent to 115 million Swiss francs ($116 million),
Oerlikon said today. Sales were little changed at 990 million
francs. The operating margin increased by 2.3 percentage points
to 11.7 percent.  Buscher has pledged to continue streamlining Oerlikon to
boost margins as a slowdown that started last year crimps new
orders at the textile unit, which accounted for just under half
of Oerlikon’s 4.2 billion franc 2011 sales.  “There will still be some potential to contribute to even
higher return on capital employed,” Buscher said in an
interview. Closing a production facility in  Italy  and shifting
purchasing to lower-cost countries helped to raise the margin in
the second quarter, Buscher said.  Sales at the natural fibers division, part of the textiles
unit, dropped from the preceding quarter. Buscher said sales
there are not extending their decline, and he expects the
business to level out in 2012.  Oerlikon’s outlook contrasts with competing Swiss textile-
maker  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN) , which lowered its sales forecast for
2012 on July 25, saying it expects a weaker trend in the second
half as customers delayed equipment deliveries into 2013.  Oerlikon, whose biggest shareholder is Russian billionaire
 Viktor Vekselberg , said in March that it expected an operating
margin target of about 11 percent and forecast like-for-like
sales and order intake would decline by as much as 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  