-- Oil Rises From Three-Week Low as U.S. Hiring Exceeds Forecasts
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-03T13:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/oil-rises-from-three-week-low-on-forecasts-u-s-hiring-increased.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in almost three weeks in  New York  as payrolls climbed more than
forecast in July in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer of
crude.  Futures rose as much as 1.5 percent, trimming a second
weekly decline. U.S. payrolls increased 163,000, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a gain of 100,000. Tropical Storm Ernesto moved into the eastern
Caribbean, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. Oil fell 2
percent yesterday after the  European Central Bank  failed to
assure investors it was ready to take immediate steps to support
the economy.  “Oil markets are getting a bit tighter, and demand should
be picking up,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna, who predicts prices in  London 
will struggle to pass $110 a barrel. “Without doubt, the U.S.
recovery and the Chinese economy are the two most important
factors on the demand side, more so than Europe.”  Crude for September delivery increased as much as $1.28 to
$88.41 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.11 at 1:55 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell $1.78 to $87.13, the lowest close since
July 13. Prices are 2.2 percent lower this week and down 11
percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement gained 74 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $106.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate was at $18.53, after closing
yesterday at $18.77, the most since May 16.  Brent-WTI Spread  The European benchmark’s premium to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.33, after closing yesterday at
$18.77, the most since May 16.  The “compelling reason for the widening spread” is
Brent’s strength rather than WTI’s weakness, according to JBC
Energy GmbH. A drop in the output of North Sea Brent crude
stemming from maintenance work at the Buzzard oil field is
boosting the differential, the Vienna-based researcher said in a
report today. Previous surges in the spread were caused by a
build-up of inventories in the U.S., JBC said.  Crude shipments from  Iran , the third-largest producer in
the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, have
plunged by 1.2 million barrels a day, or 52 percent, since the
latest sanctions aimed at dissuading the country’s nuclear
program began July 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Catherine Ashton , the European Union foreign-policy chief,
spoke with Iran’s top nuclear negotiator and failed to set a
specific date for the next round of talks aimed at pressuring
the country to give up elements of its nuclear program. The two
officials agreed to talk again “after further reflection at the
end of the month,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday
from Ashton’s office.  Nigeria Production  Crude oil output in  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest producer,
reached an “all-time high” after security improved in the
southern oil-producing Niger River delta region, Andrew Yakubu,
group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp., said by e-mail. Total production rose yesterday to 2.7
million barrels a day from 2.4 million barrels, he said.  Oil in New York has technical resistance around $90 a
barrel, along a downward-sloping trend line on the daily chart
going back three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Price advances the past two weeks have stalled near
this line. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  “Near term, market attention will next shift to the last
of the week’s event risks, namely U.S. non-farm payrolls,”  Mark
Pervan , the head of commodity research at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne, said in a note today.  Storm Track  Ernesto, the fifth named weather system of the Atlantic
season, moved past  St. Lucia  into the eastern Caribbean, the
National Hurricane Center said. Ernesto is packing winds of 45
miles (75 kilometers) per hour, the center said in an 8 a.m.
Atlantic time advisory. The storm is 40 miles west-southwest of
St. Lucia moving west at 24 mph. The government of Barbados
discontinued a tropical storm warning for the islands, as did
Trinidad for Grenada.  It’s too early to say if the storm’s  track  will lead it
into the  Gulf of Mexico . The Gulf is home to 6.5 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 29 percent of oil production and 40 percent
of refining capacity, according to the Energy Department. In
June, Tropical Storm Debby’s threat to the Gulf pushed New York
natural gas futures to a one-month high as about 35 percent of
the region’s output was shut.  Analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg News were split
over the direction of  oil prices  next week after central banks
failed to bolster stimulus and Tropical Storm Ernesto developed.
Thirteen of 33 forecasters, or 39 percent, estimated crude will
drop through Aug. 10. Another 13 respondents predicted that
futures will increase and seven said there will be little
change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  