-- Oil Surges Most in a Month as U.S. Adds Jobs, Services
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-03T20:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/oil-rises-after-u-s-payrolls-beat-expectations.html
Oil surged the most in a month after
U.S. payrolls climbed more than estimated and service industries
expanded at a faster pace, bolstering optimism about economic
strength in the world’s biggest crude-consuming country.  Futures rose 4.9 percent as payrolls gained 163,000 in
July, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. The
Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing  index
unexpectedly gained. Tropical Storm Ernesto may grow into a
hurricane this weekend, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  “We had two bits of very positive economic news and the
market is reacting,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.
“Anything that points to economic growth boosts oil. There’s
also the perceived risk from Ernesto, which could strengthen
while the market’s closed.”  Crude oil for September delivery climbed $4.27 to $91.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since July 20. It was the biggest gain since June 29.
Prices advanced 1.4 percent this week and have dropped 7.5
percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement advanced $3.04, or 2.9
percent, to end the session at $108.94 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest closing
price since May 16. The European benchmark grade closed at a
$17.54 premium to West Texas Intermediate traded in  New York .  Payrolls were projected to increase by 100,000, according
to the median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revisions to prior reports subtracted a total of 6,000 jobs to
payrolls in the previous two months. The jobless rate
unexpectedly rose to 8.3 percent.  Service Industries  The ISM index increased to 52.6, from 52.1 in June, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change from June.
A reading above 50 signals expansion.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 1.9 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 1.7 percent.  The dollar dropped 1.6 percent to $1.2379 per euro. A
weaker U.S. currency and stronger euro increase the appeal of
raw materials as an investment alternative. The S&P GSCI Index
of 24 commodities climbed 2.7 percent, led by crude oil.  The  Federal Reserve  said Aug. 1 that it will closely
monitor the economy and act “as needed” to spur the recovery.  “The unemployment-rate increase is legitimate and may lead
to monetary easing,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“It should induce the Fed to take action.”  Draghi Statements  Oil and equities declined yesterday after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  declined to intervene in bond
markets. Draghi said the ECB has a plan to re-enter the markets
and that new purchases would only complement buying by the
European Union’s rescue fund.  “Draghi’s comments yesterday sent markets lower but on
further reflection he set up the foundation for a resolution of
the crisis in the future,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Members of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition
parties signaled they won’t stand in the way of Draghi’s plan to
buy  government bonds . Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
at a news conference in Madrid today that he would consider
asking the euro region’s bailout funds to buy Spanish debt if it
was in the best interests of the country.  Oil prices  have been supported by unrest in Syria, which is
situated in the energy-rich Middle East. The region was
responsible for 33 percent of global oil production last year
and held 79 percent of proved reserves, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy released in June.  Syrian Unrest  “Syria appears to be blowing up and the ECB may soon
announce a rescue of Spain,” Kilduff said. “If either of these
occurs, they would send prices soaring.”  Fighting intensified between Syrian forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad and rebels in several provinces a day
after United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan  abandoned his
effort to mediate a cease-fire. Clashes broke out in Hama,
Aleppo, Daraa and the suburbs of Damascus, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria, a rebel group, said in an e-
mail.  “The market was trending lower before the release of the
numbers and moved sharply higher,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of The Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.
“You definitely have to pay attention to the storm forecasts
going into the weekend.”  Tropical Storm  Ernesto had top winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
up from 45 mph earlier, the hurricane center said in an advisory
at 11 a.m. New York time. The storm was 410 miles southeast of
 San Juan , Puerto Rico, and moving west at 21 mph.  It’s too early to say if the storm’s  track  will lead it
into the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf region is home to 29 percent
of oil production and 40 percent of refining capacity, according
to the Energy Department.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 587,817
contracts as of 4:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 581,707
contracts yesterday, 3.8 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  