-- Momenta Loses in Appeals Court Over Watson’s Lovenox Copy
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-03T21:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/momenta-loses-in-appeals-court-over-watson-s-lovenox-copy-1-.html
Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  is
unlikely to win its patent-infringement case over copies of the
blood-thinner Lovenox, so Watson Pharmaceutics Inc. can sell its
version until a trial is held, a U.S. appeals court ruled today.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit vacated
an order that would have prevented Watson partner Amphastar
Pharmaceuticals Inc. from selling the copy until an infringement
trial can be held. The case was sent back to the lower court for
further proceedings.  “Momenta has not established a likelihood of success on
its claim on infringement,” the court ruled in a 2-1 decision
posted on its website. The panel said the trial judge might want
to consider whether to issue a ruling of non-infringement.  The decision limits the right of patent owners to claim
infringement of processes that are necessary to maintain
regulatory approval of generic medicines by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration. It expands the scope of a federal law that
precludes infringement suits for actions taken in order to
obtain FDA approval.  “The opinion outlined in the ruling is a setback for
Momenta in this particular litigation and has potentially wide
ranging implications for all patent holders,” Craig Wheeler,
Momenta’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Considering Options  Wheeler said the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company is
considering its options. It can seek a review of the decision
before all active judges of the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in  patent law , and appeal to the  Supreme Court .  Momenta owns a patent related to enoxaparin, the active
ingredient in Lovenox, and gets a share of the profit earned
from generic Lovenox sold by partner  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit.
Momenta fell 35 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $13.77 at 4:30 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, said the company was pleased with the ruling “and we
will continue to market the product pending resolution of the
pending litigation.”  Sanofi (SAN) , the Paris-based maker of the branded medicine,
reported 2.1 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in Lovenox sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Difficult Copies  Copying the drug is difficult because it is made by
cleaving raw heparin, an anticoagulant, with a type of sugar
chain, according to court filings. Momenta’s patent is for a
process to ensure the generic version of enoxaparin contains a
certain percentage of the sugars, which the FDA listed as a
requirement to get approval.  Momenta’s version, the first copy of Lovenox on the market,
was getting $260 million a quarter of its version, the Federal
Circuit said, relying on court submissions.  “The approval of Amphastar’s version of enoxaparin, and
the resultant ruinous competition of another generic version of
the drug, threatened this unique market position,” Circuit
Judge Kimberly Moore wrote. “Understandably unwilling to give
up a billion dollars in yearly revenue, Momenta initiated the
present litigation two days after Amphastar received final FDA
approval to market its generic enoxaparin.”  Court Majority  Amphastar argued that its use of the patented method was
allowable because it was related to submitting information to
the FDA to prove its version was an equivalent of Lovenox. The
majority of the court agreed, saying the exception isn’t limited
to activities that occur before regulatory approval is granted
and includes the generation of records Amphastar must keep for
possible FDA inspection.  Chief Judge Randall Rader disagreed with the majority,
saying that Momenta shouldn’t be deprived of the fruits of its
work.  “Momenta made the investment, did the research and
engineered the new method,” he wrote. “Amphastar is only able
to compete with Momenta by taking its patented invention.
Amphastar has not developed its own method, but instead delights
in trespassing and refuses to pay a reasonable royalty to make
the trespass lawful.”  The appeals court case is Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. v.
Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-1062,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is
Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
11cv11681, U.S. District Court for the District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  