-- London Travel Plan Faces Test as Olympic Arena Draws 200,000
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-08-03T16:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/london-travel-plan-feels-strain-as-olympic-stadium-draws-200-000.html
London ’s transport system is
grappling with its biggest Olympic test to date as the main
stadium hosts the first events since the opening ceremony,
drawing 200,000 spectators and workers to the games site.  The Central Line, one of two subway routes to the Olympic
Park, was suspended in the morning following signal failures,
prompting thousands of people to divert to the Javelin rail-
shuttle service from St Pancras station, where crowds swelled.  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the games, boosting daily journeys on the public-
transport system by 3 million to 15 million. Westfield Stratford
City,  Europe ’s biggest urban shopping center, is closed between
10:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. to people not using it to access the
Olympic Park, which is staging track and field events including
medal contests in the men’s shot put and women’s 10,000 meters.  “Today and Saturday will be the busiest days of the games
so far as the Olympic stadium opens its doors and sporting
events continue to take place across the capital,” Transport
Commissioner Peter Hendy said in a statement. The official
reiterated a call for people to use restaurants, entertainment
venues and shops away from games sites after businesses reported
a drop in sales following earlier advice to rein in travel.  Javelin Heaving  Central Line services between Liverpool Street in the City
financial district and Leytonstone, beyond the Olympic Park,
were halted for an hour,  Transport for London  spokeswoman Nancy
Ryder said, with spectators advised to use alternative routes.  While the Javelin service, which takes 7 minutes to reach
the Olympic Park, is “extremely busy” there are no delays,
said Rupert Atterbury Thomas, a spokesman for  Go-Ahead Group
Plc (GOG) ’s SouthEastern Trains franchise, which operates the service.  “There are queues, but they are moving,” Atterbury said.
“We have eight trains per hour, so every six or seven minutes a
thousand people move out the queue.”  In addition to the 80,000-seat main stadium, the Olympic
Park in the Stratford district of London’s East End is home to
the velodrome, BMX track, aquatics center, hockey pitch and
basketball, handball and water polo arenas.  TfL today lifted some restrictions on road traffic that
were imposed earlier in the Olympics and said that fewer than 40
percent of so-called  Games Lanes  have been in operation.  Streets have been reopened in Wimbledon, where the tennis
tournament reached the semi-final round today, and black taxis
are being allowed back over Westminster Bridge. Thousands of cab
drivers have staged a series of protests over their exclusion
from 30 miles of lanes restricted to athletes, officials and the
media at most times between 6 a.m. and midnight.  “More alterations will follow as venues cease operation,”
said Leon Daniels, TfL managing director for surface transport.  Roads in central London will be closed tomorrow as the
women’s triathlon takes place around Hyde Park and the men’s 20
kilometer walk is held near  Buckingham Palace . Both are open to
non-ticketed spectators, TfL said, predicting large crowds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  