-- London Windsurfers Sail to Impress in Effort to Stay in Olympics
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-03T01:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/london-windsurfers-sail-to-impress-in-effort-to-stay-in-olympics.html
Windsurfers in the London Olympics
aren’t competing only for medals, they’re fighting to keep their
sport in the games.  Introduced as an Olympic event in 1984 at  Los Angeles ,
windsurfing is due to be replaced by kiteboarding for the Rio de
Janeiro Games four years from now.  This year’s sailors say they can convince decision makers
that windsurfing deserves a place in 2016.  “It’s devastating that it’s no longer going to be in the
games,” said  Bryony Shaw , 29, who won a bronze medal for
Britain in Beijing in 2008. “It’s the loss of a great sport.”  Windsurfers are propelled by a sail and a mast attached to
a surfboard-like hull. In kiteboarding, sailors on similar
boards get pulled along by a sail attached to tethers that they
hold.  International Sailing Federation President Goran Petersson
announced the decision to replace windsurfing with kiteboarding
at the Rio Olympics in May, saying in a  statement  that the sport
has “proven to us that it’s ready to be included.”  While decisions made by the sport’s governing body are
considered final, U.S. windsurfer Farrah Hall said there have
been so many complaints by sailors that the body may take a
second look when it meets in November.  “The decision is bad for sailing as an entire Olympic
sport, so it has further-reaching implications,” she said at
the sailing venue in Weymouth,  England .  Sailing federation spokesman  Daniel Smith  said in an e-mail
that the body declined to comment on whether it would reconsider
its decision. The organization is working toward including
kiteboarding.  There would be two kiteboarding races in Rio, one each for
men and women, just as with windsurfing in London.  100% Sailing  “Kiteboard racing is 100 percent sailing, it has the same
rules, same tactics, you just don’t have a mast and it’s much
faster,” Markus Schwendtner, 42, executive secretary of the
 International Kiteboarding Association , said in an interview
from Berlin. The sport is more spectator friendly in light
winds, guaranteeing a dramatic performance regardless of the
conditions, he said.  “The biggest problem sailing is facing is being attractive
to the media, and the only way to address that is with these
modern boats,” Schwendtner said, referring to kiteboarding and
the Nacra 17 catamaran, which will also appear in Rio. “In no
other sport do you see such outdated equipment being used at the
pinnacle of the sport.”  Kiteboarding is entertaining and will deserve an Olympic
slot “at some point,” U.S. windsurfer  Bob Willis , 25, said in
a news conference last week. Many windsurfers in this year’s
Olympic venue at Weymouth Bay, 110 miles (177 kilometers) south
of London, probably will switch to kiteboarding, he said.  Athletes Switch  The two sports are very different and shouldn’t be
competing for slots in 2016, Schwendtner said.  “Putting windsurfing and kiteboarding against each other
is the worst thing that could happen,” he said, adding that he
does expect to see many athletes switch events. “In the U.K.,
those that switched from windsurfing to kiteboarding are pretty
much on top of the game.”  Even with the possibility of becoming a kiteboarder, the
decision to scrap windsurfing still disappoints Hall, a first-
time Olympian, and may mean that  London  is the only chance she
has for an Olympic medal. Windsurfers are petitioning their
national representatives to the sailing federation to change
their vote, said Hall, 30.  For Britain’s Shaw, the most important petitioning will
take place in the competition in Weymouth. Both windsurfing
medal races are scheduled for Aug. 7.  “I try to spin it into a positive and heighten my focus
for these games,” she said. “It’s the loss of a great sport,
and I’m sure we’ll showcase how great it can all look.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  