-- Mongolia’s Ex-President Given Four-Year Jail Term in Graft Trial
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-08-03T03:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/mongolia-s-ex-president-given-four-year-jail-term-in-graft-trial.html
Former Mongolian President Nambaryn Enkhbayar was found guilty of graft charges and sentenced to
four years in prison, a court spokesman in Mongolia said. He has
14 days to appeal the decision.  The Sukhbaatar district court’s decision, which includes an
order to confiscate more than 30 million tugriks ($22,206) of
Enkhbayar’s property including apartments, was passed at about
10 p.m. yesterday, Amarsaikhan Tumenzorigt, a spokesman for the
General Executive Agency of Court Decision, said today by phone
in  Ulan Bator , Mongolia’s capital.  “This is shocking news,” said  Peter Goldsmith , a partner
at New York-based Debevoise & Plimpton LLP law firm, who was
employed by the family to help with Enkhbayar’s case. There is
concern about the court’s approach to evidence and the family
will now consider its next action, Goldsmith, a member of the
U.K.’s upper house of parliament and an ex-attorney general,
said by phone today.  The trial of Enkhbayar, who served as president until 2009
and earlier was Mongolia’s prime minister, has divided public
opinion in the commodity-rich nation that last year emerged as
 China ’s main supplier of coking coal. Enkhbayar was named the
nation’s most prominent politician in a June poll by the Sant
Maral foundation.  Parliamentary Elections  The court case was deferred until after the June 28
parliamentary elections in which Enkhbayar led his newly formed
Mongolian People’s Revolutionary Party.  Although Enkhbayar and his son Batshugar weren’t allowed by
the General Election Commission to take seats in parliament, the
MPRP-led Justice Coalition won the third-largest block of seats
in the State Great Khural.  As Enkhbayar’s name is often connected with corruption in
Mongolia, his past actions need to be investigated and put on
trial, Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt, the vice finance minister at the
time, said in May.  Charges against Enkhbayar included stealing a donation of
television equipment valued at $113,000 that was meant to go to
a Buddhist monastery in 2000 and not paying duties to ship books
that he authored from  South Korea  to Mongolia. Enkhbayar has
denied the charges.  The case will pass onto the Ulan Bator city court, and then
possibly the  Supreme Court , should Enkhbayar choose to appeal,
Amarsaikhan said. Two men judged to be Enkhbayar’s accomplices
also received jail terms of a year and two years, he said,
without providing further details.  Enkhbayar went on a 10-day hunger strike in May to protest
his detention on corruption charges. He was hospitalized and
then released on bail. Enkhbayar and his family said the
detention -- on charges dating as far back as 2000 -- was an
attempt by the government to sideline him from power.  President Tsakhia Elbegdorj has denied that Enkhbayar’s
arrest is political and instead in June called on Mongolia’s
international allies to get behind the country’s drive to stamp
out corruption.  “The last word will be with our court,” Elbegdorj said in
an interview in June. “That is where it will be decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  