-- Monsanto’s $1 Billion Win Against DuPont Appears Vulnerable
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-03T20:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/monsanto-s-1-billion-win-against-dupont-appears-vulnerable-1-.html
Monsanto Co.’s $1 billion jury
victory against  DuPont Co. (DD)  over a patent for genetically
modified soybeans may be vulnerable, mostly because of the
amount of the damages.  The award, handed down Aug. 1 by a federal jury in
Monsanto’s hometown of  St. Louis , was the largest in the U.S.
this year and the fourth biggest patent verdict in U.S. history.
Two of the three awards that exceeded that amount were thrown
out on appeal and the other was cut by almost two-thirds after a
settlement.  “No court is going to let a billion-dollar verdict stand
without a hard look,” said John Dragseth, a patent lawyer with
Fish & Richardson in  Minneapolis .  Monsanto and DuPont are the two biggest companies in the
$34 billion commercial seed market. The St. Louis jury took just
45 minutes to reject DuPont’s challenges to a Monsanto patent on
genetically modified crops that survive the weedkiller Roundup.
The panel decided DuPont willfully infringed the patent by
making soybeans that combined the Roundup Ready trait with a
similar DuPont technology known as GAT.  DuPont, which generated $38 billion in revenue last year,
said in a statement that it will appeal, focusing on the
Monsanto patent, the amount of damages and “fundamental
errors” in the case. For example, Monsanto told the jury in
closing arguments that DuPont’s decision not to commercialize
soybean seeds that combine the two traits was irrelevant,  Daniel Turner , a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Startling Size  “I’m startled by the size of the verdict in the absence of
any commercial sales,” said Warren Woessner, a lawyer who
specializes in biotechnology patents at Schwegman, Lundberg &
Woessner in Minneapolis. “Infringement has historically been
found in cases like this, but there are no damages awarded.”  DuPont rose 0.9 percent to $49.47 at the close in  New York .
Monsanto fell 0.4 percent to $87.04.  Monsanto argued that DuPont violated a licensing agreement
and infringed the Roundup Ready patent when it began making
soybeans that added the GAT trait. DuPont made the combination
to patch problems with GAT, Monsanto said. DuPont argued that
Monsanto deceived the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  to obtain
its patent, rendering it invalid and unenforceable.  Roundup Ready  DuPont infringed the Roundup Ready patent six years before
its expiration, Monsanto told the jury. DuPont expected to
generate $3 billion of revenue from soybeans that tolerate GAT
and Roundup over those six years, which translates into $800
million to $1 billion in damages to Monsanto, the company’s
lawyers argued.  Federal law defines infringement as anyone making, using,
selling, offering to sell or importing a patented invention.  The law indicates DuPont shouldn’t have begun to work with
the Roundup Ready trait until the patent expires in September
2014,  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst with Gulley &
Associates, said in a note to clients.  The jury determined the award by calculating a reasonable
royalty rate from the time the infringement was said to begin,
said  Oskar Liivak , an associate professor at Cornell Law School
in Ithaca, New York, who specializes in intellectual property.
Monsanto said at the trial that DuPont rebuffed an offer for a
$1.5 billion license.  ‘Large Figure’  “The fact that DuPont ultimately never sold the seed was
not relevant for the reasonable royalty calculation and, as the
damages showed, that reasonable royalty added up to a rather
large figure,” Liivak said.  DuPont will get a chance to make its arguments first to
U.S. District Judge Richard Webber, who presided over the trial.
Whichever side loses may then seek review before the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , which
specializes in U.S. patent law. Monsanto will be able to argue
the award should be higher because the jury found the
infringement was intentional.  An appeal by DuPont may force the Federal Circuit court to
decide where the line is between permissible experimentation to
improve upon an invention, and a violation of a patent owners’
right to exclude others from using it, Woessner said.  “Usually you are entitled to improve on a patented gene or
work on it, even with commercial purposes in mind,” Woessner
said. “It’s certainly a highly appealable issue.”  The largest U.S. patent verdict to be upheld on appeal was
a $200 million jury award that grew to $300 million with added
royalties and interest, against Microsoft Corp. over a feature
in Word, part of the Office software used by more than 1 billion
people.  New Trials  Microsoft won new trials in three cases where the original
verdicts exceeded $368 million, including two that centered on
the calculation of damages. All of those cases were later
settled, with terms never disclosed.  “The size of the verdict will give the panel that gets the
case over at the Federal Circuit a reason to look hard at the
basis of it,” said Dirk Thomas, a patent lawyer with  McKool
Smith  in Washington. “They’re not immune to a lot of zeros on
the left side of the decimal. A very large verdict like that is
going to garner greater scrutiny than a small verdict.”  The appeals court has been curbing damage awards over the
past five years, particularly as they relate to the value of
small components compared with the entire price of a computer,
Thomas said.  Of the top 10 patent verdicts , four were against
Microsoft, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two others,
against Apple Inc. and Johnson & Johnson, are on appeal before
the Federal Circuit. A $345 million verdict against SAP Inc.,
which dropped off the top 10 list with the addition of the
Monsanto decision, is on appeal.  Biggest Verdicts  The biggest two verdicts in history -- $1.67 billion won by
Johnson & Johnson against Abbott Laboratories over technology
underpinning an arthritis drug, and $1.52 billion against
Microsoft over digital music -- were thrown out based on the
facts of the cases.  The only other verdict exceeding $1 billion, a dispute
begun in 1990 between Litton Systems Inc. and Honeywell Inc.
over aircraft navigation gyroscopes, was settled in 2001 for
$440 million.  Dragseth, who was part of the team that got the $1.52
billion verdict against Microsoft overturned, said the sheer
size of the jury award was a factor in that victory.  “If they had come in on $30 million on that invention,
there’s a good chance we would have lost,” he said.  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v.  E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ,
09cv686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net 
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  