-- Monsanto, Apple, Nike, McDonald’s: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-03T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/monsanto-apple-nike-mcdonald-s-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co. was awarded $1 billion,
the biggest U.S. jury verdict this year, in a patent-
infringement trial against  DuPont Co. (DD)  over seeds for growing
herbicide-tolerant soybeans.  The verdict was the fourth-largest jury award in a patent
trial in U.S. history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest patent verdict, for $1.7 billion, was awarded in
2009 against  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in a case involving the
arthritis drug Humira and was later reversed on appeal.  The panel of five women and three men in federal court in
 St. Louis  began their deliberations Aug. 1 and returned 45
minutes later with the verdict against DuPont, ending a four-
week trial.  The trial revolved around Monsanto’s patent for making
Roundup Ready crops, a technology at the heart of its $13.7
billion in annual revenue. Farmers have embraced the technology
because it allows them to kill weeds with Roundup herbicide
while leaving crops unscathed.  “This verdict highlights that all companies that make
early and substantial investments in developing cutting edge
technology will have their  intellectual property  rights upheld
and fairly valued,” Monsanto General Counsel David Snively said
in an e-mailed statement.  DuPont said in a statement that it strongly disagrees with
the verdict and will appeal it.  “There were several fundamental errors in the case which
deprived the jury of important facts and arguments and led to
the disappointing outcome,” DuPont said in the statement.
“DuPont will appeal at the earliest possible opportunity and
expects to overturn this verdict.”  The jury’s finding that DuPont’s infringement was willful
means the damages could yet be increased, according to
Monsanto’s statement.  Monsanto offered to settle the lawsuit during the trial by
giving DuPont the opportunity to license its technology.  “The interesting part of the award was the speed of the
decision,” Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward
Jones & Co., said in an e-mail. “Obviously Monsanto put forth
some compelling evidence.”  The patent was initially issued in 1997, based on a 1994
application. In 2003, Monsanto asked the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to reissue the patent to correct what it said
was an inadvertent mixing of patent claims from 1990 and 1994
applications.  DuPont contended Monsanto did that to mislead the patent
office so the agency wouldn’t discover it was trying to hide
information that might have blocked the patent.  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v.  E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ,
09-cv-686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri 
(St. Louis).  Apple Seeks Sanctions for Samsung’s Evidence Leak at Trial  Apple Inc. said a federal judge should rule its phone
patents were infringed by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  after a lawyer
for the Korean manufacturer publicly released evidence the judge
had excluded from trial.  Apple, in an Aug. 1 filing with the U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California , said the July 31 release was
designed to convey to jurors, through the media, arguments
rebutting Apple’s central allegations that Samsung copied the
iPhone and iPad. The move was “bad faith litigation
misconduct” meant to prejudice the jury, Apple said.  “Apple requests that the court issue sanctions granting
judgment that Apple’s asserted phone-design patent claims are
valid and infringed by Samsung,” according to the filing signed
by lawyer William Lee .  The evidence fight between the companies is being conducted
without the jury, which on July 31 heard opening arguments in
the case. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5
billion for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering
designs and technology for mobile devices. Samsung countersued
and will present claims that Apple is infringing two patents
covering mobile-technology standards and three utility patents.  John Quinn , the Samsung attorney who approved the release
of the information, said in his own statement to the court that
is was done in response to a request from members of the media
and the information was already in public court filings made by
Samsung or Apple and wasn’t intended to prejudice the jury.  Koh on July 31 barred Samsung from presenting images of a
smartphone that Samsung claims it was developing in 2006, the
year before Apple introduced the iPhone. Koh rejected Samsung’s
request to reconsider her ruling for what she said was at least
the third time, standing by her earlier decision that the
evidence wasn’t “timely disclosed” in Samsung’s arguments
pertaining to patent infringement.  In its e-mailed statement that Apple objects to, Samsung
said that Koh’s ruling means it “was not allowed to tell the
jury the full story and show the pre-iPhone design for that and
other phones that were in development at Samsung in 2006, before
the iPhone.”  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, declined to comment on
Apple’s initial letter seeking sanctions.  Apple said that if Koh doesn’t simply rule that Samsung has
infringed the patent, alternatively she should tell the jury
Samsung engaged in “serious misconduct,” that she has found
Samsung copied the designs and features from Apple products, and
preclude Samsung from any further mention of evidence regarding
a pre-existing design.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Nike Planning Soccer Ball Radar Device, New Patent Indicates  Nike Inc. (NKE)  has released shoes and wristbands this year that
allow athletes to track their performance. Now it’s planning to
put sensors on soccer balls and other equipment to offer data to
players of team sports.  The world’s largest sporting-goods maker this week obtained
patent 8,231,506, which covers an invention dubbed Nike+TM that
uses a computerized radar system with transmitters placed on a
ball and players to evaluate individual statistics such as the
strength of a shot in soccer and how well a team plays together.  Nike, based in Beaverton,  Oregon , has been pushing into
digital gadgetry as more people turn to mobile applications to
enhance daily activities. The company released the FuelBand, a
bracelet that tracks daily activity in January, followed a month
later by shoes equipped with sensors that can record such
metrics as how high a player jumps during a dunk.  Mary Remuzzi, a spokeswoman for Nike, declined to comment
on the patent and when such a product might come to market.  These offerings are part of the company’s Nike+ brand that
began in 2006 with a running shoe that used a sensor to record
data to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod.  Nike is using its digital strategy to increase the amount
of time consumers spend with its brand as a way to drive sales.
With the FuelBand, users can download data to a smartphone
application. They can then compare results with friends who also
have the bracelet and share them on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social
network.  The new system could eventually work with several sports
including football, basketball, baseball and hockey and serve as
a way for coaches to evaluate players, according to a copy of
the patent posted on the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
website.  In one scenario, it could track two soccer players at the
same time with sensors on their shoes, as well as the ball, to
measure how well they pass to each other.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  McDonald’s Objects to Use of ‘Happy Meals’ in Political Ad  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
told the Topeka Capitol-Journal that it will ask a candidate for
Kansas State Senate to stop using its name in a political
advertisement.  Kansas State Representative Joe Patton was to receive a
cease-and-desist letter from the chain, asking him to change his
“Happy Meals” ad, in which he compared an opponent’s tax
scheme to someone who goes into McDonald’s, orders a “Happy
Meal,” eats it himself and then asks his grandson to pay for
it, the newspaper reported.  Patton told the newspaper that he was using the McDonald’s
ad as a metaphor and will pull it upon request from the chain.  McDonald’s, based in Oak Brook,  Illinois , became aware of
the ad after hearing a report from one of its Topeka, Kansas-
area franchisees, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  U.K. Furniture Makers Threatened by Proposed Copyright Changes  British furniture makers are concerned about a proposed
change in the U.K.’s copyright law that would bar reproductions
of furniture by famous designers until 70 years after their
death, the  Daily Mail  newspaper  reported .  Famous furniture designs such as those by Charles Eames can
now be copied in the U.K. 25 years after their creation, the
newspaper reported.  The proposed changes, which would bring U.K. copyright law
up to the standard in the European Union, would place furniture
in the same category as musical compositions or paintings,
according to the Daily Mail.  The revised law would criminalize the unauthorized
production or sale of such furniture, according to the
newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Physician Sued Over  Pennsylvania  ‘Medical Gag Rule’ for Fracking  A Pennsylvania physician filed a lawsuit in federal court
challenging as unconstitutional a state law that bars him from
revealing information about the chemical makeup of hydraulic
fracturing fluids used in the gas-drilling industry.  Dr. Alfonzo Rodriguez of Dallas, Pennsylvania, is opposing
a section of a 2012 amendment to the Pennsylvania Oil and Gas
Act that is known informally as the “Medical Gag Rule.”  This section of the rule mandates that in the event of a
medical emergency related to hydraulic fracturing, health
professionals to whom information is given about the chemicals
involved in the fluid be barred from passing that information on
to anyone else. The legislation covers chemicals deemed to be a
trade secret or otherwise proprietary information, according to
the bill’s text.  Rodriguez, a specialist in  kidney disease , has treated
patients who have been directly exposed to high-volume
fracturing fluids, he said in his complaint, filed July 27 in
Scranton, Pennsylvania. One such patient “was admitted to the
hospital with a complicated diagnosis with low platelets,
anemia, rash, and acute renal failure that required extensive
hemodialysis and exposure to chemotherapeutic agents,”
according to court papers.  The doctor argued in his complaint that the so-called
Medical Gag Rule is an impermissible restriction on his freedom
of speech, and required him to violate his principles of medical
ethics mandated by his medical licensing authority.  Under his profession’s ethics code, Rodriguez said he is
required to “continue to study, apply and advance scientific
knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make
relevant information available to patients, colleagues and the
public, obtain consultation and use the talents of other health
professionals when indicated.”  He said his patients’ right of self-decision is violated if
he is barred from giving them enough information to enable them
to make informed choices.  The Medical Gag Rule, he said, is “unconstitutionally
overbroad” restriction on free speech because it requires a
health-care professional to enter into a confidentiality
agreement before receiving information “for the ethical and
competent treatment of a patient.”  Rodriguez asked the court to declare the rule
unconstitutional and to bar Pennsylvania officials from
enforcing it. He also requested awards of damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  In a fact sheet  about hydraulic fracturing, the
Pennsylvania Independent Oil & Gas Association said that the
chances of groundwater contamination from the process is “one
in 200 million” and that water and sand make up about 99.5
percent of any fluid used in fracking, together with “a small
number of dilute chemicals.”  Rodriguez is represented by Paul. A. Rossi of Kennett
Square, Pennsylvania.  The case is Rodriguez v. Krancer, 12-cv-01458, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Scranton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  