-- Mota-Engil Says Project Bids Far Exceeding $1.2 Billion
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-03T15:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/mota-engil-says-project-bids-far-exceeding-1-2-billion.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest construction company, said it’s bidding for contracts in
Africa and in  South America  that far exceed $1.2 billion in an
expansion to counter a recession at home.  “As of today, Mota-Engil has presented proposals to
clients and potential clients, mainly in South America and
Africa, that are quite superior to” the $1.2 billion worth of
projects it won in Angola and Malawi in February, Chief
Financial Officer Goncalo Martins said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The orders in Africa, which include construction of a
railway line in Malawi for mining company  Vale SA (VALE3) , propelled the
shares of Oporto-based Mota-Engil to a 20 percent gain on Feb.
3. The company is among Portuguese builders shifting to  emerging
markets  as government spending cuts aimed at complying with the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($95 billion) emergency aid program
stifle domestic infrastructure investment.  Mota-Engil rose 0.5 percent to close at 1.015 euros in
Lisbon today. The stock is down 1.9 percent this year.  The company operates in about 20 countries. Its order book
at the end of the first quarter was worth 3.7 billion euros,
with two-thirds of that amount coming from outside Portugal,
Mota-Engil  said  on May 22.  Brazil Strategy  Mota-Engil is still “actively searching” for a
construction-industry investment opportunity in Brazil as demand
for infrastructure surges in advance of the World Cup soccer
championship there in 2014 and the  Olympic Games  two years
later, Martins said.  Chief Executive Officer Jorge Coelho outlined plans in
February to carry out two small acquisitions in Brazil and
 Colombia . The company is focusing on possible business
opportunities in Colombia and isn’t looking for any acquisitions
in the country, Martins said in his e-mail.  The construction company, whose businesses also include
waste collection and treatment, may also sell some assets that
aren’t part of its main operations, Martins said.  “While Mota-Engil is available to sell some businesses, it
won’t consider disposals that will change the current
structure” of the group, Martins said, without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  