-- Lowe’s Needs Richest Bid Since ’06 to Win Rona: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-08-03T20:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/lowe-s-needs-richest-bid-since-06-to-win-rona-real-m-a.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  needs to boost its bid
for  Rona Inc. (RON)  to the home-improvement industry’s steepest
premium in more than six years to even stand a chance at
acquiring Canada’s largest chain.  Rona disclosed this week that its board rejected an
unsolicited offer of C$1.76 billion ($1.75 billion) from Lowe’s,
saying it wasn’t in the best interests of the Boucherville,
Quebec-based company’s  shareholders . While the July 8 bid of
C$14.50 a share is 41 percent higher than Rona’s average stock
price in the prior 20 days, the proposal is only 1.8 percent
more than book value, a measure of the assets’ estimated price
tag in a liquidation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with Quebec vowing to help prevent a takeover of a
“strategic asset” for Canada, Lowe’s of Mooresville,  North
Carolina  said it’s still interested in a friendly deal. With a
$29 billion market value, Lowe’s has room to pay as much as C$18
a share, according to Desjardins  Capital Markets , and Canaccord
Genuity Inc. said the retailer needs to offer at least C$16 a
share to win over Rona’s investors and management. At C$16, the
sweetened bid would be almost 56 percent higher than the 20-day
average before July 8, the biggest premium since 2006 for a
retailer of home products or building supplies, the data show.  For Lowe’s to get a hold of Rona, “it comes down to a
price that’s higher,” Jonathan Brodsky, a Chicago-based
portfolio manager at Advisory Research Inc., which oversees $8.5
billion including Rona shares, said in a telephone interview.
“The bid where it is right now is reflective of a company in
distress. That does not take into account the brand or the value
of the locations and other attributes. It’s an opportunistic
approach by Lowe’s.”  Canada Presence  Doug Robinson, Lowe’s head of international operations and
development, said the company was “disappointed” in Rona’s
reaction to its bid and wouldn’t speculate on whether Lowe’s
would raise the offer price as it continues to seek discussions
with Rona’s  management . Michelle Laberge, a spokeswoman for
Rona, declined to comment on speculation.  Lowe’s is trying to buy Rona to gain a bigger foothold in
 Canada , where the U.S. chain operated just 31 of its 1,745
stores as of February, compared with Rona’s network of almost
800 lumber and hardware outlets throughout the country.  Lowe’s submitted its bid for Rona after the Canadian
retailer lost half its market value in five years amid  declining
earnings . After posting a net loss in 2011, Rona is projected to
return to profit this year and more than quadruple net income
next year, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rona Rally  When the bid from Lowe’s was disclosed on July 31, Rona had
its  biggest  stock gain  since the company’s initial public
offering in 2002. The stock climbed as much as 22 percent to
reach Lowe’s offer price before giving back some ground as
 Quebec ’s provincial government joined the Canadian retailer in
resisting the bid. Rona closed yesterday at C$13.95.  Today, the shares fell 0.4 percent to C$13.89.  Quebec’s finance minister said the Lowe’s offer “does not
appear to be in the interests of either Quebec or Canada,” and
the province may take steps to prevent a takeover. Though Quebec
wouldn’t have the power to directly block Lowe’s bid, it can
influence the federal government, which can reject takeovers
unless they provide a “net benefit to the nation.”  Lowe’s  says its bid involves combining its Canadian
business with Rona’s headquarters in Quebec, and maintaining or
increasing Rona’s Canadian headcount. Institutional  shareholders 
representing 15 percent of Rona’s outstanding shares have
indicated support for its offer, Lowe’s said.  ‘Great Proposal’  “We believe we have a great proposal,” Lowe’s Robinson
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Our goal is to sit down
and have meaningful discussions, productive discussions to
satisfy people’s concerns.”  Derek Dley, a Vancouver-based analyst at Canaccord, said
the bid from Lowe’s may not be high enough to gain adequate
support for the deal.  “That’s a bit light in my mind,” based on 2013  profit
estimates  for Rona and the earnings multiples paid on other
Canadian transactions involving retailers, Dley said in a phone
interview. “It’s going to take a bit more than that for
management and shareholders to be interested in the offer. It’d
have to be something closer to C$16 to C$18 a share.”  A C$16 bid would represent a 55.6 premium to the average
price in the 20 days ended July 6, the highest offered on a deal
valued at more than $100 million for a retailer of building
products, floor coverings, garden products or home furnishings
since January 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mutual Benefit  Sachin Shah, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon
Plc, said C$16 to C$17 a share may be enough to overcome
management and government opposition. The deal could help Rona
bolster its operations and avoid job losses in Canada, he said.  Lowe’s is “trying to do something positive and actually
grow the Canadian business,” Shah said in a phone interview.
“This is a mutual benefit for Rona in that they are losing
money, and turning around hasn’t worked.”  While Shah predicts Lowe’s will increase its bid, he said
Rona’s shares aren’t trading above the offer price because of
the concern about the government’s stance, which throws the
timing of a deal into question.  “The market in general is betting that a deal is not going
to happen in the near term,” Shah said. Rona “should be
trading higher because Lowe’s can offer more and will offer
more. They need to iron out the details with the politicians.”  Deal Mechanics  Jeff Burchell, Toronto-based  money manager  at Aston Hill
Financial Inc., which oversees about C$6 billion including Rona
shares, said the company should sell itself to Lowe’s. While the
offer price is one hurdle, Lowe’s also needs to gain political
support.  “Normally, I would say it’s all about price but it’s more
than just price to make this deal happen,” Burchell said. “If
it’s purely economic, they should take the bid and leave, but
it’s not about that. I’m not sure Lowe’s understands what they’d
be dealing with buying a Quebec-based company.”  Michael Liss, a Kansas City-based portfolio manager for
American Century Investments, which oversees $120 billion
including shares of Lowe’s, said he would prefer that the U.S.
chain focus on its existing operations rather than make an offer
for Rona, one that it now will probably have to increase. Lowe’s
 earnings  have fallen four out of the last five fiscal years as
sales from  Lowe’s stores  open at least a year trailed rival  Home
Depot Inc.’s (HD)  3.4 percent growth in the latest fiscal year.  “We’re disappointed,” Liss said in a phone interview.
“Diverting their attention into Canada when you don’t have your
base stores where they should be, that’s very frustrating for us
as investors. They are just socking it to their shareholders.”  Still In  While Lowe’s shares have  fallen  5 percent since the deal
was announced, the company hasn’t walked away.  Keith Howlett, an analyst at Desjardins in  Montreal , said
in a note this week that Lowe’s has room to increase its bid. He
sees an 80 percent chance of the offer increasing to C$18 a
share because of the potential for improved profit margins from
lower marketing and other expenses.  Advisory Research’s Brodsky said at the right price, a deal
is the best option for shareholders.  “We don’t have an interest in protecting jobs or
protecting a category leader in the province of Quebec,” he
said. “We are looking for the highest possible price as it
relates to the takeout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 