-- Toyota Raises Sales Forecast, May Extend Lead Over GM, VW
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-08-03T10:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/toyota-profit-beats-estimates-after-sales-in-u-s-japan-surge.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which outsold
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  for two straight quarters,
may extend the lead after the Japanese carmaker raised its sales
forecast for 2012.  Sales -- including those of its  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  and  Hino
Motors Ltd. (7205)  units -- may rise 23 percent to a record 9.76
million units in 2012, Toyota said today, raising an earlier
target of 9.58 million. It also reported net income jumped to a
four-year high last quarter, a day after GM posted a 38 percent
profit drop. Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW last week reported
operating profit growth slowed.  “Toyota’s got a fair lead, and it’s going to be a tough
act for the others to make up for it in the second half,”
 Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director at Intelligence
Automotive  Asia , said by phone today. “This particular year, it
looks like Toyota has pulled ahead impressively.”  Toyota, plagued by natural disasters in 2011, benefited as
the Prius hybrid helped sales almost double in Japan, while
demand for the Camry continued to exceed that of any car in the
U.S. The company, led by President  Akio Toyoda , is now counting
on the U.S. demand to help sustain earnings growth as analysts
project Japan sales to slow after government subsidies run out
later this year.  “Toyota’s previous forecasts may have been conservative,
but when all the companies are becoming cautious with regard to
the economy, I find it peculiar” Toyota is raising their
projection, said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer at
Fukoku Capital Management Inc. “If you think about the global
economy, we’re not in a situation where you can expect lots of
car sales.”  Sales Horserace  In the first six months of 2012, Toyota’s sales rose 34
percent to 4.97 million globally, leading Detroit-based GM by
300,000 and VW by 520,000 deliveries. GM global deliveries rose
2.9 percent to 4.67 million during the first half while VW sales
increased 8.9 percent to 4.45 million, according to the
companies.  Toyota rose 0.7 percent to close at 3,065 yen before the
earnings announcement, extending this year’s gain to 19 percent
in Tokyo trading. Still, the stock has surrendered about half
its gains since the end of March after the yen turned into the
best-performing major currency from the worst performer within a
quarter.  Beating Estimates  Net income  reached 290.3 billion yen ($3.7 billion), or 14
percent higher than the average of seven analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. While earnings improved across most major
regions in line with expectations, operating income in  Japan 
surged to more than double analysts’ estimates. Revenue climbed
60 percent to 5.5 trillion yen and the maker of the Corolla
compact sedan, the world’s best-selling car, also said it plans
to produce a record 10.05 million vehicles in 2012.  In the U.S., April-to-June deliveries increased 48 percent
to 558,812 vehicles, helped by sales of the best-selling Camry
sedans, Corolla sedans and Prius hybrids as Toyota led the
Japanese auto industry’s recovery from last year’s production
disruptions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Japan, Toyota’s deliveries almost doubled last quarter,
led by the Prius hybrid, as pent-up demand and government
subsidies for fuel-efficient cars helped spur demand. The
Japanese market, recovering from last year’s earthquake and
tsunami, expanded 54 percent in the first six months of 2012.
That’s the fastest growth among the world’s biggest automobile
markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Surges  Toyota generated profit from Japan for a second-straight
quarter after posting eight consecutive quarters of losses.
Operating profit at home was 107.1 billion yen, trumping the
47.3 billion yen average analyst estimate.  Growth in Japan may slow after the budget for government
subsidies runs out as soon as this month, according to Koichi Sugimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Operating profit from  North America  quadrupled to 117.6
billion yen last quarter. That compared with the 115.5 billion
yen average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In July, Toyota’s U.S. sales rose 26 percent and the
company is ahead of its full-year target of 15 percent growth.
Industrywide sales of light vehicles in July grew 8.9 percent to
1.15 million units, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The
improvement, buoyed by gains at Japanese carmakers, means the
industry’s is headed for its biggest number of annual deliveries
in five years.  U.S. Momentum  Toyota expects industrywide deliveries to reach about 14.3
million in the U.S. this year, and for “the momentum that was
generated through the first six or seven months” to continue
through the rest of this year, Bill Fay, group vice president of
U.S. Toyota-brand sales, said this month.  In July, Toyota led full-line automakers by reducing
spending on discounts and promotions in the U.S. by 24 percent
to $1,849 per vehicle, according to Autodata estimates. For the
quarter ended June 30, it increased incentive spending 4.2
percent, according to Autodata.  In  Europe , where the main auto association is predicting
the market to shrink to the lowest since 1995, the company
posted profit of 3.4 billion yen, shy of the 4.18 billion yen
average estimate. Toyota trimmed its fiscal-year sales forecast
for the region by 3.5 percent to 830,000 vehicles and Senior
Managing Officer Takahiko Ijichi said the outlook for Europe
“continues to look tough.”  Europe Demand  Toyota is less reliant on European demand than companies
such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and GM, making the Japanese carmaker
less vulnerable to the region’s debt crisis. Toyota, which
estimates its European market share to have been about 4 percent
in 2011, accounted for about 10 percent of global sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GM reported yesterday that second-quarter profit slid 38
percent as losses widened at its Opel unit in Europe.  Profit from Asian markets outside of Japan -- including
 China  and  India  -- rose 69 percent to 101.5 billion yen,
compared with the 104.1 billion yen average analyst estimate.  Total wholesale deliveries of passenger vehicles in China
may rise 11 percent to 16.09 million units in 2012, according to
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Toyota revised its exchange-rate assumptions for the euro,
projecting Europe’s common currency to trade at 101 yen in the
fiscal year, compared with an earlier forecast of 105 yen.
Toyota kept its estimates for the dollar unchanged at 80 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  