-- Paterno Family Informs NCAA It Will Appeal Penn State Sanctions
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/paterno-family-informs-ncaa-it-will-appeal-penn-state-sanctions.html
Joe Paterno ’s family has informed the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  it intends to appeal
sanctions imposed upon  Pennsylvania State University  for the
school’s handling of child sex-abuse allegations against former
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Paterno family lawyer Wick Sollers said in a letter to NCAA
President  Mark Emmert  that the family is requesting both the
opportunity to appeal the sanctions in writing and an in-person
hearing with the NCAA.  Paterno died of cancer in January at age 85, less than
three months after he was fired as Nittany Lions head coach, a
position he held for 46 years.  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said in an e-mail that ``Penn
State’s sanctions are not subject to review.''       In the letter, dated yesterday, Sollers claims the NCAA
acted “hastily and without any regard for due process” when it
announced last month unprecedented sanctions against the  State
College , Pennsylvania-based school, including a $60 million
fine, the loss of 20 football scholarships annually for four
years and a postseason ban of the same length.  The national governing body for college athletics also
stripped the  Penn State  football program of 112 victories from
1998 through 2011, taking away Paterno’s distinction as the most
successful coach in the history of college football.  University spokesman David La Torre declined in an e-mail
to comment on the letter or the family’s intentions.  Emmert said last month that Penn State placed football
ahead of the protection of young people, and that it resulted in
the most egregious breakdown of conduct he’s ever seen.  ‘Grave Dangers’  “One of the grave dangers stemming from our love of sports
is that the sports themselves can become too big to fail,
indeed, too big to even challenge,” he said. “The result can
be an erosion of academic values replaced by the values of hero
worship and winning at all costs.”  The basis of the family’s appeal would stem from the NCAA’s
use of an independent report compiled by former  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh , according to Sollers’ letter.
Freeh’s 267-page report, released two weeks before the NCAA
announced its sanctions, concluded that university officials,
including Paterno, failed to protect children from sexual abuse
by Sandusky, both by failing to report him to the police and by
continuing to grant him access to the on-campus football building
where some of the abuse took place.  Sollers said the NCAA “entirely ignored the fact that the
Freeh report, on which these extraordinary penalties are based,
is deeply flawed because it is incomplete, rife with unsupported
opinions and unquestionably one-sided.”  Paterno’s family and the three other officials named in the
report all have denied that a cover-up took place. The school
has accepted the sanctions.  Wins Stripped  At the time of his ouster, Paterno had 409 wins, more than
any other coach at college football’s top level. The school was
stripped of 112 wins, all but one of which came under Paterno,
making long-time Florida State University coach Bobby Bowden the
new career leader in college football’s top division with 377
victories.  Sandusky, 68, a Nittany Lions assistant coach for 31 years,
was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse
of 10 boys over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  In the letter, Sollers said a formal appeal and a hearing
in front of the NCAA’s Infractions Appeals Committee, Executive
Committee or other audience was the only way to demonstrate
respect for the victims and uncover culpability, if it exists.  “Those objectives cannot be achieved by a truncated
process that wrongly assigns blame by substituting opinion for
fact,” the letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  