-- Pennsylvania Voter ID Proves Hard to Obtain, Group Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-08-03T15:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/pennsylvania-voter-id-proves-hard-to-obtain-group-says.html
Pennsylvania’s voter identification
law may disenfranchise hundreds of thousands of residents unless
the state improves access to free IDs, according to a new study.  Just 13 percent of 43 state Transportation Department
offices that provide the identification had signs in reception
areas saying the cards were available, according to the study by
the Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center. It said volunteers
got incomplete or inaccurate information in half their visits.  “Without a rigorous effort to ensure ID is available
easily and for free for those who require it, tens or hundreds
of thousands of Pennsylvanians, including some who have voted
for decades, will be disenfranchised,” the center said today in
the study. The group is based in Harrisburg, the state capital.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the statute
was enacted this year as similar measures in other states drew
fire from Democrats. Critics say the rules disenfranchise
minority, poor and young voters, who tend to support Democrats.
Comparable laws in  Texas  and  South Carolina  have been blocked by
the U.S. Justice Department, which is probing whether the
Keystone State’s version violates the Voting Rights Act.  The Pennsylvania law, which has been challenged in court as
unconstitutional, requires voters to show a state driver’s
license or an acceptable alternative, such as a military
identification, in order to obtain a ballot.  Delay Urged  With the Nov. 6 election just 11 weeks away, implementing
the law should be delayed, the Pennsylvania group recommended.
Volunteers visited 43 of the 71 state offices where driver’s
licenses and photo identification cards are issued. In three of
10 visits, applicants were told incorrectly that they would have
to pay for the cards needed to vote, according to the report.  “This is a constitutional right that people have to vote,
and it is incumbent upon the authorities to ensure that
obtaining the ID that is necessary doesn’t place an undue
burden,” said Sharon Ward, executive director of the group, in
a call with reporters today. “So the burden is really on the
public agencies to prove that they have not disenfranchised
voters.”  Officials have said initial estimates of residents who lack
acceptable identification were inaccurately low. David Burgess,
a deputy secretary of state, said in court testimony this week
that the number is about 1.5 million. That’s 18 percent of 8.26
million registered voters statewide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  