-- Pentagon Sets Up War Zone Justice Board to Review Cases
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-03T18:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/pentagon-sets-up-war-zone-justice-board-to-review-cases.html
The Pentagon today formed a review
board of lawyers and retired combat commanders to assess whether
military justice was administered fairly, effectively, and
credibly in cases against U.S. personnel in war zones since
October 2001, officials said today.  The board will not re-litigate cases of U.S. military
abuse, instead reviewing instances to see if the military
justice system can be improved, Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson told reporters.  “We’ve had instances where we had to employ military
justice, and we want to ask ourselves every once in a while if
the system is working like it should,” Johnson said. “It’s not
intended to provide legal advise to the department,” he said.  “It involves the application of military justice
concerning offenses against civilians.” he said. Johnson said
he doesn’t know how many cases would be reviewed. The size and
scope of the board’s caseload have yet to be determined, he
said.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  in a July 30 memo spelling
out the board’s charter wrote that, although “bad things have
happened involving combat excess and civilians” in deployed
areas, the “abuses have been rare among our professional
fighting force but they became huge flash points that threatened
to undermine our entire mission.”  “Thus, for offenses that take place in a country in which
we operate alongside the civilian population, it is critical
that our system of military justice be efficient, fair,
dependable and credible,” Panetta wrote.  The review should address issues such as “the manner in
which alleged offenses are initially reported and
investigated,” and “are there ways to ensure that alleged
offenses are reported promptly,” according to Panetta’s memo.  The board will not review allegations or documented
instances of detainee abuse and collateral damage from military
weapons that accidentally killed civilians, Panetta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  