-- Perry Capital Seeks Dismissal of Solus Madoff Claim Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-03T17:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/perry-capital-seeks-dismissal-of-solus-madoff-claim-suit.html
Perry Capital LLC asked a judge to
dismiss a lawsuit by Solus Alternative Asset Management LP in
which Perry is accused of making a “willful breach” of
obligations to sell an interest in $195 million of claims on
Bernard L. Madoff’s estate.  Solus sued Perry last month for $20 million in  New York 
state court in Manhattan, saying the trade was sealed over the
telephone and in Bloomberg LP’s “instant messages.” Perry said
there was never a draft agreement or “meeting of minds” over
essential aspects of the trade, citing state contract law.  “Simply put, legally and commercially, there has never
been a contract, let alone one that can be enforced in court,”
Perry said today in a court filing.  The fight between the hedge fund firms comes as prices for
claims on the confidence man’s estate have climbed to about
65 cents on the dollar from the low 60s, according to  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital
Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt.  The Madoff brokerage’s customers, after receiving
$333 million in 3 1/2 years from the liquidator, will receive
$1.5 billion to $2.4 billion, trustee  Irving Picard  said last
month.  David Rosner, a lawyer for Solus, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Perry’s filing.  Perry Capital Founder  Richard Perry  founded his hedge fund firm in November 1988,
after previously working at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  A so-called
event-driven manager, he trades stocks and debt of companies
involved in mergers and spinoffs and those emerging from
bankruptcy.  Solus, led by Christopher Pucillo, also specializes in
“event and credit-related” investments and manages $2.5
billion in assets, the New York-based firm said in a February
statement.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The case is Solus Alternative Asset v. Perry Corp.,
652341/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 