-- TPG Raises $2 Billion for Its Second Growth Equity Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/tpg-raises-2-billion-for-its-second-growth-equity-fund.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
run by  David Bonderman  and  James Coulter , raised $2 billion for
its latest growth-equity fund as the world’s largest buyout
firms look beyond big corporate takeovers.  TPG Growth II follows a $1.3 billion fund, known as TPG
Star, that was raised in 2007, William McGlashan, the managing
partner of TPG Growth, said in an interview. Investors in the
new fund include the California Teachers’ Retirement System,
according to data on that pension’s website.  The growth initiative at TPG is designed to pursue
transactions outside the parameters of the firm’s main buyout
funds. TPG, created in 1992, also is ramping up efforts in real
estate and so-called special situations where it provides
financing for troubled companies, joining competitors such as
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in pursuing non-LBO expansion.  “The industry is evolving and going from being single
product to multiproduct firms,” Coulter said in an interview.
“Our investors want to be able to pick and choose.”  Buyout firms also are playing to a desire by big investors
to pare the number of private-equity relationships while in some
cases increasing the amount they are directing to so-called
alternative-asset classes.  TPG stressed in its pitch that the growth fund uses the
same investment committee as for its large buyout fund,
commanding the same interest from the founders, top deal makers
and operating experts. That allows TPG to use its expertise and
personnel around the world, yet still look at deals that would
be too small for its larger fund.  ‘Best Minds’  McGlashan said the connection to the investment committee
gives investors comfort that this isn’t a side project within a
large firm.  “You want all the best minds of the firm on these deals,”
he said.  TPG has used the growth unit to stake fast-growing
companies in  emerging markets . TPG Growth backed  Masan Group (MSN) , a
Vietnamese conglomerate that counts an instant noodle maker
among its holdings.  TPG Star, the previous fund, had returned 1.4 times
investors’ money and given them average annual returns of about
14 percent as of March 31, according to the Oregon Public
Employees Retirement Fund, which committed $100 million to the
STAR fund in 2007.  Better Returns  “There’s a melange of things that are smaller,
’growthier,’ that would fall under the radar as we have these
larger funds,” Coulter said.  The growth initiative has of late performed better than
TPG’s main funds. TPG Partners VI, raised in 2008, had an
average annual return of 2.4 percent as of March 31, the Oregon
data show.  McGlashan said funds like the growth pool attract
institutional investors looking for the higher returns
associated with faster-growing companies, without discussing
specific backers.  The firm pitched pensions in the state of  Washington ,  New
Jersey  and  New Mexico , according to information available
through their websites.  TPG in 2008 raised a $18.9 billion fund and the firm has
participated in some of the largest LBOs ever, including the
record-setting 2007 takeover of TXU Corp. for $43 billion.  Deal making has contracted in volume and transaction size
in the intervening years. Nine of the 10 biggest leveraged
buyouts in history were announced in 2006 and 2007, with $857.9
billion in deals announced in 2007 alone. Last year, managers
announced $416.1 billion in deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  