-- Too-Big-to-Fail Prevention Is Tested in Post-Crisis Iceland
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-08-03T11:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/post-crisis-iceland-is-test-site-for-too-big-to-fail-prevention.html
Iceland  was brought to the brink of
bankruptcy when its biggest banks failed four years ago. Now,
the site of the world’s most spectacular financial collapse is
becoming a pioneer in banking reform.  “We’ve been burned by this and that’s why we have to look
very closely at what we need to do to prevent it happening
again,” Economy MinisterSteingrimur J. Sigfusson said in an
interview. “Icelanders are more interested in taking greater
steps than small steps when it comes to regulating banking.”  His party, the junior member in Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir’s coalition, has  submitted a motion  to parliament
to stop banks using state-backed deposits to finance risky
investments. The move puts Iceland on course to become the first
western nation since the global financial crisis hit five years
ago to force banking conglomerates to split their business.  It’s a proposal that’s gaining traction elsewhere. Even
Sanford “Sandy” Weill, whose 1998 creation of New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  triggered the  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  that paved
the way for financial behemoths, now says investment banks
should be separated from deposit-taking banks. Opponents
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  say diverse businesses are needed to spread risk across
divisions and stay competitive.  The Icelandic lawmaker who presented the motion, Alfheidur
Ingadottir, says the best way to stop banks creating asset
bubbles is to pass laws akin to the 1933  Glass-Steagall Act ,
which separated commercial and investment banking in the U.S.
for more than six decades.  Forced Breakup  The law would force Arion Bank hf, Landsbankinn hf and
Islandsbanki hf -- state-engineered successors to the banks that
failed -- to break up their operations. Investment banking now
makes up less than 5 percent of business at the banks, whose
deposits are backed by the Icelandic state. Before the crisis,
the ratio was as high as 33 percent at Iceland’s biggest lender,
said David Stefansson, an economist at Arion.  Sigfusson, whose ministry oversees the financial industry,
wants a “partial, or even complete, separation of commercial
and  investment banking ,” he said. “It’s a way to prevent the
riskier parts of banking being mixed with regular day-to-day
banking and shouldered by regular customers or taxpayers,” he
said.  The government has found support inside Iceland’s banking
industry. The head of the island’s biggest investment bank says
breaking up financial conglomerates is the most effective crisis
prevention tool and one that would have prevented the nation’s
meltdown.  Ruinous  “Giving banks too much of a free ride with deposits --
money they don’t need to repay if something goes wrong -- isn’t
such a great idea,”  Straumur Investment Bank hf  Chief Executive
Officer Petur Einarsson said in an interview.  Einarsson says  Europe  should look to Iceland to get a sense
of how much damage an overgrown banking system can wreak.  “Europe is today feeling the pain of the same disease
Iceland caught in 2008,” he said. “The changes that need to be
made should benefit the depositors and businesses served by
these financial institutions, rather than the institutions
themselves.”  The excesses of  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf  and
 Landsbanki Islands hf  proved ruinous for Iceland’s economy. The
banks grew to about 10 times the nation’s total economic output
before defaulting on $85 billion in 2008, forcing the government
to impose  capital controls  and to resort to an international
bailout.  Risks Overlooked  Kaupthing’s balance sheet ballooned by a factor of 85
between 2000 and 2007 to peak at 5.3 trillion kronur ($44
billion), compared with Iceland’s  gross domestic product  last
year of $13.5 billion. The bank, Iceland’s biggest before it was
put under state control in October 2008, opened offices in
 Luxembourg ,  New York  and Dubai. Its size and complexity relative
to the economy made proper risk analysis difficult. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the bank A1, its fifth-highest grade,
until the day the lender was seized by the state.  The financial regulator also missed the red flags.
Iceland’s three biggest banks all had capital adequacy ratios of
more than 10 percent of their risk-weighted assets as of the end
of June 2008, the Financial Supervisory Authority said in August
the same year. All three lenders passed FSA stress tests in a
report published two months before they failed.  Crisis Pain  In the years that followed the banks’ collapse, Iceland’s
 unemployment rate jumped nine-fold  and the economy was thrust
into a recession that lasted through the first half of 2010. An
80 percent plunge in the krona against the euro offshore sent
 inflation soaring to 19 percent . That bloated the debt burdens
of a household sector paying down inflation-linked mortgages.  Now, the government wants to ensure that the new banks are
never again allowed to grow big enough to wreak such havoc.
Preventing financial conglomerates from dwarfing the economy is
key, according to Ingadottir.  “Running a commercial bank isn’t really compatible with
running an investment bank, especially in regards to financial
risk management,” she said in an interview.  Iceland’s economic reforms since the end of 2008 have so
far proven successful. The economy will outgrow the euro area
this year and next, the  International Monetary Fund  estimates.
Iceland’s krona has appreciated 14 percent against the euro
since the end of March, making it the best-performing emerging-
market currency in the period. The krona was little changed
today at 147.67 per euro.  Greenspan  Weill, who stepped down as Citigroup chairman in 2006, said
in a July 25 interview with CNBC that the time has come to split
investment and commercial banking.  Weill helped engineer the 1998 merger of Travelers Group
Inc. and Citicorp, a deal that required the repeal of the
Depression-era Glass-Steagall Act. Citigroup subsequently became
the biggest bank in the world before taking a $45 billion
taxpayer bailout in 2008.  Even former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , who
had fought to abolish Glass-Steagall, said in 2009 that breaking
up the banks might make them more valuable.  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
law, is intended to limit transactions that put deposits insured
by the U.S. government at risk. Regulators have said they hope
to finish the rule by the end of the year and have given banks a
July 2014 deadline, provided they make a good-faith effort to
comply.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has said
the scandal surrounding the London interbank offered rate
underlines the urgency of implementing proposals in John Vickers’ Independent Commission on Banking, which recommends
banks separate their consumer and investment units.  Crisis Wasted  Corners of Iceland’s bank industry remain apprehensive
about a split. The nation’s Financial Services Association and
the bank regulator say any overhaul should only take place after
an analysis of the benefits and drawbacks.  Parliament may not want to wait that long.  “Lawmakers in all parties agree on the necessity of
separation,” Ingadottir said. “So I’m confident that this will
pass later this year.”  The worst outcome of the global financial crisis would be
if policy makers and regulators fail to fix the mistakes of the
past, according to Einarsson.  “If commercial and investment banking aren’t separated
now, we might have to wait a long while before such an
opportunity presents itself again,” he said. “This is going to
be one of the defining issues of the coming years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  