-- Gilt Yields Rise Most in 5 Weeks on ECB Outlook, U.S. Payrolls
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-03T15:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/pound-weakens-versus-euro-after-services-industry-growth-cools.html
U.K.  government bonds  fell, with 10-
year yields climbing the most in five weeks, as speculation the
 European Central Bank  will introduce measures to contain the
region’s debt crisis damped demand for safer assets.  Benchmark gilts erased a weekly gain after a U.S. report
showed employers hired more workers than forecast in July,
easing concern the world’s biggest economy is slowing. The pound
fell to a three-week low against the euro after members of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition signaled they won’t
stand in the way of ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
government bonds to help stem the fiscal turmoil, boosting the
bonds of so-called peripheral nations.  “Yesterday’s sell-off in Italian and Spanish bonds is
reversing,” said  Alan Clarke , a London-based economist at
Scotiabank Europe Plc. “This is risk-on and so people have been
selling the U.K.”  The  yield  on the 10-year gilt climbed 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 1.54 percent at 4:03 p.m.  London  time
after rising as much as 12 basis points, the most since June 29.
The 4 percent bond due in March 2022 declined 1.02, or 10.20
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 121.85. The yield
increased one basis point this week.  The ECB’s intention to buy government bonds of troubled
euro states is “a wise middle way” to solve the debt crisis,
Elmar Brok, a European Parliament lawmaker and executive-
committee member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party,
told Deutschlandfunk radio today.  ‘Severe Malfunctioning’  Gilts extended declines after the U.S. Labor Department
said employers hired 163,000 workers last month, up from a
revised 64,000 in June. The  unemployment rate , derived from a
separate survey, increased to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent.  U.K. government bonds have returned 4.5 percent this year,
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies showed, as the region’s debt crisis
underpinned demand for haven assets. German bunds also earned
4.5 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  gained 2.8 percent.  The pound weakened 0.7 percent to 79.09 pence per euro,
extending this week’s decline to 1.1 percent. The U.K. currency
rose 0.6 percent to $1.5605.  Sterling also weakened against most of its major
counterparts after an industry report showed U.K. service
industries unexpectedly slowed in July.  A gauge of services, which accounts for about three
quarters of the economy, fell to 51 from 51.3 in June, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  ‘Weak’ Data  “Part of the story for sterling is the weak U.K. data we
have had of late,” said  Valentin Marinov , head of G-10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London. There are “growing
expectations for the Bank of England’s growth and inflation
forecasts to be revised down” in next week’s Inflation Report,
and that “could add to the headwinds for the pound,” he said.  The U.K. currency has dropped 1.8 percent against a basket
of nine developed market peers in the past three months as the
nation’s economy worsened, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 2.2 percent and the euro
weakened 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 