-- Procter & Gamble Profit Tops Estimates Amid Price Increases
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-08-03T20:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/procter-gamble-profit-tops-estimates-amid-price-increases.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the consumer
products company targeted by activist investor  Bill Ackman ,
reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by price increases.  Net income in the period ended June 30 advanced 45 percent
to $3.63 billion, or $1.24 a share, from $2.51 billion, or 84
cents, a year earlier, Cincinnati-based P&G said today in a
statement. Profit excluding some items was 82 cents a share.
Analysts projected 77 cents, the average of 21  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald  is working to prove
his pricing and plan to save $10 billion by 2016 through cutting
jobs and marketing will be enough to improve results. Last
month, Ackman’s  Pershing Square  took a $1.8 billion stake in
P&G, and people familiar with the matter said he plans to push
for leadership changes.  “It’s easy to clamp down on spending for three to six
months, but he has to convince investors that he can permanently
reduce P&G’s cost structure and, at the same time, grow sales,”
 Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University of Michigan ,
said in an e-mail.  P&G, the maker of Tide laundry detergent and Duracell
batteries,  rose  3.1 percent to $65.50 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 1.8 percent this year.  McDonald said on a conference call today that the company
has had talks with Ackman, and declined to provide specific
details. The CEO also forecast job reductions of 10 percent at
P&G by the end of 2012.  Profit Forecast  The company reiterated its  forecast  for earnings per share
for fiscal 2013 will be $3.80 to $4. Analysts projected $3.90,
the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s an element of pulling out all the stops to look
better,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “And that’s fine if that’s
continuous. If Procter & Gamble needed an activist scare to do
better, that’s great.”  P&G said it will repurchase $4 billion in stock this fiscal
year. In June, the company suspended stock repurchases to
protect itself from credit downgrades. Chief Financial Officer
Jon Moeller said on a conference call today that the company
reconsidered after having a “tremendous cash quarter.”  Price increases across all product segments added 4 percent
or more to net sales growth in the quarter, P&G said. While the
higher prices helped counter increased costs for raw materials,
volume was little changed from a year earlier.  Price reductions in six areas including U.S. laundry
products are now helping P&G boost market share, Moeller said.
P&G will cut prices by $400 million, he said.  Sales Decline  Commodity costs will increase modestly next year,
executives said on the conference call.  Fourth-quarter  sales  fell 1.2 percent to $20.21 billion,
trailing the $20.25 billion average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Executives on the conference call said they expected the
company to return to long-term growth rates by fiscal year 2014,
helped by a strengthening U.S. business. Dibadj called the
projection “bullish.”  McDonald said he was working to make the company’s culture
more productive and accountable.  “I’m very encouraged by the leadership team we have in
place now,” he said. “I just wish I had done it three years
ago. I think we’ve got the right team.”  Ackman, who said his P&G stake is his largest initial
investment ever, this year won an effort to remove  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  CEO  Fred Green  and replace him with  Hunter Harrison . Ackman also pushed Fortune Brands Inc. to break up,
and the company last year split into spirits maker  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  and
a company that sells home products such as faucets and locks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  