-- Qorvis’s Collender for Wessel’s ‘Red Ink’ Book Party
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-03T17:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/qorvis-s-collender-for-wessel-s-red-ink-book-party.html
Stan Collender , a partner and
national director of financial communications at Qorvis
Communications LLC, told his old friend  David Wessel  that if he
ever wrote a book about the national budget, Collender would
host the book party.  Last night he made good, celebrating Wessel’s “Red Ink:
Inside the High-Stakes Politics of the Federal Budget.”  It was the perfect time to draw a crowd, because “there’s
nothing else to do” in August, said Collender.  His wife, Maura McGinn, added a touch of glam in her
flamingo-pink dress.  Drew Chafetz, the co-founder and chief executive of
love.futbol, praised the U.S. women’s Olympic soccer team. He
runs a nonprofit that builds soccer fields for impoverished
children.  “The sushi went fast,” lamented Chelsea Koski, a Qorvis
senior director, gazing over the buffet.  “Red Ink” is the third book by Wessel, a Wall Street
Journal economics editor and columnist, whose other titles
include “In Fed We Trust” and “Prosperity” with co-author
Bob Davis.  Wessel said he enjoyed the “monastery” serenity of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars where he wrote
the 150 pages of “Red Ink” in two months. He explained that
the brevity of the book is no accident. The  federal budget  and
deficit “confuses everybody,” and the presidential candidates
are not making it any easier.  Wessel said President Barack Obama and  Mitt Romney  speak in
“vague generalities, so no one has to make the numbers add
up.”  According to “Red Ink,” the government borrows 36 cents
for every dollar it brings in.  Book Heroes  Wessel does, however, give props to two of the “heroes”
of the book, Doug Elmendorf, the director of the Congressional
Budget Office, and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Wessel will take a break from the number crunching by
turning a lecture in Colorado into a vacation.  Collender has plenty of summer reading to do. He showed off
titles on his iPad: “Bailout” by  Neil Barofsky  and David
Talbot’s “Season of the Witch” about  San Francisco , where
Collender went to college.  Imperfect Democracy  Dodd-Frank “is not a perfect law,” said Dennis M. Kelleher, president and CEO of the nonprofit Better Markets.
“Democracy is not perfect.”  Kelleher, a proponent of the legislation, was speaking
Monday at the Peterson Institute for International Economics,
the think tank created by Blackstone Group co-founder  Peter G.
Peterson .  The luncheon and Q&A, co-hosted by Better Markets and the
Peterson Institute, also featured  Simon Johnson , a professor at
the MIT Sloan School of Management and co-author of “White
House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt and Why
It Matters to You.”  In a telephone interview after the event, Johnson, a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute, said he agrees with Kelleher
about pursuing financial reform. He said he’d like to debate
bankers on the subject, especially JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
executive,  Jamie Dimon .  The institute’s director, C. Fred Bergsten, moderated the
event. He is retiring at the end of 2012 after working there for
31 years. Economist  Adam Posen  will assume the position in
January.  Among the guests who dined on a meal of short ribs and
couscous: Enzo Viscusi, chairman of Eni Petroleum Co.; Clay
Lowery, vice president of Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC; Bruce
Zagaris, a partner at Berliner, Corcoran and Rowe LLP; and Robin
Meister, managing director at BNP Paribas Investment Partners.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 