-- Rajoy Will Consider Bond Buying Request to Protect Spain
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-08-03T17:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/rajoy-says-he-d-consider-bond-buying-request-to-protect-spain.html
Spain ’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said he would consider asking  Europe ’s bailout funds to buy
Spanish debt if it were for the best for the country, as he
called for a crisis meeting of the region’s finance chiefs.  “I will do what I always do, act in the best interest of
Spaniards,” Rajoy said at a news conference in  Madrid  today,
when asked whether he would consider making a request. He needs
to see more details on what the  European Central Bank  is
planning in terms of bond buying and non-conventional measures
before taking any decision on seeking support, he said.  Spain and  Italy ’s borrowing costs surged yesterday after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  outlined a plan under which the central
bank might buy debt in tandem with the euro governments’ bailout
fund, while saying the details still need to be worked out over
the coming weeks. Countries would have to request help and
commit to strict conditions in return.  Rajoy called for a meeting of euro group finance ministers
“as soon as possible” to take measures to “guarantee the
irreversibility of the euro,” he said in a letter to European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  released by his office today.
Any action on bond markets designed to bring down borrowing
costs must be “deep, strong and sustained over time,” as
previous efforts have failed, he said.  Euro-area finance chiefs will meet on Sept. 3 to discuss
possible Spanish bond buying and the economic situation in
 Greece , news agency Ansa reported, citing unidentified European
officials.  Unacceptable Yields  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell as low as 6.84 percent
after Rajoy spoke, after earlier reaching as high as 7.44
percent. That compares with 6.05 percent for a similar Italian
maturity and 1.35 percent for 10-year German debt.  Investors may have missed the significance of Draghi’s
remarks in saying that the ECB is prepared to intervene to bring
down soaring interest rates, Rajoy said. He praised Draghi for
saying that risk premiums investors demand to buy bonds of Spain
and Italy were “unacceptable.”  Still, Rajoy, who declined to say whether he would apply
for help at a joint press briefing with Italian Prime  Mario Monti  yesterday, said he needs more details before deciding
whether to trigger support. The European Financial Stability
Facility can buy bonds on the market if nations ask for it, and
the European Stability Mechanism, the permanent successor aid
fund that is awaiting final approval, will also be able to.  Draghi’s Methods  It remains to be seen whether the measures outlined by
Draghi will be sufficient, Rajoy said.  “What do they plan to buy in the secondary market? Six-
month bills or 10-, 5-, 7-year bonds? Obviously it’s not the
same,” he said. “Which mechanism will be used? The ESM that
doesn’t exist? What are the methods that Mr. Draghi said
yesterday they would announce? We don’t know.”  “The fact that Mr. Rajoy is paying attention to those
details shows that the Spanish government might not be that far
from requesting additional support,”  Ricardo Santos , a European
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said by e-mail. “Given
that the biggest liquidity needs for Spain will come later in
October, the Spanish government feels that it has some time on
its side before requesting for support.”  Debt Redemptions  Spain has 29 billion euros ($36 billion) of debt
redemptions in October, according to data from the Treasury. It
has 16 billion euros of bills coming due before then.  Spanish bond yields have soared in recent weeks amid the
country’s deepening recession, yawning budget gap and struggling
banks, rising above the 7 percent level that prompted Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Spain won approval last
month for as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in aid for
its banks, fueling concern the country would need a full
sovereign rescue and spreading debt-crisis contagion to Italy.  Spain asked for aid to recapitalize its banks and
“dissipate doubts and restore the flow of credit,” Rajoy said.
“I did it because I thought it was in the best interests of
Spaniards.”  Rajoy “maintained a stance of ‘constructive ambiguity’ on
European assistance,” Thomas Costerg, an economist for  Standard
Chartered  in London, said in an e-mail. “Our view is that Spain
will request a bailout in the coming weeks, as it is key to
ensuring ECB market support.”  Budget Cuts  Rajoy reiterated that his government won’t shy away from
austerity measures needed to bring the country’s budget deficit
within the euro-region’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014, saying Spain could no longer continue spending
more than it took in.  “These measures aren’t pleasant and the government is
aware that these measures aren’t popular,” he said.
“Everything is open to discussion, but what isn’t debatable is
that there is the need to cut spending and increase revenue.  The Cabinet also approved a  budget plan  through 2014 to be
submitted to the European Commission. The document details 102.1
billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases to reduce the
nation’s budget gap, the third-largest in the euro zone, to 2.8
percent of GDP by 2014 from 8.9 percent last year.  The European Commission welcomed the plan and will analyze
it “in detail,” spokesman Antoine Colombani said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  