-- Rand Gains Most in a Month as Markets Rally on U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-03T14:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/rand-gains-as-ecb-bond-purchase-speculation-spurs-risk-appetite.html
The rand gained the most in more than
a month and yields fell to the lowest in a week as stocks and
commodity prices rose after U.S. payrolls climbed more than
forecast in July, boosting demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened as much as 2.3
percent, the most since June 29. It traded 2.1 percent stronger
at 8.1717 per dollar as of 4:07 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its
decline this week to 0.2 percent. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds
due 2021 fell 12 basis points to 6.55 percent.  U.S. payrolls added 163,000 in July, boosted by a pickup in
employment at automakers, even as the jobless rate unexpectedly
rose to a five-month high, Labor Department figures showed. The
increase had been seen at 89,000 in a Bloomberg survey. Members
of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties signaled
they won’t stand in the way of European Central Bank chief  Mario
Draghi ’s plan to buy  government bonds . Italian and Spanish debt
rebounded.  “We’ve gone from extreme negativity to extreme
positivity,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Johannesburg-
based Bidvest Bank Ltd., South Africa’s biggest chain of money-
changers, said by phone. “Stock markets are flying, and we’ve
seen a huge turnaround in the euro-dollar.”  Commodity prices gained, driving the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index to a two-week high, led by metals including copper, nickel
and platinum. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  headed for
its biggest weekly advance since January. Metals and other raw
materials accounted from 45 percent of South Africa’s exports in
2011, according to government data.  Euro Rally  The euro gained as much as 1.3 percent against the dollar
after weakening 1 percent in the previous two days. The rand and
the euro often trade in tandem, with a statistical correlation
of 0.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A value of 1
would mean they moved in lock step.  Draghi yesterday said “risk premia” in the bond market
“need to be addressed in a fundamental manner,” and details of
the plan would be fleshed out in coming weeks in consultation
with governments. The Fed on Aug. 1 signaled its readiness to
support the  U.S. economy  even as it refrained from adding to
bond purchases. Further stimulus would boost demand for riskier,
higher-yielding assets including South African bonds.  “The deterioration in the economy and increase in risk
premia on bond yields has created the possibility that the ECB
could become more interventionist” even as it refrained from
immediate action, Tertia Jacobs, a Johannesburg-based economist
at Investec Ltd., wrote in e-mailed comments. Fed policy makers
“sent a strong signal that it is ready to take action”, she
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  