-- RBS Operating Profit Drops 22% as Markets Revenue Slumps
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-03T15:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/rbs-operating-profit-drops-22-as-markets-revenue-declines.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, said profit fell 22
percent in the second quarter as revenue from its markets unit
slipped amid the worsening European sovereign debt crisis.  Operating profit  fell to 650 million pounds ($1 billion)
from 833 million pounds in the year-earlier period, RBS said in
a statement today. That was in line with the 649 million-pound
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue
at the markets unit, which includes debt capital markets and
foreign exchange, fell 9 percent to 1.07 billion pounds.  “Economic and market conditions remain uncertain and
therefore client activity is modest,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hester, 51, told reporters on a conference call today.
“This will continue to be a difficult time.”  Hester has cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds,
eliminated 36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and
Irish units since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  when the bank
was rescued in 2008. That restructuring, which Hester has
likened to defusing “the biggest time bomb in history,” may
now be overshadowed by the regulatory probe into allegations
that banks manipulated the London interbank offered rate.  The shares rose 5.6 percent to 216 pence in London trading,
for a market value of about 24.4 billion pounds. RBS has
increased 7 percent this year after sinking 48 percent in 2011.
The taxpayer owns 82 percent of the lender.  Low Expectations  “Expectations for RBS are generally pretty low and they
didn’t disappoint,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool, who rates the stock a hold.  “With RBS
it’s all about the health of the balance sheet and they’re
making excellent progress in those terms.”  RBS’s loan-to-deposit ratio fell 10 percentage points to
104 percent at the end of June, meaning the bank lent 104 pounds
for every 100 pounds it took in deposits. The lender plans to
reduce the ratio to 100 percent from a high of 154 percent in
2008. The Edinburgh-based company also reduced its reliance on
short-term wholesale funding by 40 billion pounds this year to
62 billion pounds by the end of the quarter.  RBS has dismissed four employees for trying to influence
the individual responsible for Libor submissions following an
internal investigation, Finance Director Bruce Van Saun said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today. He said it was too early
to give an estimate for the potential costs RBS faces for its
involvement in the scandal.  ‘Reputational Issue’  “This is a really important reputational issue for the
industry,” Hester said. “It’s one that we must all take with
all seriousness.”  The bank may be fined 420 million pounds by regulators and
have to pay 680 million pounds more to settle civil lawsuits
following the probe, Morgan Stanley analyst  Betsy Graseck  said
in a July 12 report.  Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds in June
when it became the first bank to reach a settlement with
regulators. The fine, coupled with criticism from regulators,
forced the departure of the London-based lender’s chairman, CEO
and chief operating officer.  RBS made a provision of 125 million pounds to cover costs
linked to a computer failure at its consumer bank in June that
left most of its 15 million account holders unable to access
their accounts for days. Adding provisions for the mis-selling
of interest rate swaps and payment-protection insurance, the
bank set aside a total of 310 million pounds for redress.  Markets Unit  RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs at the
investment-banking division, run by John Hourican, and sell or
close the unprofitable cash equities, mergers advisory and
equity capital markets divisions. Hester decided to dispose of
the units after volatile markets and increasing regulation made
it harder to generate returns that beat the cost of equity.  Revenue at the remaining markets unit fell to 1.07 billion
pounds from about 1.17 billion pounds in the year-earlier
period, hit by a decline in trading as lawmakers failed to find
a solution to the European sovereign debt crisis. Income beat
the 932 million-pound estimate of Shailesh Raikundlia, a London-
based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. Operating
profit dropped 23 percent to 251 million pounds and was down 70
percent on the first quarter.  Revenue and margins at the consumer unit are being squeezed
as the U.K. economy contracted for a third quarter and the  Bank
of England  holds its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low.
Operating profit at the unit fell 18 percent to 437 million
pounds in the three months to June. The unit’s net interest
margin, the difference between what it earns on loans and its
cost of funding, fell to 3.57 percent by the end of the first
half from 4.04 percent.  ‘Feeling the Pinch’  “The tough economic conditions mean our customers are
feeling the pinch,” Hester said on the call. “While that is
so, they will be doing less with their banks and less with us.”  Operating profit from its insurance unit, Direct Line
Insurance Group Plc, rose 6 percent in the first half to 219
million pounds from the year-earlier period. Preparations for
the initial public offering of the unit in October “remain on
track,” the bank said. The sale will be done in three stages,
Van Saun said on the call with journalists.  Hester said today the bank will retain Citizens Financial
Group Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial lender RBS bought
in 1988, because it’s a “core” part of the bank. Canada’s
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  held informal talks to buy Citizens two or
three months ago, the  New York  Post reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  Nationalization Opposed  RBS’s net loss narrowed to 466 million pounds in the
quarter from 897 million pounds in the year-earlier period.
Operating costs were little-changed at 3.88 billion pounds.  The U.K. rescued RBS at the height of the financial crisis,
injecting 45.5 billion pounds of money into the lender, making
it the costliest bailout of any bank.  Senior ministers are discussing buying out the part of RBS
the government doesn’t already own to boost the flow of credit
to small companies, the Financial Times reported yesterday,
citing unidentified government advisers.  “Any move to fully nationalize RBS would face stiff
opposition from taxpayers given that the value of the investment
in the bank has fallen by more than half,” Raikundlia wrote in
a report to clients yesterday. “There could potentially be a
large management exodus leaving a huge challenge for the
government to manage a bank with 1 trillion pounds of assets.”  The Treasury is opposed to any such plan and U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., the body that oversees the taxpayer’s stake,
said in its annual report last month the government is committed
to returning RBS to private ownership at the earliest
appropriate opportunity.  “There’s probably, in the end, better ways to facilitate
lending on the part of all banks in the U.K. than to nationalize
RBS,” Van Saun said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  