-- RBS Says Impairments at Irish Division Fell in Second Quarter
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-08-03T08:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/rbs-says-impairments-at-irish-division-fell-in-second-quarter.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
owner of  Ulster Bank  Ltd., set aside less money in the second
quarter to cover souring loans in Ireland as losses on the
portfolio it’s trying to wind down dropped 80 percent.  Impairment charges at Ulster Bank’s so-called non-core unit
fell to 191 million pounds ($296.5 million) from 982 million
pounds in the year-earlier period after the bank made a
“substantial” provision for declining real estate prices in
2011, RBS said in a  statement  today. The core loan-loss charge
rose to 323 million pounds from 269 million pounds, RBS said.  Banks operating in Ireland have been grappling with bad-
loan losses after the collapse of a real-estate bubble in 2008.
RBS has injected as much as 10.8 billion pounds into Ulster Bank
since 2008 to absorb rising loan losses. Lloyds Banking Group
Plc and  Allied Irish  Banks Plc, the nation’s second-largest
bank, last week reported declines in first-half loan-loss
charges as the rate of increase in home-loan arrears slowed.  “Trading conditions remain difficult as Irish economic
indicators continue to be weak,” RBS said. “While impairment
levels are still elevated” at Ulster Bank, asset prices
continue to weaken and mortgage arrears rise, the pace of
deterioration in “credit metrics” eased in the second quarter
compared to the first three months of the year, it said.  Ulster Bank, the largest overseas-owned consumer lender in
Ireland, moved 16.7 billion pounds of its loan book to RBS’s
non-core unit in 2009, leaving it with 39.7 billion pounds of
loans at the time. The bank had 33 billion pounds of core loans
and 13.4 billion pounds of non-core loans at the end of June.  Irish Property  Ulster Bank’s operating loss, which excludes the non-core
business, widened to 245 million pounds in the second quarter
from 178 million pounds in the year-earlier period, RBS said.  Irish  house prices  have halved from their 2007 peak, the
 Central Statistics Office  said July 24. Commercial real estate
values have plunged by 67 percent, according to Investment
Property Databank. Unemployment in the country stood at 14.8
percent in July, according to the CSO.  Ulster Bank’s net interest margin, the difference between
the rates at which it borrows and lends, narrowed by 5 basis
points to 1.82 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months.  “The decline in the margin in the quarter reflects the
trends we note at the other banks,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an
analyst at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers , in a note.
“Allied Irish’s margin was down 12 basis points in the first
half and we are anticipating an 8 basis-point decline in Bank of
Ireland Plc when it reports first-half numbers next week.”  RBS set aside 28 million pounds to compensate Ulster Bank
customers hit by a computer failure in June that left some of
its 1.9 million customers unable to access their accounts. The
breakdown has been “largely rectified,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  