-- RBS’s CEO Blames Libor-Manipulation on ‘Handful’ of Individuals
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-03T11:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/rbs-s-ceo-blames-libor-manipulation-on-handful-of-individuals.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  sought to limit the
damage from the Libor-rigging scandal, blaming a “handful” of
employees for attempting to manipulate the benchmark rate.  RBS dismissed four employees for trying to influence the
individual responsible for Libor submissions following an
internal investigation, the bank said today, without identifying
the staff involved. Hester said it is too early to estimate the
potential cost of fines and litigation linked to rate-rigging.  “The Libor issue is more to do with the wrongdoing of
individuals than it is to do with a systemic problem,” Hester,
51, said on a call with journalists today after the Edinburgh-
based bank reported a 22 percent drop in second-quarter
operating  profit . “It’s hugely regrettable that the actions of
a relatively small number of wrongdoers, which seems to be the
key issue here, has such a tainting effect on the industry.”  Libor is the third mis-step to hit RBS in the past 14
months. U.K. banks have already set aside more than 8 billion
pounds to compensate customers improperly sold products to
insure loan repayments, and are also being probed for mis
selling  interest-rate swaps  to small businesses. Separately, RBS
said a computer failure in June that left many of its 15 million
account holders unable to access their accounts for days, will
cost the bank about 125 million pounds ($195 million).  RBS may be fined 420 million pounds by regulators and have
to pay 680 million pounds more to settle civil lawsuits
following the probe, Morgan Stanley analyst  Betsy Graseck  said
in a July 12 report.  CEO Ousted  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds in June
when it became the first bank to reach a settlement with
regulators. The sanction, coupled with criticism from
regulators, forced the departure of the London-based lender’s
chairman, CEO and chief operating officer.  Hester’s comment that the wrongdoing was limited to a
handful of RBS employees contradicts comments by traders fired
by the bank. Tan Chi Min said in papers filed in  Singapore ’s
 High Court  in February that his managers knew about Libor-
manipulation and condoned it.  Employees “weren’t at any time forbidden from
communicating input or requests” to have the bank’s rate-
setters set rates at levels to maximize profits, he said. The
former employee is suing the bank over his dismissal and seeking
to recoup $1.5 million in bonuses and 3.3 million RBS shares
that he claims he’s owed.  RBS spokesman Michael Strachan declined to expand upon
Hester’s comments.  Profit Falls  RBS said profit fell 22 percent in the second quarter as
revenue from its markets unit slipped amid the worsening
European sovereign debt crisis.  Operating profit  fell to 650
million pounds from 833 million pounds in the year-earlier
period. That was in line with the 649 million-pound median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue at the
markets unit, which includes debt capital markets and foreign
exchange, fell 9 percent to 1.07 billion pounds.  The London interbank offered rate is determined by a daily
poll carried out on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association
that asks banks to estimate how much it would cost to borrow
from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. A predetermined number of quotes are excluded and
those left are averaged and published for individual currencies
before noon.  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are probing more than a
dozen banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated the
benchmark. Investigators are examining whether traders colluded
to rig the rate for profit and whether banks understated their
borrowing costs to appear healthier than they were.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  