-- Treasuries Hold Place as Best Performers Before Jobs Data
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-03T05:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/treasuries-hold-place-as-best-performers-before-jobs-data.html
Treasuries held their place as the
world’s top-performing bonds over the past three months before a
U.S. unemployment report that economists said will show the
jobless rate is stuck at 8.2 percent.  U.S. government securities due in 10 years and longer
returned 9.8 percent in the period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. The gain was the most among 144 debt indexes after
accounting for changes in bond prices and currencies, reflecting
demand for Treasuries as a haven from slowing economic growth
and a fiscal crisis in  Europe .  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.47
percent as of 6:42 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The record low yield was 1.38 percent set July
25. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 was
102 1/2 today.  “We’ve probably seen the bottom in Treasury rates, but
we’re still in a low-yield environment,” said Andy Cossor, the
Hong Kong-based chief market strategist at DZ Bank AG,  Germany ’s
fourth-largest lender. “The  U.S. economy  is sluggish.” Ten-
year yields will be 1.6 percent in six months, according to the
bank.  Japan ’s 10-year rate slid four basis points to 0.73
percent, versus 2012’s low of 0.72 percent set in July. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Jobs Data  Mohamed El-Erian, the co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., home to the world’s biggest
bond fund, said the world economy is suffering its severest
slowdown since the global recession that ended in 2009.  “This is a serious, synchronized slowdown,” El-Erian, who
is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in an interview
yesterday.  A U.S. report today will probably show the economy added
100,000 jobs in July, the most since March, while the jobless
rate held at 8.2 percent, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. Unemployment has been more than 8 percent since
February 2009.  Yields that are approaching record lows may erode demand as
investors prepare to bid at auctions next week, said Ali Jalai,
who trades  U.S. debt  in Singapore at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21 primary dealers authorized to deal
with the  Federal Reserve .  The Treasury Department is scheduled to auction $32 billion
of three-year notes, $24 billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion
of 30-year bonds over three days starting Aug. 7.  “Yields are too low,” Jalai said. “We have the auctions,
and we could see a correction going into next week.”  Most Expensive  The term premium, a model created by economists at the
Federal Reserve that includes expectations for  interest rates ,
growth and inflation, shows Treasuries are almost the most
expensive ever. The gauge was negative 0.94, versus the record
low of negative 1.02 set July 24.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help guide
monetary policy, climbed to 2.57 percent as of July 31 from 2.38
percent over three business days. It was the steepest increase
in almost two months. The gauge has averaged 2.75 percent over
the past decade.  The central bank plans to sell as much as $8 billion of
Treasuries due from January 2013 to June 2013 today, according
to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . The sales are part of
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs by swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer maturities.  ‘Severe Malfunctioning’  Treasuries climbed yesterday after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  failed to take immediate steps to support
the euro region’s economy.  Draghi said there was “severe malfunctioning” in the
region’s debt markets, while stopping short of introducing
measures to resolve the situation. He spoke after policy makers
kept the benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent.  Demand for German debt as a haven pushed yields on two-year
bunds down to negative 0.09 percent yesterday. Investors require
31 basis points of additional  yield  to buy same-maturity
Treasuries, the biggest difference in two years.  Mortgage-Backed Securities  Investors trying to increase their yields should consider
switching from  government bonds  to high-quality mortgage-backed
securities, supranational bonds or corporate debt, Seamus Mac Gorain, a strategist in London at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in
a report yesterday. Investors who can tolerate greater risk may
consider high-yield bonds, according to JPMorgan, which is one
of the one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with
the Fed.  An index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yield company
debt pays 2.75 percentage points more than Treasuries, according
to according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investor
appetite for corporate bonds has narrowed the difference from
3.48 percentage points at the end of last year.  It’s still a good idea to buy Treasuries, said John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored Wolf LLC, a
hedge fund in  Irvine , California. “We’re pretty defensive,” he
said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with
Alix Steel and  Adam Johnson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  