-- Treasuries Fall as Better Job Gains Slow Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-03T21:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/treasuries-fall-as-better-job-gains-slow-fed-speculation.html
Treasuries fell the most in a week
after a government report showed the  U.S. economy  added more
jobs than forecast last month, decreasing speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will resort to a third round of asset purchases.  Ten-year note yields  rose from almost record lows as
members of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition parties
signaled they won’t stand in the way of European Central Bank
chief  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy  government bonds . The Fed said
Aug. 1 after a policy meeting it “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to spur growth and employment, a
tactic known as quantitative easing, or QE, while it refrained
from expanding monetary stimulation this month.  “The economy is healing, but healing gradually,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of the  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “It’s not strong enough to suggest the economy is going to
take off. It’s not weak enough to confirm the Fed is going to
come in.”  The 10-year  yield  rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.56 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 fell 25/32, or $7.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 22/32. The yield rose two basis points on the
week. It touched 1.379 percent on July 25, the lowest ever.  The  30-year bond yield  rose nine basis points to 2.64
percent after touching an all-time low of 2.4405 percent on July
26.  Net Longs  Treasury trading volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to $234.7
billion, the lowest since July 30. Trading has averaged $241
billion this year.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-short position to a net-long position in 10-year note
futures in the week ending July 31, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions, wagers prices will fall, by 2,055
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade. Last week, traders were
net-short 77,414 contracts.  Payrolls increased 163,000 following a revised 64,000 rise
in June that was less than initially reported, Labor Department
figures showed in  Washington . The median estimate of 89
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a gain of
100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.  No ‘Armageddon’  “The number reassures us that we are not going into a
recession or Armageddon,” said Gary Madich, managing director,
and chief investment officer for J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s
global fixed-income group located in Columbus,  Ohio . “Maybe the
message will be that they will extend rates lower for longer out
to another year or so, as opposed to doing anything significant
with securities purchases.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the conclusion of
a two-day meeting in Washington that economic activity had
“decelerated somewhat” over the first half of the year while
indicating a sluggish economy may prompt further steps to spur
the economy.  Central banks, including the Fed, have stepped in to
bolster the economy as global growth has slowed and as hiring in
the U.S. dropped off from a 19-month high of 275,000 in January.  Lacker’s View  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he
opposed the Fed’s decision to keep the main  interest rate  near
zero through at least late 2014 because such accommodation
probably won’t be necessary.  “Exceptionally low federal funds rates are not likely to
be warranted for this length of time,” Lacker said in a
statement today. “The Committee’s statement implies more
confidence about the persistence of low  interest rates  than I
believe is justified by the current outlook.”  The Fed today sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries due from
January 2013 to April 2013 today as part of its plan to contain
borrowing costs by swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer maturities. The central bank said June 20
that it would enlarge the program, known as Operation Twist
after a similar tactic used in the 1960s, to $667 billion from
$400 billion.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of  government  and
mortgage securities in two rounds of quantitative easing between
December 2008 June 2011 in an effort to lower borrowing costs.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing
index  rose to 52.6 in July from the prior month’s 52.1, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast the index would remain unchanged at 52.1 in
July. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  ‘Short End’  Yields on the 10-year note will climb to 1.83 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings. The yield has averaged
3.14 percent over the past five years.  Ten-year notes have returned 5.3 percent this year,
compared with a 2.8 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Longer-dated maturities  led declines earlier on speculation
the  European Central Bank  will soon come up with measures to
calm the euro-region  bond market  damped demand for the safest
assets.  Draghi said yesterday any bond purchases would focus “on
the short end of the yield curve.” He also left open the
question on whether the bank would neutralize future bond
purchases, a step it has taken with all of its interventions to
date.  ‘Middle Way’  The envisaged move to purchase troubled euro states’
government bonds is “a wise middle way” to solve the region’s
debt crisis, Elmar Brok, a European Parliament lawmaker and
executive-committee member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union party, told Deutschlandfunk radio today.  The term premium, a model created by economists at the Fed
that includes expectations for interest rates, growth and
inflation, shows Treasuries are almost the most expensive ever.
The gauge was minus 0.91 today, after falling to a record minus
1.02 on July 24.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help guide
monetary policy, climbed to 2.57 percent as of July 31 from 2.38
percent on July 28. The gauge has averaged 2.75 percent over the
past decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  