-- Reducing Repo Risk, Small Banks, China Equity: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-03T12:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/reducing-repo-risk-small-banks-china-equity-compliance.html
A Federal Reserve official told
lawmakers the central bank will push to reduce risk in the
$1.8 trillion repurchase-agreement market by pressing the
largest dealers for faster and more accurate trade
confirmations.  “Enhancing the market’s resiliency and its settlement
system is an important regulatory and financial stability
priority,” Matthew Eichner, deputy director of the Fed’s
division of research and statistics, said yesterday in prepared
testimony to a Senate panel. “Supervisory efforts will yield
substantial progress in eliminating the reliance of the tri-
party repo market on intraday credit.”  Eichner said the Fed’s push to boost risk management in the
tri-party repurchase agreement market, which neared collapse in
2008 amid the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is taking longer than “many of
us had hoped”  because of delays in developing a plan to
liquidate the collateral of a defaulting dealer.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.
The market is the biggest single source of financing for U.S.
primary dealers, the 21 firms that act as counterparties for the
central bank.  “The reliance on discretionary intraday credit in the tri-
party settlement process poses difficult dilemmas for cash
lenders, borrowers, and clearing banks during periods of market
stress,” Eichner told the Senate Banking Committee’s
Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment.  Repos are transactions used predominantly by the Fed’s
primary dealers for short-term funding, and typically involve
the sale of U.S. government securities in exchange for cash,
generally lent by money market mutual funds. The debt is held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender.  The Fed took over efforts to improve functioning of the
tri-party repo market in February after the private-sector Tri-
Party Repo Infrastructure  Task Force , sponsored by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, disbanded. The Fed said July 18 that
banks should rely less on intra-day credit from clearing banks
and enhance risk management.  Special Section:  Knight Capital   Knight Losses Ignite Call for Stronger SEC Trading Oversight  The trading losses at  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  renewed
pressure on Washington regulators to prove they are equipped to
protect investors in markets that are increasingly computerized
and fragmented.  The software problem and ensuing loss experienced by the
company comes on the heels of other high-profile technological
lapses that botched the initial public offerings of  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and Bats Global Markets Inc.  While the Securities and Exchange Commission has issued a
flurry of rules aimed at tamping down rapid market swings, some
former regulators, market participants and lawmakers said the
measures don’t go far enough. They called for the agency to
bolster its stable of experts, tighten oversight and intensify
its focus on high frequency trading.  Representative Maxine Waters of California, a senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said the
panel should hold hearings to get to the bottom of the turmoil.  “Though we don’t yet know precisely what caused the
problem with Knight Capital, with a drumbeat of financial market
snafus continuing, it’s clear that the industry, with guidance
from regulators, needs to strengthen their internal controls,”
Waters said.  Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat on
the Financial Services panel, said the Knight incident makes him
think that markets are “disturbingly vulnerable” and worry
that “the technology is not as reliable as we need.”  The SEC has opened an inquiry into the Knight incident.  For more, click here.  Levitt Says Knight Errors Underscore Transparency Need  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a Bloomberg LP board member, and Neil
Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S. Treasury’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor, discussed transparency and regulation
following yesterday’s trading errors attributed to a software
glitch at Knight Capital Group Inc.  Levitt and Barofsky spoke with Stephanie Ruhle and  Erik
Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Knight Has ‘All Hands on Deck’ to Deal With $440 Million Bug  Knight Capital Group Inc. has “all hands on deck” and is
in close contact with creditors, clients and counterparties as
it tries to weather trading errors that cost it $440 million,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  Joyce said it’s “hard to comment” on discussions with
creditors as Knight stock extended a two-day plunge to
75 percent and the firm explored strategic and financial
alternatives following a loss almost four times its annual
profit. The problems were triggered by what Joyce called “a
large bug” in software as the company, one of the largest U.S.
market makers, prepared to trade with a New York Stock Exchange
program catering to individual investors. Some clients refrained
from doing business with the firm yesterday.  Knight was fighting to preserve its business as concern
grew about its solvency and pressure built for it to find a
buyer or investor. Joyce said its broker-dealer subsidiaries are
in compliance with capital requirements. The company is in
contact with clients, counterparties and creditors as it works
to recover, Joyce said.  The programming bug swept through the market at the opening
of exchanges. The bad software code is gone now, he said, and
some clients of the market-making business were executing with
the firm by the end of yesterday after Knight told them
initially to go elsewhere.  Knight has been at the center of U.S. equities trading for
more than a decade. It was founded in 1995 and grew during the
bull market of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of
the technology stocks that led the market’s surge and subsequent
plunge. It had 1,423 employees at the end of 2011, according to
a regulatory filing.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Small Banks Ask Break From Agency They Hoped Would Hurt BofA  U.S. community banks, which sat out the final fight over
the Dodd-Frank law of 2010 expecting it would rein in their
biggest rivals, are now seeking exemptions from two pending
rules of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau amid mounting
concern about costs to their businesses.  In meetings with  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director,
the  Independent Community Bankers of America  has called on the
agency to limit the reach of a rule on mortgage disclosures and
a second one on underwriting standards for home loans.  The demands reflect a rising conviction among community
banks that the bureau won’t deliver on its promise to write
regulations that serve consumers while also reducing the burden
on smaller banks, according to Camden Fine, president of the
community bankers trade association.  Since Harvard professor  Elizabeth Warren  started setting up
the new agency in September 2010, forging an alliance with
community banks has been a centerpiece of its strategy.  Warren, who is now a Democratic candidate for the U.S.
Senate from Massachusetts, argued that rules could be written in
a manner that help them grab market share from major
institutions such as  Bank of America Corp.  or  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   After President Barack Obama installed him as the agency’s
first director on Jan. 4, Cordray explicitly promised community
bankers that, in order to limit their costs, he would consider
exemptions to some rules. Such a move has drawn opposition from
larger banks, which object to the unequal treatment, and from
consumer groups, who argue it would repeat a pre-financial
crisis mistake.  The community bankers are seeking an exemption for banks
that do very few mortgages from the CFPB’s marquee project, a
simplification of federally mandated disclosures that consumers
get when shopping and signing for a mortgage, Fine said.  For more, click here.  IMF Says Serbian Central-Bank Draft Law Undermines Credibility  A Serbian draft law on the central bank, if approved by
Parliament, would “undermine policy credibility” and may
affect the Balkan nation’s bid for a bailout loan, the
International Monetary Fund said.  “We also have reservations regarding the rushed passage of
the amendments affecting the framework for financial
supervision, without careful consideration by key
stakeholders,” the Washington-based lender said in a statement.
“Approval of these amendments would create uncertainty,
undermine policy credibility, and prompt questions about the
proper conduct of macroeconomic policies.”  Compliance Action  Nomura Ordered to Improve Business by FSA on Insider Leaks  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , whose top two executives resigned
last week to take responsibility for an insider-trading scandal,
was ordered by Japanese regulators to improve its securities
operations.  The action concludes an investigation started in April that
revealed Nomura failed to prevent employees from providing tips
to traders on at least three share sales in 2010. Nomura has
lost equity and bond underwriting business amid the probe,
missing out on coordinating the global $8.5 billion initial
public offering of Japan Airlines Co. announced today.  Nomura said in a statement today that it will continue to
enhance internal controls, prevent similar incidents and regain
public trust.  The  Financial Services Agency ’s order, the second for
Nomura in four years, requires the company to implement
preventive measures it set out after an internal investigation,
the regulator said in a statement today. Nomura must report to
the agency on the status of its remedies, which include ethics
training and stricter monitoring of communication with clients.  The FSA’s penalty comes after its investigative arm found
that Nomura Securities Co. solicited clients by giving them
privileged information on companies, and failed to prevent
unfair trading before public offerings it managed, the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission said on July 31.  Nomura said in June that employees provided information on
offerings it managed for  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex
Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to traders who short-sold the
stocks before they were announced in 2010.  Today’s punishment isn’t the first for Nomura over insider
trading-related breaches. The FSA ordered the firm in July 2008
to improve internal controls over how it handles corporate
information after an employee was convicted of insider trading.  For more, click here.  China Cuts Transaction Fees for Stock Trading to Boost Market  Chinese regulators, seeking to arrest a 14 percent slide in
the  nation’s stock market  since this year’s high on March 2,
reduced transaction fees on equities trading by 20 percent.  The reduction will take effect Sept. 1 and save investors
600 million yuan ($94 million) in transaction-related fees in
the final four months of the year, the  China Securities
Regulatory Commission  said on its website Aug. 1. Separately,
the official Xinhua News Agency said that China is also
considering a cut in stamp duty on share trading.  The reduction follows a July 31 announcement by the
Communist Party’s Politburo that pledged to continue adjusting
policies to ensure stable economic growth. The Securities Times
said in a front-page commentary the same day that the government
should introduce measures to stabilize the stock market and
boost investor confidence.  The lower fees are the latest measure to boost investor
sentiment. The CSRC in recent months urged listed companies to
pay more cash dividends and changed how initial public offerings
are priced.  For more, click here.  Regulator Asks Swiss Insurers to Report on Liquidity Management  The  Swiss financial regulator  wants insurers including
 Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  and  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  to report on
liquidity management practices to better understand their
capital strength.  Insurers are required to give a “structured” report of
their liquidity risks by the end of April 2013, the regulator
said in a  circular  on its website yesterday. The reforms follow
recommendations of the International Association of Insurance
Supervisors, Finma said.  Switzerland introduced new solvency regulations for
insurers in January last year to align insurers’ risks with the
capital they hold. Insurers in the European Union will be faced
with similar regulation from January 2014 .  “Alongside capital management, liquidity management
provides a holistic view of capital strength and is a central
element of financial corporate governance,” the regulator said.
“It means the ability of a company to meet due payment
obligations in full and in time.”  Navistar Tumbles After Receiving Letter From SEC  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the maker of International
brand trucks, fell as much as 11 percent after it disclosed a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry and withdrew its
full-year earnings forecast.  The company had declined 35 percent this year through Aug.
1.  The Lisle, Illinois-based company said it received a letter
from the SEC requesting additional information related to
accounting and disclosure matters, without providing more
details, and is “cooperating fully.” Navistar, which has been
developing an engine to meet U.S. emission standards after its
earlier technology failed to comply, said in a statement that it
is withdrawing its yearly forecast until the release of its
third-quarter earnings next month.  Navistar also said Columbus, Indiana-based  Cummins Inc. (CMI) 
will supply it with its urea-based aftertreatment system. As
part of the non-binding agreement, Cummins’s technology will be
added to Navistar’s in-cylinder engine to meet Environmental
Protection Agency 2010 emission standards.  “The actions announced today establish a clear path
forward for Navistar and position the company to deliver a
differentiated product to our customers and provide a platform
for generating profitable growth,” Daniel C. Ustian, Navistar’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington on June 12 threw
out a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency interim rule that
allowed Navistar to keep selling noncompliant engines if it paid
penalties of as much as $2,000 each.  For more, click here.  RBS’s CEO Blames Libor-Manipulation on ‘Handful’ of Individuals  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester  sought to limit the damage from the Libor-rigging
scandal, blaming a “handful” of employees for attempting to
manipulate the benchmark rate.  RBS dismissed four employees for trying to influence the
individual responsible for Libor submissions following an
internal investigation, the bank said today, without identifying
the staff involved. Hester said it is too early to estimate the
potential cost of fines and litigation linked to rate-rigging.  Libor is the third misstep to hit RBS in the past 14
months. U.K. banks have already set aside more than 8 billion
pounds ($12.4 billion) to compensate customers improperly sold
products to insure loan repayments, and are also being probed
for misselling interest-rate swaps to small businesses.  Separately, RBS said a computer failure in June that left
many of its 15 million account holders unable to access their
accounts for days will cost the bank about 125 million pounds.
RBS may be fined by regulators 420 million pounds to settle the
probe.  For more, click here.  Courts  Bristol-Myers Executive Ramnarine Accused of Insider Trading  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  executive Robert Ramnarine was
charged with insider trading for making $311,361 in illegal
profit by buying stock options in three companies targeted for
acquisition.  Ramnarine has been placed on administrative leave,
according to Bristol-Myers.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Ramnarine, 45,
and he appeared yesterday in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, where he was released on $250,000 bond. Ramnarine’s jobs
included executive director of pensions and savings investments
and assistant treasurer for capital markets. He bought stock
options on companies as he was conducting due diligence research
on them, violating his duty not to profit from inside
information, according to the FBI.  Ramnarine did computer searches to gain information on how
to avoid detection by securities regulators, according to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which sued him
yesterday.  After court, Peter Carter, Ramnarine’s assistant federal
public defender, declined to comment.  “Bristol-Myers Squibb has clear and strict policies
prohibiting trading on material nonpublic information and is
cooperating with the government’s investigation,” Ken Dominski,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Ramnarine, 12-mj-8121, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Germany Pleased Draghi Sees Eye to Eye on No ESM Bank License  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s view that
the euro’s permanent rescue fund doesn’t warrant being given a
bank license is to be welcomed, said German Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler, who is leading the country during  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s summer vacation.  Draghi’s view backs up Germany’s position on the primary
role of national governments in taming the crisis, in their
maintaining budget discipline and making their economies
competitive, Roesler said in an e-mailed statement.  Draghi made the remarks on ECB policy at a press conference
in Frankfurt.  Frank Says Principal Forgiveness Important for Economy  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
talked about the outlook for regulation in light of recent
financial market scandals.  Frank, who spoke with Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed the
Federal Housing Finance Agency’s decision not to allow principal
forgiveness on mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  