-- Reid and Romney Both Are Hiding Something
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-03T22:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/reid-and-romney-both-are-hiding-something.html
Harry Reid  knows something. The U.S.
Senate majority leader repeatedly charged this week that  Mitt Romney  paid no taxes in recent years despite the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee’s eight-figure annual income.  “The word’s out that he hasn’t paid any taxes for 10
years,” Reid said.  How does Reid know this?  “I am not basing this on some figment of my imagination,”
he explained to reporters. “I have had a number of people tell
me that.”  Reid won’t disclose his sources, but the “number of people”
who have both firsthand knowledge of Romney’s  taxes  and an
eagerness to share the details with the top Democrat on Capitol
Hill must be a very small number indeed. “I don’t think the
burden should be on me,” Reid said, shifting the spotlight to
Romney. “The burden should be on him. He’s the one I’ve alleged
has not paid any taxes.”  Leaving aside Reid’s charge for the moment, Romney should
disclose his taxes -- at least for the half-dozen years during
which he has been actively pursuing the presidency. His failure
to do so is unsettling precisely because he has had so much time
to prepare for the inevitable. At best, his intransigence raises
questions about his political acumen. At worst, it makes people
wonder if there is something he is hiding.  That, of course, is precisely the concern that Reid is
seeking to exploit. Calling for Romney to release his taxes is
good ethics and good politics. Citing secret allegations about
secret tax data from secret sources is something different:
Without proof, it’s demagogy.  There’s been a lot of that going around  Washington  lately.
Representative  Allen West  has  located  dozens of “communists” in
Congress while Representative  Michele Bachmann  and colleagues
have  sounded the alarm  about the “deep penetration” of Muslim
extremists in the Department of State. Then there was that
matter of President  Barack Obama ’s birth certificate.  Reid lacks the clownishness of the Joe McCarthy Re-enactors
Caucus in the  House of Representatives . But he knows something
of their motives. So while we’re skeptical of the majority
leader’s claims of inside knowledge of Romney’s taxes, we’re
confident that Reid does in fact know something. He knows
better.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 