-- Republicans Seeking to ‘Suppress’ Obama Votes, Says DNC
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/republicans-seeking-to-suppress-obama-votes-says-dnc.html
Republicans want to “suppress and
block” supporters of President  Barack Obama  from voting because
they are willing to win at any cost, the president’s former
political director said.  By pushing for laws requiring voters to show government-
issued photo identification before casting ballots, Republicans
backing presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  “are determined to
do all that they can to be successful in this election by any
means necessary,” Patrick Gaspard, now the  Democratic National
Committee ’s executive director, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Gaspard and other opponents of the voter-ID laws say they
discriminate against poor, young, elderly and minority voters,
who are more likely to back Obama over Romney.  “Instead of producing jobs, they’d rather keep young
people from voting,” Gaspard said. “They’d rather keep senior
citizens from voting.” He declined to say directly if he
thought racial considerations were motivating the effort to pass
the laws.  Republicans say they are trying to limit fraud and preserve
the integrity of the election process.  “While Americans overwhelmingly believe in maintaining the
integrity of our elections, the Democrats continue to make it
about politics,”  Tim Miller , a spokesman for the  Republican
National Committee , said in an e-mail.  Black Voters  Gaspard said the Democratic base, including black voters,
would be “active, mobilized and animated” for the Nov. 6
election after Democrats draw a contrast with Romney and tout
the administration’s accomplishments, including the health-care
overhaul enacted in 2010 and increased availability of federal
student aid for education.  Voters, including African-Americans, “recognized that this
president has put infrastructure in place that’s going to make
sure that we grow our economy from the middle out,” Gaspard
said.  Obama won 95 percent of the black vote in the 2008
election, up from 88 percent for Democrat  John Kerry  in 2004,
according to national exit polls. Black voters accounted for 13
percent of the electorate in 2008, up from 11 percent in 2004,
according to the polls.  Voter enthusiasm for Obama may be lower this year than in
2008, when Democrats had advantages, including a long primary
contest that boosted participation and running against the
unpopular eight-year presidency of Republican  George W. Bush .  Historic Trends  “When you look at historic trends, usually when someone is
running for the second time, be they Democrats or Republicans,
you never have the same fervor that you had,” Gaspard said.  The black population is larger than 10 percent in the swing
states of  Virginia ,  Florida ,  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania . Strong black
turnout in North Carolina, where more than one in five people
are black, helped Obama carry the state in 2008, though polls
say Romney has the edge there now.  The unemployment  rate  for the black population was 14.1
percent in July, up from 12.7 percent when Obama took office in
January 2009. It peaked at 16.7 percent in August 2011. The
black jobless rate is almost twice as high as the 7.4 percent
rate for whites.  The  unemployment  rate for all Americans rose to 8.3
percent, the Labor Department said yesterday. That’s the 42nd
consecutive month it has held above 8 percent -- the longest
stretch in the post-World War II era.  Convention Fundraising  Gaspard said the Democratic National Convention in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , from Sept. 4-6 would “have more than
enough resources” even with the struggles by host committee
officials to meet fundraising deadlines.  “The convention staff is working day and night to raise
the resources that we need,” Gaspard said, noting that the host
committee is eschewing donations from corporations and
lobbyists. Host committee officials have set up a second
nonprofit organization that is accepting corporate money to help
defray convention costs.  Obama is scheduled to accept the Democratic nomination on
Sept. 6 at Bank of America Stadium. Gaspard defended the venue
even as the president attacks the excesses of large financial
institutions and pushed for more regulation of the industry.  Obama throughout his political career has “always lifted
up the entrepreneurial instincts of this country and has done
all that he could to help salvage the banking industry, and to
enact reforms that will benefit middle-class Americans,”
Gaspard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  