-- Republican Roadblock Leaves Long Odds for 2012 Cybersecurity Law
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/republican-roadblock-leaves-long-odds-for-2012-cybersecurity-law.html
The Senate’s failure to move forward
on a bill to strengthen U.S. computer defenses leaves little
chance that Congress can find a compromise this year, as
lawmakers turn their attention to November’s election.  The chamber’s Democratic leadership failed yesterday to get
the 60 votes needed to force a final vote on the cybersecurity
measure before the Senate leaves this week for an August recess.
The vote was 52-46, largely along party lines, as most
Republicans opposed a bill their leaders called a burden for
businesses.  “As a practical matter, it’s probably dead,” Stewart Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy at the Department
of  Homeland Security , said in an interview. “There’s some
people hoping against hope to revive it, but given the calendar
and the difficulty of the issues, it would be almost
impossible.”  The Republicans’ roadblock was a setback for President
 Barack Obama ’s administration, which tried to build support
through a series of briefings for senators on potential dangers
of a digital attack on the nation’s infrastructure, including a
simulated assault on  New York  City’s power grid.  The bill from Senate Homeland Security Committee Chairman
 Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, originally proposed
government-issued computer security standards for privately
owned infrastructure, such as electrical and water systems,
considered essential to national security. It also promoted
information sharing about cyber threats between businesses and
the U.S. government.  Voluntary Standards  Last month, Lieberman and his co-sponsors sought to attract
Republican support by revising the measure, replacing mandatory
security rules with a system for developing voluntary industry
standards, with incentives for companies to adopt them.  The Senate’s Republican leadership, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and other business groups opposed the legislation even
with the changes, saying the voluntary infrastructure standards
would be a back door to later imposing government regulations.  “Between business pressures and electoral pressures,
there’s no way they’re going to get to anything useful,”  James Lewis , technology program director at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, said in an interview. “The game now
will be each side blames the other.”  Obama may be able, by executive order, to accomplish some
of the legislation’s goals, said Baker, now a partner at the
Steptoe & Johnson law firm in Washington.  ‘Profound Disappointment’  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, in an e-mailed
statement yesterday blamed the Senate vote on “the politics of
obstructionism, driven by special-interest groups seeking to
avoid accountability.”  Cyber attacks on U.S. computer networks increased 17-fold
from 2009 through 2011, General Keith Alexander, director of the
National Security Agency and the U.S. Cyber Command, said last
month, citing reports that digital adversaries have stolen $1
trillion of U.S. intellectual property.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense company, were
among U.S. companies that suffered cyber attacks last year.  “It’s not just another political argument in a campaign,”
Lieberman told reporters after yesterday’s vote. “This is about
what everyone acknowledges is rising to be a serious threat to
America’s security in the years ahead.”  Lieberman said he wasn’t optimistic about the bill’s
chances, though he said he’s open to further negotiations on
amendments.  A co-sponsor, California Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein, said backers would continue to seek an agreement
during the August break. “Either it’s done by September, or
we’re not going to be able to do it,” she said.  ‘Scared Cats’  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said before the vote that Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
was trying to “steamroll” the bill past opponents seeking to
vote on amendments. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said Republicans
are “running like scared cats” to please the Chamber, the
largest business lobbying group.  Five Republicans crossed party lines to vote in favor of
proceeding with the bill, and five Democrats sided with
Republicans in blocking the measure. Reid also voted no for
procedural reasons, so he can later bring up the bill for
reconsideration.  A cybersecurity measure that passed the Republican-
controlled  House of Representatives  in April focuses on cyber-
threat information sharing without setting standards for
companies. It is sponsored by Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican who leads the House Intelligence Committee.  Carney described the House bill as “deeply flawed,”
saying it threatens the privacy of consumer data and does
nothing to protect the nation’s infrastructure.  Lieberman’s bill is S. 3414. Rogers’s bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  