-- Romney Resets Focusing on Jobs, Chatting With Reporters
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-03T17:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/romney-resets-focusing-on-jobs-chatting-with-reporters.html
Mitt Romney , seeking to silence
concerns that his campaign isn’t ready to take on President
Barack Obama, made his first appearances since returning from a
gaffe-plagued overseas trip and moved to shift attention back to
the slow U.S. economic recovery.  “The president’s policies have not worked the way he’s
said they would” on the economy, he said at a news conference
in Las Vegas today. Asked if he thought the economy had slipped
into recession, he said: “I certainly hope not.”  Romney’s appearance marked the second day he returned to
the economic messages that Republicans say will defeat Obama.
Yesterday, his campaign released a “white paper” to bolster
Romney’s claim that he would be able to create 12 million U.S.
jobs during the first term of his presidency, offering the sort
of specifics that Republicans urged to reassure voters.  “Today I want to talk about making things better,” Romney
said yesterday in opening remarks at a fairground in Golden,
Colorado. It was a comment meant to be about his plans for the
economy, though it could also be applied to his campaign’s
direction.  Romney’s trip unveiled an upgraded operation aimed at
getting back into the business of domestic campaigning, making
last-minute scheduling changes by adding events, putting more
senior staff on the road and providing new  charter flights  for
the media traveling with him.  Engaging Media  The former Massachusetts governor’s July 31 final stop on
his six-day Europe trip was overshadowed by a clash with
reporters at a Polish military grave site in which an aide told
the media to “kiss my ass” -- an exchange that went viral on
the Internet. Yesterday, two top aides chatted up reporters
before a Colorado campaign appearance.  On the road with Romney was Beth Myers, who is leading his
vice presidential search. Joining her was  Kevin Madden , a senior
communications adviser who worked on Romney’s 2008 presidential
bid. Absent from the Romney road show was  Rick Gorka , the
traveling press secretary who swore at the media near the Warsaw
war memorial. A campaign official not authorized to discuss the
matter said he is taking some time off.  One cause of the tension between reporters and the campaign
during the international trip was the scant opportunity to ask
the candidate questions. Yesterday, Romney made a point of
coming back to speak briefly with reporters in the rear of a jet
before a flight between two Colorado cities. Today, he held a
rare press conference.  VP Pick  “Sorry guys,” he said yesterday when asked about the
process for picking a running mate, “I got nothing for you.”
He avoided the question again today.  Democrats tried to keep voters from forgetting his foreign
trip and sought to renew a debate that was raging in the days
before he left for stops in England, Israel and Poland.
MoveOn.org, a group that supports President  Barack Obama , paid
for an airplane outside his event with a banner behind it that
read, “Welcome Back Mitt! Now Release Those Returns!”  The reference to Romney’s tax returns is part of Democratic
demands that the former private equity executive release
additional tax records. He has promised to make public two years
of records for 2010 and 2011, both of which come after the 2008
financial sector collapse that may have prompted him to write
off big losses.  Obama Advantage  The retooling of the Romney campaign comes as Obama has an
edge over Romney in national polls. He led the challenger 51
percent to 41 percent in a July 16-26 poll of registered voters
conducted by the Pew Research Center in Washington. The survey,
released yesterday, has an error margin of plus or minus 3.2
percentage points.  The polling also found Obama leads 48 percent to 44 percent
across 12 of this year’s key battleground states. The gap in
these states has remained level in recent months, Pew said.  Romney’s campaign today pounced on the latest monthly  job 
growth figures showing the creation of 163,000 jobs in July as
the  unemployment rate  edged slightly higher to 8.3 percent.  “It’s another hammer blow to the struggling middle class
families in America,” he said at the event in Nevada, a state
with the nation’s highest  unemployment rate , 12.6 percent.  In a radio interview yesterday, Romney charged that Obama
was misrepresenting Republican tax proposals to distract from
his own failed economic record. In new campaign ads and at a
Florida appearance yesterday, the president said Romney’s plan
would increase taxes on middle-income families while reducing
them for wealthy people -- including Romney.  ‘Dishonest’ Charge  “He knows that that’s a completely dishonest
characterization of my plan,” Romney told Sean Hannity during
the interview, adding that Obama’s argument is “deceptive.”  Romney, who has ruled out using  tax revenue  to help reduce
the  U.S. debt , said his proposal is “very similar to the
Simpson-Bowles plan,” a bipartisan report that recommended
slashing $4 trillion through a combination of tax increases and
spending cuts. Romney wants to lower tax rates as part of a
broader overhaul that would also eliminate some exemptions and
deductions.  The $4 trillion deficit reduction plan was proposed by the
committee headed by former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson , from
 Wyoming , and Erskine Bowles, former White House chief of staff
to President  Bill Clinton .  Tax Breaks  “My plan does not reduce the share of taxes paid by
wealthy people,” Romney said. “If anyone’s going to get a
break -- a tax break -- it’s going to be middle-income
Americans.”  The Republican also lashed out at Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, for saying in a speech yesterday
that Romney hadn’t paid taxes for 10 years and should release
previous years’ tax returns to prove otherwise.  “It’s time for Harry to put up or shut up,” Romney told
Hannity. “It’s untrue, dishonest and inaccurate -- it’s wrong.
I’m looking forward to have Harry reveal his sources, and we’ll
probably find out it’s the White House.”  Reid repeated the charges in a statement released by his
office last night, accusing Romney of “hiding something.”  Romney today said he has paid taxes every year -- “a lot
of taxes,” he added.  British Insult  Romney’s strong rebuttal to the Reid charge also is one of
the shifts Republican strategists have been pressing the
campaign to adopt -- calls that grew louder during an overseas
trip in which the presumptive presidential nominee riled British
officials and the London media by suggesting their country
wasn’t ready to run the 2012  Olympic Games .  Romney is entering one of the most closely watched periods
of the election season. This month, he will name his vice
presidential running mate and be formally nominated at the
 Republican National Convention  in Tampa.  Romney, 65, got some support yesterday when he appeared
with 10 Republican governors near Aspen, Colorado. Among those
with him were New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , Louisiana
Governor  Bobby Jindal , South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley,
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and Virginia Governor RobertMcDonnell.  Obama Record  “In four years he’s added more to the national debt than
the  Bush administration  did in eight years,” Christie said of
Obama. “Governor Romney talks about dealing with the deficit
and leading us to a balanced budget by the end of his second
term and that’s the hope businesses need to create jobs.”  Romney also attended a fundraiser in Aspen being held in
conjunction with a gathering of the  Republican Governors
Association  that is attracting some of the party’s top
strategists, donors and politicians.  Gloria Maytham, a retired dental hygienist who attended the
event with Romney and the governors, said she wasn’t concerned
about the so-called gaffes he made outside the U.S. --
particularly in Israel, where Romney broke from the position of
prior Republican and Democratic administrations to assert that
Jerusalem should be declared the capital, an issue that is
considered a key negotiating point in Middle East peace talks.  “I’m glad he didn’t pussyfoot around,” said Maytham, an
82-year-old Denver resident. “I’m glad he spoke truth to
fact.”  Maytham and her husband, Tom, 81, a retired director of the
Denver Art Museum, typify the challenge the presidential
candidates face in winning Colorado’s nine electoral votes.  Tom Maytham said he is undecided on who he will vote for,
leading to dirty looks from his wife, who calls herself “a
staunch Republican.”  “So far we’ve survived” with Obama in office, he said.
“Romney seems to match his spiel to the audience of the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Las Vegas, Nevada at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  