-- Romney Tells Reid He’s Paid ‘A Lot of Taxes’ Every Year
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/romney-tells-reid-he-s-paid-a-lot-of-taxes-every-year.html
Mitt Romney  says he pays his income
taxes regularly -- a lot every year -- in a rebuttal to Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, who has accused the Republican
presidential challenger of trying to hide the truth.  Addressing the issue at a news conference in North Las
Vegas, Nevada, yesterday, Romney suggested Reid may be doing the
White House’s bidding in leading the attack.  “I have paid taxes every year, and a lot of taxes -- a lot
of taxes,” he said. “So Harry is simply wrong, and that’s why
I’m so anxious for him to produce the names of the people who
have put this forward. I wouldn’t be at all surprised to hear
the names are people from the White House or the Obama
campaign.”  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in a speech two days ago that
Romney hadn’t paid taxes for 10 years and should release
previous years’ tax returns. He later repeated the charges in a
statement released by his office, accusing Romney of “hiding
something.”  Romney, 65, challenged Reid to say where his information is
coming from. “ Harry Reid  really has to put up or shut up,” he
said. “Harry, who are your sources?”  Romney has released one year of personal income tax
returns, from 2010, showing that he paid an effective tax rate
of 13.9 percent on investment income that year. He has promised
to release his 2011 returns when accountants are finished with
them, and has rejected calls by Democrats and some within his
own party to disclose more of his tax returns.  Jobs Numbers  Romney said Reid and other Democrats are making the tax
allegation to “deflect the fact that  jobs numbers  are bad, that
Americans are out of work, and you are trying to throw anything
up on the screen that will grab attention away from the fact
that the policies of the White House haven’t worked to put
Americans back to work.”  Romney said he doesn’t want to provide additional tax
returns beyond 2010 and 2011 because Democrats would “distort
it.”  Presidential candidates have been inconsistent in the
number of returns they have made public.  Ronald Reagan  made
seven years available;  George H.W. Bush  released three years;
and Romney’s father, George, made 12 years of returns public
when he ran for president in 1968.  Another Recession  Asked whether he thinks the  U.S. economy  is heading into
another recession, Romney demurred.  “The economists will tell us what the future holds,” he
said. “I certainly hope not.”  Romney declined to say whether he thought a call for the
 Federal Reserve  to be audited should be part of the party policy
platform at this month’s  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa, as some supporters of Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas
have suggested.  “I have indicated that my own view is that we should audit
the Fed and that the actions of the Fed should be open for the
review of Congress and the understanding of the American
people,” he said.  Romney also challenged assertions by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign that his proposals would raise taxes on middle-
class Americans.  “My  tax policy  will not reduce the taxes paid by high
income Americans,” he said. “I will not raise taxes on the
American people. I will not raise taxes on middle-income
Americans.”  High-Income Americans  Obama’s campaign challenged that assertion in a statement
after Romney’s news conference.  “A new, nonpartisan study shows Romney’s plan would raise
taxes by an average of $2,000 on middle-class families with
children in order to pay for $5 trillion in tax cuts weighted
toward millionaires like himself,” Obama re-election
spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a statement.  A study released by the Brookings Institution in Washington
this week said Romney’s plan would shift some burden from those
with incomes exceeding $200,000 a year to those earning less.  Last night, Romney picked up the endorsement of actor  Clint Eastwood , who announced his support at a fundraiser in Sun
Valley, Idaho, according to the  Associated Press .  “Now more than ever do we need Governor Romney,” Eastwood
said, according to the AP. “I’m going to be voting for him.”  Romney is scheduled to campaign today in Evansville,
Indiana, for  Richard Mourdock , a U.S. Senate candidate backed by
the anti-tax Tea Party movement. Mourdock, the Indiana State
Treasurer, defeated six-term incumbent  Richard Lugar  in a
Republican primary in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  