-- Trump’s Golf Game Burns Scots; ‘Recall’ Fizzles: Movies
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n   a n d   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/trump-s-golf-game-burns-scots-recall-fizzles-movies.html
In 2005  Donald Trump  bought 1,400
acres of farmland and environmentally sensitive dunes north of
Aberdeen,  Scotland . He intended to build two golf courses, a
hotel, luxury housing and vacation apartments.  The local planning committee scoffed. Trump went over their
heads. The Scottish government, ignoring the howls of scientists
and conservation groups, gave him the permits he wanted. And
that was that.  The documentary “ You’ve Been Trumped ” relates the
aftermath. It’s like watching Godzilla stamp on a village of
hobbits. The feisty locals protest; they soon find themselves
without water, then power. The police actually accuse them of
harassing Trump’s security goons.  Trump, meanwhile, behaves like Trump -- glamorously,
imperially. He barely acknowledges the outraged residents beyond
griping that their houses (he calls them slums) are going to mar
his golfers’ view.  As it grows increasingly clear that no twist is in the
offing, the picture’s chin-up spunkiness becomes depressing,
then irritating. In a late sequence that wanly salutes  Michael Moore , director  Anthony Baxter  tries (but fails) to put through
a long-distance call to Trump.  Familiar Booth  The booth he’s phoning from appeared in “ Local Hero ,” the
charming 1983 comedy by  Bill Forsyth , whose plot resembles the
story Baxter is telling.  It’s doubtful, though, that the “Local Hero” clips Baxter
keeps dropping in the film will mean much to viewers 30 years
down the road. Only in Hollywood movies do developers have a
change of heart that saves the day for pristine tracts of land.  “You’ve Been Trumped,” from International Film Circuit,
is playing in  New York . Rating: ** (Seligman)  ‘Total Recall’  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s hammy, catch-phrase-drunk
performance in 1990’s “ Total Recall ” was big enough for any
two movies.  This week’s remake could use the overflow.  Director  Len Wiseman ’s relentless, grinding “ Total
Recall ” updates the Schwarzenegger vehicle by dodging fun the
way humans dodge weaponized robots.  Fun Dies  Drained of the parting-shot quips, over-the-top violence
and lunkhead humor that made  Paul Verhoeven ’s original film a
genre touchstone, the total remake is like a jackhammer, doing
its work long past what’s tolerable.  Wiseman (“ Underworld ”) and screenwriters  Kurt Wimmer  and
 Mark Bomback  retrieve details from the source --  Philip K.
Dick ’s short story “We Can Remember It For You Wholesale” --
yet “Recall” 2.0 is close enough to Verhoeven’s version to
spark deja vu and inevitable disappointment.  Puppy-faced  Colin Farrell  tackles Douglas Quaid (the Arnold
role), a post-apocalypse laborer haunted by shoot-’em-up
nightmares.  Alternately bored and troubled, Quaid visits Rekall, a
company that implants memories of adventure and pleasure to
brighten joyless workaday lives in a gloomy police state.  The procedure goes awry when it awakens Quaid’s real
memories of his life as an elite killer spy -- memories that the
ruthless government will kill to erase.  No Exit  Chemical warfare has rendered the planet uninhabitable save
for two locations: the ruling United Federation of Britain and
its oppressed Colony, formerly  Australia .  Connecting the two lands is The Fall, a high-speed elevator
plunging through the planet. Bedraggled commuters from the
Colony can be at their far-off factory posts in 17 minutes.  That globe-piercing shuttle is this film’s best, perhaps
only, innovation. Just about everything else looks handed down
from other cinematic galaxies.  Schwarzenegger’s goofy emoting jibed with Verhoeven’s
satirical ambitions, while Farrel is merely earnest and
befuddled, if convincingly so.  Kate Beckinsale , strutting like an angry, heavily-armed
catwalk model, has none of the icy camp that  Sharon Stone  gave
the deadly agent posing as Quaid’s wife. Jessica Biel, as the
hero’s true love, is a bit more memorable, and  Bill Nighy  is
gamely arch as the Resistance leader.  But not even the sly  Bryan Cranston  as the smooth-talking
tyrant can rescue “Recall” from Wiseman’s numbing, repetitive
action scenes. Gunfire, explosions, stabbings--this movie
doesn’t so much end as wear itself out.  “Total Recall,” from  Columbia Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 