-- S&P Mulls Loosening CMBS Ratings Criteria After Freeze-Out
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-08-03T19:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/s-p-loosens-commercial-mortgage-bond-ratings-after-freeze-out.html
Standard & Poor’s , frozen out of the
commercial-mortgage  bond market  since last year, is changing its
method for rating the instruments in a way that may produce
higher grades for some securities.  The preliminary criteria that S&P released in June would
result in higher rankings for the three deals that it has rated
since then, according to reports distributed to investors by the
company. For a $340 million offering of mall debt that Morgan
Stanley sold yesterday, S&P said its new methodology would rate
the entire deal investment-grade, while the old criteria
resulted in $29.7 million of unrated debt.  Wall Street banks have been bypassing S&P’s ratings for
commercial-mortgage bonds since the company derailed a $1.5
billion sale by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. last
year by pulling its grades on the securities. Since then, S&P
hasn’t rated a so-called conduit deal composed of loans from
multiple borrowers, the biggest part of the market, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The three deals rated since June are
linked to single property owners.  “The higher loan proceeds deriving from their proposed
underwriting criteria is suggestive of somewhat more lenient
treatment,” according to  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees
about $2 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union in New York.  New Criteria  Credit-rating companies determine the value of the
properties backing the loans in CMBS using the rent and a so-
called capitalization rate -- a ratio of estimated net income to
value of the property. In the new criteria, S&P said it would
use lower capitalization rates, raising the estimated values.  The new criteria would primarily affect the lower-ranking
bonds of the recent deals.  S&P is using lower recovery rates in its model for
defaulted mortgages, offsetting the effect of higher property
values on ratings, the New York-based company said in a June 4
report requesting comments on its proposal.  Ed Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P, cited the June 4 report
stating “more positive rating movements are expected for
transactions issued in 2009 or later,” and declined to comment
further  “It’s reasonable to assume that cap rates may compress
going forward,” said  Richard Hill , a debt strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “That’s what the central banks are
attempting to do - engineer an environment where there are lower
yields across the board.”  Fed Targets  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its target rate for overnight
loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008,
and said it expects to keep it “exceptionally low” through at
least late 2014 in an effort to spur economic growth.  Still, rising interest rates are one the biggest risks for
commercial real estate, Hill said. A rise in rates could eat
into  property  values as capitalization rates rise in tandem,
meaning property owners would demand higher returns on their
investment. Additionally, loans would be more difficult to
refinance at a higher  interest rate , Hill said.  During the U.S. housing boom, S&P and its competitors
pushed to win business by providing inflated ratings for risky
mortgage bonds, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission and a Senate report last year. That allowed pension
funds and other ratings-sensitive investors to pack their
portfolios with bonds that later plummeted in value.  Wall Street banks have arranged about $18.5 billion in
bonds tied to skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels this year,
down from a record $232 billion in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts as much
as $45 billion in 2012 issuance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  