-- Samsung Defeats Apple Bid For Sanctions Over Evidence
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-03T18:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/samsung-defeats-apple-bid-for-sanctions-over-evidence.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  defeated a
bid for judicial sanctions sought by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over a release
of evidence in the iPhone patent dispute now on trial in  San
Jose  federal court in  California .  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh today dismissed Apple’s
request to punish a Samsung lawyer’s public disclosure of
evidence excluded from trial. Koh polled jurors on the matter
and concluded they could remain in place, saying she was
“satisfied” the jury could remain “fair and impartial.”  Apple, in an Aug. 1 filing with Koh, said a July 31
statement authorized by Samsung’s lawyer was designed to convey
to jurors, through the media, arguments contesting Apple’s
central allegations that Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad. The
move was “bad faith litigation misconduct” meant to prejudice
the jury, Apple said.  “Apple requests that the court issue sanctions granting
judgment that Apple’s asserted phone-design patent claims are
valid and infringed by Samsung,” according to the filing signed
by lawyer William Lee.  Koh said today that Samsung and its lawyers at Quinn
Emmanuel Uquhart & Sullivan LLP chose to “highlight evidence
that they both knew was excluded,” and she reserved the right
to investigate the release further. She interviewed each juror
separately, asking if they had read or heard anything about the
case since testimony ended July 31.  Internet Headline  One juror said he saw a “headline” on the Internet
about an Apple designer’s testimony that his group works around
a kitchen table. Koh, after concluding that testimony could
proceed, warned the jurors against reading media reports about
the trial and said the court is compiling news articles about
the case for their review after trial.  “We can scrapbook it for you, whatever you like,” Koh
told the jury. “Don’t feel like you’re missing out.”  Apple had said that if Koh doesn’t decide the case in its
favor outright, she should tell the jury that Samsung engaged in
“serious misconduct.” Apple proposed that Koh tell jurors
Samsung copied the designs and features from Apple products, and
preclude Samsung from any further mention of evidence regarding
a pre-existing design.  Samsung, in an Aug. 2 filing, said Apple’s request should
be rejected because it’s “frivolous at every level,” and
because Samsung’s statement was protected free speech.  Sales Data  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5 billion
for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering designs
and technology for mobile devices. Samsung, based in Suwon,
 South Korea , countersued and will present claims that Apple is
infringing two patents covering mobile-technology standards and
three utility patents.  Koh today also denied Apple’s request to seal marketing
materials and a geographical breakdown of its sales. Apple
doesn’t publicize country-by-country sales and rather just
releases data by broader regions such as “Asia-Pacific,”
“ North America ” and “ Europe .”  When  Michael Jacobs , an Apple lawyer, argued that the
documents are protected  trade secrets , the judge told him to
appeal her decision. Jacobs said Apple will determine later how
it will challenge Koh’s denial and admit the evidence.  Apple Advertising  Apple has spent more than $647 million on advertising for
the iPhone in the U.S. and $457.2 million for the iPad,
according to a slide shown by the company’s lawyers.  Phil Schiller , Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing,
testified today Samsung is trying to take advantage of the
popularity Apple has generated for its products.  “I absolutely believe it’s had an effect on our sales,”
Schiller said. Some customers are buying Samsung devices because
they look like the iPhone or iPad, he said. Upon seeing Galaxy’s
tablet computer, Schiller said his response was, “They are just
going to copy our whole product line.”  Schiller also described how the company takes advantage of
free press coverage. Apple decided not to pay for any
advertising for a period between the iPhone’s introduction in
January 2007 by co-founder  Steve Jobs  and when it went on sale
later in the year, Schiller said. Positive news stories about
the product did a better job than advertising could for building
buzz, he said.  ‘Big Gamble’  With Apple’s attorneys trying to show that the iPhone and
iPad were breakthrough technologies, Schiller read from articles
in which reviewers raved about the product’s designs. The
company was taking a “big gamble” by introducing the products
because nothing like them had been on the market before, he
said.  To reinforce Apple’s claim that Samsung copied the designs
of the iPhone and the iPad, Schiller read from an internal
survey conducted by Apple that shows customers consider design
one of the main reasons to buy the company’s products.  Koh on July 31 barred Samsung from presenting images of a
smartphone that Samsung claimed it was developing in 2006, the
year before Apple introduced the iPhone. Koh rejected Samsung’s
request to reconsider her ruling for what she said was at least
the third time, standing by her earlier decision that the
evidence wasn’t “timely disclosed” in Samsung’s arguments
pertaining to patent infringement.  ‘Full Story’  John Quinn , the Samsung attorney who approved the release
of the information, said a statement to the court that it was
done in response to a request from members of the media and that
the information was already in public court filings made by
Samsung or Apple and wasn’t intended to prejudice the jury.  In the statement that Quinn approved for the media, Samsung
said that Koh’s ruling means the company “was not allowed to
tell the jury the full story and show the pre-iPhone design for
that and other phones that were in development at Samsung in
2006, before the iPhone.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  