-- Seven Minutes of Terror to Precede NASA Mars Landing
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-08-03T13:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/seven-minutes-of-terror-to-precede-nasa-mars-landing.html
The U.S. National Aeronautics and
Space Administration is aiming to find out whether life forms
can survive on Mars. First, they need to pull off a successful
landing of a 1-ton rover named  Curiosity .  The vehicle, loaded with the most-sophisticated instruments
ever used to explore another world, is scheduled to touch down
Aug. 6 at about 1:30 a.m. New York time. If successful, the $2.5
billion mission is expected by scientists to return a trove of
data on the geology of a planet that’s been shrouded in myth.  The mission may also help reignite an interest in space
that’s waned since the  Apollo 11  moon landing in 1969, said
Nilton Renno, a mission scientist, bolstering support for U.S.
funding for more projects and inspiring a new generation of
students to explore the stars.  “You can see in the eyes of the students how excited they
get by working on something like this mission,” Renno said in a
telephone interview. “It’s mind-blowing that we can send an
instrument to another planet and operate it from earth,
understanding something so far away.”  By analyzing air, rock and soil samples collected by
Curiosity, scientists may be able to tell whether the Mars
environment is conducive to life, said Renno, who is  also a
professor  in Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  Success isn’t a sure bet. Of 19 previous U.S. missions to
Mars, six have  failed , according to  NASA , the agency running the
mission. To get there, the rover will undergo a complicated
descent and landing sequence never before attempted.  ‘Terror’ Video  NASA has dubbed that fall from space  “7 Minutes of
Terror”  in a video describing the onrushing event.  The spacecraft will enter the atmosphere and decelerate
quickly, deploying a parachute. It will then separate into
parts, one of which will be a hover craft with rockets.  That part, referred to by NASA as a “ sky crane ,” is
supposed to lower Curiosity to the ground without damaging it.
The hover craft will then fly away. It’s a new system that
replaces the airbags used in previous mission to lessen the
impact since Curiosity is too heavy to use them, according to
the agency’s online reports.  The craft will be landing in a region humanity didn’t
previously have the technology to reach, said Bobby Braun, a
professor of space technology at the Georgia Institute of
Technology, who was NASA’s chief technologist in 2010-2011.  The mission will begin at the foot of a 3.4 mile (5.5
kilometer) high mountain in  Gale Crater . Previous expeditions
have landed on plains, he said.  Mission Cost  “Curiosity is the kind of spacecraft you can’t do on a
tight budget,” Braun said by telephone. “There are missions
that can be done at lower expense, but you can’t build a rover
that’s the size of a car and nuclear-powered and carrying a
laser and other equipment and safely land it on Mars.”  There’s a 14-minute communication lag between the vehicle
and the control center 154 million miles away on Earth, where
scientists will constantly monitor transmissions from the craft.
By the time NASA gets notice that the device has entered the
atmosphere, Curiosity will have already landed. The journey to
the surface, from the atmosphere, is seven minutes.  Braun, who is on the review board for the mission, says
he’s optimistic about the engineering behind the Curiosity
rover. He hopes this mission will make scientific discoveries so
compelling that they will make the case for future expeditions
to Mars, helping hold off a  planned 20 percent funding cut , from
$1.5 billion to $1.2 billion, to planetary science in President
 Barack Obama ’s 2013 Presidential Budget Request.  Slowed Pace  “If budget cuts come, that will slow the pace of our
planetary exploration journey,” Braun said, adding that with a
failure on its hands NASA would face a situation in which they
“won’t be able to get to the next chapter as quickly, and
that’s a real sham.”  Still, he’s confident. “The mission appears risky, but I
don’t view this as a risky mission,” he said.  Though other big space projects, such as the  James Webb
Space Telescope , remain on the schedule, it’s getting harder to
get funding for projects the size of the Curiosity mission, said
Michael Lubell, the director of public affairs for the American
Physical Society, said in a telephone interview.  “Nobody wants to step up to the plate and take a whack at
something big,” he said. “We’ve become single hitters rather
than homerun hitters.”  2011 Launch  The  Mars Science Laboratory , the formal name of the mission
deploying the Curiosity rover, was launched from  Cape Canaveral 
in  Florida , on Nov. 26, 2011. In February, because of its cost,
the U.S. backed out of the Mars Sample Return mission, a project
coordinated with the  European Space Agency  meant to bring back
Martian soil and rocks to be examined in local labs.  After Curiosity, the only planned U.S. mission to Mars is
an atmospheric orbiter meant to launch next year.  Knowledge of Mars has bolted ahead in the last 20 years,
Braun said. That’s due entirely to the orbiters, expeditions and
probes sent to examine the planet.  “When I started in the Mars program, we thought of it as
dry, dusty and lifeless,” Braun said. “In the last 20 years,
we’ve shown that Mars was much warmer and wetter, and that means
life may have emerged billions of years ago, just like on Earth.  The rover’s instruments were created to detect the
chemistry of life, said  Arlin Crotts , a professor of astronomy
at  Columbia University . The planet has water and an unusual
amount of methane in its atmosphere, which may indicate that
some sort of organisms may have existed there.  Life Search  By checking for organic compounds on the planet, the rover
can tell scientists if there were conditions for life.  “If we find life on Mars, it’s not just ‘oh, great, Mars
has bugs,”’ Crotts said in a telephone interview. “It might
tell us if life is common in the universe. If it is, what does
that mean? We know that there are earthlike planets orbiting
stars, but we don’t know how frequently life gets started.”  Just knowing that the environment might be habitable could
inspire careers, Crotts said.  “I was born just after Sputnik,” Crotts said. “I was
just so inspired by the space program, and so now I’m an
astrophysicist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 