-- Siemens Sees Some Slowdown in Payments as Public Sector Suffers
-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-08-03T14:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/siemens-sees-some-slowdown-in-payments-as-public-sector-suffers.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Germany ’s largest
engineering company, has experienced a slowdown in client
payments and is reacting by selling some accounts receivables to
third parties, Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said.  “We see some slowdown in the public sector definitely and
that of course makes us take some action that’s helpful to get
our cash in,” Kaeser said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  New York . “We would basically give those account
receivables to others and sell them into the market. We’re just
securing the downside, you never know.”  Siemens cautioned last month that meetings its earnings
goals this year will be a stretch as the economy fails to pick
up in the second half. The German maker of high-speed trains,
medical equipment and factory-automation gear said today that
it’s buying back as much as $3 billion ($3.69 billion) in stock
to lock in the “unique opportunity” of long-term debt rates.  Kaeser said a break-up of the euro is a “myth” and that
he’s “not so pessimistic” about the region’s prospects.
Politicians must find a “way out” of the fiscal crisis, he
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s global headquarters.  Siemens intends to maintain financial flexibility in order
to have the funds available, whether it’s for acquisitions,
ensuring strategic targets are met or investment in organic
growth, the CFO said. The Munich-based company has a banking
license and runs a financial-services company that has helped
customers finance big-ticket projects as banks step back.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  