-- Siemens to Buy Back 3 Billion Euros of Shares by Year-End
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-03T13:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/siemens-to-buy-back-3-billion-euros-of-shares-by-year-end.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, will repurchase as much as 3 billion euros
($3.65 billion) in stock by year-end as the company seeks to
boost returns for investors stung by deteriorating earnings.  The buybacks will be used to reduce capital stock, to issue
shares to employees and board members and to back convertible
bonds and warrants, the Munich-based company said in a statement
late yesterday. The manufacturer will also cancel 33 million
shares held in treasury.  Siemens, which had cash of 8.96 billion euros at the end of
June, will finance the purchase with long-term debt that it said
offers a “unique opportunity” at current rates. The German
manufacturer probably wouldn’t have taken this step had there
been targets for acquisitions, said Martin Prozesky, a London-
based analyst at  Sanford Bernstein .  “We’re ambivalent on the share buy back,” said Wolfgang Donie, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, who
rates the stock hold. “In the short term the announcement is
candy for the shareholders.” However, “the buyback program
distracts from the development of the operating business.”  The stock  gained  as much as 5.2 percent, the most in 10
months, and was trading 4.8 percent higher at 71.62 euros as of
3:28 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at about 65 billion
euros. The shares had lost 7.6 percent this year through
yesterday, making it the fifth-worst performer on  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX index of 30 members.  EPS Boost  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  had
shareholders approve a stock repurchase program at the annual
meeting in January. The move may increase earnings per share by
2.5 percent, Bernstein’s Prozesky said.  The rationale behind the buyback program goes beyond simply
absorbing excess cash, Chief Financial Office Joe Kaeser said in
an interview with Bloomberg today.  Siemens intends to maintain financial flexibility in order
to have the funds available, whether it’s for acquisitions,
ensuring strategic targets are met or investment in organic
growth, the CFO said.  Siemens has so-far opted for bolt-on acquisitions, spending
about 1.45 billion euros on purchases in the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That contrasts with  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN) , a competitor in power gear, which has spent almost $4
billion this year alone on takeovers.  Siemens said it will reduce its capital stock to 881
million shares from 914 million euros via the buybacks, it said
today. With the repurchase amount, the company would be able to
buy back 43.9 million shares, or 4.8 percent of  outstanding 
shares, at yesterday’s closing price.  ‘Unique Opportunity’  “The current debt markets environment for Siemens in
combination with its current valuation of its shares offers a
unique opportunity for value creation in the long-term,” the
company said.  Siemens said last month that its target of 5.2 billion
euros to 5.4 billion euros in annual net income from continuing
operations had become “clearly more ambitious.” Siemens
reported profit of 1.23 billion euros in the three months ended
June 30, trailing an average estimate of 1.4 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  