-- Slovenia Downgrade by Moody’s Increases Chances of Rescue
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-08-03T18:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/slovenia-downgrade-by-moody-s-increases-chances-of-rescue.html
Slovenia’s downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said its struggling banks will need
government funding, increases the likelihood that the Adriatic
nation will become  Europe ’s sixth bailout victim.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its debt grade today.  Moody’s lowered the rating three levels to Baa2, two levels
above investment grade, and maintained its negative outlook. S&P
cut the rating to A, five steps below the top investment grade,
from A+, assigning a negative outlook that indicates it’s more
inclined to trim its assessment further than raise it or leave
it unchanged.  “The likelihood of support being needed is very high,”
Jaime Reusche, a New York-based Moody’s analyst, said in the
statement. “This potential additional debt burden comes at a
time when the government is already facing significant
challenges in its efforts to consolidate its fiscal position.”  Slovenia may become the sixth euro-region member after
 Greece , Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus to require a rescue
as the 17-nation currency area grapples with a deepening debt
and banking crisis. The nation’s biggest banks -- Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and
 Abanka Vipa d.d.  -- rely on the  European Central Bank  for
liquidity and had their deposit ratings cut by Moody’s on July
25 as their bad loans continue to climb.  Bond Yield  The yield on Slovenia’s 4.375 percent bond maturing in
January 2021, surged 41 basis points, or 0.41 percentage point,
to 7 percent at 7:08 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  Political risks to the implementation of an economic
overhaul and deteriorating asset quality at banks have
contributed to “financial sector external funding contracting
sharply, government funding costs increasing, and the domestic
economy weakening,” S&P said today in a statement.  Funding costs are increasing because of Slovenia’s growing
reliance on “shorter-term issuance” and domestic banks,
Moody’s said late yesterday. The country’s three largest lenders
may need a capital injection equal to as much as 8 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product, Moody’s said.  ‘Deeply Regrets’  The Slovenian government “deeply regrets” the downgrade
“as the rating company hasn’t taken into account measures that
have been undertaken to consolidate public finances,” the
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. “Slovenia,
considering its budget gap and public debt, cannot be compared
with Spain, Italy or Greece and the banking sector isn’t as big
as in Spain.”  Slovenia “at the moment” has no need to ask for
assistance from the EU and “isn’t exposed to refinancing
risks” with funding sufficient to finance the budget until
year-end “even with increased market uncertainties,” the
ministry said today.  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  has pledged to
cut spending this year by 800 million euros ($990 million) and
narrow a  budget deficit  that swelled to 6.4 percent of GDP last
year. The 2012 deficit goal is 3.5 percent, Moody’s said.  “Continued weakness in the economy could hinder the
achievement of these targets,” the rating company said.
“Additional capital injections into the banking system could
materially affect the country’s deficit trends.”  Nearing Recession  Slovenia’s export-driven  economy  is teetering on the brink
of a second recession in three years as demand for its goods in
Europe fades amid a crisis that has threatened to rip apart the
single-currency region since its start in Greece in late 2009.  “The prospect for an  International Monetary Fund  and EU
bailout depends much more heavily on how events pan out in the
euro zone,”  William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at
 Capital Economics  in London, said by phone. “If we see another
substantial flare up in tensions, then the Slovenian government
could find borrowing on the markets is prohibitively costly.”  Slovenia’s five-year credit default swaps were at 424 basis
points today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
reaching a record high of 434 basis points on July 9. The
derivatives are used by investors to speculate on the country’s
ability to repay debt. Romania’s CDS were at 415 basis points
while  Hungary ’s stood at 460 basis points, data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  