-- Some ETF Spreads Widen as Knight Capital Seeks to Survive
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-03T19:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/some-etf-spreads-widen-as-knight-capital-seeks-to-survive.html
The average spread between bid and
offer prices for some lightly traded U.S. exchange-traded funds
widened yesterday as  Knight Capital  Group Inc., the biggest
market maker for ETFs, struggled to survive.  Spreads on low-liquidity ETFs for which Knight is the lead
market maker on the  New York  Stock Exchange rose to 1.53 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by research firm
IndexUniverse LLC. The spread averaged 0.49 percent before Aug.
1, when a computer glitch at Knight caused losses nearly four
times the firm’s profit last year.  Knight Capital handled the largest share of ETF trades in
the first quarter of 2012 with 17 percent, according to the
firm’s website. The firm, based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , is
in contact with creditors, clients and counterparties after a
“fairly major” software bug caused trading errors costing it
$440 million, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik
Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle .  “ETFs are dependent on third parties” to make markets,
Paul Justice, head of ETF research in  North America  at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview. Should the firm
fail, “There would probably be a temporary gap in liquidity
until someone else steps in with that volume.”  Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman at Knight Capital, didn’t
return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Secured Financing  Knight Capital told brokers it secured short-term financing
to fund market making today, said a person with knowledge of the
matter who requested anonymity because the conversations were
private. Its shares rose as much as 37 percent today after
falling 75 percent over the previous two days.  Knight Capital yesterday opened its books to potential
buyers, including private-equity firms and at least one
securities- industry rival, said two other people with knowledge
of the matter.  Knight Capital is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP as advisers in the rescue talks,
said one of the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are private. The company is under
pressure to strike a deal within days, the people said.  Invesco Moves  Invesco Ltd. has added additional market makers in the past
two days to all of the more than 40 ETFs supported by Knight
Capital, Ben Fulton, managing director of global ETFs, said in
an interview. Invesco manages $55 billion in about 126 ETFs in
the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “On day one we noticed a little wider spreads, but in the
last 48 hours a lot of market makers have signed up, so the
spreads are back to normal now,” Fulton said.  Investment firms including Vanguard Group Inc. and
WisdomTree Investments Inc. said Knight Capital’s struggles
haven’t significantly affected its role as a market maker for
ETFs.  “Spreads are roughly the same today as before this issue,
maybe slightly wider in ETFs for which Knight is the lead market
maker,” said David Abner, head of  capital markets  for
WisdomTree Investments, the New York-based ETF provider founded
by hedge-fund manager  Michael Steinhardt .  Knight Capital is lead market maker on 7 of the firm’s 48
ETFs, he said.  “We are monitoring the situation and have contingency
plans in place if needed,” said David Hoffman, a spokesman for
Vanguard, the third-largest U.S. ETF provider. “In the
meantime, our products are trading normally.”  Robust Competition  Market makers are firms that help ensure liquid markets by
being willing to buy and sell securities. All U.S. ETFs have at
least two market makers and the competition for such agreements
is robust, according to David Nadig, director of research at San
Francisco-based ETF IndexUniverse.  “Even in the worst-case scenario, there’s an awful lot of
quality competition that will be more than willing to jump in
and pick up the slack,” Nadig said.  Ryan Issakainen, ETF strategist at Wheaton, Illinois-based
First Trust Portfolios LP, said the firm hadn’t detected any
reduced liquidity today in its products that use Knight as a
market maker. The company manages 70 ETFs with about $7.3
billion in assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rerouting Trades  Separate from ETF market-making, Vanguard’s brokerage unit
had stopped routing client trades through Knight Capital,
spokesman  John Woerth  said in an e-mail. The brokerage unit of
Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , the world’s second-biggest
mutual fund provider behind Vanguard, was also directing trades
away from Knight, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  After rerouting its trades yesterday, TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. resumed dealing with Knight today, Chief Executive Officer
Fred Tomczyk said.  Market makers also play a key role in keeping ETFs priced
in line with the value of their underlying assets. When those
values diverge, market makers create or redeem shares in large
blocks, moving fund share prices back in line with assets.  “Providers are concerned because it’s our job, but I don’t
think investors should be worried,” Scott Ebner, head of ETF
product development at Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , the
second-biggest biggest provider of ETFs worldwide. “The
competitive process is what drives efficiency in the market, not
a single participant.”  Knight Capital is the lead market maker for 54 State Street
U.S.-registered ETFs, or about half the U.S. total. Replacing a
lead market maker wouldn’t be difficult, Ebner said  Reginald Browne, who joined Knight Capital along with a
team of managers and traders from Newedge USA LLC in 2009, leads
the firm’s ETF trading group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  