-- Standard Life’s Grimstone Says Libor Scandal is Hurting London
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-03T12:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/standard-life-s-grimstone-says-libor-scandal-is-hurting-london.html
London ’s reputation as a global
financial center has been marred by the Libor-rigging scandal,
said Gerry Grimstone, chairman of  Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
largest insurer.  He was speaking on Bloomberg TV’s “The Pulse” show with
 Maryam Nemazee  in London.  On London’s reputation after the Libor scandal:  “I’ve been in the financial services for 30 years and I’ve
never known a time like this. It’s been terrible. Some of the
language people use has been terrible. I’m concerned that the
public don’t really understand it. The public talks about
hanging bankers. We shouldn’t use words like cesspit to describe
the City of London.”  On the importance of London for the U.K. economy:  “Two million people work in the financial services
industry. It represents 1/7 of the U.K. economy. Financial
services are not an optional extra. It’s a very important
industry; it’s one of our biggest taxpayers and export earners.
The U.K. cannot do without our vibrant financial services
industry.”  On restoring confidence in the City:  “These things start in the boardroom. The culture of a
company starts has to be set from the top. Boards have to set
the tone and be responsible for the ethics of the company. We
all know what’s wrong or right. We have to stop people from
wanting to do things that are wrong; you have to look at
incentivization, start from the top and work right through the
organizations.”  On the London’s position in  Europe :  “It’s vitally important that the U.K stays fully engaged
in Europe. The City is not only the U.K.’s financial center,
it’s the EU’s financial center. We have to remind the government
and Brussels about the importance of the City. Our financial
services have to stay part of the single market. We have to have
a place at the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  