-- Sunstein Wins Business Plaudits, Activist Brickbats on Exit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-08-03T18:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/sunstein-wins-business-plaudits-activist-brickbats-on-exit.html
Cass Sunstein, the chief regulator
for President  Barack Obama , said today he will resign, leaving
behind a record criticized by both political opponents and White
House allies.  Sunstein, 57, will leave the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, which oversees federal
rules, later this month and return to  Harvard Law School .  At the federal agency, Sunstein pushed agencies to weed out
unnecessary or outdated regulations and ordered them to consider
the cumulative financial burdens of rulemaking when crafting new
directives.  “Cass has shown that it is possible to support economic
growth without sacrificing health, safety and the environment,”
Obama said in a statement today. “With these reforms and his
tenacious promotion of cost-benefit analysis, his efforts will
benefit Americans for years to come.”  Rules during the first 32 months of the Obama
administration cost $19.9 billion and delivered $91 billion in
net benefits, according to the Office of Management and Budget,
the parent agency of OIRA.  Sunstein left Harvard in 2009 to join the Obama
administration. Before Harvard, Sunstein taught at the
 University of Chicago Law School , where Obama also served on the
faculty. He is married to Samantha Power, a special assistant to
Obama and senior director at the National Security Council.  Harvard Job  At Harvard, Sunstein will return to his position as the
Felix Frankfurter professor of law and direct the new Program on
Behavioral Economics and Public Policy.  He will be replaced on an interim basis by Boris Bershteyn,
the general counsel of OMB and a former White House lawyer with
responsibilities for regulatory, economic and environmental
policy issues. Bershteyn was a law clerk to former U.S. Supreme
Court Justice David Souter.  John Graham, who ran OIRA in George W. Bush’s first term,
said Sunstein was an able administrator.  “He was a strong force for creative policy solutions in a
political environment that was highly polarized,” Graham said
in an e-mailed statement.  Sunstein also was hailed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business lobbying group, and the  Business
Roundtable , a Washington-based group of business executives.  Good Relations  “The Chamber has enjoyed a good working relationship with
Cass Sunstein and we wish him well in his return to Harvard
Law,”  Bruce Josten , the Chamber’s executive vice president for
government affairs, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Cass Sunstein will be missed,” said  John Engler , the
former Michigan Republican governor who is Business Roundtable
president. “Cass accepted the input of business, sought balance
and understood that regulations do have costs. We hope his
replacement will strike the same tone.”  Although business groups offered praise after the departure
was announced, the OIRA chief’s tenure was shadowed by
Republican criticism that the Obama administration overregulates
business.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, has run campaign ads promising that on “Day 1” in the
White House, he will begin “repealing jobs-killing regulations
that are costing the economy billions.”  ‘Enormously Destructive’  Environmental and safety advocates said today Sunstein was
overly deferential to business interests and less effective in
strengthening consumer protections.  “Cass Sunstein was the best-qualified, best-connected
administrator OIRA ever had and he was enormously destructive of
health and safety agencies,” said Rena Steinzor, the president
of the Center for Progressive Reform, a Washington-based group
that examines regulations. “The message that he has been
advancing has been completely discordant with the rest of the
president’s message.”  Steinzor said the postponement of a plan to cut ozone
emissions until 2013 was a key example of OIRA’s failure to
deliver strong regulation. The cost of that rule was estimated
to be $19 billion to $90 billion, according to estimates from
the Environmental Protection Agency.  In addition to the smog restrictions, the Obama
administration has postponed a $2.7 billion rule to require
rear-view cameras on cars and light trucks until the end of the
year and slowed regulations to curb sulfur emissions in
passenger vehicles. A set of rules for the most comprehensive
overhaul of  food safety  in decades also are months behind
schedule.  ‘Held Hostage’  Bill Marler , a Seattle attorney who represents food-
poisioning victims, said that he hoped that with Sunstein gone,
food-safety rules “that have been held hostage at OMB will be
released for public comment and implementation.”  Amit Narang, regulatory policy advocate at  Public Citizen ,
a consumer-advocacy group in  Washington , said Sunstein spent too
much time tinkering with existing rules and not enough on
updating food, consumer-product and workplace-safety standards.  “With Cass Sunstein’s departure, the administration should
take this opportunity to shift gears from their focus on
‘lookback’ reviews,” Narang said in an e-mail.  A Public Citizen  report  released in June found that of 159
safety and public health rules under consideration with
statutory deadlines, 125 weren’t issued on time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Ellis  at 
 dellis5@bloomberg.net  