-- Sweden in Diplomatic Row With Belarus After Teddy Bear Drop
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-03T15:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/sweden-in-diplomatic-row-with-belarus-after-teddy-bear-drop-1-.html
Sweden ’s ambassador to Belarus was
expelled and the Stockholm government retaliated by ousting two
Belorussian diplomats in a spat that began with reports of a
mass drop of teddy bears over the eastern European nation.  The Nordic country will inform the Belorussian embassy in
the Swedish capital that the new ambassador to Sweden won’t be
welcome and that two other representatives will have their
credentials revoked, Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said today in a
statement.  “The Lukashenko-regime’s expulsion of Sweden’s ambassador
to Belarus is a big breach against the norms for relations
between states,” Bildt said. “The accusations that the regime
has directed at the ambassador are completely baseless. That
Sweden is very much engaged to promote democracy and human
rights in  Belarus  is no secret.”  Belorussian President Aleksandr Lukashenko last month fired
the border-guard and air-force chiefs after saying Swedish
pilots flew a small airplane from  Lithuania  to Belarus on July
4, dropping teddy-bears with signs calling for free speech over
Minsk, according to a statement last month on his office’s
website. The pilots were able to return to a Lithuanian airport
without being intercepted and posted video footage of their
flight on the Internet.  Tomas Mazetti, from Swedish public relations agency Studio
Total, said he was one of the pilots and that the action to drop
800 fluffy toys over towns and villages in Belarus was meant to
promote support for the political opposition in the country. He
refuted media reports, including from weekly trade publication
Resume, that the action had been a hoax and had not actually
occurred.  Dismissed Generals  “Belarus’s government has even admitted,” he said in a
phone interview. “There’s no longer any doubt about that
particular thing.”  Major General Igor Rachkovskiy, chairman of the Border
Committee, and Major General Dmitry Pakhmelkin,  Air Force  and
Anti-Aircraft Force commander, were dismissed “for failing to
fulfill their duties in ensuring national security,” the
presidential press service said July 31 in an e-mailed
statement.  The RIA Novosti news agency today reported that Ambassador
Stefan Eriksson’s accreditation hadn’t been renewed, citing the
Belorussian Foreign Ministry.  On his Twitter feed, Bildt called the expulsion
“outrageous.” In comments to the TT news agency, Bildt said
the spat with Belarus had been brewing for some time and that
the reported teddy bear drop had not been mentioned in the
decision to oust Eriksson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  