-- Syria Fighting Intensifies in Damascus After Annan Quits
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-08-03T15:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/syria-fighting-intensifies-in-damascus-after-annan-quits.html
Fighting intensified between Syrian
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and rebels in several
provinces a day after United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan 
abandoned his effort to mediate a cease-fire.  Clashes broke out in Hama, Aleppo, Daraa and the suburbs of
Damascus, the Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an
e-mail. The activist group reported heavy government shelling of
these areas. It said 105 people were killed in the violence
today, including 69 in the Arbaeen neighborhood in Hama and 13
in Damascus and its suburbs.  The government is sending massive reinforcements to Aleppo,
Syria’s most populous city, Col. Abdul-Latif Abdul-Latif, deputy
commander of the Free Syrian Army, said in an interview from
Aleppo with Al Arabiya television. Assad’s troops have been
using artillery, helicopter gunships and fighter jets to drive
out the rebels, who moved into the city last month.  Abdul-Latif said he expected “a huge war” in Aleppo. The
Free Syrian Army has deployed its fighters along the roads
leading to Aleppo to prevent the troops from reaching the city,
Abdul-Latif said.  Aleppo, the country’s most populous city, is shaping up as
the biggest test yet of opposition fighters’ capabilities
against artillery and air power, with thousands of civilians
slipping across increasingly porous borders to seek refuge.  Refugees Killed  Palestinian refugee communities in Damascus and its suburbs
are “experiencing, more than ever, the effects of the
escalating armed conflict in Syria,” the UN Relief and Works
Agency said in a statement from Geneva. It said initial,
unconfirmed reports suggest that about 20 people were killed and
scores were wounded in Yarmouk Camp on the outskirts of Damascus
yesterday when it was struck by artillery shells.  Anti-Assad protests were reported in several cities and
towns across Syria following Friday prayers, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  and the Local Coordination
Committees said in e-mails.  Annan’s departure after less than six months is a blow to
international efforts to broker a diplomatic solution to the
increasingly violent conflict. What began in March 2011 as a
largely peaceful protest movement has become a civil war.  ‘Lack of Unity’  Annan blamed both sides for the increasing militarization
of the conflict and said a “clear lack of unity” in the UN
 Security Council  -- where  Russia  has used its veto three times
to protect the Assad government -- “fundamentally changed” his
ability to be effective. His resignation as the special envoy
appointed by the UN and  Arab League  is effective Aug. 31, and
talks are under way to find his successor.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague today called Annan’s
resignation “a bleak moment” for efforts to find a diplomatic
solution to the Syrian conflict and said Britain will step up
its support for rebels without sending arms. He spoke to the BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Annan “worked
tirelessly to try to build consensus in the international
community, end the bloodshed, and usher in a government that
would meet the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people,”
according to a statement. “Unfortunately, the Security Council
was blocked from giving him key tools to advance his efforts.”  Syria expressed “regret” over Annan’s resignation, the
state-run Syria News Agency said. Citing a Foreign Ministry
statement, SANA said Syria had always expressed its “full
commitment” to Annan’s plan and accused unnamed countries of
obstructing his mission by “supporting and harboring the armed
terrorist groups leading to the continuation of violence in the
country.”  ‘Weak Hand’  Annan’s decision “reflects the reality that the center of
gravity in this crisis lies on the ground within Syria, and
international diplomacy has become largely irrelevant,”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
 New York , said by telephone. “Annan was dealt a very weak hand
and had very few cards to play.”  The 22-member Arab League, which suspended Syria last year,
is trying to keep diplomacy alive at the UN by calling a vote
today on a largely symbolic resolution “expressing grave
concern about Syrian authorities’ threat to use chemical or
biological weapons.”  Passages in the text demanding that Assad step down and
calling on states to apply economic sanctions were removed in a
bid to gain more than 100 votes in the 193-member assembly.  ‘One-Sided, Unbalanced’  Russia, which sells arms to  Syria , won’t back the
resolution because it’s “one-sided and unbalanced,” the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement yesterday.  Interfax news agency reported that Russian warships with
marines on board plan to dock at the country’s naval resupply
base in the Syrian port of Tartus within days. Three landing
craft carriers will spend several days at the port to pick up
supplies of fresh food and water before departing for the
Bosporus and Dardanelles straits, Interfax said today, citing an
unidentified official at the Russian military’s General Staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  