-- U.S. July ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-03T14:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/u-s-july-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  Business Wire
TEMPE, Ariz. -- August 03, 2012
Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
July for the 31st consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest
Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M.,
CFPM, chair of the Institute for Supply Management
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. “The NMI
registered 52.6 percent in July, 0.5 percentage point
higher than the 52.1 percent registered in June. This
indicates continued growth this month at a slighter
faster rate in the non-manufacturing sector.
The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered
57.2 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points higher than
the 51.7 percent reported in June, reflecting growth for
the 36th consecutive month. The New Orders Index increased
by 1 percentage point to 54.3 percent. The Employment
Index decreased by 3 percentage points to 49.3 percent, indicating
contraction in employment for the first time
since December 2011. The Prices Index increased 6
percentage points to 54.9 percent, indicating higher
month-over-month prices when compared to June. According
to the NMI, 11 non-manufacturing industries reported
growth in July. Respondents’ comments are mixed and vary
by industry and company.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
The 11 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
July -- listed in order -- are: Accommodation & Food
Services; Retail Trade; Utilities; Other Services;
Educational Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance &
Insurance; Public Administration; and Management of
Companies & Support Services. The seven industries
reporting contraction in July -- listed in order -- are:
Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Construction; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Transportation & Warehousing;  Wholesale Trade ; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …
“The general economy and unemployment are keeping our
business flat.” (Health Care & Social Assistance)
“Beginning to see effects of slowing economy. New orders
are down versus same time last year.” (Information)
“Business is slowing; input costs are weakening.”
(Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting)
“Seeing a slight uptick in sales revenue.”
(Public Administration)
“Things have not changed too much this past month; however,
we are seeing more aggressive marketing/sales efforts by suppliers
hungry for business.” (Transportation &
Warehousing)
“Overall, we are still seeing growth over last year, but
the sequential growth has gone flat to negative.”
(Wholesale Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price
Airfares (7); Beef; Carpet; Copier Paper; Dairy; Food & Beverage;
Fuel(c); Gasoline(c) (7);  Natural Gas (c); Polyethylene; and Textile
Products.
Commodities Down in Price
#1  Diesel Fuel  (3); #2 Diesel Fuel (3); Fuel(c) (2); Gasoline(c) (3);
Natural Gas(c); Poly Film Products; PVC Products; and Steel
Products (3).  Commodities in Short Supply
Computer Servers is the only commodity reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed is
indicated after each item.
(c) Reported as both up and down in price.  JULY 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
NMI
In July, the NMI registered 52.6 percent, indicating continued growth in
the non-manufacturing sector for the 31st consecutive month. A reading
above 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing
sector is generally contracting.  Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in July registered 57.2
percent, 5.5 percentage points higher than the 51.7 percent
registered in June. Twelve industries reported increased business
activity, and four industries reported decreased activity for the
month of July. Comments from respondents include: “Business
conditions show growth” and “Growth of new business segments.”
The industries reporting growth of business activity in July --
listed in order -- are: Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade; Educational Services;
Finance & Insurance; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; Public Administration;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Health Care &
Social Assistance. The industries reporting decreased business
activity in July are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Construction; and Wholesale Trade.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in July for the 36th
consecutive month. The index registered 54.3 percent, an increase of
1 percentage point from the 53.3 percent reported in June. Comments
from respondents include: “More inquiries regarding our services”
and “Addition of several business units and new service lines.”
The 10 industries reporting growth of new orders in July -- listed
in order -- are: Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services;
Educational Services; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Other Services; Information; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Finance & Insurance; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  The five industries reporting contraction of new orders in July are:
Mining; Wholesale Trade; Construction; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Public Administration.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector contracted in July,
as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment Index registered 49.3 percent.
This reflects a decrease of 3 percentage points when compared to the
52.3 percent registered in June. This also represents the first month
of contraction since December 2011, when the index registered 49.8
percent. Nine industries reported increased employment, six
industries reported decreased employment, and three industries
reported unchanged employment compared to June. Comments from
respondents include: “Experiencing a non-growth environment; need
fewer people” and “Due to business growth, more positions to be
filled; held a hiring event.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in July -- listed
in order -- are: Other Services; Accommodation & Food Services;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities; Wholesale Trade;
Public Administration; Information; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Retail Trade. The industries reporting a
reduction in employment in July -- listed in order -- are: Mining;
Educational Services; Construction; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Management of Companies & Support Services; and Transportation &
Warehousing.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 49.5 percent in July,
1.5 percentage points lower than the 51 percent registered in June,
indicating that supplier deliveries were faster in July. A reading
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, and below 50 percent
indicates faster deliveries.  The five industries reporting slower deliveries in July are:
Educational Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Other
Services; Retail Trade; and Information. The eight industries
reporting faster supplier deliveries in July -- listed in order
-- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Finance & Insurance; Transportation & Warehousing;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Construction.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in July for the sixth
consecutive month. The index registered 54.5 percent, which is 1.5
percentage points higher than the 53 percent reported in June. Of the
total respondents in June, 27 percent indicated they do not have
inventories or do not measure them. Comments from respondents include:
“Building inventories to desired levels” and “Support for newly gained
contracts.”
The 11 industries reporting an increase in inventories in July --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Retail Trade; Mining; Other Services; Utilities; Accommodation &
Food Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Wholesale Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Construction; and Management of
Companies & Support Services. The four industries reporting
decreases in inventories in July are: Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Public Administration; Information; and Health
Care & Social Assistance.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased in July following two consecutive
months of contraction. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
July registered 54.9 percent, 6 percentage points higher than
the 48.9 percent reported in June. In July, the percentage of
respondents reporting higher prices is 19 percent, the percentage
indicating no change in prices paid is 71 percent, and 10 percent
of the respondents reported lower prices.  Ten non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in prices
paid during the month of July, in the following order: Educational
Services; Other Services; Retail Trade; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Wholesale Trade;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Transportation & Warehousing;
Finance & Insurance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services. The six industries reporting a decrease in prices paid
during July -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Construction; Public Administration;
Information; and Utilities.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted in July
for the second consecutive month following two months of growth.
The index registered 44.5 percent, which is 3 percentage points
lower than the 47.5 percent reported in June. Of the total
respondents in June, 42 percent indicated they do not measure
backlog of orders.  The three industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in July
are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Construction; and Finance &
Insurance. The nine industries reporting lower backlog of orders in
July -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Retail Trade; Utilities; Wholesale Trade; Public
Administration; Health Care & Social Assistance; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Transportation & Warehousing.  Six industries reported no change in backlog of orders in July
compared to June.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in July following one month of
contraction. The New Export Orders Index for July registered 51
percent, which is 1.5 percentage points higher than the 49.5
percent reported in June. Of the total respondents in June, 66
percent indicated they either do not perform, or do not separately
measure, orders for work outside of the United States.  The five industries reporting an increase in new export orders in
July are: Other Services; Retail Trade; Public Administration;
Transportation & Warehousing; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The five industries reporting a decrease in
export orders in July are: Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Accommodation & Food Services; Wholesale Trade; and
Construction. Six industries reported no change in new export
orders in July compared to June.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index contracted in July after
seven consecutive months of growth. The index registered 44.5
percent, which is 9 percentage points lower than the 53.5 percent
reported in June. This is the lowest reading registered by the
index since March 2009, when the index registered 37 percent.
Fifty-eight percent of respondents reported that they do not use,
or do not track, the use of imported materials.  The two industries reporting an increase in the use of imports in
July are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; and Retail Trade.
The five industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month
of July are: Information; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
and Accommodation & Food Services. Ten industries reported no
change in imports for the month of July compared to June.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in July
registered 59 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points lower than
the 64.5 percent reported in June. This indicates that respondents
believe their inventories are still too high at this time. In July,
20 percent of respondents said their inventories were too high, 2
percent said their inventories were too low, and 78 percent said
their inventories were about right.  The 11 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in July -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance;
Transportation & Warehousing; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Utilities; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Retail
Trade; Public Administration; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  The only industry reporting that their inventories are too low in
July is Information.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
non-manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures.
Use of the data is in the public domain and should be compared
to all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to gross
domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining;
Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Management of Companies & Support Services; Educational
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration;
and Other Services (services such as Equipment & Machinery
Repairing; Promoting or Administering Religious Activities;
Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry
Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care Services, Pet Care
Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary Parking Services,
and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current month
compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators measured
(Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
 Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports, Prices, Employment
and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows the percentage reporting
each response, and the diffusion index. Responses represent raw data
and are never changed. Data is seasonally adjusted for Business
Activity, New Orders, Prices and Employment. All seasonal
adjustment factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce
and are subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The remaining indexes have not indicated significant
seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal weights:
Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders (seasonally
adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and Supplier Deliveries.   Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and are
convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction of change
and the scope of change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates
that the non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining. Supplier
Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50 percent indicates
faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent out
to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first
part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on information
for the current month. ISM receives survey responses throughout most
of any given month, with the majority of respondents generally waiting
until late in the month to submit responses in order to give the most
accurate picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are listed in the order of
most growth to least growth. For the industries reporting
contraction or decreases, those are listed in the order of the
highest level of contraction/decrease to the least level of
contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published monthly
by the  Institute for Supply Management ™, the first supply institute
in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and serve the
supply management profession and is a highly influential and
respected association in the global marketplace. ISM’s mission is
to lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business
is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the third business day
of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the
August 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday,
September 6, 2012.
/  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  