-- U.S. Bank Named as Defendant in Peregrine Clients’ Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-03T22:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/u-s-bank-named-as-defendant-in-peregrine-clients-suit.html
U.S. Bank  NA, which held customer
money for Peregrine Financial Group Inc., knew or should have
known the collapsed commodities brokerage had insufficient funds
on deposit, a firm client claimed in a new lawsuit.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 liquidation last month, hours
after the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued the
 Cedar Falls , Iowa-based company and founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. for allegedly misappropriating more than $200 million in
customer funds.  “Even if U.S. Bank had no direct knowledge of Wasendorf
Sr.’s fraud until it became public, U.S. Bank was grossly
negligent in failing to detect the fraud,” Marcus Ibrahim said
in his complaint filed today in federal court in Chicago.  Before trying to commit suicide on July 9, Wasendorf wrote
a confession in which he admitted altering U.S. Bank statements
to conceal his wrongdoing, according to an affidavit filed upon
his arrest four days later.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator, froze Peregrine’s accounts on July 9 and announced it
had only $5 million on deposit at U.S. Bank and not the $225
million the firm claimed to have there days earlier.  Ibrahim’s complaint is at least the fourth to be filed by
Peregrine clients since the firm’s collapse. It is the first to
name the U.S. Bancorp unit as a defendant. Each of the
complaints seeks class action, or group status, on behalf of all
Peregrine customers who lost money as a result of the alleged
fraud.  ‘Without Merit’  Wasendorf, who is charged with lying to federal regulators
and is in federal custody, is a defendant in this and in each of
the previous complaints, as has his son, firm President Russell
Wasendorf Jr., firm Vice Chairman Neil Aslin and other company
executives.  “We believe the case is without merit,” Tom Joyce, a
spokesman for Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, said in a phone
interview. Having reviewed the historic account activity, “the
company does not believe there is any evidence of employee
involvement in the fraudulent activity,” he said.  The bank said in a quarterly report filed today for the
period ended June 30 that it was cooperating with a court-
appointed receiver in the CFTC case, with the Chapter 7
bankruptcy trustee and with the federal government’s
investigation into the actions of the firm and its chairman-
founder.  Lawsuit Consolidation  Lawyers for plaintiffs in two of the other three client
cases tentatively agreed to their consolidation before U.S.
District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman in  Chicago . Peregrine
maintained offices in that city.  Robert Foote, an attorney for the plaintiff in the
remaining case, Beau Wolinsky of Danville,  Kentucky , didn’t
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment today on whether
he agreed to a consolidation.  The new case is Ibrahim v. Wasendorf Sr., 12-cv-06137, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine  Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Iowa  ( Cedar Rapids ).  The other client cases are LaSalvia v. Wasendorf, 12-
cv-05546; Wolinsky v. Wasendorf, 12-cv-5624; and Power Vanguard
Ltd v. Wasendorf, 12cv5727, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  