-- U.S. Stocks Rise to Highest Level Since May on Jobs Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-03T21:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/u-s-stock-futures-rise-before-jobs-data-linkedin-gains.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level since May,
after a report showed payrolls climbed more than forecast even
as the jobless rate unexpectedly rose to a five-month high.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc.
increased at least 2.2 percent.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  surged
57 percent, after tumbling 75 percent in two days, as it secured
a funding lifeline and more customers resumed routing orders.
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  advanced more than 3.1
percent after reporting better-than-estimated earnings.  About nine stocks  gained  for every two that fell on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 rose 1.9 percent to
1,390.99, after falling 1.5 percent in four days. It rose a
fourth week, the longest streak since  March. (SPX)  The Dow Jones
Industrial Average added 217.29 points, or 1.7 percent, to
13,096.17. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.8
billion shares, or about in line with the three-month average.  “The jobs report is neither here nor there,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion.
“There’s not enough evidence for the Fed to act imminently. At
the same time, the numbers are not so good, which means that Fed
could still do something. On balance, the number was decent.”  Equities gained as payrolls last month increased 163,000
following a revised 64,000 rise in June. Economists projected a
gain of 100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent. The Institute
for Supply Management’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing
businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose
to 52.6 in July, beating estimates.  Uneven Hiring  Uneven hiring may hold back consumer spending, the biggest
part of the economy, as a global slowdown and impending U.S. tax
changes weigh on businesses. Job cuts at companies from Morgan
Stanley to Cisco Systems Inc. mean unemployment may remain
elevated, one reason the Federal Reserve this week said it is
prepared to take new steps if needed to boost growth.  “What I like about the jobs report is that it allows
people like me, who have been patient with the domestic economy,
to continue to be patient,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York, which oversees about
$2.7 billion. “This alone won’t change the Fed’s mind.”  Stocks fell over the last four days as Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed
to reassure investors on immediate efforts to bolster growth.
Members of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition parties
signaled acceptance of the ECB’s plan to buy government bonds.  Volatility Tumbles  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
growth jumped 2.5 percent. Bank of America climbed 3.5 percent
to $7.43. Alcoa rose 2.3 percent to $8.37. Caterpillar added 2.3
percent to $85.02. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index fell 11 percent, the most since June 29, to 15.64.  Investors also monitored the latest developments with
 Knight Capital . The company, stung by a software malfunction
that triggered a $440 million trading loss, surged 57 percent to
$4.05.  The firm told brokers it has money for today after it
received short-term financing, according to a person familiar
with the matter who requested anonymity because the
conversations were private. TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and
Scottrade Inc., which sent trades elsewhere for execution after
Knight’s software bug on Aug. 1 roiled markets, said they were
routing orders to the firm again.  As the company opened its books to potential saviors,
people with knowledge of the matter said KKR & Co., TPG Capital
and Silver Lake were among buyout firms that had an initial
interest -- while one said chances of a private-equity deal are
small.  Take Over  The market maker has until Aug. 6 to complete a transaction
in which  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will take over trades that
saddled Knight with a $440 million loss, a person familiar with
the matter said. U.S. stock trades settle three sessions after
they are made.  “I seriously doubt they will go out of business,” Kenneth
Pasternak, who co-founded Knight in 1995, said in a phone
interview from his Ridgefield Park, New Jersey, private equity
firm Kabr Real Estate Investment. “I just hope they can
maintain the innovation. My fear is they will be bought by some
big bank and become consumed by the CYA behavior and lose their
edge.”  Some earnings reports also helped drive stocks higher.
About 73 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported quarterly
results have beaten  estimates , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales missed estimates at 59 percent of companies.  Kraft Rallies  Kraft rallied 4 percent to $40.51. The producer of its
self-named macaroni and cheese and Cadbury chocolates boosted
prices to help recoup higher costs for commodities and mitigate
the effect of the stronger dollar that reduced the value of
sales  overseas .  P&G gained 3.1 percent to $65.50. Chief Executive Officer
 Robert McDonald  is working to prove his pricing and plan to save
$10 billion by 2016 through cutting jobs and marketing will be
enough to improve results.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  added 16 percent to $108.51. The biggest
professional-networking website forecast sales that topped
estimates as it adds users and makes more money from recruitment
services. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Weiner has lured
subscribers and increased revenue from hiring services, the
largest of the company’s three main product lines.  The first among social media companies to hold initial
share sales since early 2011, LinkedIn has done a better job
than consumer-focused peers  Facebook (FB)  Inc. and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  at
wringing sales from a growing user base.  Facebook Rebounds  Facebook rose 5.2 percent, its biggest gain since June 15,
to $21.09. The shares yesterday reached a record low, tumbling
47 percent since the company went public in May. The world’s
largest social-networking service last week reported earnings
that showed slowing growth.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  added 1.6 percent to
$31.34. The insurer majority-owned by the U.S. government posted
its third straight profitable  quarter  as results improved at the
Chartis property-casualty and SunAmerica life units. The U.S.
Treasury Department has begun an offering of $4.5 billion in AIG
shares, and the insurer plans to  buy back  as much as $3 billion
of the stock.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  rose 1.3 percent to $24.91. The biggest U.S.
exchange operator reported second-quarter earnings that beat
estimates and cut its cost guidance for the year.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  added 6.1 percent to $35.06. The owner of the
most-watched television network reported an 8.1 percent increase
in second-quarter profit,  beating  analysts’ estimates.  Online Reservation  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  jumped 16 percent to $39.55. The largest
U.S. online restaurant-reservation service forecast full-year
profit that topped analysts’  estimates  amid an increase in
seated diners.  ITT Corp. (ITT)  jumped 12 percent to $20.27 as 18 percent revenue
growth in the U.S. helped the maker of auto parts and industrial
pumps post better-than-expected  earnings .  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  gained 11 percent to $106.75. The
largest oil producer in Texas’ Eagle Ford shale lifted output
forecasts and reported  profit  that surpassed estimates.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  rose 5.8 percent to $13.78. It should cut
its fixed-income trading business in half and use the freed-up
capital to buy back a quarter of its shares, said Ed Najarian,
an analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.  The firm should cut its so-called risk-weighted assets by
$150 billion under Basel III rules, about twice the reduction it
currently plans, Najarian estimated yesterday in a research
note. The larger reduction and buybacks could double Morgan
Stanley’s stock price to about $27, he wrote.  ‘Create Value’  “With Morgan Stanley stock languishing at about 50 percent
of tangible book value, and down more than 50 percent over the
past three years, we think management needs to potentially
embark upon a more aggressive strategic plan in an effort to
create value for  shareholders ,” Najarian wrote.  Boeing Co. (BA)  rose 1.1 percent to $72.81. It reached
agreements to sell 94 of its single-aisle 737 planes to Asian
carriers, including a Singapore Airlines Ltd. unit that has an
all-Airbus SAS fleet. Separately, it received a $460 million
award from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to
develop spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts.  Citizens Republic Bancorp Inc. (CRBC)  jumped 9.1 percent to
$19.24. The Michigan lender that has yet to repay a $300 million
U.S. government bailout is soliciting takeover bids from
competitors, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Record Low  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  tumbled 37 percent to $6.75, a  record  low. The
company that rents cars by the hour or day cut its forecast for
sales this year as the pace of new members slowed.  Health Net Inc. (HNT)  slumped 19 percent to $18.36 after the
insurer reduced its annual profit  forecast  because of higher-
than-anticipated medical costs.  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  dropped 29 percent to $11.49. The U.S. owner
of the largest rare-earth deposit outside China said it may cut
capital expenditures and seek additional  financing .  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  slid 5.5 percent to $11.12. The
maker of the “Call of Duty” video game fell as the Financial
Times reported that majority owner  Vivendi SA (VIV)  hasn’t attracted
interest for its planned sale of its stake in the company.  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  dropped 2.5 percent to $13.77.
The company is unlikely to win its patent-infringement case over
copies of the blood-thinner Lovenox, so Watson Pharmaceutics
Inc. can sell its version until a trial is held, a U.S. appeals
court ruled today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  