-- Tuesday Morning Ex-CEO Says She Was Fired for Having Cancer
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-03T22:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/tuesday-morning-ex-ceo-says-she-was-fired-for-having-cancer-1-.html
Tuesday Morning Corp. (TUES) ’s former Chief
Executive Officer Kathleen Mason filed a discrimination claim
accusing the home furnishings close-out chain of firing her
because she has breast cancer.  Mason was removed from her job on June 6, about three weeks
after she claims she got an ultimatum following the disclosure
of her medical condition to the company’s board.  “After I informed members of the Board of Directors that I
had breast cancer, I was told I would be fired if I did not
resign or retire,” Mason said in an Aug. 1 complaint with the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. “I was fired
based on a perceived disability.”  Tuesday Morning, based in  Dallas , said in June that Mason,
63, was removed as CEO because the board “concluded it was the
right time to transition leadership to a new executive who will
guide the company through its next stage,” according to a
statement on the company’s website. Laurey Peat, an outside
spokeswoman for the company, today declined to comment on
Mason’s allegations.  Mason claims three “dissident” directors on the then
five-member board wanted her fired because they feared she would
be too ill or too distracted by cancer treatments to focus on
improving sales at the 850-store chain.  Office Gossip  Tuesday Morning lost $4.2 million in the fiscal third
quarter, ended March 31, compared with a $3.6 million loss in
the comparable quarter of 2011. Net sales fell $8.3 million to
$812.8 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, compared with
$821.1 million in sales during the previous fiscal year. For
the three months ended in June, net sales were essentially flat
with the comparable period of last year, according to a press
release.  Mason was diagnosed with  breast cancer  in the summer of
2011 and quietly underwent three surgeries during October and
November. She decided to tell two of the company’s directors
about her condition in January and February to stem office
gossip over why she’d lost considerable weight and much of her
auburn hair, a side effect of the cancer treatments.  “I took vacation time for my surgeries,” Mason said today
in an interview. “For my post-operative visits I would go to
the doctor early in the morning and then to the office for the
rest of the day, often staying until 7 or 8 at night. This
allowed me to dive more into my work, and my work became a
distraction” from her medical concerns.  Prognosis ‘Good’  “Kathleen was able to do the job 100 percent,” Rogge
Dunn, Mason’s lawyer, said in an interview. “They just assumed
she couldn’t do it because she had cancer. Her prognosis was
good, which is what she wanted to tell the board.”  U.S. disability laws forbid companies from discriminating
against any employee for a perceived disability, Dunn said. He
also said Tuesday Morning didn’t warn Mason that her job
performance was slipping or follow company protocols for
dismissing workers for just cause.  Mason said she was awarded a $500,000 bonus and her
employment contract was extended for another year in February.  “If there were problems with my performance, why give me a
bonus?” Mason said.  She also points to Tuesday Morning’s relative financial
success against its peers in the home-furnishings sector, which
has suffered along with the downturn in the national housing
market.  Medical Benefits  “The most important thing to shareholders may be the share
price, but you can’t have a share price without a solvent
company,” she said. Mason said at least a half-dozen competing
chains such as Linen ‘N Things, Bombay & Co. Inc., and Filene’s
Basement declared bankruptcy during her 12 years as president
and CEO of Tuesday Morning.  Mason said the company’s severance package focused on
retaining her medical benefits and offered roughly 10 percent of
her $1.3 million yearly compensation package if she’d agree to
remain a company consultant for 10 years, followed by an 18-
month non-compete period.  “They didn’t think I could run the company, but they
didn’t want to let me work for a competitor either,” she said.
“They wanted to tie me up for the rest of my career.”  Dunn said Mason will seek a right-to-sue letter from the
EEOC, which may conduct its own investigation into her
discrimination accusations, to press Mason’s claims as quickly
as possible.  “There are a lot of people with cancer in the workplace,
and people have all sorts of misperceptions and biases about
it,” Dunn said. “The board thought she might not be able to
suck it up, and thought, ‘we don’t want to handle this.’ But is
it something you have to handle under the law, something you
have to do morally and ethically? Yes.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  