-- UN CO2 Will Drop Below 2 Euros in Perfect Storm, Barclays Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-08-03T14:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/un-co2-will-drop-below-2-euros-in-perfect-storm-barclays-says.html
United Nations emission credits would
probably drop below 2 euros ($2.45) a metric ton, an all-time
low, assuming a simultaneous jump in supply of offsets and
auctions of phase-three European permits, said Barclays Plc.  There’s a chance of a  “perfect storm”  in the carbon
markets because European Union regulators decided on July 13
last year to sell 120 million tons of phase-three spot
allowances by the end of this year to meet demand from
utilities, which sell their power two to three years in advance,
 Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London with Barclays, said today
by phone. There’s another 30 million tons of aviation allowances
being sold, according to the  EU website .  Certified Emission Reduction credits would fall “certainly
below 2 euros” a ton should those sales coincide with a boost
in supply of Russian and Ukrainian credits and offsets from
projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23, which have been under
review the past two months by UN regulators, he said.  The Clean Development Mechanism executive board, the Bonn,
Germany-based regulator of the UN market, will examine  supply 
requests for 5 million tons of hydrofluorocarbon-23 emission
credits by the middle of next week, potentially adding to a
glut, Richard Chatterton, an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London, said July 30. The EU market is oversupplied
by 14 percent in the five years through 2012, including UN
offsets, according to a New Energy forecast.  Tightening Plan  Connie Hedegaard , EU commissioner for climate action, said
last week she was confident a plan to tighten the region’s
carbon market would gain support from member states and the
parliament this year. That so-called backloading of supply could
see the temporary removal of 900 million tons of permits in the
three years through 2015, according to a commission staff
working document.  Should CERs drop below 2 euros before a decision is reached
on backloading, EU allowances may test their record low of 5.99
euros a ton reached April 4, Sikorski said. UN offsets may not
fall as far as 1 euro a ton, he said.  “That feels like a long way to go.”  CERs for December this year rose 2.1 percent to 2.96 euros
a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of 1:50
p.m. They reached a record low 2.60 euros on July 30.  European Union carbon allowances for December advanced 1
percent to 7.15 euros a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  