-- Iranian Pilgrims Kidnapped in Syria; Aleppo Fight Grows
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-05T01:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/un-passes-symbolic-syria-measure-as-ban-evokes-genocides.html
Forty-eight Iranian pilgrims were
kidnapped by gunmen near the Syrian capital, Damascus, yesterday,
as the Syrian government intensified a battle for control of
Aleppo, the largest city,  Al Jazeera  reported.  A report by the Iranian news service Fars that the pilgrims
were released wasn’t correct, the  BBC  said, citing the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency . IRNA put the number of pilgrims at
47. None of the reports could be independently verified.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called the
Syrian conflict a “catastrophe.” Aleppo is the epicenter of
“a vicious battle,” and “the acts of brutality that are being
reported may constitute crimes against humanity,” Ban told the
UN General Assembly Aug. 3.  “What is especially tragic about  Syria  is that this
catastrophe was avoidable,” and now “dire predictions have
come to pass,” Ban said.  The international community has been unable to prevent a
peaceful revolt in Syria for the past 17 months from turning
into a civil war. Syrian forces killed 127 people yesterday, Al
Jazeera reported, citing the Syrian Network for  Human Rights .
The government shelled Aleppo and Damascus and clashed with
rebels around the country, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in an e-mailed statement.  Helicopter Gunships  The Syrian military was using artillery and helicopter
gunships to attack rebels in Aleppo, with clashes reported
around the city’s television and radio stations, Al-Jazeera
reported. Rebels seized six new neighborhoods in Aleppo, Al
Jazeera  said .  In the UN General Assembly, more than two-thirds of the
193-member nations voted Aug. 3 in favor of a non-binding
resolution condemning Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
violence against civilians and the Security Council’s inability
to stop it. There were 133 votes in favor, 12 against and 31
abstentions.  Russia , which has used its veto three times to
protect Assad in the  Security Council , was among the nations
that voted against the measure.  Passages demanding that Assad step down and calling on
states to apply economic sanctions were removed from the
resolution to garner the majority needed to highlight the
isolation of Assad and the allies who have shielded him.  Lost Legitimacy  Even so, the resolution affirmed that the Syrian regime has
lost its legitimacy, though the Security Council is still being
held hostage by the Russian veto, Abdulbaset Seida, chief of the
opposition Syrian National Council, told a press conference in
the Iraqi city of Erbil, according to Al Jazeera.  With European Union sanctions and U.S. restrictions taking
their toll on the Syrian economy, Assad has been left to rely on
friends such as Iran and Russia.  Syria is asking Russia to provide crude and oil products to
offset the loss of shipments from its traditional suppliers,
Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil said yesterday. The two
countries agreed to search for a solution to Syria’s oil
shortage, with Russia intending to provide aid, according to
Jamil, who oversees economic affairs in Syria.  The U.S. State and Defense departments have begun planning
for Assad’s fall, the  New York  Times reported, citing
unidentified Obama administration officials. The U.S. is
preparing for humanitarian relief for the country and is
pressing opposition forces in Syria not to retaliate against
army, police and municipal arms of Assad’s government, the
newspaper reported.  China , which last month vetoed a proposed UN resolution
threatening sanctions on the Syrian government, said yesterday
events in the country should be resolved through political means.  “External powers should not impose any solutions on
Syria” because Syria’s fate should be decided by the Syrian
people themselves, the state-run Xinhua News Agency cited Wang
Kejian, the deputy director of the West Asia and North Africa
Department with China’s Foreign Ministry, as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  