-- Hungarian Antitrust Body Confirms Investigation Into MasterCard
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-08-03T13:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/hungarian-antitrust-body-confirms-investigation-into-mastercard.html
Hungary’s antitrust regulator
confirmed that it’s investigating alleged abuses by  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-biggest payments network, over the
company’s dominant position on the  interbank market .  Interbank commissions charged by MasterCard, whose market
share exceeds 75 percent in Hungary, “may serve to squeeze
out” its “only serious competitor,” Visa  Europe  Ltd., on
which the European Commission has imposed price limits, the
Budapest-based regulator said today by e-mail.  MasterCard was informed of the investigation in June, the
company said Aug. 1 in a quarterly report. The probe focuses on
a period beginning December 2010, it said.  Visa Europe, which operates the European Union’s largest
payment-card network, has received an antitrust complaint from
the bloc’s regulators over the fees it charges to process cross-
border credit-card payments.  Visa Europe’s so-called multilateral interchange fees
“harm competition between acquiring banks, inflate the cost of
payment card acceptance for merchants and ultimately increase
consumer prices,” the commission said July 31 in an e-mailed
statement. The company can defend itself in writing or seek a
hearing before EU regulators decide on fines that could reach 10
percent of annual sales.  Hungary ’s antitrust regulator fined MasterCard and Visa
Europe 477 million forint ($2.1 million) each in 2009, saying
they colluded with local banks on fees charged to credit-card
customers between 1996 and 2008. MasterCard, which denies any
wrongdoing and appealed that decision, paid the fine in the
fourth quarter of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  