-- Muni-Bond Rulemaker Seeks Meeting With Index Providers
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-08-03T20:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/muni-bond-rulemaker-seeks-meeting-with-index-providers.html
Providers of municipal-bond indexes
and benchmarks have been asked to meet with the organization
that sets rules for the $3.7 trillion market as it seeks to
improve disclosure about how the financial tools are prepared.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which guides
dealers and underwriters of debt issued by state and local
governments, set the meeting for Aug. 16 at its Alexandria,
Virginia, headquarters, according to a copy of the invitation
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Growing market concerns about the integrity of financial
market indices and transparency” prompted the move, according
to the letter signed by Alan Polsky, the board’s chairman.  The request follows a board announcement July 30 that it
would study how municipal indexes are put together after U.K.
investigators found that bankers rigged the process used to set
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a credit benchmark
used globally. The MSRB said it had no indication that municipal
indexes may be manipulated. It said the review seeks to help
investors understand the indexes that are used to compare and
set yields on municipal bonds.  Transparency Needed  “We believe there is a need for greater transparency in
this regard,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  George Friedlander , senior municipal strategist, said today in a
report. “It will be beneficial to the entire industry for all
participants to be given a better understanding of these
variables.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said July 31
that it is seeking the power to require better disclosure by
borrowers in the municipal-bond market, which is governed by
less restrictive disclosure rules than corporate debt.  Polsky, a senior vice president of Dougherty & Co., an
investment banking firm in  Minneapolis , referred a request for
comment to Jennifer Galloway, a board spokeswoman.  “The MSRB looks forward to working with the industry’s
index providers to promote transparency in the municipal
market,” Galloway said in a prepared statement.  In describing the meeting, Polsky’s letter said it was
sought to “discuss ways to increase market participants’
understanding of indices’ methodologies and mechanics.” Other
goals include finding areas of “mutual interest” and exploring
ways to improve “market transparency” with the MSRB’s
Electronic Municipal Market Access, or Emma, website.  Invited Participants  The invitees include the Bond Buyer, Interactive Data
Corp., Markit, Municipal Market Data, Municipal Market Advisors,
 Standard & Poor’s , the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association ,  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  and Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News.  The Bond Buyer, a municipal-bond industry newspaper, which
has the Bond Buyer 20 index of yields and four other indices, is
glad to discuss its indexes and answer questions at the meeting,
Gavin Murphy, the editor in chief, said by telephone.  “The Bond Buyer indexes have been around for a long time
and widely used for decades,” Murphy said.  Tom Doe, chief executive officer of Concord, Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors, said “I am glad to be included
in the meeting.” The company produces the daily Municipal
Consensus Yield Curve, among other products.  “Our own municipal benchmark indices are transparent and
we welcome the efforts of the MSRB and SEC to continue to
promote more disclosure in this market,” Ben Macdonald,
Bloomberg LP’s head of fixed income, said in a statement.  Brian Willinksy of Interactive Data declined to comment.  “We’re looking forward to the dialogue with the MSRB and
other index sponsors about the issues the MSRB has raised,”
 Michael Decker , co-head of SIFMA’s municipal securities
division, said by e-mail.  Officials of the other invitees didn’t immediately respond
to e-mailed requests for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  