-- United Removes Strike Threat With Pilots Contract Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-08-03T20:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/united-pilots-agree-on-most-issues-for-new-contract-accord.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
reached an agreement with pilots on the main components of a new
contract, moving the world’s largest airline closer to
integrating its workforce after the 2010 merger.  Some issues that don’t involve compensation or rules
governing what size aircraft are flown in the main jet fleet
still must be settled, the  Air Line Pilots Association  told its
members. The accord also must be voted on by pilot leaders and
union members, United said in a statement.  The agreement removes the threat of a potential strike, a
step approved by pilots on July 17 to protest the lack of
progress toward a single contract after more than two years of
bargaining. United had to negotiate a unified accord because
pilots’ previous contracts differed over matters such as pay,
benefits and scheduling.  “This agreement follows intense negotiations with our
pilot group and is an important step forward for our company,”
Fred Abbott, senior vice president for United’s flight
operations, said in the statement.  Approval by rank-and-file union pilots would bring together
work groups from the former  United Airlines  and Continental
Airlines Inc., which completed their merger in October 2010. The
 combined company  flies as United Airlines and kept that
carrier’s Chicago headquarters.  Contract ‘Value’  Pilot negotiators are “confident that we can reach
satisfactory agreement” on remaining issues, the union said.
Finalizing formal contract language and approval by union
leaders and then members should be complete by the mid-fourth
quarter,  Jay Pierce , chairman of the ALPA unit at Continental,
said in an interview.  “When I look at the cornerstones we established for wages,
compensation, retirement,  job security  and quality of life work
rules, I am very confident in saying we did what the pilots
asked us to do,” he said. “You never get everything you want
in a negotiation, but I think they will see value in this
contract.”  Tensions had marked pilot-management relations in recent
months. United warned pilots in June against misusing sick leave
after noting an “abnormally high” rate of such reports, and
union pilots protested a decision to remove secondary cockpit
barriers from new  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s.  The union, representing about 12,000 pilots at the combined
airline, asked the  National Mediation Board  in April and again
in June to declare talks with United at an impasse. That was one
of several steps that must occur under federal law before the
pilots would be allowed to strike.  United Continental rose 0.6 percent to $18.26 at the close
in  New York  today. The shares have fallen 3.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  