-- Unitymedia KabelBW Considers PrimaCom Berlin for Acquisition
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-03T16:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/unitymedia-kabelbw-looks-at-primacom-among-acquisition-targets.html
Liberty Global Inc.’s Unitymedia
KabelBW, the second-largest German cable company, is considering
a bid for PrimaCom Berlin GmbH as it searches for acquisitions
to expand in Internet services.  “We are looking at everything that is on the market, so
also PrimaCom,” Unitymedia Chief Executive Officer Lutz
Schueler said by phone. “We are an active driver of the
consolidation process in the cable market, as we believe that
this is necessary to be in a competitive position.”  Unitymedia plans to expand in Internet products for
consumers, against competitors such as  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  Leipzig-based PrimaCom offers Internet, TV
and phone services to more than 1 million households, mostly in
eastern  Germany . ING Groep NV said in April that PrimaCom may be
worth about 400 million euros ($495 million).  Unitymedia acquired Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH in May
and completed the two companies’ integration in July. Market
leader  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ’s acquisition of Tele
Columbus Group still awaits approval by antitrust authorities.  Thomas Chojnacki, a PrimaCom spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment.  Unitymedia’s second-quarter sales rose 11 percent from a
year earlier to 443 million euros, the company said today in an
e-mailed statement. The company gained 189,300 new customers and
average revenue per client rose 9 percent to 18.63 euros as it
sold bundled products integrating television, Internet and
telephone services.  Adjusted Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 9 percent to 262 million euros. The net loss
was 25 million euros.  “The company’s value creation is reflected in its stock
price,” Schueler said. “Our goal is to leverage our capital to
drive growth and at some point either buy back stocks or get new
assets”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  