-- Luxury Watch Sales Show China Failing to Secure Economic Rebound
-- B y   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-08-03T02:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/luxury-watch-sales-show-china-failing-to-secure-economic-rebound.html
China ’s economy, the world’s second-
biggest, is yet to rebound according to one gauge: sales of the
luxury watches that business people give to clients and
officials to build commercial relationships.  Eleven of 13 shops and chains surveyed in Hong Kong by
Bloomberg News reported no pick-up in July in purchases by
mainland Chinese customers.  Watch, clock and jewelry sales  in
the city gained 3.1 percent in June from a year earlier, down
from a 59 percent increase in the same month in 2011, according
to government data released yesterday.  The shop windows of retailers selling brands such as Rolex
and Piaget are eyed as a guide to whether  China’s economy  is
picking up pace, according to Frederic Neumann, Hong Kong-based
co-head of Asian economics at HSBC Holdings Plc. If the most
expensive watches are not on display, shops may be short of
stock, indicating that the Chinese economy is humming.  “Most of the mainland customers are cutting their spending
and businessmen don’t need as many luxury watches to give out as
gifts as they did a year ago, due to a sharp decline in business
activities in the mainland,” said Stanley Lau, managing
director of  Global Timepieces Ltd.  which has six branches in
districts such as Tsim Sha Tsui and  Mong Kok . Lau is the deputy
chairman of the Federation of  Hong Kong  Industries.  The Chinese government has hastened investment approvals to
support the economy as a clampdown on real-estate speculation
and weakness in export demand cool growth. The securities
regulator yesterday announced a cut in transaction fees for
equities trading after the Shanghai Composite Index slid 14
percent from this year’s high in March.  The Chinese economy grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the global financial
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  