-- Viacom Profit Misses Estimates on Lower Advertising Sales
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-03T20:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/viacom-profit-misses-estimates-on-lower-advertising-sales.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of the Paramount
film studio and cable networks such as Nickelodeon and  MTV , said
fiscal third-quarter profit dropped 7 percent after advertising
sales declined the most in more than three years.  Net income fell to $534 million, or $1.01 a share, New
York-based Viacom said today in statement. Excluding items such
as tax benefits, earnings were 97 cents, trailing the $1
analysts predicted  on average , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Viacom, which is relying on its cable-television business
for  92 percent  of annual operating income, is struggling with a
ratings drop at Nickelodeon, the channel aimed at children.
Viacom’s ad sales slumped 9 percent, the most since the March
2009 quarter, during the U.S. recession. Advertising will
improve sequentially this quarter, helped by BET’s awards shows,
Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said.  “I’m confident in the steps we’re taking,” Dauman said on
a conference call. “If you look at Nickelodeon, we have a very
strong lineup coming forward.”  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 3
percent to $47.20 at the close in New York. The stock has
increased 3.9 percent this year.  Sales dropped 14 percent to $3.24 billion, trailing the
$3.49 billion analysts estimated. In the year-earlier quarter,
net income was $574 million, or 97 cents.  Programming Fees  The networks unit, which also includes  Comedy Central , gets
revenue from advertising and programming fees paid by TV-service
providers such as DirecTV and Comcast Corp. Those fees, which
rose 1 percent last quarter, will grow by more than 10 percent
in the U.S. in the period ending next month, Dauman said.  Viacom renewed a rights deal with  DirecTV (DTV)  last month after
contentious negotiations that led to a 10-day blackout. The
contract gives Viacom more than $600 million annually over the
next seven years, a 20 percent increase over the last agreement,
a person familiar with the matter said. The blackout during
negotiations caused some DirecTV customers to cancel their
service.  The increase in fees helped offset a drop in advertising
dollars due to ratings declines at some of Viacom’s networks,
 Michael Nathanson , an analyst with Nomura Securities Inc. in New
York, said in a note today.  “Valuation remains compelling but shares will likely
continue to be tied to commentary around forward affiliate fee,
advertising and national scatter trends, Nickelodeon and the
company’s ability to manage cost growth,” wrote Nathanson, who
recommends buying the shares.  Nickelodeon’s daytime viewership fell 27 percent during the
three months ended in March, according to  David Bank , an analyst
with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “However, we see some bright spots for MTV,” Bank, who
recommends buying the stock, said in a note last month, citing
the popular MTV programs “16 and Pregnant,” “Teen Wolf” and
“Teen Mom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  