-- Vietnam’s Bonds Have Best Week in Eight on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-03T08:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/vietnam-s-bonds-have-best-week-in-eight-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Vietnam ’s government bonds had their
biggest weekly rally since early June on speculation the central
bank will cut borrowing costs. The dong was little changed.  The economy may expand 5.3 percent this year as local and
overseas demand cools, Vu Viet Ngoan, chairman of the National
Financial Supervisory Commission that advises Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung, said in a telephone interview today. Gross
domestic product increased 5.9 percent in 2011, official data
show, and the government’s target for this year has been reduced
to 6 percent from as much as 6.5 percent.  “Investors have increased bond holdings, given the current
economic situation,” said Tran Kieu Hung, a Hanoi-based bond
trader at Bank for Investment & Development of Vietnam. “We
expect some rate cuts by the central bank in the coming
months.”  The yield on the five-year notes fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 9.73 percent today as of 3:33 p.m. in
Hanoi, according to a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield dropped 15 basis points this week, the most
since the five days through June 8.  Vietnam’s central bank has reduced its key  interest rates 
five times this year. Consumer-price gains slowed for an 11th
month in July to 5.35 percent, official data show. Annual
inflation may be “around 5 percent” this year, Ngoan said.  The dong was little changed today and for the week at
20,858 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 State Bank  of Vietnam set the currency’s reference rate at
20,828, unchanged since Dec. 26, according to its website. The
dong is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side of
the rate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  