-- Vietnam 2012 Growth May Slow to 5.3%, Commission Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-03T06:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/vietnam-2012-growth-may-slow-to-5-3-commission-says.html

 (Corrects spelling of official’s name in sixth paragraph.)  Vietnam ’s economic growth may slow to
5.3 percent this year as local and overseas demand cools,
according to a government advisory committee, signaling policy
makers are accepting slower growth that will ease inflation.  “It’s good enough, given the current difficult market
situation domestically and internationally,” Vu Viet Ngoan,
chairman of the National Financial Supervisory Commission, said
in a telephone interview today. The economy expanded 5.9 percent
in 2011 and the government’s official 2012 growth target has
already been reduced to 6 percent from as much as 6.5 percent.  Vietnam has struggled with stagnant bank lending and the
fastest  inflation  in  Southeast Asia , which crimped corporate
expansion and domestic demand. Easing price pressures this year
have given the central bank room to cut  interest rates  five
times to shield the economy from Europe’s debt crisis and
 China ’s growth slowdown, reversing monetary tightening
undertaken last year to prevent overheating.  “Downward growth revisions from policy makers suggest the
focus on macro stability remains,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a
regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore. “Policymaker
comfort with economic growth moderation will provide more
confidence to market participants that Vietnam will not
undertake additional aggressive easing which may raise risks to
macro stability.”  Annual inflation may be “around 5 percent” with month-on-
month gains for the rest for the year on  government spending ,
Ngoan said. Vietnam’s  consumer prices  climbed 5.35 percent in
July from a year earlier after rising 6.9 percent in June.  Credit growth has been hampered by rising bad debt at
lenders, which Government Office Chairman Vu Duc Dam said this
week continues to be on an “uptrend.”  Total assets of the Vietnamese banking system rose to 4,906
trillion dong as of June 30, an increase of 0.4 percent from
4,887 trillion dong as of May 31, according to data on the
central bank’s website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  