-- Visteon Eyes Acquisitions to Boost Market Share, CEO Says
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-03T20:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/visteon-at-post-bankruptcy-low-eyes-takeovers-to-boost-share-2-.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the U.S. auto-parts
maker with its stock at a post-bankruptcy low, is looking at
acquisitions in climate and electronics with a goal toward
boosting market share in both.  The company is considering acquisitions in those two
product groups, and may try again to gain full ownership of
South Korean joint venture  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880) , Don
Stebbins, Visteon’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview yesterday. He said he doesn’t expect any new deals to
close this year.  “We understand the strengths and weaknesses of each --
climate and electronics -- and we’re certain we can solve some
of those through acquisition,” Stebbins said at the company’s
headquarters in  Van Buren Township ,  Michigan . “Absolutely
they’re on the table. For the first time since I’ve been here at
Visteon, we have a balance sheet that would allow us to do
that.”  Stebbins, who led Visteon out of bankruptcy in 2010, has
been trying to shed lower-margin revenue in interiors and
lighting to focus on faster-growing operations in  Asia . Its
climate business, which suppliers heating and air-conditioning
systems, is ranked No. 2 behind  Denso Corp. (6902) , the Aichi, Japan-
based parts maker that is 23 percent owned by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Visteon’s electronics business is ranked fifth, according
to a 2011 investor presentation.  More Customers  Visteon wants to diversify its customer base, so it would
be unlikely to look for a climate company with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  or
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  as its largest customer, he said. Acquisitions
would be the quickest way to gain share against Denso, he said.  “We’ve been very successful in terms of winning new
business and winning new business outside of our traditional
customer strengths,” he said. “That’s all been positive. I
think that will continue, however it doesn’t change fast enough
to really get to the Denso level. So acquisitions are an
important piece of that.”  Visteon slid 0.7 percent to $28.42 in New York, the lowest
closing price since leaving bankruptcy in September 2010. The
shares have plunged 43 percent this year after dropping 33
percent in 2011.  Halla shares fell 5.7 percent to 25,850 won at the close in
 Seoul  trading, the biggest decline since May 18. Shareholders
were disappointed that Visteon did not specify any tender offer
during the earnings report, said Nam Kyeong Moon, an analyst at
KTB Investment & Securities Co.  Forecasts Cut  Visteon lowered its annual forecasts yesterday, citing
currency and declining vehicle production in  Europe  and other
regions. Sales this year will be $6.6 billion to $6.8 billion,
compared with a May forecast of as much as $7 billion. The
average estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for
2012 sales of $6.86 billion.  “I don’t think there is anything wrong with the
strategy,” Stebbins said in the interview. “We will continue
to move down that path.”  Visteon owns 70 percent of Daejeon, South Korea-based
Halla, a publicly traded maker of vehicle air conditioners and
heaters, and it tried to buy the rest. South Korea’s National
Pension Service, which owns 8.1 percent of Halla, last week
rejected the offer, squelching the deal. Visteon, which offered
a 14 percent premium, needed approval representing 95 percent of
Halla’s stock.  “The market expected more -- more immediate and detailed
plans on the acquisition of Halla,” KTB’s Nam said by phone in
Seoul. “Specifically, how Visteon plans to persuade the
National Pension Service or what it could do to gain full
ownership without the pension fund’s approval.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in  New York  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  