-- Wall Street Can Proper Without Prop Trading, Singh Says
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-03T19:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/wall-street-can-proper-without-prop-trading-singh-says.html
Wall Street’s largest banks can still
make big profits without prop trading, said  Dinakar Singh , the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  proprietary trader who runs $4
billion hedge fund TPG-Axon Capital Management LP.  “These firms make a lot of money doing their old job and
they still need some very good people doing it,” Singh, 43,
said today on Bloomberg TV’s “Market Makers.” “The business
is going to look like it looked 10 years ago.”  Wall Street’s five biggest banks reported their lowest
first-half profit since 2008 and blamed a drop in trading and
deal-making on concerns about European government finances and
slowing growth in the U.S. and China. Singh said he thinks those
firms’ fortunes will recover and that he has a more negative
view on the prospects for regional U.S. banks because he doesn’t
believe their stock prices reflect the effect low interest rates
will have on their earnings.  Singh joined Goldman Sachs in 1990 and ran the firm’s
principal strategies trading unit before leaving in 2004 to set
up TPG-Axon. Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm
in  Wall Street  history before converting to a bank in 2008, has
shut down its principal strategies unit and other prop-trading
divisions to comply with the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, which
prohibits such activities at banks.  ‘Terrific’ People  The rule is “not so bad for us” because “if Goldman
Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and others are very aggressive in prop
trading, they’re competing with us,” Singh said. He said
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  still
employ “terrific” people even if they don’t include
proprietary traders.  Proprietary traders at big Wall Street banks have an
advantage over hedge-fund managers because they can reach out to
colleagues throughout the organization to learn about a variety
of topics, Singh said. “The bad news is, you were restricted on
a lot of things.”  Hedge-fund managers learn that they have to produce good
returns to keep investors happy, Singh said.  “When you’re young you think everything is easy,” Singh
said. “Hedge-fund investors themselves are under a lot of
pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net 
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 