-- Wall Street Cuts Muni-Bond Trading Amid Transparency Push
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-03T17:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/wall-street-cuts-muni-bond-trading-amid-transparency-push.html
Wall Street bond dealers may be
cutting their commitment to trading municipal securities as
regulations have increased transparency, according to
preliminary findings of an industry-backed study.  Rules  imposed  in 2005 have improved the efficiency of the
$3.7 trillion muni-bond market by requiring dealers to disclose
trade data to regulators within 15 minutes, said  Erik Sirri , a
former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulator who is
studying the market. The changes have cut borrowing costs for
states and cities, Sirri said today at a municipal-finance
conference at  Brandeis University  in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Yet fewer dealers are involved in transactions than
previously, which may reduce the market’s liquidity, he said.  “You may just see dealers stepping back from the market,”
said Sirri, a teacher at Babson College in Wellesley,
Massachusetts, and a former SEC director of trading and markets.
He said low  interest rates  may also make it “not worth it for
the dealers.”  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in 2005 began
requiring so-called real-time pricing, which requires dealers to
release trade data within 15 minutes of a transaction, down from
24 hours previously. Last year, the industry’s self-regulatory
organization in Alexandria,  Virginia , hired Sirri to study
transaction data it collects and makes public on its website.  Speaking at the meeting in the Brandeis International Business
School, Sirri said his comments were based on his initial findings.
He said the full report would be ready in about a month.  A Federal Reserve report in March showed that Wall Street
securities firms had cut their inventories of state and local-
government bonds by 21 percent last year to $31.5 billion, the
lowest level since 2004. The companies act as intermediaries for
buyers and sellers, using their capital to warehouse any extra
bonds to resell later. That can spur both profits and losses
when markets are volatile, while providing liquidity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 