-- World’s Richest Gain $19 Billion as Stocks Surge on Jobs
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2012-08-03T22:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/world-s-richest-gain-19-billion-as-stocks-surge-on-jobs.html
The 40 richest people on the
planet added $19.4 billion to their collective net worth
yesterday after an increase in U.S. jobs and positive earnings
reports erased losses sustained earlier in the week.  The day’s biggest gainer was Spanish retail tycoon  Amancio
Ortega , who added $2.8 billion to his fortune as shares of
 Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest clothing retailer, jumped 5.4
percent. The 76-year-old, Europe’s richest man, is worth $45.1
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “Investor sentiment has turned a little bit more
positive,” said Kristen Scarpa, a New York-based investment
strategist at Barclays Wealth Management, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Job growth is the key to igniting
additional consumption, which will drive the U.S economy
forward.”  Global stocks slumped earlier in the week after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to articulate the
details of a bond-buying plan to ease the euro area crisis. The
Federal Reserve Bank’s pledge to provide additional support for
the economy further disappointed investors who were anticipating
a more definitive sign of additional monetary easing.  The losses were reversed yesterday after the U.S. Labor
Department reported a 163,000 payroll increase in July, boosted
by a pickup in employment at automakers, even as the jobless
rate rose to 8.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4 percent during
the week to close at 1390.99 in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index gained 2.22 percent, closing at 265.58.  Delisting LLX  In the full week,  Eike Batista , Brazil’s richest man,
gained $65 million after he offered on July 31 to buy back all
of the outstanding shares of his ports developer,  LLX Logistica
SA. (LLXL3)  Batista will pay as much as 618.7 million reais ($305
million) to take the Rio de Janeiro-based LLX private. The
company’s stock plunged to a three-year low last month.  The proposal is a reversal for Batista, 55, who has taken
public six energy, commodities and logistics startups since
2006. Batista’s $21.3 billion fortune makes him the world’s
22nd-richest person.  Bernard Arnault ’s fortune increased $474 million during the
week. Shares of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s
largest luxury goods maker, rose 3.1 percent in Paris trading
after reporting a 20 percent increase in first-half earnings on
July 26. France’s richest man, 63, ranks 16th on the index with
a net worth of $24.1 billion.  Carlos Slim , 72, remains the world’s richest person. Slim’s
fortune lost $569 million. He now has a net worth of $74.9
billion.  Seychelles Island  Bill Gates , 56, is $12.2 billion behind Slim. Shares of
Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, were unchanged
for the week. The world’s biggest software maker announced on
July 31 that it will phase out Hotmail and introduce a new, free
Web-based e-mail portal as it seeks to draw users from Mountain
View, California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail.  No. 3 on the index is  Warren Buffett , 81, with a net worth
of $45.9 billion. Shares of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  rose to a
16-month high during the week. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company
said yesterday that profit slipped 9 percent in the second
quarter as derivative bets declined in value.  Liliane Bettencourt , Europe’s richest woman, sold her
private island in the Seychelles to marine conservation
organization Save Our Seas Foundation for $60 million, it was
announced July 31. The L’Oreal SA heiress, 89, ranks 15th on the
index with a net worth of $24.2 billion.  The richest man in Asia is  Li Ka-Shing , who ranks 14th on
the index with a net worth of $24.5 billion. Shares of the
billionaire’s Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. rose 3.38 percent during
the week in Hong Kong.  Family Trust  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , Li Ka-shing’s biggest company,
posted first-half profit that beat analysts’ estimates after
boosting earnings from U.K. utilities, phone services in Europe
and retail stores in China.  The 84-year-old last month transferred his son Richard’s
stake in the family trust that controls Hutchison Whampoa and
flagship developer Cheung Kong to his oldest son, Victor.  “His character is similar with mine and he is prudent when
dealing with things,” the elder Li said at a press conference
in Hong Kong Aug. 1. “I shall do my best to support him. I have
the cash in the bank and he can take it anytime. It’s for him
but I’m not encouraging him to take it all now.”  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  