-- Hyflux Seeks Contracts Worth $400 Million in Middle East
-- B y   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-08-03T10:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/hyflux-seeks-contracts-worth-400-million-in-middle-east.html
Hyflux Ltd. (HYF) , Singapore’s largest
publicly traded water company, is seeking contracts worth about
$400 million each in the Middle East, Chief Financial Officer
Cho Wee Peng said.  The company said it has almost completed a $468 million
desalination plant in  Algeria  and it’s actively bidding for new
projects in the region that were previously delayed, according
to Cho. The company  said  in March it will provide $420 million
of engineering and construction services in a desalination plant
it will jointly develop in  India .  “Such sizes of projects are what we are looking to target
in the Middle East region,” Cho said in an interview in
Singapore today. “We see quite a number of them coming up in
the pipeline. That region is now starting to come alive again
after a very slow period.”  Hyflux said yesterday its  second-quarter profit  rose 21
percent from a year earlier as business expanded in  Asia . The
 Middle East  made up 44 percent of sales in the first half last
year, and has fallen to 6 percent this year as projects in
Algeria and Oman are nearing completion, it said in a statement
to the Singapore exchange.  The  stock  rose 1.4 percent to S$1.43 at the close in
Singapore, the highest close since July 12.  The group considers China and India as its largest growth
markets in Asia, and is also looking to boost growth in those
countries, Cho said. China currently accounts for over 20
percent of the company’s revenue and plans to increase the
contribution to at least a third, he said.  “I would say in the next one to two years that should be a
target we are aiming for in a very aggressive manner,” Cho
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ee Chien Chua in  Singapore  at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  