-- Your Wait Time Is 4,116 Minutes, Agency Hot Line Tells Vet
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-08-03T14:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/your-wait-time-is-4-116-minutes-agency-hot-line-tells-veteran.html
Neeson Levinson says the letter he
received from the Department of Veteran Affairs on June 21
placed the future of his 30-employee construction company in
jeopardy.  The letter denied his firm, Harbor Services Inc.,
eligibility to bid on VA contracts reserved for disabled
veterans. His company in Mount Pleasant,  South Carolina , relies
on the awards for almost all its $15 million in annual revenue.  Levinson, a 17-year Navy veteran, said he placed eight
phone calls to the department’s help desk to find out what was
going on. He was greeted each time by an automated message
saying his wait time was at least 1,000 minutes, he said. The
number he remembers best: 4,116 minutes, or 2.86 days.  “It was comical, but at the same it really bothered me
because my business is at stake,” Levinson, who said he’s
certified as 50 percent disabled, said in a phone interview.  Levinson’s experience is an example of the problems that
lawmakers and advocates say veteran business owners face
navigating a new certification system meant to prevent fraud.
They say the program isn’t weeding out potential abuse or
helping veterans as Congress intended.  Almost 40 percent of the companies listed as owned by
veterans in a VA registry haven’t met the eligibility
requirements of a 2010 law, the head of the VA office that
certifies businesses said during a congressional hearing
yesterday.  Fraud Risk  The lack of verification puts the agency at risk of fraud,
according to a Government Accountability Office report released
this week. At the same time, owners seeking certification are
complaining about rejections and bureaucratic delays.  “It makes no sense operationally and it’s not weeding out
the real crooks,” Rick Weidman, executive director of policy
and government affairs for the Vietnam Veterans of America, told
lawmakers. He called the verification process the “apotheosis
of bureaucracy running amok.”  As for Levinson’s calls,  Jo Schuda , a VA spokeswoman, said
it’s “very likely” he was given the wait time of 4,116
minutes.  “However, that was due to an IT glitch and not the actual
waiting time,” Schuda said in an e-mail. “Call volume has been
heavy, but not like that.”  Verification Program  About 2,330, or 38 percent, of the 6,150 companies in the
VA’s database of veteran-owned contractors haven’t been verified
as being owned, controlled and managed by veterans as required
by a 2010 law, Tom Leney, agency director of the verification
office, said during the joint hearing of two House of
Representatives subcommittees.  The law, which followed reports of fraud in the program,
requires the agency to do more to ensure small businesses
receiving the bidding preference are in control of their
companies and manage the day to day operations.  While the legislation doesn’t set a deadline for when all
companies in the directory must be verified, VA officials have
said since last September that the department had reviewed
almost all companies listed.  Some of those companies in the registry had been verified
under a less stringent 2006 law’s requirements, Leney said. The
agency can’t remove those companies until their eligibility
expires and they aren’t reverified, he said.  Missed Opportunities  In addition, some firms still appear in the registry that
are going through the recertification process, he said. Those
companies are not eligible for awards, Leney said.  “Bottom line, the program works,” he said. “So far this
year, 20 percent of VA procurements went to veteran-owned
businesses. That’s real money to real veterans.”  Levinson said 97 percent of his company’s revenue comes
from VA construction projects. He asked the agency to overturn
his rejection on June 25 and is awaiting a response.  Without certification, he said he’ll miss the opportunity
to bid on more than $35 million in VA work this month. He
traveled to  Washington  to attend yesterday’s hearing after he
was unable to get useful information from the agency’s help
desk, Levinson said.  GCC Technologies LLC, a McHenry, Maryland-based consulting
firm, has a VA contract to staff the help desk and works under
the supervision of an agency employee, Schuda said. The
technical flaw that resulted in Levinson being told he had a
4,116-minute wait time occurred in a VA automated system, she
said.  VA Rejections  The disabled veteran-owned company also has a contract to
examine applications from veterans seeking bidding preference,
Schuda said. GCC provides recommendations to a VA employee who
then decides whether the application should be approved or
denied, she said.  Vicki Moyer, GCC’s director of administration and
contracts, declined to comment. The company has received VA
contract awards valued at $2.36 million since October 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More than 4,000 veteran-owned businesses, or almost two-
thirds of all those that have applied, have been rejected by the
VA since it stepped up efforts last year to prevent fraud,
according to March data from the department.  Veterans Appeal  More than 1,000 companies rejected for certification have
appealed the decisions, according to the VA. The department
didn’t make a more recent figure available.  “The ad hoc processes to verify and reverify businesses
are not working,”  Bill Johnson , an  Ohio Republican  who chairs
the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and
investigations, said during the hearing. “Veteran business
owners are losing patience, this subcommittee is losing patience
and the American people are losing patience.”  The VA doesn’t adequately communicate with veterans to help
them navigate the verification process, said Scott Denniston,
executive director of the National Veteran Small Business
Coalition.  “When an application is submitted, it basically goes into
a black hole,” he testified.  Veterans have complained that the agency is being overly
aggressive in its interpretation of the law.  One veteran, Kevin Treiber, was rejected this year because
he had been paid by the  Department of Health  and Human Services
for two weeks of relief work in  Haiti . The VA said that made him
ineligible as a special government employee. His rejection was
overturned after Bloomberg reported on his case.  Navy SEAL  Mark Lilly, a Navy SEAL rejected three times for the
contracting preference, says the VA is reviewing applications in
a piecemeal process instead of identifying all potential
problems at the beginning. This leads to costly delays, he said.  The agency’s rejection of veterans is drawing scrutiny from
lawmakers. VA employees seem to “base decisions on a suspicion
that an applicant’s documentation does not qualify, rather than
clear evidence of disqualification,” Johnson and Marlin Stutzman, an Indiana Republican, said in a July 11 letter to
Shinseki.  Shinseki has yet to reply to the letter, Johnson said
yesterday.  Still, there are concerns that ineligible companies are
winning contracts. The GAO, Congress’s investigative arm, said
134 companies that hadn’t met the 2010 law’s requirements
received $90 million in VA contracts reserved for disabled
veterans from Nov. 30, 2011, to April 1.  “The VA’s program still remains vulnerable to fraud and
abuse,” Richard Hillman, the GAO’s managing director of
forensic audits and investigative service, told the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kathleen Miller in
Washington at   Kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  