-- Tyson Jabs, Chats on Broadway; Baryshnikov Shaves: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/tyson-jabs-chats-on-broadway-baryshnikov-shaves-review.html
Flanked by two close-in walls,  Mike Tyson  sits on a stool, looking cool as Sinatra in a silk blazer
and tieless shirt.  “Thank you for coming, and welcome to my living room,” he
told Thursday’s opening night audience. It included Sean “Diddy” Combs,  Donald Trump ,  Dwight Gooden , CC Sabathia and
Spike Lee, who directed the show, “ Mike Tyson: Undisputed
Truth .”  Looking trim, his voice more seasoned than the lisping
squeal he was known for in his boxing days, Tyson recalled
growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant and Brownsville sections of
 Brooklyn  -- and, to be more precise, the Spofford Juvenile
Detention Center in the Bronx (since shut down).  “I’m domesticated now,” he confesses, but before he was
12, he’d been arrested over 30 times. The Spofford guards were
like family.  The undisputed truth part of Tyson’s show runs about 45 of
its 120 minutes. He talks about his popular mother, two siblings
and a father he never got to know. And of course, he recalls his
fated meeting with Cus D’Amato, the coach who molded him, at 20,
into the youngest heavyweight champ in boxing history.  After those 45 minutes, Tyson gets down to business,
settling scores with ex-wife Robin Givens and Desiree  Washington , the woman whose accusation of rape sent him to jail
for three years.  Not Desiree  His self-exculpation is not quite convincing (“I was a
monster,” he says, just not to this particular woman).  Tyson unveiled “Undisputed Truth” in  Las Vegas  before Lee
stepped in to shape the words Kiki Tyson was putting in her
husband’s mouth. (She’s credited with the writing, which makes
the parts about his exes pretty cheesy.)  And for a guy who says several times that he hates the
“N” word, he gives it a bracing workout, along with “bitch,”
“ho” and many F-bombs.  He often seemed winded. His run-ins with defeated fighter
Mitchell Green and his reconciliation with Evander Holyfield,
who sacrificed an ear to Tyson’s fame, are amusingly recounted.  On the other hand, the strategic use of his mother’s and,
later, his young daughter’s deaths is heavy-handed and don’t
have quite the emotional impact they’re meant to. I’m sure
there’s undisputed truth in there, somewhere, too.  Through Aug. 12 at the Longacre Theatre, 220 W. 48th St.
Information: +1- 212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **.  ‘In Paris’  Mikhail Baryshnikov breathes a Chaplinesque quality into
his stirring performance as an expatriate Russian general in
“In Paris,” which is closing out the  Lincoln Center Festival .  The great dancer has found a second life in roles he
infuses with comic grace and sensibility delivered with an
extremely light touch.  Based on a story by Ivan Bunin, “In Paris” concerns a
proud general in the White Russian army who has decamped to the
French capital in the wake of the 1917 revolution. Abandoned by
his wife, he falls in love with Olga, a young waitress whose
husband is fighting in  Yugoslavia .  Baryshnikov narrates his tale in French and Russian as the
English translation unfolds in a scrolling projection that
spreads across Maria Tregubova’s simple, suggestive settings.
Their unconsummated affair, anything but chaste, turns a great
deal on food and movement.  Anna Sinyakina, a star of the  Dmitry Krymov Laboratory ,
matches Baryshnikov’s sinuous interweaving of the near-slapstick
and the dark. She moves about the stage, playing with a jersey
dress that can turn into a formal gown, a burqa, a slinky number
with a simple twist of her frame.  But it’s Baryshnikov, making physical poetry of shaving or
devouring a bowl of borscht, who rivets the eye in this pas-de-
deux of attraction and loneliness. The result, under the
sensitive direction of Krymov, with choreography by Alexei
Ratmansky, is as memorable as a dream.  Through Aug. 5 at the Gerald W. Lynch Theatre, 524 W. 59th
St. Information: +1-212-875-5766;
 http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Lewis Lapham  on history and  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 