-- Yucca Mountain Waste Site Ruling Put Off by Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-03T17:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/yucca-mountain-waste-site-ruling-put-off-by-appeals-court.html
A decision on whether to compel the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  to rule on plans for storing
nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain was put off by an appeals court
after the agency said it lacked funds to complete the process.  In a 2-1 decision today, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  gave the NRC until Dec. 14 to report back on whether
Congress provided the funding it says it needs to act on the
Energy Department’s application for approval of the Nye County,
 Nevada , disposal site.  The judges said if Congress doesn’t come up with the money,
they will probably order the commission to move ahead with the
licensing process, unless lawmakers formally scuttle the project
altogether.  “Here, the law mandates that the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission act on the license application, and the agency still
has a significant amount of appropriated money available to at
least begin that task,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  said
in a statement joining the ruling. “In those circumstances, an
agency appears to have no legal authority to defy the law in the
manner suggested by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in this
case.”  The federal government already has spent about $15 billion,
including $9.5 billion collected from industry, on the Yucca
facility, located about 100 miles (160 kilometers) northwest of
 Las Vegas .  Temporary Storage  The case was brought by Aiken County,  South Carolina . In
its petition, the county said it’s the location of a significant
part of the Energy Department’s Savannah River Site, one of the
department’s temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel
and high-level radioactive waste. Failure to go forward with the
Yucca project could result in “widespread contamination” at 72
commercial and five government storage sites, the county said,
citing an Energy Department report.  The Obama administration in 2010 sought to withdraw Yucca’s
license application, which an NRC panel turned down. The agency
hasn’t issued a final decision. Republicans have said Obama’s
plan to scrap Yucca lacked a scientific or technical evaluation.  For fiscal year 2010, the Yucca Mountain program received
$197 million at the administration’s request. The following year
the administration eliminated funding for the program.  ‘Not Workable’  “The administration has determined that Yucca Mountain,
Nevada, is not a workable option for a nuclear waste
repository,” according to Obama’s budget request for the year
beginning Oct. 1, 2010.  At a July 24 hearing,  Allison Macfarlane , chairman of the
NRC, told Congress that picking a site wasn’t a task for the
commission and that some cash remains available to evaluate
Yucca.  In a dissent, U.S. Circuit Judge A. Raymond Randolph said
the NRC has sufficient funds to move forward and that the
commission’s former chairman, Gregory Jaczko “orchestrated a
systematic campaign of noncompliance.”  He said there was no reason to delay issuing a ruling “to
correct this violation of the law.”  The case is In re Aiken County, 11-01271, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 