-- Zuckerberg Falls From Tech’s Richest as Facebook Falters
-- B y   P e t e r   N e w c o m b   a n d   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-03/zuckerberg-falls-from-tech-s-richest-as-facebook-falters.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark
Zuckerberg  is no longer among the world’s 10 richest technology
billionaires.  The 28-year-old’s fortune dropped by $423 million yesterday
as shares of the world’s largest social media company fell 4
percent to $20.04 in New York, a record low. Zuckerberg is now
worth $10.2 billion. He is about $400 million behind James
Goodnight, the co-founder of Cary, North Carolina-based software
maker SAS Institute Inc., who now ranks as technology’s 10th-
richest person, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “From an emotional standpoint, he might care,” said Ron Florance, managing director of investment strategy for Wells
Fargo Private Bank, in a telephone interview from Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina . “He’s much more worried about maintaining
Facebook’s market share in the social media space than the day-
to-day valuation swings of his company stock. He’s not worried
about going broke.”  Facebook shares have fallen 47 percent from their initial
public offering price of $38. The  Menlo Park , California-based
company last week reported earnings that showed slowing revenue
growth.  Larry Yu, a company spokesman, didn’t respond to a phone
call requesting comment.  Country Club  Zuckerberg’s fortune is based on his ownership of 503.6
million shares of Facebook, including 60 million options that
have an exercise price of 6 cents a share. He also has about
$150 million in cash and other liquid assets.  Goodnight, 69, co-founded SAS in 1976, and is worth $10.6
billion. The company is the world’s largest closely held
software maker and generated revenue of $2.7 billion in 2011, up
12 percent in a year.  SAS is valued at $15.8 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The valuation is based on the average enterprise
value-to-earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization multiple of five publicly traded peers. A premium
has been applied, based on recent transactions in the  software
industry .  Goodnight, who holds two-thirds of SAS, also co-owns the
Prestonwood Country Club in Cary, North Carolina, and has
collected dividend payments over more than three decades.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates  is the richest
technology billionaire in the world with a net worth of $61.6
billion, according to the index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net ;
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  