-- Ma Stakes Re-Election on China Rapprochement Strengthening Taiwan Economy
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 2011-12-28T14:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ma-stakes-re-election-on-china-rapprochement-strengthening-taiwan-economy.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou said
his rapprochement with China will encourage other nations to
 strengthen trade  with the island and make it less dependent on
the mainland, rebutting opposition criticism that he’s left the
economy more vulnerable.  “Taiwan has transformed its role from a troublemaker to a
peacemaker,” Ma, vying for a second four-year term in Jan. 14
elections, said in an interview in his Taipei office. “We’re
seeing more windows and doors being opened for Taiwan because of
improved cross-strait relations. They have lowered their
concerns in developing relations with us, the logic being: If
Beijing can develop better relations with Taiwan, why can’t
we?”  Ma’s lead with voters has narrowed as slower growth in the
 export-reliant economy  deepens concern over a wealth gap the
opposition blames in part on Taiwanese jobs going to the
mainland. Victory at the polls may turn on how close Taiwanese
want  China  ties to be, said Alexander Huang, a professor of
strategy and war-gaming at Tamkang University’s Graduate
Institute of International Affairs.  With the impact of  Europe ’s debt woes contributing to the
weakest gain in exports in two years last month, Ma said in the
Dec. 23 interview that he expects the crisis to worsen in the
first quarter. In the hour-long session, he called on China to
remove missiles still pointed at Taiwan, said his administration
isn’t considering investing in Chinese bonds and cautioned
against overreacting to the death of Kim Jong-Il in  North Korea .  Lead Narrows  Ma, 61, leads Tsai Ing-wen, 55, chairwoman of  Democratic
Progressive Party , by 44 percent to 38 percent, according to a
survey released by TVBS Poll Center today. The poll of 1,257
people taken Dec. 26-27 had a 2.8 percentage-point margin of
error. Ma’s margin has shrunk from a peak of 9 percentage points
in October.  Relations with China have reached their warmest in more
than six decades since Ma defeated the DPP in 2008, easing eight
years of heightened tensions and rhetoric across the  Taiwan
Strait . In a poll commissioned by CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets last
month, 39.5 percent of voters said Ma is more capable of leading
Taiwan to stable economic development in the face of a global
slowdown, compared with 25.1 percent for Tsai.  “The KMT campaign is telling voters that a peaceful cross-
strait relation is the mother of all prosperity,” said Huang,
referring to Ma’s Kuomintang party.  The benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  stock index has declined 21 percent
this year, and the local currency has weakened 5.6 percent since
reaching a 13-year high in May. The Taiex was down 0.4 percent
as of 2:13 p.m. local time, while the  Taiwan dollar  was little
changed at NT$30.304 to the dollar.  Trade Deals  Taiwan signed its first trade agreement with China last
year and has lifted a six-decade ban on direct air, sea and
postal links. The deepening ties have seen more local companies
invest in China, with manufacturing jobs migrating across the
strait. In the first 11 months of the year, outbound investment
to the mainland reached $12.4 billion, a gain of 22 percent from
the same period a year earlier, according to data from Taiwan’s
investment commission.  The island ended a mainland-investment ban in 1991. Since
then, officials have approved 39,509 projects, data compiled by
the investment commission show. Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology
Group, the maker of Apple Inc. iPhones and iPads, employs more
than 1 million people in China alone. Taiwan had 2.97 million
manufacturing jobs as of November.  Mainland Visits Jump  Ma said that while commerce with China has increased, so
has that with other countries. Shipments to the mainland made up
42 percent of the total last year, little changed from 41
percent in 2007 before Ma took office.  A survey of 389 chief executive officers by Taipei-based
Commonwealth Magazine showed 63 percent polled supported Ma’s
cross-strait policy. In the survey, conducted between Nov. 28
and Dec. 15, 46 percent said the trade pact with China has had
no impact so far on their companies, though they expect it may
be beneficial in future.  “We are taking active measures to diversify our markets
because we don’t want to put all our eggs in one basket,” Ma
said. “China is our largest trading partner, but not our only
partner.”  Mainland visitors jumped to 1.6 million in the first 11
months of this year, up 6.2 percent from the year earlier period
and overtaking Japan as Taiwan’s biggest source of overseas
tourists.  Chinese Bonds  Tightening ties doesn’t extend to any plan to invest a
share of Taiwan’s $388 billion of foreign reserves in Chinese
 government bonds , Ma said. He said the island needs “to do
things in a step-by-step fashion.” By contrast, countries from
Japan to the  Philippines  have expressed interest in adding yuan
securities to their reserve holdings.  In an interview with Bloomberg News in November, Tsai said
that a peaceful relationship serves both sides, and that she
wanted to focus on domestic issues. Tsai, who has avoided talk
of independence during her campaign, says closer economic links
with China could result in Taiwan bartering away its autonomy.  The president rejected the argument, saying Taiwan and
China have signed 16 agreements since he took office and “all
our efforts would be in vain” if cross-strait relations change.  “This is a mutually beneficial framework” Ma said. “If
China changes the status quo, it won’t serve their interests as
well, otherwise it will have to pay an extremely high price.”  ‘Intertwined With China’  Since signing the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement
trade deal, Taiwan reached an investment pact with  Japan , its
second-biggest trading partner, in September and is in talks
with  Singapore ,  New Zealand ,  India  and  Indonesia , the president
said.  Taiwan also wants to expand its share of China’s markets as
the mainland leaders try to boost domestic consumption.  “Taiwan’s economy is closely intertwined with China and I
don’t think there is a Plan B,” said Aidan Wang, chief
economist at Yuanta Securities Investment Consulting Co. in
Taipei. “Tsai Ing-wen’s camp doesn’t have a solution either.”  Ma, the only son in a family of five children, moved from
Hong Kong to Taiwan a year after he was born. He became Taiwan’s
youngest minister of justice in 1993 after a stint on the newly
established Mainland Affairs Council.  Peace Deal  In the 2008 presidential election, Ma beat the DPP by
pledging to abandon a pro-independence stance in favor of
strengthening economic relations with China. He said in October
he hopes to sign a peace deal with mainland China within the
next decade if he gets public support.  China regards Taiwan, ruled separately since a civil war
ended in 1949, as its own territory and blasted a push by former
President Chen Shui-bian of the DPP for recognition of the
island as a sovereign nation during his tenure.  Tsai, who has been campaigning on promises to narrow the
wealth gap and contain property prices, said Ma’s administration
had failed to look after the less privileged.  The president said that his government has implemented
measures to curb property speculation and that the wealth gap
was largest in 2001 when the opposition was in power.  “In the past three years, we faced financial tsunami and
slowing economy and although we have seen some recovery, but not
yet fully recovered, so some people are not satisfied,” Ma
said. “We are trying our best and given more time, we can
overcome it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Robyn Meredith in  Hong Kong  at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  