-- Lady Gaga’s Dress, Chinese Penis Potion Mark Wine World in 2011
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2011-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/lady-gaga-dress-chinese-penis-potion-mark-wine-world-in-2011-elin-mccoy.html
No aspect of popular culture
achieves real acceptance until it’s been incorporated into one
of Lady Gaga’s outfits, so I was gratified to see her decked out
as a wine bottle with cork hat and wineglass gloves on Saturday
Night Live’s spring season finale.  That was one of 2011’s more notable homages to the drink I
sip and spit every day of the year.  Sexy  sports cars , too, exploited their wine connection. The
Lotus Exige 270E, a 0-60 in 4 seconds rocket on wheels, ran the
2011 Oxford to London Eco-Rally on ethanol derived from
chocolate, cheese, and, yes, wine.  Or consider “three penis” wine, which made an appearance
on National Geographic’s “ The Witch Doctor Will See You Now ”
series. My idea of a wine-soaked threesome is to open a bottle
of Marilyn Merlot with my husband, but in  China  that would be
much too tame.  The penis wine, a traditional Chinese medicinal rice-
derived concoction, was described on the show as “a delicate
blend of dog, deer, and seal penis.” It’s designed to enhance
male sexual power, said the Hong Kong pharmacy owner who stocks
it on shelves next to bottles of “field mouse wine.”  Host and explorer Piers Gibbon and his sidekicks sip it and
pronounce it creamy. If you try the stuff and recover from the
experience, let me know how it tastes. On second thought, please
don’t.  Sunken Bottles  The best way to age wine was a hot topic this year. I know
winemakers in Chile and  Italy  who swear classical music soothes
rough tannins in barrels of red. In August, The  New York  Times
reported that Piero Lugano, an artist and fisherman turned
vintner in Liguria, is aging his Bisson Abissi sparkling wine
200 feet below the water’s surface in a national marine preserve
off Portofino. It was out of necessity, he says, as there wasn’t
enough space in his winery.  Packed into stainless steel cages, bottles rest for 13
months. The second lot was hauled up in July and Bisson’s U.S.
importer will be selling barnacle-covered bottles for $80 to $90
in New York in February.  If you’re as tired as I am of ponderous designer wine
bottles trying to telegraph the gravity of the liquid inside,
you’ll welcome this year’s oddest packaging invention: the paper
wine bottle.  Lightweight, recyclable, biodegradable, it has a plastic
liner inside to keep the wine from turning the molded paper to
pinot mush. British inventor Martin Myerscough, founder of
GreenBottle Ltd., which produces it, says it has just 10 percent
of the carbon footprint of a glass bottle.  Milk to Wine  The paper bottle is already being used to sell milk and
some say it will catch on for cheap wines. Really?  It made me think of the short-lived 1960s fad for the
disposable paper dress, lauded in fashion magazines back then as
the ideal lightweight travel wear.  The year also brought us the promising  Science Daily 
headline: “Red Wine: Exercise in a Bottle?”  This concerned resveratrol, the anti-oxidant in red wine
that’s been hyped as the fountain of youth. A new study claims
it can also counteract the negative effects of weightlessness
during space flights.  I’m not one of those people who dream of going into orbit,
but the study’s scientists found an intriguing side benefit:
that a daily dose could counter the effects of a sedentary
lifestyle. I hope it’s true. After a long session on my laptop,
the prospect of a glass of red wine has always been way more
enticing than a session on the Stairmaster.  Merlot Manicure  Every year vinotherapy spas add some new wine treatment;
2011 is the year of the wine-scented nail wrap.  Gallo Family
Vineyards  devised the idea to help launch its new merlot rose,
intended to appeal to women, in the U.K.  For the uninitiated, nail wraps, thin films that stick to
nails and replace polish, are one of the beauty industry’s
latest crazes. Lightly rubbing the bright pink-patterned wraps’
surface releases a fruity fragrance -- blueberry, plum,
cranberry -- that echoes the wine, or so they say.  Personally, I’m opposed to this, as it will only encourage
nailbiting.  And if you’re going to put wine on you, rather than in you,
why limit it to the nails? The wine industry is pinning big
hopes for increasing consumption on the 21 to 34-year-old age
group known as Gen Y or Millennials.  A 2011 study of 457 of them headed by  Liz Thach  of Sonoma
State University found that these inventive imbibers see
virtually any occasion as suitable for winedrinking, breakfast,
in the bath, out camping, on a hike -- and in the shower.  It turns out they’ve even showered themselves with
expensive champagne, Dom Perignon, to be precise. I thought only
Grand Prix winners did that. I prefer to swallow the stuff.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 