-- Tainted Mengniu Milk Products Caused by Mildewed Feed, Regulator Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-27T03:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/tainted-mengniu-milk-products-caused-by-mildew.html
Mildewed feed given to cows caused
excessive levels of a potentially cancer-causing agent in  milk
products  from  China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319)  and  Fujian Changfu Dairy
Industry Group Co. , according to the nation’s quality regulator.  The level of aflatoxin M1 in a batch of milk produced by
Mengniu was more than double the nation’s permitted level, an
unidentified official at the General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said in an  interview  with
the official Xinhua News Agency posted on the regulator’s
website. The amount in one of Changfu’s milk products was almost
twice the standard, the official said.  China has ordered local regulators to toughen inspections
of milk products for the toxin and to recall them if it is found
to be present, and dairy companies to strengthen production and
supply-chain management, according to the interview. The
measures build on government efforts to ensure food safety after
tainted milk, reprocessed oil waste and an illegal additive in
pork fueled public fear over food safety.  China ’s quality watchdog tested 200 types of milk products
made by 128 companies in 21 provinces this year and 198 types
passed the inspection, according to the Xinhua interview dated
yesterday. One batch produced by Mengniu on Oct. 18 and another
made by Changfu on Oct. 8 were found to be tainted, it said.  The toxin would disappear if the animals stopped eating the
feed, the official said. To date, no other products have been
found to contain the substance, the report said.  Excessive Amounts  The administration, citing the results of tests carried out
on milk products, first reported the excessive toxin levels in
the Mengniu and Changfu products on its website on Dec. 24.  Hohhot, Inner Mongolia-based Mengniu, China’s largest dairy
maker, destroyed a batch of the contaminated milk products that
hadn’t been shipped out of its factory, the company said on its
website on Dec. 25.  Changfu apologizes for the incident and has started to
recall the milk products to destroy them, the Fujian,
southeastern China-based company said on its website yesterday.  Aflatoxin M1 is considered to be a possible human
carcinogen, according to the  International Agency for Research
on Cancer .  China shut more than 5,000 companies that violated rules,
arrested more than 2,000 people, and handed down at least one
death sentence in a crackdown on  food safety  this year. Pork
products containing an illegal additive used to produce lean
meat were found earlier this year, while melamine-tainted baby
formula killed at least six infants and sickened about 300,000
in 2008.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
jiang jianguo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  