-- Taiwan-China Economic Pact Has Little Impact on Business, CEO Survey Shows
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2011-12-27T08:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/taiwan-china-economic-pact-has-little-impact-ceo-survey-shows.html
A landmark trade and economic deal
between Taiwan and  China  has had no impact on business,
according to a survey of chief executive officers and managers.  About 34.9 percent of Taiwanese business executives
surveyed by Taipei-based Commonwealth Magazine said the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement, signed in June last year, won’t
benefit their companies. Of the 349 respondents, 45.5 percent
said while the pact has had no impact so far, it may help in the
future, the survey showed.  Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou, who seeks to keep his
Kuomintang party in office when he faces voters next month, has
staked his re-election on closer ties with China and the
economic agreement that his administration engineered last year.
Opposition candidate Tsai Ing-wen has said the closer relations
with  Taiwan ’s largest trading partner and military rival
threatens its own sovereignty and makes its economy a hostage to
China.  The survey of business executives was conducted between Nov.
28 and Dec. 15 and included questions on the economy,
competitiveness and investment plans, Commonwealth said in a
statement today.  Weaker demand in  Europe  and the U.S. will be the largest
external challenge next year, according to 83.9 percent of
respondents, while rising raw material prices and a fluctuating
 exchange rate  were also cited.  More than 48 percent of the executives surveyed said they
plan to increase their Taiwan workforce next year, and 55.9
percent expect to raise wages. About 41.9 percent of respondents
may boost investment in China, while 10.8 percent plan to expand
in  Vietnam . About 47.7 percent aren’t planning any increases in
investments, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  