-- Ambac Financial Had $29.6 Million Cash at Last Month’s End
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-27T17:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ambac-financial-had-29-6-million-in-unrestricted-cash-nov-30.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK) , the
holding company for a failed bond insurer, had $29.6 million in
unrestricted cash as of Nov. 30, according to a report to the
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  New York .  Ambac, which already has a plan to exit bankruptcy that
resolves how it will share a tax benefit with its operating
unit, Ambac Assurance Corp., is working out final details of its
Chapter 11 plan. According to the operating report for Nov. 1 to
Nov. 30 filed today, the company spent $3.6 million on
reorganization costs for the month.  “The debtor is continuing negotiations with various
parties regarding a proposed plan of reorganization,” and
liabilities in the report are subject to settlement, lawyers for
the company wrote.  Ambac lost $939.7 million from the start of its bankruptcy
to Nov. 30, and including reorganization costs, such as fees for
lawyers, it has a net loss of $1.02 billion, according to the
report.  Unpaid fees to professionals totaled $14.9 million,
according to the filing.  The company said in October that it has enough money to
meet its obligations for at least five years. It sought an
extension until Feb. 3 to file its own plan of reorganization.  To complete its Chapter 11 case, Ambac needs to end a
dispute with the  Internal Revenue Service  over the way it
accounts for losses on credit-default swaps. Those losses, or
“net operating losses” are valued at $7 billion, according to
Ambac. The company seeks to use $4.7 billion of the losses for
future tax years, according to court papers.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABKFQ) , 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 