-- China Cosco, Evergreen in Pact With 3 Shipping Lines on Asia-Europe Route
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2011-12-27T08:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/hanjin-evergreen-in-pact-with-3-other-shipping-lines-on-asia-europe-route.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) ,  Asia ’s
largest shipping line, Evergreen Line and three others will form
a partnership for Asia- Europe  trade, as carriers join hands to
counter a slump in cargo rates and overcapacity.  The five shipping lines will provide 12 weekly services to
Europe and to the Mediterranean on vessels that can each carry
as many as 13,000 20-foot containers,  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930) , one
of the partners in the tie-up, said in an e-mailed statement
today. The pact will be effective from the second quarter of
next year.  The cooperation follows an alliance formed last week by
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., Hapag-Lloyd AG and four others for
the world’s busiest trade lane that has been unprofitable
because of overcapacity. Container shipping rates may rise next
year as owners join hands to overcome the collapse in fees amid
slowing trade growth, according to RS Platou Markets AS.  “Through these partnerships, shipping lines will be able
to reduce costs by sharing resources,” said Cho Byung Hee, an
analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in  Seoul . “It’s now become
ever more difficult for shipping lines that are not part of any
partnerships to survive on the Asia-Europe trade.”  The two other shipping lines in the new partnership are
Yang Ming Line and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)   ‘Shortest Transit’  “We expect the cooperation will help improve earnings for
the companies as it will reduce redundant port calls and provide
the shortest transit time from major ports,” Hanjin Shipping
said in the statement.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s biggest, in September
merged some of its trades on the Asia-Europe route into a fixed
daily service.  Spot rates for hauling 20-foot cargo box to Europe from
Asia fell 62 percent this year to $536 last week, according to
the Shanghai Shipping Exchange. The break-even point on the
route is at least $700, according to Morgan Stanley.  Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA CGM SA, the world’s
second- and third-largest container lines, also agreed earlier
this month to cooperate on Asia-Europe routes, as part of a
wider partnership designed to pare overcapacity and improve
service levels.  Demand for cargoes to Europe from Asia will expand 3
percent next year while the fleet of  container ships  swells 8
percent, according to Clarkson Plc., the world’s biggest
shipbroker. World trade will expand 5.8 percent in 2012, down
from a previous forecast of 6.7 percent, the International
Monetary Fund estimates.  A total of 219 ships with a capacity of 546,000 boxes were
idle as of Dec. 19, an increase from 526,000 two weeks ago,
according to Alphaliner. Shipowners also scrapped the most
container vessels in two years this month, the Paris-based
maritime data provider said in its weekly newsletter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  