-- Apple, GoDaddy, Adidas, Joe Cool: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-27T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/apple-godaddy-adidas-joe-cool-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and
iPhone, is considering powering some portable devices with a
hydrogen fuel cell, according an application published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Dec. 22.  The company notes in its application “our country’s
continuing reliance on fossil fuels.” Consumers are more
interested in using and promoting renewable energy sources, and
these days are evaluating the “environmental friendliness” of
electronic products, Apple said.  Application  20110311895 , filed in August 2010, covers a
fuel cell system for a portable computing device, including a
fuel source, a controller and an interface to the device.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, acknowledged in the
application that “it is extremely challenging to design
hydrogen fuel cell systems which are sufficiently portable and
cost-effective to be used with portable electronic devices.”  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  GoDaddy Says It No Longer Supports Online Piracy Legislation  GoDaddy Group Inc., the Internet domain-name and hosting
company, said it no longer supports the proposed Stop Online
Piracy Act, legislation designed to combat illegally copied
films and TV content.  “Fighting online piracy is of the utmost importance, which
is why Go Daddy has been working to help craft revisions to this
legislation -- but we can clearly do better,” GoDaddy Chief
Executive Officer Warren Adelman said in a  statement .  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other Internet companies have said the act,
also known as SOPA, will foster censorship of Web content.  GoDaddy said it had worked with lawmakers “for months” in
unsuccessful efforts to revise the proposed legislation to meet
the concerns of the Internet community.  General Counsel Christine Jones said the company removed
any blog postings that outlined areas of the bill it could
support. This was done to “eliminate any confusion” about the
company’s reversal of position, according to the statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Adidas, Church Square Off Over ‘Adizero’ Trademark Application  Adidas AG , the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based maker of
sports gear, is involved in a trademark dispute with an  Illinois 
church, the  Chicago Tribune   reported .  The company has offered the Christian Faith Fellowship
Church of Illinois’ Lake County $5,000 to give up its “Add a
Zero” trademark registered in 2006 as part of a fundraising
campaign, according to the newspaper.  Adidas application for an “Adizero” trademark for its
 Rose 2 shoe series  was rejected by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in 2010 on the grounds that the mark belonged to the
church, the Tribune reported.  The shoemaker is now seeking cancellation of the church’s
mark on the grounds that it isn’t used sufficiently, an action
that’s moved the church to seek the help of  Chicago Bulls 
basketball player  Derrick Rose  to persuade Adidas to back off,
according to the Tribune.  Distiller’s Group Wins Indian Court’s Ban on Deceptive Names  The  Scotch Whisky Association , an Edinburgh-based
distillers’ trade group, persuaded an Indian court to bar two
different companies in that country from selling fake Scotch,
the association said in a  statement .  The Court of the District and Sessions Judge in South Goa
barred the use of packaging for the Royal Barrel, Glenmon and
F&G brands of whisky that could mislead the public into thinking
the domestic products were actual Scotch whisky, the association
said.  The court barred the sale of those products with any
reference to “Scotch Whisky” or for using the trade names
“Glenmon” or “Glen.”  The court said the defendants were “directly misleading
the general public” through the “dishonest adoption of brand
names,” according to the association statement.  The defendants are appealing the court’s ruling, the
association said.  Joe Cool Loses State Registration for ‘Bike Week  Daytona Beach ’  Joe Cool Inc., a Holly Hill, Florida-based unit of
 Brooklyn ,  New York ’s Consolidated Distributors, can’t bar others
from the use of the “Bike Week Daytona Beach” trademark, a
federal judge ruled.  The Daytona Regional Chambers of Commerce had objected to
T-shirt printer Joe Cool’s registration of the term as a state
trademark and pending application for a federal registration.  The chamber,  which sponsors the annual motorcycle event 
that draws upwards of 400,000 people each March, filed suit in
federal court in  Orlando ,  Florida , in February, seeking
cancellation of the state trademark.  The phrase had become generic and shouldn’t be registered,
the chamber argued.  U.S. District Judge Mary S. Scriven ordered cancellation of
the mark as part of a judgment to which the parties agreed. All
claims Joe Cool had against the chamber were dismissed, and she
ordered that each party pay its own court costs and attorney
fees.  The case is Good Sports Daytona Inc. v. Consolidated
Distributors Inc., 6:11-cv-00233-CEH-DAB, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  Brandon, Manitoba, Scene of Counterfeit Goods Raid by RCMP  Counterfeit goods bearing trademarks belonging to Ford
Motor Co., Harley-Davidson Inc. and Deere & Co. were seized from
a store in a shopping mall in Brandon, Manitoba, the Brandon Sun
 reported .  Canada’s  Royal Canadian Mounted Police ’s Federal
Enforcement Service did the search and seizure under that
nation’s Copyright Trademark and Textile Act, according to the
newspaper.  No charges have been filed, and the investigation is
continuing, the newspaper reported.  Hasbro Accuses Asustek of Infringing Transformers Trademarks  Hasbro Inc., maker of the My Little Pony and Lite-Brite
toys, sued a Taiwanese computer company for trademark
infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in  Los Angeles , is related
to trademarks for the Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based company’s
Transformers line of toys. Hasbro objects to Asustek Computer
Inc.’s use of “Transformer” and “Transformer Prime” with its
products. Co-defendant with Asustek is its Asus Computer unit in
Fremont,  California .  The toy company says in its pleadings that the success of
its Transformer toy robots and related films has led to the use
of the trademark on “thousands of products and services,” some
of them computer-related.  Hasbro says one of the products is an educational laptop
computer, and that there are also licensed “ storage devices ,
computer mouses and skins for laptops.”  The toy company accuses Asustek of trying to hitchhike on
the fame related to the “Transformer” brand and says that if
the Taiwanese company isn’t stopped, the public will be confused
and the marks could be harmed.IP Report Update  It asked the court to bar Asustek’s use of any words that
could cause confusion with the “Transformer” and “Transformer
Prime” marks, and for an award of money damages, including the
cost of advertising to correct any false public impression about
a connection with the computer company.  Hasbro also seeks extra damages to punish the computer
company for its actions related to the alleged infringement.  Asustek didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Hasbro is represented by Courtney L. Batliner, Vito A.
Constanzo, Franco Joseph Tenerelli, Joshua C. Krumholz and
Maximillian J. Bodoin of New York’s Holland & Knight LLP.  The case is Hasbro Inc. v. Asus Computer International
Inc., 2:11-cv-10437-PSG-E, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Melomed Gets Court Order Barring Use of its Proprietary Data  Melomed Hospital Holdings Ltd. , the operator of three
hospitals in  Cape Town , sued a rival company for trade secret
theft and is seeking 1 million South Africa rand ($12,300) in
compensation, the Sowetan newspaper  reported .  Rondebosch Medical Center is accused of using Melomed’s
billing rates and procedures, and of receiving them in an
unauthorized e-mail from a Melomed employee, according to the
Sowetan.  Melomed persuaded the Cape High Court to issue an order for
the search and seizure of its documents and information in
Rondebosch’s possession, the Sowetan reported.  Rondebosch was also given a temporary order not to use,
copy or distribute any of Melomed’s  intellectual property ,
according to the newspaper.  IP Moves  Amrin’s New Counsel Comes with Patent Acquisition Expertise  Amrin Corp. plc (AMRN) , a clinical-state biotech company, has
appointed Joseph T. Kennedy senior vice president and general
counsel, the Dublin-based company said in a statement.  Kennedy joins from  Transcept Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TSPT) , where he
helped secure two U.S. patents, and negotiated that company’s
strategic alliance with Purdue Pharma LP. Kennedy served
previously as vice president and acting chief legal officer of
Eyetem Pharmaceuticals Inc., with Elan Corp as vice president
and U.S. counsel, corporate business development. Kennedy also
practiced law with  San Francisco ’s  Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP .  He has an undergraduate degree in Economics from Fairfield
University and a law degree from New York Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 