-- Bale’s Double Helps Spurs Cut Gap to Manchester Clubs Atop Premier League
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-28T00:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/arsenal-is-held-1-1-by-wolverhampton-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Gareth Bale scored twice as
Tottenham won 2-0 at Norwich to move to within seven points of
the two Manchester clubs atop English soccer’s Premier League.  Bale put Spurs ahead in the 55th minute at Carrow Road last
night before clipping his second goal into the net 12 minutes
later. The earlier games between Arsenal and Wolverhampton, and
Swansea and Queens Park Rangers, finished 1-1.  Tottenham’s 12th win in its past 15 Premier League matches
lifted it to 38 points, having played one game fewer than
 Manchester City  and  Manchester United . City leads United on goal
difference with both teams on 45 points.  “Man United and Man City look so strong, but we are up
there and need to keep picking up points,” Spurs manager Harry Redknapp said in an interview with Sky Sports. “When you are up
there, you cannot afford not to.”  Spurs, United and Newcastle were the only winners among the
20 Premier League teams in the post-Christmas program as seven
of the 10 matches ended in draws.  Bale opened the scoring 10 minutes after halftime when he
drove the ball under Norwich goalkeeper John Ruddy. The Welsh
winger doubled the lead when he sprinted 45 yards before lifting
the ball over the on-rushing Ruddy and into the net.  “You have to keep grinding out chances and hope one will
come for you and it did,” Bale told  Sky Sports . “It was a
great few days for us, we’ve took advantage of other teams
dropping points.”  Gunners Misfire  Arsenal missed a chance to move into the top four with its
1-1 draw against Wolves at the Emirates Stadium in  London . The
Gunners have 33 points from 18 games and are a point behind
fourth-place Chelsea, which drew 1-1 with Fulham two days ago.  Gervinho put Arsenal ahead after eight minutes and  Steven Fletcher  tied it before halftime. Wolves repelled Arsenal for
the last 21 minutes after Nenad Milijas was red-carded.  “We missed a great opportunity, but we have to just keep
going,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in comments on his
club’s website. “It was the kind of game that if you play it 20
times, you win 19 and you draw one.”  Gervinho collected a pass by  Yossi Benayoun  and evaded
Wolves goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey to give Arsenal the lead.
Fletcher made it 1-1 after 38 minutes with a header when Arsenal
failed to clear a corner kick.  Hennessey denied Arsenal the lead by tipping  Robin van Persie ’s free kick over the crossbar after 66 minutes, and
blocked Per Mertesacker’s downward header.  The Wolves goalkeeper stopped van Persie again with eight
minutes left, parrying a free kick and then saving the
Dutchman’s volley with his legs as the Gunners increased their
share of possession to 70 percent.  Hugs for Hennessey  Milijas was ejected after 75 minutes for lunging to take
the ball from  Mikel Arteta  and Wolves had to hold out for an
additional six minutes of stoppage time. At the end, players
crowded around Hennessey to congratulate him as Wolves moved two
points above the relegation zone.  “I keep saying he is one of the very best in the league,”
Wolves manager  Mick McCarthy  said of Hennessey. “He proved that
today, he was outstanding. He gets a bit to do at times playing
for us, but we know we can rely on him and trust him.”  Jamie Mackie’s 58th-minute goal at Liberty Stadium in  Wales 
earned QPR the draw, and its first point in four Premier League
games, after Swansea’s  Danny Graham  had put the home team ahead
in the 14th minute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  