-- Hawker Beechcraft Sues U.S. Over $1 Billion Aircraft Contract Exclusion
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-27T20:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/hawker-beechcraft-sues-u-s-over-1-billion-aircraft-contract-exclusion.html
Hawker Beechcraft Co., the jet maker
part-owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said a unit asked a
federal judge to block the U.S. Air Force from awarding an
almost $1 billion contract for light attack aircraft, claiming
the government won’t say why it was excluded from consideration.  Hawker Beechcraft Defense Co. sued the U.S. today in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington  challenging the Air
Force’s exclusion of the Beechcraft AT-6 from the Light Air
Support competition. The lawsuit was filed after the U.S.
Government Accountability Office on Dec. 22 dismissed the
company’s bid protest.  “We were relying on their investigation to provide
transparency into what has been a bidding process of
inconsistent, irregular and constantly changing requirements,”
Bill Boisture, chairman and chief executive officer of Hawker
Beechcraft Co., said in an e-mailed statement. We “continue to
believe that our exclusion from this important contract was made
without basis in process or fact,” he added.  The company claims that it worked closely with the  Air
Force  and has spent more than $100 million over the past two
years preparing to meet the contract requirements, according to
the statement.  The Air Force, in a one page memorandum, notified the
company on Nov. 1 that the AT-6 was excluded from consideration,
according to a court filing.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Hawker Beechcraft Defense Company LLC v. U.S.,
11-897, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 