-- Hazare Prods India Lawmakers With Public Fast as Corruption Debate Starts
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2011-12-27T12:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/hazare-prods-india-lawmakers-with-public-fast.html
Indian anti-corruption campaigner
 Anna Hazare  began a three-day public fast in Mumbai as
parliament debated legislation to curb graft that his group of
activists and opposition parties have dismissed as too weak.  The level of support for Hazare’s renewed protest will be
monitored by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government as it
seeks to win support among lawmakers for one of the most
divisive bills of his premiership. About 4,000 people attended
the protest today, the NDTV 24x7 news  channel  reported citing
police officials it didn’t name, a smaller crowd than those
Hazare’s August hunger strike in New Delhi pulled in.  “The government has betrayed the people,” Hazare told
supporters from the protest stage. “One day the public will
teach them a lesson.” His 13-day fast four months ago generated
nationwide rallies and forced Singh to abandon plans to push
through an earlier draft of the so-called Lokpal bill.  The Congress-led federal government headed by Singh has
been damaged by graft scandals including those linked to a 2008
sale of mobile-phone airwaves and the hosting last year of the
Commonwealth Games in  New Delhi . Protests over corruption on the
streets and in parliament derailed Singh’s policy agenda just as
India’s $1.7 trillion economy has slowed.  Political parties will scrutinize the bill proposals until
Dec. 29 and are seeking changes that will strengthen the
proposed corruption ombudsman’s control of the nation’s leading
criminal investigation agency and tighten oversight of the
junior bureaucrats Indians blame for everyday acts of bribery
that blight business and local governance.  ‘Flawed’ Bill  Setting the tone,  Sushma Swaraj , leader of the opposition
in parliament’s lower chamber, said the government must accept
amendments sought by her  Bharatiya Janata Party  or withdraw the
legislation. “This bill has lots of flaws and inconsistencies,
it violates the constitution,” Swaraj told a noisy house.
“First make up your mind and then bring the bill.”  Singh later defended his government’s draft as part of
legislative legacy that he said had sought to build transparent
governance for the common man, while adding that he wanted the
bill to reflect the will of the house.  While it has been charges of ministerial wrongdoing that
have fueled protests, Singh said that the real problem lies at
the state level where ordinary people “feel the pinch of petty
corruption on a daily basis.”  Hazare, 73, who has become a household name in India with
his fasts styled on protests held by independence hero  Mahatma
Gandhi , kicked of his latest protest at 11 a.m. in the financial
center. Leading supporters Arvind Kejriwal and Kiran Bedi were
at Hazare’s side in Mumbai, while other followers began a
similar demonstration in New Delhi.  Hazare ‘Unwell’  The protest venue at Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex is near
the Indian headquarters of Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG as well as
the National Stock Exchange, the nation’s largest bourse.  Hazare has been unwell, Manish Sisodia, a close aide of the
social activist, told reporters in Mumbai. “But he has told us
that he is committed and he will fast for the people of the
country.” Hazare’s convoy moved through crowds of flag-waving
supporters on the way to the venue in Mumbai.  Leading politicians from across the political spectrum have
criticized Hazare for using undemocratic means to pursue his
agenda and challenging the supremacy of parliament.  While the BJP says the draft law currently lacks the powers
to investigate government officials accused of graft, smaller
regional parties argue the bill is too oppressive and infringes
on the constitutional rights of states.  Gandhi Fight  India  has failed on 10 previous occasions over four decades
to pass laws to counter corruption and it is not clear when
lawmakers will get to vote on the current set of proposals.
Singh’s Congress party-led United Progressive Alliance has 268
seats in the lower house of parliament, four short of a
majority. It is in a minority in the upper house.  Congress President Sonia Gandhi said Dec. 21 she “will
fight for the Lokpal” bill proposed by the government and told
her party’s lawmakers that “deliberate and malicious
misinformation” was being spread that the government was
failing to tackle corruption.  Hazare has also urged his supporters to seek arrest from
Dec. 30 to Jan. 1, echoing a tactic used to confront British
colonial rule, and picket the homes of prominent politicians,
including  Sonia Gandhi . If parliament fails to pass tough laws
to counter graft, Hazare says he will campaign against Congress
in the run-up to elections in five states early next year.  Rankings Fall  The bill agreed by cabinet ministers Dec. 20 excludes
direct control of the  Central Bureau of Investigation , leading
to accusations the proposed graft-fighting agency will lack the
powers to probe and punish the corrupt.  The legislation does grant the Lokpal the right to probe a
serving prime minister apart from when issues of national
security are involved. The BJP has opposed recommendations for
job quotas on the Lokpal bodies for members of India’s lower
castes and minority religions, saying they are unconstitutional.  India fell four places in this year’s annual ranking of
corruption to a position below Liberia and  Colombia . The world’s
second-most populous nation came 95th out of 183 countries in
the 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index compiled by Berlin-based
 Transparency International .  “This is the final and decisive battle,” said Nivrutti
Satam, 58, a Hazare supporter at the protest venue in Mumbai.
“This is the only chance we Indians have had since independence
to get rid of corruption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  