-- BofA $8.5 Billion Mortgage Accord Fight to Be Heard by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-27T21:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/bank-of-america-accord-case-fight-to-be-heard-by-federal-appeals-court.html
A group of institutional investors
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  persuaded a federal appeals court to
consider its request to return an $8.5 billion bond settlement
with  Bank of America (BAC)  Corp. to state court for possible approval.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  today agreed to
review the appeal of U.S. District Judge William Pauley’s ruling
in October to keep the case in federal court for review, rather
than sending it back to New York State Supreme Court.  The proposed agreement, first filed in New York state
court, would settle claims from investors in the mortgage bonds
of Countrywide Financial Corp., which  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America bought in 2008. The deal was reached with
the institutional investor group that includes BlackRock and
Pacific Investment Management Co. and would apply to 530
mortgage-securitization trusts.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond trusts, filed the settlement in state court and
planned to seek approval of it there. Under the state
proceeding, approval would bind investors outside the group that
negotiated the agreement. Bank of New York had also asked the
court to review Pauley’s ruling.  Acted Reasonably  The proponents of the settlement are seeking a state-court
determination that Bank of New York acted reasonably in reaching
the settlement.  An investor group, Walnut Place LLC and related entities,
moved the case to federal court and is fighting the bid to
return it to state court. Walnut Place and the other opponents
of the deal want it reviewed by Pauley. They claim the federal
Class Action Fairness Act gives him jurisdiction over the
litigation.  Owen Cyrulnik, a lawyer representing Walnut Place, declined
to comment on the court’s decision to hear the appeal.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-4554, 11-4571,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  