-- Ben Dov Selling Stake at Premium Pushes Partner Higher: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2011-12-28T14:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ben-dov-selling-stake-at-premium-pushes-partner-higher-israel-overnight.html
Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  rose the
most in two months in  New York  yesterday after shareholder Ilan Ben Dov said he will sell a stake in Israel’s second-largest
mobile phone provider at a premium.  The cellular company jumped 3.8 percent to $8.96 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday. The Israeli shares gained 0.8
percent to 34.47 shekels, or the equivalent of $9.07, at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv today. They  advanced (PTNR)  3.9 percent in
the two days following the announcement on Dec. 25 that Ben Dov,
who owns 44.5 percent of Partner through Scailex Corp., will
sell part of his holding. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of
the largest Israeli companies listed in New York rose for a
third day, led by  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH)   Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-based Partner is the  worst performer (TA-25) 
among members of the Tel Aviv benchmark TA-25 Index this year as
the government steps up efforts to boost competition in the
local cellular market and on mounting concern about Ben Dov’s
investment company Tao Tsuot Ltd.’s debt problems.  “It’s pretty rare for a company to say they’ll sell at a
significantly higher price in the official announcement,” said
Uriel Goren, head of the international clients desk at DS
Securities & Investments. “The fact that we see tycoons selling
stakes doesn’t mean there’s something wrong with these
companies, they just need the cash.”  Ben Dov, who bought the stake in Partner for $1.4 billion
two years ago, aims to raise funds at a time the Israeli
entrepreneur is trying to reach an agreement with bondholders of
Tao Tsuot, of which he owns 70 percent. Israeli billionaire
Nochi Dankner’s holding company also announced this week that
it’s in talks to sell a stake in one of its units at a premium.  Retaining Control  Scailex hired a foreign bank to help sell the Partner
holding, according to a statement filed to the  Tel Aviv  Stock
Exchange after the market closed on Dec. 25. The company said it
will retain control of the mobile-phone operator.  U.S. investment fund TPG Capital is in talks to acquire a
16 percent stake in Partner, financial daily Calcalist reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Scailex
didn’t name a possible buyer for its stake in Partner.  Prolor Biotech declined 0.7 percent to 15.60 shekels, or
the equivalent of $4.11. The shares in the U.S. gained 4.8
percent to $4.19 yesterday.  The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange is making a push to lure U.S.
biomedical companies to dual-list on its shores, Chief Executive
Officer Ester Levanon said yesterday.  The bourse aims to attract small- to medium-sized
companies, with a value of between $250 million to $300 million
and create a hub for biotechnology investors. The TASE, as the
exchange is known, had preliminary contacts with the  Nasdaq (CCMP) 
Stock Market and New York Stock Exchange on the issue, she said.  ‘Critical Mass’  “Israel has a critical mass of biomed companies,” Levanon
said at the bourse’s annual press conference in Tel Aviv
yesterday. “There is an interest to bring other companies to
list here and attract European investors.”  The exchange initiated the  Tel Aviv Biomed Index  in March
2010 and it now includes 56 companies.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to the
size of  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, the most of any country outside  North
America  after  China . It is also home to the largest number of
startup companies per capita in the world.  The shekel declined 0.6 percent to 3.7989 a dollar. The
currency is headed for a 7.2 percent drop this year, its worst
performance since 2002.  Rising Competition  Partner said last month third-quarter profit declined to
172 million shekels ($46 million) from 309 million shekels a
year earlier as competition increased.  Israel ’s Ministry of Communications, seeking to boost
competition in the market, has issued licenses to new mobile
telephone and virtual operators, among them Golan Telecom Ltd.,
a phone company whose partners include Xavier Niel, and Hot
Telecommunication System Ltd., through its MIRS Communication
Ltd. unit.  Dankner’s  IDB Development Corp. , which owns about 60.5
percent of Clal Industries & Investments Ltd., is negotiating
the sale of a 36 percent stake in the unit, the company said on
Dec. 25. The transaction would value Clal at about 3.8 billion
shekels, or 24 shekels a share, above the 16.68 shekels close on
Dec. 22, according to Noam Pincu, an analyst at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  Allot, Alon  Israel’s benchmark’s TA-25 Index fell 0.7 percent,
extending the drop for the year to 16 percent. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index  climbed 0.3 percent yesterday to 86.17,
paring its decline this year to 17 percent.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  increased 2 percent to 61.67
shekels, or the equivalent of $16.24. The U.S. shares climbed
3.6 percent to $16.31 yesterday. Allot tumbled 8.1 percent last
week in the U.S. after Bloomberg News reported that the
company’s gear was sold to  Iran  and a lawmaker called for an
investigation.  Alon Holdings Blue Square-Israel Ltd. (BSI)  fell 1.2 percent to
15.91 shekels, or $4.19. The U.S shares dropped 3 percent
yesterday to $4.15. The country’s second-largest food retailer
signed a mobile-phone services agreement in which the company’s
unit, Alon Cellular Ltd., will be able to offer mobile services
to end users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  