-- Berkowitz Loses Again as Sears Drop Adds to Failed Bank Bets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2011-12-27T23:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/berkowitz-s-fairholme-loses-again-as-sears-slump-joins-wrong-way-bank-bets.html
Bruce Berkowitz , whose $8 billion
Fairholme Fund is suffering its worst year on record because of
wrong-way bets on financial firms, may have lost $203 million
today on Sears Holdings Corp., the third-largest investment of
his flagship fund.  Sears, the retailer controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Lampert , fell 27 percent after saying it will close as many as
120 stores after reporting a deeper-than-expected sales decline
during the holiday-shopping period. Berkowitz’s funds owned 16.3
million shares, or 15 percent of the company, as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkowitz, named Morningstar’s domestic stock manager of
the decade in 2010 for returning an average of 13 percent over
that period, is trailing 99 percent of peers this year after
betting that financial stocks would rebound with the economy.
Sears, based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , has declined 55
percent since the start of the year.  “I just don’t see how we get hurt with Sears,” Berkowitz
said in a May conference call with investors in his fund.
“Maybe we make an awful lot of money, time will tell. So far
I’ve been wrong.”  Tom Pinto, a spokesman for Berkowitz, didn’t respond to a
message seeking comment.  At the end of 2010, Berkowitz’s firm, Miami-based Fairholme
Capital Management LLC,  owned 14.9 million shares (SHLD)  of the
retailer. In the first quarter of 2011 he added 1.4 million
shares. Sears sold for an average of $80.53 a share in the
quarter, Bloomberg data show.  Declining Sales  The company will record total noncash charges of as much as
$2.4 billion in the fourth quarter related to a valuation
allowance and goodwill impairment. The shares fell $12.47, or 27
percent, to $33.38 in  New York , their steepest single-day drop
since 2003.  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  owned 14.5 million Sears shares as of Aug.
31. It purchased the shares at an average cost of $79.81 each,
according to a May 31 filing, which means that fund had a paper
loss of about $672 million on the investment as of today if the
size of the holding hasn’t changed.  The fund lost 31 percent this year through today, compared
with a 30 percent decline in all of 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Berkowitz, 53, started the fund in 1999.  Fairholme Fund had 76 percent of its stock holdings in
financial shares as of Aug. 31, including New York-based
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Morningstar data show. Financial
shares have declined about 18 percent this year, making them the
worst-performing group in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  St. Joe   Berkowitz has also been hurt by his investment in St. Joe
Co., a Watersound, Florida, real estate firm. Berkowitz was
elected chairman of the company in March after he criticized the
previous management’s spending and corporate governance.  Fairholme owned 29 percent of St. Joe as of Oct. 1,
Bloomberg data show, making the firm the largest shareholder.
St. Joe shares have fallen 30 percent in 2011.  Investors pulled money from Fairholme Fund for nine
consecutive months through November with net redemptions
totaling more than $7 billion over that stretch, Morningstar
data show.  Dan Teed, president of Wedgewood Investors Inc., dumped his
holdings in Fairholme Fund several months ago.  “They were concentrated in areas we were not comfortable
with,” Teed said today in a telephone interview from Erie,
 Pennsylvania . His firm manages more than $100 million.  Sears is the sixth-worst performer in the S&P this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America, the
fourth-worst performer, was Fairholme Fund’s fifth-largest
holding as of Aug. 31.  Lampert, who along with his hedge fund owns 60 percent of
Sears, has presided over 18 consecutive quarters of declining
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  