-- BP Released From Probation in Prudhoe Bay Spill by Judge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A m a n d a   C o y n e
-- 2011-12-27T22:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/bp-released-from-probation-in-2006-prudhoe-bay-spill-over-u-s-objection.html
BP Plc  didn’t violate a plea
agreement in a criminal case over a 2006 spill in Alaska’s
Prudhoe Bay, a judge ruled, rejecting a request by federal
prosecutors to revoke the company’s probation.  BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating the  Clean Water Act 
by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay field
into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It paid a
$12 million fine and $8 million for restitution and community
service and was put on three years’ probation.  The government asked U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline in
Anchorage to revoke the probation, saying London-based BP broke
the agreement when it spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near
 Prudhoe Bay  in November 2009. Beistline rejected the U.S.
request today and released the company from probation.  “The court certainly cannot fault the government for the
position it has taken in this matter for there clearly were
reasons for concern,” Beistline wrote in an order. “There can
be no doubt that the government takes its responsibility
seriously to monitor the industry and to ensure compliance with
environmental laws.”  Because the U.S. sought to revoke probation just before it
ended in 2010, prosecutors could have sought more money from the
company if Beistline had found BP violated the terms.  Company Reaction  “We are pleased with the decision,”  Steve Rinehart , BP
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We know that the privilege of
working in  Alaska  comes with a responsibility to maintain high
standards. We will continue our commitment to running safe and
compliant operations.”  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  BP asked the court to reject the U.S. claim and end
probation completely. The company didn’t do anything to violate
the plea agreement, BP lawyer Jeff Feldman said Dec. 7 in a
hearing before Beistline.  “BP conformed to industry standards,” he said.  The 2009 spill occurred when a section of the company’s
pipeline at its Lisburne Processing Center ruptured, “creating
a two-foot hole in the pipe that allowed the contents to spill
onto the tundra and surrounding wetlands,” the government said
in a court filing.  Lisburne, a separate field, is part of BP’s greater Prudhoe
Bay operation.  The U.S. said BP ignored alarms that warned of the pipe’s
eventual rupture and leak. The 2009 leak showed that BP hadn’t
yet “addressed the management and environmental compliance
problems that have plagued it for many years,” the government
said in court papers.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 3:07-cr-
00125, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Coyne in Anchorage, Alaskat .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at   pblumberg1@bloomberg.net . 