-- BP’s Top U.S. Officer Called to Testify at Gulf Oil Spill Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-12-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/bp-s-mckay-to-testify-at-gulf-oil-spill-trial-in-february.html
BP Plc ’s highest-ranking U.S.
executive, BP America Inc. Chairman and President  Lamar McKay ,
was subpoenaed to testify at the February trial that will
determine liability for the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  BP faces at least 350 lawsuits by thousands of coastal
property owners and businesses claiming damages from the more
than 4.1 million barrels of oil that gushed from the company’s
well off the  Louisiana  coast last year.  The lawsuits were consolidated for pretrial processing by
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. Also sued in
the combined cases are  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services to the well.  Barbier scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to
determine which companies share blame for the explosion. The
judge has said he’ll use findings from that proceeding to guide
decisions in later trial phases over damages caused by efforts
to contain and clean up the historic spill, which killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  In an unrelated case, a federal judge ruled yesterday that
BP didn’t violate a plea agreement in a criminal case over a
2006 spill in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay, rejecting a request by
federal prosecutors to revoke the company’s probation.  Pleaded Guilty  BP, based in  London , pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating
the  Clean Water Act  by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its
Prudhoe Bay field into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It
paid a $12 million fine and $8 million for restitution and
community service and was put on three years’ probation.  The government asked U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline in
Anchorage to revoke the probation, saying BP broke the agreement
when it spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near  Prudhoe Bay  in
November 2009. Beistline rejected the U.S. request today and
released the company from probation.  “The court certainly cannot fault the government for the
position it has taken in this matter for there clearly were
reasons for concern,” Beistline wrote in an order. “There can
be no doubt that the government takes its responsibility
seriously to monitor the industry and to ensure compliance with
environmental laws.”  Because the U.S. sought to revoke probation just before it
ended in 2010, prosecutors could have sought more money from the
company if Beistline had found BP violated the terms.  Company Reaction  “We are pleased with the decision,”  Steve Rinehart , BP
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We know that the privilege of
working in  Alaska  comes with a responsibility to maintain high
standards. We will continue our commitment to running safe and
compliant operations.”  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  BP asked the court to reject the U.S. claim and end
probation completely. The company didn’t do anything to violate
the plea agreement, BP lawyer Jeff Feldman said Dec. 7 in a
hearing before Beistline.  “BP conformed to industry standards,” he said.  The 2009 spill occurred when a section of the company’s
pipeline at its Lisburne Processing Center ruptured, “creating
a two-foot hole in the pipe that allowed the contents to spill
onto the tundra and surrounding wetlands,” the government said
in a court filing.  Lisburne, a separate field, is part of BP’s greater Prudhoe
Bay operation.  Ignored Alarms  The U.S. said BP ignored alarms that warned of the pipe’s
eventual rupture and leak. The 2009 leak showed that BP hadn’t
yet “addressed the management and environmental compliance
problems that have plagued it for many years,” the government
said in court papers.  BP accepted responsibility for the 2010 Gulf spill and set
up a $20 billion fund to compensate victims for spill-related
losses. BP sued Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean and
Houston-based Halliburton on claims its contractors share blame
for the disaster and should share the costs.  Transocean and Halliburton have repeatedly denied any fault
for the explosion or spill in court filings.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  