-- BRIC Decade Ends With Record Stock Outflows as Goldman Says Growth Peaked
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2011-12-28T08:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/bric-decade-ends-with-record-stock-outflows-as-goldman-says-growth-peaked.html
In the past decade, mutual funds
poured almost $70 billion into  Brazil , Russia, India and  China ,
stocks more than quadrupled gains in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and the economies grew four times faster than America’s.  Now  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which coined the term BRIC,
says the best is over for the largest emerging markets.  BRIC funds recorded $15 billion of outflows this year as
the MSCI BRIC Index sank 24 percent, EPFR Global data show. The
gauge, which beat the S&P 500 by 390 percentage points from
November 2001 through September 2010, has trailed the measure
for five straight quarters, the longest stretch since Goldman
Sachs forecast the countries would join the U.S. and Japan as
the top economies by 2050.  “In emerging markets, we’re waiting for things to get
worse before they get better,” said  Michael Shaoul , the
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in  New York  who
predicted in February that developing-nation stocks would fall
this year. The $845 million Marketfield  Fund (VONEMBI)  has topped 97
percent of peers in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BRIC indexes may fall another 20 percent next year,
buffeted by the liquidity squeeze stemming from Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis,  Arjuna Mahendran , the Singapore-based
head of Asia investment strategy at  HSBC Private Bank , which
oversees about $499 billion, said in an interview. Nations such
as Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey may overshadow the BRICS in the
next five years as they expand from lower levels of growth, he
said.  BRICs Slowdown  “The slowdown we’re seeing in the BRICs will continue for
most of the first half,” Mahendran said. “Compared to the
U.S., corporate profits haven’t been that good as companies face
higher wages, higher  interest rates  and currency volatility, and
at best, we’ll only start to see the effects of monetary policy
loosening in the second half of 2012.”  Gross domestic product in the four countries rose at the
slowest pace in almost two years last quarter and Goldman Sachs
said this month that their potential economic growth rates have
probably peaked because of a smaller supply of new workers. Even
as Brazilian and Russian policy makers start to lower borrowing
costs, profit growth in the MSCI index will slow to 5 percent
next year from 19 percent in 2011, trailing the S&P 500 by five
percentage points, according to more than 12,000 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Average economic growth in the BRIC countries will
decelerate to 6.1 percent next year from a high of 9.7 percent
in 2007, according to September estimates by the International
Monetary Fund. That would narrow the gap over America’s
expansion to 4.3 percentage points, the smallest since 2004, the
IMF data show. Global GDP may increase 4 percent next year,
restrained by 1.1 percent growth in the euro area, the
Washington-based fund said.  ‘Meaningfully Slower’  Slowing exports to Europe and government restrictions on
real-estate investment are curbing the expansion in China, the
biggest emerging economy. India’s growth has been hampered by
the fastest interest-rate increases since 1935 and the rupee’s
decline to a record low, which fueled inflation and deterred
foreign investment. Brazil and Russia, whose growth during the
past decade was spurred by surging commodity demand, have been
hurt by falling metals prices and the slowdown in China.  “In emerging markets across the board, all the numbers are
pointing toward meaningfully slower growth” next year, Rajiv Jain, who oversees about $15 billion as a money manager at
Vontobel Asset Management Inc. in New York, said in a Dec. 5
phone interview.  Jain’s emerging-market equity fund beat 98 percent of peers
this year, buoyed by holdings of beverage and tobacco companies
whose profits are resilient to economic slowdowns.  2011 Losses  The BSE India Sensitive Index led declines among BRIC
equity gauges this year, falling 23 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index also dropped 23 percent, while Russia’s Micex
retreated 18 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa sank 16 percent. The
21-country  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 20 percent, while
the S&P 500 gained 0.6 percent.  The MSCI BRIC Index slid 0.8 percent as of 8:30 a.m. in
 London  and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dipped 0.6 percent,
set for the lowest close in a week. The Shanghai Composite
gained 0.2 percent, the Sensex dropped 1.1 percent, while the
Micex was little changed.  Egypt’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  tumbled 49 percent this year, the
biggest decline in emerging markets, as political turmoil
stifled tourism and deterred foreign investment following the
popular uprising that ousted President Hosni Mubarak. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index posted this year’s largest gain,
advancing 3.2 percent after higher consumer spending countered
the global economic slowdown.  Peak Expansions  Longer-term economic growth rates in the BRIC nations are
poised to drop as their working-age populations increase more
slowly and then eventually shrink, according to a Goldman Sachs
report on Dec. 7 titled “The BRICs 10 Years On: Halfway Through
The Great Transformation.”  “We have likely seen the peak in potential growth for the
BRICs as a group,”  Dominic Wilson , an economist at Goldman
Sachs, wrote in the report. Wilson made the New York-based
firm’s first detailed long-term forecasts for the BRIC nations
in 2003, two years after Jim O’Neill, then head of economic
research, coined the term.  O’Neill, now chairman of Goldman Sachs’s asset-management
unit, declined an interview request for this story. His latest
book, “The Growth Map,” talks of “rosy prospects” for the
BRICs as well as the potential of the “Next Eleven” most
populous emerging economies.  Fund Flows  Goldman Sachs’s bullish outlook for the BRIC nations proved
prescient as the economies expanded at an average pace of 6.6
percent during the past decade, more than four times faster than
America, according to IMF data. Investors poured about $67
billion into Brazil, Russia, India, China and BRIC mutual funds
from 2001 to 2010, data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global show.  This year’s fund outflows were the biggest on an annual
basis since at least 1996, according to EPFR Global. India
equity funds recorded about $4 billion of net withdrawals, while
China funds lost $3.6 billion. Investors pulled $2.2 billion
from Brazil, $326 million from Russia and $5.3 billion from
funds that invest in all four of the BRIC countries. All
emerging-market funds tracked by EPFR Global had about $47
billion of outflows, leaving assets under management at $605
billion.  Rate Cuts  Large fund outflows are a contrarian indicator because they
may signal pessimistic investors have already sold, setting the
stage for a trough in share prices, according to  Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  Hong Kong . Emerging-market funds recorded about $48
billion of outflows in the five months ended October 2008, when
developing-nation stocks began a rally that sent the MSCI
emerging-market index up 108 percent in 12 months.  Emerging-market stocks will probably outperform U.S.
equities next year as central banks in developing countries cut
interest rates to stimulate economic growth, said  James Paulsen ,
the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in
Minneapolis. The MSCI emerging-markets  gauge (MXBRIC)  rose an average 35
percent after the BRIC nations began cutting interest rates in
2003, 2005 and 2008.  Brazil has reduced its benchmark Selic interest rate by 1.5
percentage points since August to 11 percent. China lowered
banks’ reserve requirements in November for the first time since
2008, while forwards contracts in Russia and India show that
traders are betting on interest-rate cuts in the next 12 months.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve has pledged to hold
interest rates near zero until at least mid-2013.  Easing Policies  “I like the emerging markets better than anything right
now,” Paulsen said in a Dec. 7 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Most of these emerging-market policy officials are
turning to easing policies.”  While the MSCI BRIC index has dropped to 8.4 times
estimated profit from 13 times at the start of the year,
valuations are still higher than they were a decade ago. The
MSCI India Index trades for 15 times profit, up from 13 times in
2001, according to data compiled by MSCI Inc.  India’s price-earnings ratios have climbed to an 8 percent
premium over U.S. stocks from a 63 percent discount 10 years
ago, data compiled by MSCI show. The discount on Chinese shares
narrowed to 35 percent from 59 percent, while it shrank to 29
percent from 76 percent in Brazil and dropped to 60 percent from
87 percent in Russia, based on MSCI indexes.  Relative Valuations  Compared to the U.S., valuations for BRIC markets don’t
look cheap enough, said Ok Hye Eun, a Seoul-based fund manager
at Woori Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$15 billion.  “BRIC markets won’t be an attractive destination for a
while because there are still ongoing risks,” said Ok, citing
the prospects of a potential collapse in China’s real estate
market and the outlook for economic reforms in India. “I see
more opportunities in the U.S.”  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s biggest private lender, trades for
14 times profits, a 42 percent premium over San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo & Co., even as analysts predict slower earnings
growth at the Mumbai-based bank, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. ICICI Bank profits will increase 10 percent in the
current fiscal year, compared with 28 percent at Wells Fargo,
the biggest U.S. bank by market value, the estimates show.  Want Want, Redecard  Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151) , a Shanghai-based maker of
food and beverages, is valued at 36 times profits and analysts
project earnings will increase 7.7 percent this year. The Hong
Kong-listed shares are twice as expensive as Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft Foods Inc., which trades for 17 times
earnings and may boost profits 13 percent, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Redecard SA (RDCD3) , Brazil’s second-biggest card-payment
processor, trades for 15 times profits, versus 12 times for New
York-based American Express Co. Sao Paulo-based  Redecard’s
earnings  will probably slip 3.8 percent this year while American
Express posts a 19 percent gain, analyst projections compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Outflows from emerging-market funds may continue next year
as economic growth and company results disappoint investors,
according to John-Paul Smith, the London-based emerging-market
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. Money managers surveyed by Bank
of America Corp. from Dec. 2 to Dec. 8 said their emerging-
market holdings are still 23 percent higher than benchmark
weightings even after they cut positions from last month.  ‘Structural Weaknesses’  “There will be a lot of volatility, but as people realize
the underlying structural weaknesses of the BRIC economies,
you’ll see money coming out,” Deutsche Bank’s Smith said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 19.  China’s economic data have trailed estimates for the past
two months, based on Citigroup Inc.’s  Economic Surprise Index , a
gauge of how much reports are missing economist projections in
Bloomberg News surveys. Chinese manufacturing contracted by the
most since 2009 in November, while new home prices declined in
49 of 70 cities tracked by the government the same month.  By contrast, U.S. data is beating analyst expectations by
the most in nine months, according to the country’s Citigroup
surprise index.  Manufacturing  in America expanded at the fastest
pace in five months in November, the Institute for Supply
Management said. Initial jobless claims fell to the lowest level
since 2008 in the week ended Dec. 10, while U.S. housing starts
in November climbed the most in 19 months, government data show.  Per-share earnings in the MSCI BRIC index trailed analysts’
estimates by 13 percent last quarter, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. S&P 500 profits beat projections by 4.4 percent,
the data show.  Labor Supply  While Goldman Sachs still expects the BRICs to join the
U.S. and Japan as the world’s biggest economies by 2050, the
bank predicted this month that the four nations’ contribution to
the global expansion will diminish during the next few decades.
Economic growth in the BRICs may fall to about 4 percent by 2050
as working-age populations dwindle, Goldman Sachs said.  The number of people aged 15 to 64 in Russia has already
started to drop, while Chinese workers may peak at around 1
billion and begin falling by 2020, according to estimates by the
United Nations. Brazil’s peak may come by 2040, with India’s
topping out by 2060, the New York-based  United Nations  said. The
U.S. will keep adding workers through 2100, the forecasts show.  “In the last decade, simply recognizing that the BRICs
were the story was largely enough to propel outsized investment
returns,” Goldman’s Wilson wrote in this month’s outlook
report. “It is much harder to accept that simply believing in
their long-term growth dynamics can be a sufficient investment
thesis now, if it ever was.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  