-- China Says It’s Reviewing Western Digital Purchase of Hitachi Storage Unit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-27T06:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/china-says-it-s-reviewing-western-digital-purchase-of-hitachi-storage-unit.html
China  said  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) 
must address concerns that its proposed acquisition of  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501) ’s storage business will hurt competition before regulators
approve the purchase.  Western Digital’s acquisition will hurt competition in the
market for computer hard-disk drives “to a certain extent,”
Shang Ming, head of the Ministry of Commerce’s antimonopoly
bureau, said in Beijing today. The ministry will seek
“appropriate solutions” to address its concerns, he said.  “China is the world’s biggest computer consumer and so
naturally the deal will exert a negative impact on Chinese
consumers,” Ming said at a briefing held to review the bureau’s
activity in 2011.  The importance of Chinese approval for acquisitions has
increased as economic growth averaging 10 percent in the past
three decades transformed the nation into the world’s biggest
consumer of products including computers, automobiles, and
mobile phones. China’s Ministry of Commerce said it received 43
percent more antitrust review applications from January to mid-
December of this year than it did in 2010.  The ministry is also reviewing  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s acquisition of
 Motorola Mobility Holdings , Shang told reporters after the
briefing, without giving more details.  Western Digital won European Union approval for its
purchase of Hitachi’s unit last month after agreeing to sell off
some disk-drive production. The sale of “essential production
assets” for 3.5-inch hard disk drives eliminates concerns that
Western Digital would only face  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  as a
rival supplier, the European Commission said.  Seagate Acquisition  Seagate won EU approval to buy Samsung Electronics Co.’s
computer hard-disk drive operations in October. That purchase,
combined with Western Digital’s proposed acquisition, would
reduce the number of large manufacturers of mechanical hard-disk
drives for computers to three from five. Western Digital would
have a 50 percent share of the market, Seagate would have 40
percent and Toshiba would have 10 percent, according to research
by IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  China approved Seagate’s acquisition earlier this month
after the ministry and the companies reached an agreement aimed
at protecting competition, Shang said. China may “make a
similar ruling based on the law” if  Western Digital  addresses
the ministry’s concerns, he said.  Shang said he expected the ministry to receive more
antitrust applications next year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  