-- Chinese Corporate Profit Growth Slows as Europe, Property Drag on Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-27T02:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/chinese-corporate-profit-growth-slows-as-europe-property-drag-on-economy.html
Chinese industrial companies’
 profits  growth cooled, adding to evidence the government may
need to ease policy to protect the nation’s economic expansion.  Net income increased 24.4 percent in the first 11 months of
2011 from a year earlier to 4.66 trillion yuan ($737 billion),
the  National Bureau of Statistics  said on its website today. The
pace compared with 25.3 percent gain in the first 10 months and
a 27 percent rise in the first three quarters.  A lingering Europe debt crisis and a cooling domestic
property market are dimming growth prospects for the world’s
second-largest economy. More Chinese bankers are forecasting a
further loosening in monetary policy as the expansion cools and
households’ inflation expectations are easing, surveys by the
central bank showed on Dec. 22.  “We are likely to see a decline in profits as the economy
slows and prices at factory gate are falling,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong , said before the release. “Slowing profits would provide
further evidence of decelerating growth, adding pressure on
policy easing.”  Industrial companies’ revenue climbed 28.2 percent to 75.9
trillion yuan for the first 11 months of the year, today’s
report showed. Revenue expanded 29.1 percent in the first 10
months.  Monthly Growth  For the month of November, industrial companies’ profit
grew 17.9 percent, compared with a 12.5 percent pace in October,
according to the data.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 9.1 percent in the
third quarter, slowing from a 9.5 percent gain in the previous
three months.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that lenders must
set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 this month,
freeing cash to sustain the economic expansion in the world’s
most populous nation.  About 14.4 percent of bankers expect more monetary policy
easing in the first quarter of 2012, a central bank survey
showed on Dec. 22, compared with only 3.5 percent last quarter.  The industrial profits data cover companies with annual
sales from their main business of at least 20 million yuan in 39
industries including oil and gas exploration, transportation
equipment manufacturing, telecommunications and power generation.  Slowing economic growth is weighing on corporate profits.
Profit margins at 77 large and medium-sized Chinese steelmakers
narrowed to a record 0.47 percent in October, according to the
Economic Information Daily, which cited the  China  Iron & Steel
Association.  A weaker yuan may spur an outflow of investment from
China’s property market, curbing construction demand for steel
and further cutting profits at Chinese steelmakers, Mirae Assets
Securities Co. said in a note on Dec. 5.  --Zheng Lifei. Editor: Lily Nonomiya,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  