-- Computer Sciences Shares Fall on Writedown for U.K. Health-Record Contract
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2011-12-27T21:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/computer-sciences-drops-on-contract-writedown-of-as-much-as-1-5-billion.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , a
technology contractor for governments and companies, fell after
saying it will write down its investment in a U.K. contract by
as much as $1.5 billion as the agreement is being renegotiated.  CSC, based in  Falls Church , Virginia, declined 9 percent to
$24.10 at the close in New York, the most since Nov. 10. It has
lost 51 percent this year. Moody’s Investors Service placed all
CSC ratings under review for possible downgrade.  The company will revise its forecasts for fiscal 2012 and
book a “material impairment” in the third quarter ending this
month that could total all of the $1.5 billion it has spent on a
U.K. electronic patient-records contract, according to a
regulatory filing. CSC said it may incur additional costs based
on contract-amendment negotiations.  In May, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the
government wouldn’t sign any more contracts with CSC until
reviews are finished of how it missed deadlines on its work on a
nationwide computer system for the  National Health Service ,
which aims to centralize records for every patient.  A panel of U.K. lawmakers in August recommended close
examination of the negotiations over delayed work.  Moody’s said in a statement it’s assessing the cash-flow
impact of the curtailed contract, as well as CSC’s prospects to
replace the $5 billion in revenue originally expected from the
U.K. order. It will also evaluate the effect of uncertainty in
U.S. government spending, CSC’s managed services pipeline, and
progress in resolving internal audit and Securities and Exchange
Commission investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  