-- Oil Extends Longest Rally Since 2010
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-27T20:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/crude-oil-increases-on-u-s-consumer-confidence-as-iran-conducts-exercise.html
Oil capped its longest rally in more
than a year as  Iran  threatened to block transportation through
the Strait of Hormuz and confidence among U.S. consumers beat
expectations in December.  Crude settled at the highest level in six weeks after
Iran’s official Islamic Republic News Agency cited Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi as saying the country would bar
shipments through the strait if sanctions are imposed on its oil
exports. Futures also rose as the Conference Board’s  index 
reached the highest level since April.  “The Iranian threats are getting increasingly bold,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “The threat doesn’t have to be
likely to have an impact on the market, because if it were to be
carried out it would potentially be huge.”  Oil for February delivery rose $1.66, or 1.7 percent, to
$101.34 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the
highest settlement since Nov. 16. Crude has advanced for six
consecutive sessions, the longest rally since a period ended
Nov. 8, 2010. Futures have climbed 11 percent this year after
increasing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement gained $1.31, or 1.2
percent, to $109.27 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European contract’s premium to crude in New
York was $7.93 a barrel, the smallest differential based on
settlement prices since Jan. 20.  Markets in New York and  London  were shut yesterday because
of the observance of Christmas and will be closed on Jan. 2 for
New Year’s Day.  Low Volume  Oil surged on what is one of the year’s slowest trading
days. Volume on the Nymex totaled 190,429 contracts as of 3:43
p.m. Volume was 167,547 on Dec. 23, the lowest level since Dec.
26, 2008, and down 73 percent from the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.31 million contracts.  “A lot of people are on vacation this week,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover
Inc. in New Canaan,  Connecticut . “Volume will remain light
until Jan. 3. We can expect to see exaggerated price moves until
things pick up next week.”  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, passes through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, according to the
U.S. Energy Department.  Iran is attempting to “distract attention” from its
nuclear program by threatening to block oil shipments through
the strait, Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman, said at a
briefing today in  Washington .  Busy Waterway  Oil increased 2.4 percent in New York on Dec. 13 after Iran
announced plans for military exercises in the strait, a critical
waterway for crude shipments, as the U.S. and its allies
threatened to bolster sanctions because of the  Persian Gulf 
country’s nuclear program.  The Iranian navy started a 10-day exercise east of the
passage that involved the use of submarines, ground-to-sea
missile systems and torpedoes, Press TV said Dec. 24.  “The tanker market is pretty quiet,” said Basil Karatzas,
chief executive officer of New York-based shipbroker Karatzas
Marine Advisors. “Iran can only close the strait by force and I
don’t think they are ready for a war.”  Iran  pumped  3.56 million barrels a day of oil in November,
according to Bloomberg News estimates, trailing only  Saudi
Arabia  among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Iran is trying to reduce its dependence on fuel
imports as international sanctions over its nuclear program
block foreign companies from doing business there.  Iranian Needs  “Iran needs petrodollars and petroleum product imports
more than we need its oil,” said  Stephen Schork , president of
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Blocking the
 Strait of Hormuz  would probably trigger a war” with the U.S.
and neighboring Arab countries, he said.  The U.S. consumer confidence measure increased to 64.5 from
a revised 55.2 reading in November. It exceeded all forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey, which had a  median estimate  of 58.9 based on
the responses of 69 economists.  “The consumer confidence numbers are very strong and gave
the market a push,” Schork said.  Tensions between Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s
Shiite-led allies and Sunni politicians have intensified since a
warrant was issued last week for the arrest of Vice President
Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni. The case comes amid concern that the
pullout of U.S. forces will leave a security vacuum in  Iraq ,
which holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves.  Syrian Unrest  Syria  began withdrawing troops from the center of Homs as
the  Arab League  deployed observers to monitor unrest that has
killed thousands. Violence in other areas of the country left at
least 16 people dead early today, mostly in the countryside
outside Damascus, said  Ammar Qurabi , head of the Syrian National
Organization for Human Rights.  “The market is creeping higher amid tension in the  Middle
East ,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York. “We are following news in Iran,
Iraq and Syria at the moment. There’s a potential that the
situation in one of these countries will worsen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  