-- Storm Dagmar Cuts Power, Causes Damage Across Nordic Region
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2011-12-27T13:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/dagmar-s-hurricane-winds-cut-power-to-170-000-people-in-nordic-countries.html
The storm Dagmar lashed the Nordic
countries with Hurricane-strength winds, cutting power and
Norwegian natural-gas exports as it damaged buildings, shut
roads and halted train traffic.  About 264,500 homes in  Finland , Sweden and Norway were
without electricity as utilities such as Vattenfall AB worked to
restore power after the storm yesterday toppled trees and
damaged lines, according to estimates today by companies and
grid operators.  In Finland, the number of those blacked out has increased
as winds have picked up again, leaving 190,500 customers at
 Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , Vattenfall and Savon Voima Oyj without electricity,
the utilities said. Some failures may last for days, Fortum
said. In Sweden, about 44,000 homes were without power as of
2:33 p.m., according to a compilation from the three-largest
utilities, including Vattenfall and EON AG.  The storm is causing the worst outages since the Janika
storm in November 2001, said Heini Kuusela-Opas, a spokeswoman
for Vattenfall in Finland, by phone today.  Ormen Lange Halt  About 30,000 homes were without power in Norway as of 2
p.m., grid operator Statnett SF said in a statement.  Statoil
ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil company, reduced staffing on its
offshore oil platforms over the weekend while maintaining
production, Stavanger Aftenblad reported yesterday, citing Baard
Glad Pedersen, a company spokesman.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Ormen Lange natural gas field was
operating at 50 megawatt power out of a capacity of 200
megawatts, the Nord Pool power exchange said late yesterday in a
statement, citing grid disruptions. A Shell spokesman, who
declined to be identified by name, said by phone today that the
company is now increasing gas exports after a halt.  The highest average wind measured in Norway was 44.6 meters
per second (100 miles per hour), with gusts reaching 64.7 meters
per second, Norway’s Meteorological Institute said. All
measuring stations had winds peaking at more than 32 meters per
second, or hurricane strength, the institute said. Gusts
exceeded 30 meters per second at the Helsinki-Vantaa airport
yesterday, the Finnish Meteorological Institute said.  Trains Canceled  Finns in the southeastern and southern parts of the
country, including the capital Helsinki, were told by the police
to stay indoors during the storm. In  Sweden , train traffic in
the middle and northern parts of the country was halted and
smaller, local roads were temporarily closed.  Train traffic in much of northern Sweden was expected to
restart earlier today after being canceled on Christmas Day,
according to the Swedish Transport Administration. Buses are
replacing some train traffic in Finland, train operator VR said.  Fortum will pay as much as 700 euros ($915) in compensation
to each customer who has been without power for 12 hours or
more, the company said. It has also moved workers from less
affected areas to help fix the damage.  Vattenfall expects to pay as much as 900 kronor ($131) in
compensation for Swedish customers with a failure of 12 hours to
24 hours, said Magnus Kryssare, a spokesman at the Stockholm-
based utility.  Cost Estimates  About 500 damage claims have been filed to Norwegian
insurers, a number that will probably rise “significantly” in
coming weeks, Finance  Norway , which coordinates claims from
natural disasters, said in a statement yesterday. Claims will
probably exceed the 275 million kroner ($46 million) paid after
the storm Berit, Tonje Westby, the group’s spokeswoman, said in
the statement. Storm-related claims may top 1 billion kroner
this year, the most since 1995, she said.  Finnish insurers are compiling cost estimates, Risto
Karhunen, head of loss prevention and security at the Federation
of Finnish Financial Services, said by phone. Yesterday’s storm
may have caused extensive damage because it covered the entire
southern part of the country, he said. In comparison, four local
storms in 2010 caused insurers to pay out about 100 million
euros in claims, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  