-- Deutsche Bank Offers U.S. Plans for Renting Foreclosed Homes
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-12-27T16:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/deutsche-bank-among-firms-giving-u-s-plans-for-renting-foreclosed-homes.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , whose executives played roles in the housing
bubble, are among the hundreds of firms that responded to a U.S.
government request for proposals to rent out foreclosed homes.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  asked for ideas as
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies seized by the
government in 2008, seek to reduce losses, stabilize
neighborhoods and support housing values by turning into rentals
a portion of the more than 180,000 repossessed homes in their
inventory. The submissions were due by Sept. 15.  Carrington Holding Co., Barclays Capital Inc., Neuberger
Berman Group LLC, Ranieri Partners LLC and  UBS AG (UBSN)  also were
among the financial and investment companies that responded to
the FHFA, according to a list of 439 proposals. The agency
released the names in response to a Freedom of Information Act
request filed by Bloomberg News.  “We’re obviously big proponents of this program,”  Rick Sharga , executive vice president of Carrington, said in a
telephone interview from his office in  Santa Ana ,  California .
“We think it meets a market need.”  Demand for rentals is rising as more homeowners lose their
properties to foreclosure and fewer buyers qualify for
mortgages. About 6 million homes with a current market value of
$750 billion will be repossessed by banks or sold at distressed
prices by 2016, according to Oliver Chang, a San Francisco-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley. FHFA’s plans for a foreclosure-to-
rental program are significant because Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  service more than half of U.S. home mortgages, he said.  ‘Most Important’ Program  “In our opinion, this is the most important housing-
related program under consideration,” Chang wrote in a Dec. 6
note to investors. “The hope is that a larger unified program
is established that could move the needle a year or two down the
road.”  The FHFA won’t discuss specific submissions or give a firm
timeline for structuring its program, said Corinne Russell, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based regulatory agency.  “FHFA is proceeding prudently but with a sense of urgency
to lay the groundwork for the development of good initial
transactions in early 2012,” she said in an e-mail.  Home values are down 32 percent through October from their
2006 peak, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of 20 cities,
the New York-based group said today. They probably will continue
falling next year, with a recovery unlikely before 2013,
according to property-data provider  Zillow Inc.   Maintaining Foreclosed Homes  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , based in  Washington , had 122,616 foreclosed
homes on its books with a carrying value of $11 billion as of
Sept. 30, costing $733 million to maintain in the third quarter,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
Freddie Mac controlled 59,616 foreclosed homes that cost the
McLean, Virginia-based company $221 million to operate and
manage in the third quarter.  Carrington, a real estate and mortgage services company
founded by hedge-fund manager Bruce Rose, is “actively
raising” about $1 billion to purchase foreclosed homes that
will be renovated and held as rentals, with or without the
government program, said Sharga, who worked at foreclosure-
tracking firm RealtyTrac Inc. before joining Carrington in
September.  He said that Carrington’s submission outlined three options
for turning foreclosures to rentals in bulk: selling directly to
investors who agree to repair and hold the properties as
rentals, hiring managers to oversee rentals to be sold at a
later date, or structuring transactions so the government and
investors share revenue from seized properties.  ‘Split the Proceeds’  “At the end of a period, you’d sell the property and split
the proceeds,” said Sharga, whose company collects mortgage
payments and manages about 4,000 rental homes, including
properties repossessed by  Fannie Mae .  The FHFA received more than 4,000 submissions, about 10
percent of which were considered valid, according to a Nov. 30
agency statement. Among the proposals were joint-venture
partnerships, sales, auctions and asset-disposition strategies
similar to those used by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as
well as by the Resolution Trust Corp. after the savings-and-loan
collapse of the early 1990s, the agency said.  Executives from some of the companies that submitted
proposals to the FHFA held influential positions when the
housing bubble burst.  Sued by SEC  Daniel Mudd , chief executive officer of Fortress, took a
leave of absence from the New York-based asset management
company after being sued Dec. 16 by the SEC over his role as CEO
of Fannie Mae from 2005 to 2008. Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have
drawn more than $170 billion in aid from the Treasury Department
since they were seized by the federal government in 2008.  Mudd and  Richard Syron , Freddie Mac’s former CEO, were
accused by the SEC of understating the subprime loans held by
the firms by hundreds of billions of dollars. Mudd has said that
the government and investors were aware of “every piece of
material data about loans held by Fannie Mae.” Tom Green,
Syron’s attorney at Sidley Austin LLP, said there “was no
shortage of meaningful disclosures” by Freddie Mac.  Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment on the firm’s FHFA submission. The company
said in a Dec. 16 statement that the complaint against Mudd
“does not relate to Fortress.”  Betting Against Market  Greg Lippmann, a Deutsche Bank trader, hosted the first
meeting of investors and lawyers who devised contracts and
financial instruments used to bet against the housing market.
During the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008, Lippmann helped
Deutsche Bank offset losses on mortgage investments with wagers
against subprime debt that made $1.5 billion, according to an
April report by a Senate panel.  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment. LibreMax Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund where
Lippmann is now chief investment officer, wasn’t on the FHFA’s
list of submissions.  Representatives for  Ranieri Partners ,  Neuberger Berman ,
Barclays and  UBS  all declined to comment on their FHFA
proposals.  The agency provided five examples of submissions with the
content, names and contact information redacted. That
information was withheld to protect  trade secrets  and the
privacy of people who submitted proposals, the agency said.  “Our program, when fully implemented, has the potential of
having a significant impact on the stabilization of real estate
values across the country,” according to one of the proposals.
The plan has been endorsed “by financial institutions, staffers
of U.S. Senators and Congressmen, and real estate related people
across the country,” according to the letter.  Harvard Professor’s Recommendation  “My former Harvard Business School finance professor
recommended I contact you,” wrote a self-described “former
banker” in another proposal. “Officials from the Federal
Reserve and HUD have favorably evaluated the following
asset/loan disposition functionality & proposal for my client’s
real-time, forward-looking analytics real estate asset/note
transaction platform.”  No contracts will be awarded based on the submissions,
which “will be used for planning and market research purposes
only,” the FHFA said in its solicitation for proposals.  Amherst Securities Group LP, a New York-based mortgage
broker-dealer, opted not to submit ideas to the FHFA because
“we did not feel we would be adequately protected” from
Freedom of Information Act requests,  Laurie Goodman , senior
managing director in charge of research for the firm, said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  