-- Third Infant Reported With Infection as Mead Johnson Says Formula Is Safe
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2011-12-28T14:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/mead-johnson-advances-after-company-clears-infant-formula-in-baby-s-death.html
A third infant tested positive for
the  Cronobacter  bacteria that killed a newborn in  Missouri  and
spurred the removal last week of baby formula from store
shelves. A U.S. probe is continuing.  The baby, from  Oklahoma , has been hospitalized and was
given a different brand of formula than used in two previously
reported cases of the infection, said Chris Braden of the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the world’s leading seller of children’s formula,
said Dec. 25 that its tests showed no bacteria in a batch of
formula used by the Missouri baby who died.  There’s too little evidence yet to say whether the Oklahoma
illness is linked to baby formula, Braden said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Regulators are testing powdered products in
each of the cases, and have said they may have results this
week.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said yesterday it will wait for the
government results before deciding whether to return Mead
Johnson’s formula to its shelves.  The Cronobacter bacteria “can be found in a lot of
different places,” said Braden, who heads the Division of
Foodborne, Waterborne and Environmental Diseases. “Even if
these infants were on powdered  infant formula , and even the same
powdered infant formula, we still don’t know yet if that’s the
source of their infections.”  Braden declined to identify the product being tested in the
Oklahoma case. The Atlanta-based CDC is working with state
health departments and the  Food and Drug Administration  to study
the infections and doesn’t want to mislead the public, he said.  The CDC is testing for “numerous types of exposures,”
Kate Levinson, an agency spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  Mead Johnson Rises  Mead Johnson rose 0.7 percent to $69.55 at 9:42 a.m. New
York time. The Glenview, Illinois-based company had its biggest
one-day gain in five months yesterday, increasing 5.8 percent,
after announcing its test results. That was a rebound from a
fall of 15 percent on Dec. 22 and 23, after retailers pulled
Enfamil Newborn formula from their shelves.  Mead Johnson said in a Dec. 25 statement that it used
formula samples matching those screened by U.S. regulators in
the case involving the dead baby, and employed the same methods.  “Recent test results should absolve Mead Johnson of
product safety concerns,” Edward Aaron, an RBC Capital Markets
analyst in Denver, wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “While
we expect some near-term impact on U.S sales, we don’t think it
will be overly significant in the grand scheme of things.”  Wal-Mart,  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  last week pulled a
batch of Mead Johnson’s formula after the Missouri baby’s death
was disclosed. Chris Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, said his
company has received no contact from regulators or requests for
samples to test in connection with the other two cases.  ‘No Indication of Connection’  “There’s no indication of any connection whatsoever to any
of our products,” he said.  Wal-Mart will await FDA results before deciding whether to
return the product to its shelves, Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Jim Cohn, a spokesman for Walgreen, in
Deerfield, Illinois, said he was gathering information and
couldn’t yet comment. Messages weren’t returned by Keith Daley,
a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Kroger.  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in 2010 revenue and were
the world’s lead brand franchise in pediatric nutrition based on
retail sales, the company said in a February filing.  The CDC is working with state regulators and the FDA in
testing samples in the case of the Missouri baby who died, said
Robert Tauxe, deputy director of the foodborne infection
division.  The second case involved an  Illinois  baby who fell sick in
Missouri during a trip, officials have said. Public health
officials are checking to see if the bacteria in the infections
have the same genetic fingerprint, Tauxe said in a Dec. 23
telephone interview. If they do, that may suggest they came from
the same source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  