-- Eastman Kodak Says KKR Representatives Clammer, Chen Resign From Board
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2011-12-27T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/eastman-kodak-says-kkr-representatives-clammer-chen-resign-from-board.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  said two directors
from KKR & Co. resigned from its board, two years after the
private-equity firm helped the 131-year-old imaging company
refinance debt.  Adam H. Clammer and Herald Y. Chen notified the board of
their resignation on Dec. 21, Rochester, New York-based Kodak
said today in a regulatory filing. Both were elected in
September 2009 after a refinancing deal that included KKR
investing in $300 million of senior bonds and warrants for 40
million shares.  By agreeing to hold the investment for at least two years
among other conditions, the private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  was entitled to nominate two board
members, Kodak said in September 2009. Kodak shares have lost 86
percent since the deal was struck, closing today at 69 cents in
 New York . The warrant exercise price was $5.50 a share.  Kodak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez,
who took the helm in 2005, has sharpened Kodak’s focus on the
printing business to help revive revenue. He is trying to sell a
portfolio of more than 1,100 digital imaging patents, and other
businesses.  Kodak, whose origins date back to 1880, was founded by
George Eastman, who introduced the Kodak camera eight years
later, according to the company’s website. Kodak has shifted
away from traditional film as consumers gravitate toward digital
cameras, and is building its commercial and consumer printing
business.  Kodak won’t replace Clammer and Chen “because we have for
some time been seeking to reduce the size of our board,”
spokesman Gerard Meuchner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  