-- Hedge-Fund Managers Miss Biggest Rally in Prices in 10 Weeks: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-12-27T22:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/hedge-funds-cut-bets-as-raw-materials-rally-most-in-10-weeks-commodities.html
Hedge funds  reduced bets on higher
commodity prices to the lowest level since 2009 just as raw
materials headed for their biggest weekly rally in two months.  Money managers  cut  their combined net-long position across
18 U.S. futures and options by 15 percent to 454,512 contracts
in the week ended Dec. 20, the lowest since March 2009, data
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed 4.5 percent last
week, erasing this year’s declines and pushing the index toward
its third consecutive annual advance.  While the S&P GSCI is 15 percent below the 32-month high
reached in April, prices gained last week on signs the  U.S.
economy  is proving resilient. Durable-goods orders rose in
November by the most in four months, and jobless claims
unexpectedly fell to the lowest in more than three years.
Concern that shortages will emerge in commodities from copper to
crude oil spurred Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to stick with a
bullish outlook this month even as funds cut their holdings.  “Commodities are in the process of bottoming,” said  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion of
assets. “You’re going to find out that the U.S. economy is
going to continue to grow much faster than people thought.
You’re going to see people coming back to commodities.”  Commodity Rally  Last week’s gain in the S&P GSCI was the biggest since Oct.
14 and left the gauge up 2.2 percent in 2011. It rose 20 percent
in 2010 and 50 percent a year earlier. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities climbed 3.1 percent last week, paring
this year’s decline to 9.3 percent. The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) , a
measure against six trading partners, dropped 0.4 percent. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries climbed 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 2.02 percent, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show.  Twenty of the 24 raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI rose
last week. Gasoline surged 8 percent to $2.6872 a gallon. Wheat
capped six consecutive daily advances, the longest winning
streak since January. Oil added 6.6 percent, the biggest weekly
gain since October. The commodity gauge climbed as much as 1.4
percent today.  Commodities will return 15 percent in the next 12 months,
led by industrial metals and energy, because the global economy
is likely to avoid another recession, Goldman said in a report
Dec. 1. That’s still the bank’s view, Sophie Bullock, a London-
based spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mail Dec. 15.  Durable Goods  U.S.  bookings for equipment  meant to last at least three
years rose 3.8 percent after no change in the prior month, a
period that was previously reported as a contraction, data from
the Commerce Department showed on Dec. 23. Sales of new U.S.
homes rose in November to a seven-month high, the department
said the same day.  The S&P GSCI is still headed for a 0.7 percent monthly
decline after Europe’s debt crisis escalated. Funds are net-
short, or betting on price declines, in copper, cocoa, soybean
meal, wheat,  soybean oil  and natural gas, CFTC data show. Crude-
oil  holdings  fell 11 percent to the lowest since Oct. 18, and
net-long positions in gold dropped 13 percent to the lowest
since April 2009.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Dec. 19
that lenders in the euro region will experience “very
significant” funding constraints next year and there are
“substantial downside risks” to the economy. The Dollar Index
rallied 2 percent this quarter as investors sold other assets
for the perceived safety of the currency. The gauge declined in
six of the past nine years and is 31 percent lower than at the
start of that period.  ‘Hefty Declines’  “Going into 2012, there’s a very, very high probability
that we can see some fairly hefty declines in the commodity
markets,” said Stephen Hammers, the Nashville, Tennessee-based
chief investment officer at Compass EMP Alternative Strategies
Fund, which has about $500 million of assets. “There’s a
tremendous amount of uncertainty about what is going to happen
around the world in terms of the global economy.”  Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond
fund, said the U.S. may stagnate next year. Europe may contract
and Chinese growth may slow, Saumil H. Parikh, who leads  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco’s cyclical economic forums, said
in a report posted on its website on Dec. 22.  The economy in  China , the biggest consumer of everything
from nickel to soybeans, may expand 8.5 percent next year, down
from 9.2 percent this year and 10.4 percent in 2010, according
to the median of 19 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  $490 Million  Investors pulled $490 million from commodities funds in the
week ended Dec. 21, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold
and precious-metals outflows totaled $1.59 billion, and non-
precious-metal commodities had net inflows of more than $1
billion, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research.  “Commodities, ex-gold, had one of their better weeks,”
Brandt said. “We are seeing some more durable faith in the U.S.
recovery at the moment.”  Confidence  among U.S. consumers climbed more than forecast
in December, to a six-month high, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index. The increase to
69.9 from 55.7 in August is the biggest four-month increase
since the period ended June 2009.  Builders broke ground in November on more U.S.  houses  than
at any time in the past 19 months, led by a surge in multifamily
units, the Commerce Department said Dec. 20.  China Copper Imports  Refined-copper  imports  by China climbed to the highest
since June 2009 last month, the General Administration of
Customs said Dec. 21. Global oil demand will rise 1.4 percent
next year, with China accounting for more than a 10th of the
total, according to the Paris-based  International Energy Agency .  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods  showed  speculators cut
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 7.9 percent to
202,544 contracts, the lowest since March 17, 2009. Investors
trimmed bullish bets on coffee by 48 percent to 2,954 contracts,
the lowest since Aug. 9.  “People are focusing too much on the day to day in
 Europe ,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage about $15
billion of assets at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco .
“There’s an overall environment that remains favorably biased
towards an increase in commodity prices heading into 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  