-- Medvedev Removes Political Strategist Surkov in Russian Election Shuffle
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-27T16:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/medvedev-removes-political-strategist-surkov-in-russian-election-shuffle.html
Vladislav Surkov , who oversaw
Russian domestic politics as first deputy head of the Kremlin
administration, was moved to the Cabinet to take charge of
modernization, an issue championed by President  Dmitry Medvedev .  Medvedev, who is planning to switch jobs with Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  after a March presidential vote, said
Surkov is ready for the new role after serving on a Kremlin
commission about modernizing the economy.  “I hope our work together over the years will not only not
go to waste, but will find new life in your new capacity,”
Medvedev told Surkov after announcing the appointment at his
residence outside Moscow today.  Surkov, 47, joined the presidential administration as a
deputy head in August 1999 and served in the capacity throughout
Putin’s two terms as president from 2000 to 2008, according to
his official  biography . The change shows that Medvedev and Putin
are ready to begin political reforms,  Alexei Kudrin , who was
dismissed by Medvedev as finance minister in September, said in
an interview on Kommersant-FM radio today.  Tens of thousands of people have taken to the streets
nationwide since a Dec. 4 parliamentary vote that international
observers said was flawed. The ruling United Russia party, which
counts Putin as its chairman and was led by Medvedev in the
poll, won less than half of the vote.  Surkov said he wouldn’t be involved in attempts to defuse
popular anger at alleged election fraud.  “I asked my bosses a fairly long time ago to give me the
chance to start a new life in the new year,” he said in an
interview with the Interfax news service after the announcement.
“I was understood, and for that, my great thanks.”  In another move announced today, Vyacheslav Volodin, a
deputy prime minister and senior United Russia official, was
named to replace Surkov as first deputy head of the presidential
administration. He will report to Sergei Ivanov, who also left
as a deputy to Putin this month, to become the Kremlin chief of
staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  