-- EDF Reaches Accord to Lift Edison Stake to 80.7%; A2A to Acquire Edipower
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2011-12-27T19:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/electricite-de-france-in-preliminary-accord-to-lift-edison-stake-to-80-7-.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) , Europe’s
biggest power generator, reached an agreement to raise its stake
in  Edison SpA (EDN)  to 80.7 percent for about 700 million euros ($915
million), ending a yearlong effort to take control of the
Italian utility.  The French power producer will effectively exchange a 50
percent stake in Edipower, an Edison subsidiary, for Transalpina
di Energia Srl’s 50 percent stake in Edison, Thomas Piquemal,
EDF’s chief financial officer, said on a conference call today.
The purchase will raise EDF’s stake in Edison to 80.7 percent at
an “implied” share price of 84 euro cents, according to a
statement from the Paris-based company.  EDF, which currently owns 50 percent of Edison, has been
trying to take full control for more than a year to gain access
to natural-gas resources and markets in southeastern  Europe  and
the Mediterranean basin. The value of the acquisition is a 1
percent premium to Edison’s 83.15 euro cent closing price on
Dec. 23.  “The deal doesn’t look negative for EDF,” Benoit de Broissia, an analyst at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris, said by
phone today. “EDF wanted control of Edison without spending a
lot of cash. It was a difficult situation.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Edison’s  credit rating  and Moody’s
Investors Services placed it on review for a downgrade after the
Italian utility reported a nine-month loss in October. The
agreement will reduce Edison’s debt by 1.1 billion euros and
“will reassure rating agencies,” Piquemal said.  ‘Move Quickly’  Edison fell 1.7 percent to 81.7 euro cents at the close in
Milan. EDF fell 1.5 cents to 18.4 euros. The preliminary accord
requires approval from the companies’ boards before the end of
next month, with final contracts signed by Feb. 15, EDF said.  “We want to move quickly,” Piquemal said. “We no longer
want to be under pressure by  ratings agencies .”  Edison is the latest Italian company to be taken over by
the French. Groupe Lactalis won control of Parmalat SpA and LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA bought Bulgari SpA earlier this
year.  Criticism of these purchases led EDF Chief Executive
Officer  Henri Proglio  to say in July he wouldn’t negotiate on
taking control of Edison until Italian authorities give their
approval.  “We reached an agreement and authorities said they didn’t
want it because of cheese and jewelry,” Proglio said July 29
about a previous Edison deal that was scuttled. Another
agreement reached in October looked uncertain earlier this month
amid disagreements over debt and governance.  Piquemal declined to comment on the politics behind today’s
deal.  Consob Decision  “I’m particularly satisfied with the success of the
negotiations between EDF and A2A and its main Italian
partners,”  Corrado Passera ,  Italy ’s Minister of  Economic
Development , said in an e-mailed statement. A2A becomes the
country’s second biggest power company by taking control of
Edipower, he said.  The transaction depends on EDF getting Italian market
regulator Consob to agree that a mandatory public tender offer
for Edison doesn’t exceed 84 euro cents a share, according to
the statement.  “We are ready” to make a general offer “if the regulator
confirms this price,” Piquemal said. “It’s up to the Consob to
decide.”  Transalpina, known as TdE, is currently half owned by EDF
and half by Delmi SpA, which in turn is owned by A2A and other
Italian companies. EDF currently owns 20 percent of Edison
directly and 30 percent through TdE.  ‘Simplified’ Agreement  Delmi plans to acquire a 50 percent stake in Edipower from
Edison and 20 percent from Alpiq for 600 million euros and 200
million euros respectively, according to the statement. Edipower
will then be 70 percent owned by Delmi, 20 percent by A2A and 10
percent by Iren.  The agreement is “simplified” compared to one reached in
October because Delmi shareholders will no longer have a stake
in Edison, Piquemal said. EDF will get nearly 8 gigawatts of
generation capacity in Edison while Edipower has about 7
gigawatts including 2 gigawatts on sites that will be be closed,
he said.  Edison will sign a contract to supply a minimum of 50
percent of Edipower’s gas for six years, EDF said.  Edison has a market value of about 4.3 billion euros. In
October, the company reported a 93 million euro loss because of
gas contracts, writedowns and higher taxes. Net debt as of Sept.
30 was 4.1 billion euros, up from 3.7 billion euros at the end
of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  