-- Emerging Stocks Fall on China Profit Concern
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2011-12-27T23:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-china-profit-concern-italian-yield-rise.html
Emerging-market stocks (MXEF)  dropped after
profit growth at China’s industrial companies slowed and as
Italian bond yields rose above 7 percent, raising concerns about
Europe’s ability to tame the debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.4 percent to 924.28
by 5 p.m. in New York. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
retreated 1.1 percent, while South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell by
0.8 percent, partly because of losses triggered by what exchange
officials said was possibly an “erroneous” trading order.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index gained 0.6 percent after U.S. consumer
confidence topped forecasts.  Reports today showed Chinese industrial companies’ profit
growth slowed as the lingering debt crisis in Europe and a
cooling domestic property market dimmed the economic outlook,
while South Korean consumer confidence fell to a three-month
low. Italian  government bonds  fell before the nation prepares
for another auction. International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said the world economy is in danger
because of  Europe ’s financial woes.  “It’s almost certain global growth next year will slow as
the European crisis hasn’t been resolved yet,” Fadlul Imansyah,
who manages about $165 million at PT CIMB Principal Asset
Management in Jakarta, said today.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has lost 20 percent this
year as Europe’s debt problems compounded concerns about slowing
global growth. Shares on the developing nation index are trading
at 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 12.2 times on
the MSCI World Index, which has fallen 7.5 percent this year.  Russia Tensions  Russian stocks declined on concern slower global economic
growth and political tensions before the presidential vote will
reduce demand for the country’s securities. The  Micex Index  fell
0.3 percent in Moscow. The ruble weakened against the dollar,
slipping 1 percent.  The  BUX (BUX)  gauge of 11 companies dropped 0.9 percent in
Budapest, led by  OTP Bank Nyrt (OTP) , the biggest bank, and  Gedeon
Richter Nyrt. , the country’s largest drugmaker.  The Polish zloty appreciated the most in eight weeks
against the euro on speculation that Polish policy makers will
support the currency this week.  The  Bovespa stock (IBOV)  index gained as data signaling the  U.S.
economy  is continuing to recover lifted oil prices and boosted
the outlook for Brazilian producers.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and
 OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA  followed crude higher after
oil rose 1 percent.  North Korea  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in December to the
highest level in eight months as an improving job market helped
regain all the ground lost following the mid-year government
budget battle and credit-rating downgrade. Another report showed
that residential real estate prices dropped more than forecast
in the year ended October.  In Seoul,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-biggest
mobile-phone maker, retreated 2.4 percent.  Samsung Electro-
Mechanics Co. (009150) , a maker of electronic parts, plunged 6.8 percent,
the most since Aug. 19, after Woori Investment & Securities Co.
said its sale of a stake in Samsung LED Co. for 283 billion won
($245 million) was lower than estimated. The Kospi Index dropped
the most in a week.  “An investor, which we can’t verify yet, appears to have
placed an erroneous order,” La Sung Chae, an official at the
market trading analysis team at Korea Exchange Inc., said by
phone. “That, combined with unconfirmed rumors about the health
of the new leader of North Korea and that China may send troops
to the communist nation, drove the index sharply lower. I think
it seems a one-time occurrence.”  Consumer Confidence  South Korean consumer confidence fell to a three-month low
in December on concern the political outlook in the North will
worsen in the wake of Kim Jong Il’s death. The sentiment index
fell to 99, from 103 in November, the Bank of Korea said in an
e-mailed statement. A reading of less than 100 indicates
pessimists outnumber optimists.  King Yuan Electronics Co. (2449) , which provides integrated
circuit testing services to semiconductor producers, rallied 5.6
percent in Taipei trading to the highest close since Dec. 5.
King Yuan said it plans to buy back 30 million shares in a
statement to the stock exchange.  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL)  jumped 16 percent in Manila trading, the
sharpest gain since July. San Miguel Corp. is in talks to invest
in PAL unit Philippine Airlines Inc., ABS-CBN News reported,
citing people it didn’t identify. San Miguel officials signed an
agreement to start due diligence on the airline company, ABS-CBN
said. San Miguel President Ramon Ang didn’t immediately reply to
mobile-phone messages seeking comment while Philippine Air
President Jaime Bautista said he’s not aware that the company
signed an agreement with San Miguel Corp.  The market in  Hong Kong  was closed for a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  