-- Tepco Requests $8.8B More Aid for Japan Disaster
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2011-12-27T05:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/tepco-requests-8-8b-extra-aid-for-japan-disaster.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  requested
689.4 billion yen ($8.8 billion) in further aid from  Japan ’s
government to help the utility cover compensation payments to
those affected by the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The utility known as Tepco revised its estimate for
compensation payments for the disaster to 1.7 trillion yen by
March 2013 from 1.01 trillion yen, it said in a statement on its
website. The government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund will seek approval from Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  as early as next month to provide the support to Tepco,
said Soichi Yamamoto, an official at the body.  A government panel in October said Tepco may have to pay
4.5 trillion yen in compensation payments by 2013, almost three
times as much as the utility’s estimate. Decommissioning the
reactors damaged in the March earthquake and tsunami at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station may cost 1.15 trillion yen, according
to the government.  “We made our estimate based on factors we can foresee at
the moment,” Tepco spokesman Hiroki Kawamata said today, when
asked about the difference in assessments. “It’s possible our
actual compensation payments will be different from what we
predict.”  The costs are pushing Tepco to the brink of collapse. The
liability fund may buy preferred stock in Tepco, effectively
nationalizing the utility to avoid insolvency, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported on Dec. 21. Banks may be asked to lend 1
trillion yen to the company, the paper said.  Tepco won government approval for an initial disbursement
of about 900 billion yen from the fund in November. New
guidelines approved by the government earlier this month raised
the number of those eligible for payments to about 1.5 million
people. About 160,000 people were forced to flee the radiation
spewing from the plant. The government has yet to say how many
can return and when.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  