-- Japan’s Edano Says Tepco Should Consider Temporary Control by Government
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2011-12-27T16:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/meti-says-tepco-should-consider-temporary-government-control.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. needs to
consider all options related to its survival, including the
government taking temporary control of the utility, Trade and
Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  told the company’s president
Toshio Nishizawa in Tokyo yesterday.  The company yesterday requested 689.4 billion yen ($8.8
billion) in additional aid to pay compensation linked to the
Fukushima nuclear plant disaster. Edano countered with the
option to nationalize the company, without saying if that would
require an injection of public funds or some other means.  The utility, which supplies power to Metropolitan Tokyo,
the world’s biggest city, needs support from the government’s
Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund to avoid insolvency.
It may face 4.5 trillion yen in compensation payments by 2013 to
those who lost livelihoods and homes in the March 11 disaster at
its Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station.  “I want you to consider all options including temporary
government control of Tepco” as the company needs to improve
its finances for compensation payments and raise funds for
decommissioning, Edano told Nishizawa and officials of the
government-backed fund at the meeting.  Accepting a government takeover “is an option to avoid the
collapse of the company,” Tepco spokesman Osamu Yokokura said
when questioned before the meeting.  “Options are still under
discussion, nothing has been decided.”  Tepco revised its estimate for compensation payments for
the disaster to 1.7 trillion yen by March 2013 from 1.01
trillion yen, it said in a statement on its website yesterday,
announcing its request for support.  Nishizawa said he will draw up a business plan by the end
of March based on Edano’s order. He declined to comment further
when asked by reporters if the company will accept falling under
government control.  The government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
will seek approval from Edano as early as next month to provide
the support to Tepco, said Soichi Yamamoto, an official at the
body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  