-- MetLife Agrees to Sell $7.5 Billion in Bank Deposits to GE
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-12-27T21:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/metlife-agrees-to-sell-7-5-billion-in-bank-deposits-to-ge.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  agreed to sell most of
its bank’s deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)  as the largest U.S.
life insurer seeks to limit oversight by the  Federal Reserve .  GE’s finance unit will acquire about $7.5 billion of
MetLife Bank’s deposits, the New York-based insurer said today
in a statement. Terms of the transaction, to be completed in the
second quarter, weren’t disclosed.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , 59,
reiterated plans in October to sell the banking operations after
the Fed rejected the company’s proposal to raise its dividend
and resume share buybacks. MetLife is subject to Fed oversight
because of its size and ownership of its bank, which had $10.7
billion in deposits as of Sept. 30.  “This whole notion of Met being caught in the wrong place
at the wrong time as it relates to its bank regulatory setup,
has been a significant overhang on the stock,”  Randy Binner , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in a phone interview. The
sale is “a significant forward step in their process of trying
to shed their bank holding company status.” He rates the
insurer “outperform.”  MetLife was little changed at $31.20 in New York trading.
It has declined 30 percent this year. GE, based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut , slipped 1.2 percent to $18.01.  The deal, which includes an online banking platform, will
aid GE Capital’s plans to begin taking direct deposits in the
U.S. over the Internet in the first half of 2012, said  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for the company.  Online Banking  The finance unit is seeking to limit its dependence on
long-term bond markets for funding.  GE Capital  said this month
that it plans to accept money through websites affiliated with
its two banks in Utah and backed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  Taking online deposits strengthens GE Capital’s liquidity
after the financial crisis of 2008 left some investors wary of
banks and financial stocks. The finance unit relies on debt for
the bulk of its funding rather than deposits or trading as do
conventional banks.  The online initiative will increase a U.S. deposit base
that has grown from about $1 billion in 2007 to about $23
billion through the third quarter, according to a presentation
on the company’s website. GE Capital’s long-term goal is funding
its Commercial Lending & Leasing Americas with deposits.  MetLife Bank’s customers are stable and high net worth,
which was attractive to GE Capital, said Wilkerson. The deposit-
taking system is proven and will help GE immediately enter the
market, rather than build one out itself, he said.  “We acquired it at an attractive price, and it fits
perfectly with our plan,” Wilkerson said in an e-mail.  About $3 billion in deposits related to MetLife Bank’s
mortgage business and some other funds weren’t included in the
deal and will be divested over the next six months, according to
 Christopher Breslin , a spokesman for the insurer.  Deutsche Bank AG  was financial adviser to MetLife and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz was its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  