-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Banco Espirito Santo Rallies
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2011-12-27T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/european-stock-index-futures-gain-france-telecom-may-be-active-in-paris.html
European stocks closed little
changed after data on U.S. house prices and  consumer confidence 
gave conflicting signals about the strength of the world’s
largest economy.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA and  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) 
rallied more than 7 percent after a report that Portugal may
recapitalize its banks without taking an equity stake. Chemical
makers also advanced. Italian lenders  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Mediobanca (MB)  SpA retreated at least 4 percent.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose less than 0.1
percent to 241.91 at the close of trading, having fluctuated
between gains and losses at least 10 times. The measure rallied
3.5 percent last week as a decline in U.S. jobless claims and
increases in consumer confidence and durable-goods orders
spurred optimism that the economy is strengthening. The gauge
has still retreated 12 percent this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis
spread from  Greece  to Italy and  Spain .  “After the Christmas holidays, market participants are
focused on the consumer-confidence index and Case-Shiller,”
said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB Fairtrade
Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt. “The unemployment data
in the next days are more important for the market because it
shows how strong the  U.S. economy  really is.”  Reduced Volume  The volume of share trading across Europe was reduced today
as U.K. and Irish markets remained closed for a second day
following the Christmas holiday. The number of  Euro Stoxx 50
Index futures  that have changed hands was less than 20 percent
of the average over the past 20 days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 U.S. cities dropped 3.4 percent from October 2010 after
decreasing 3.5 percent in the year ended September, the New
York-based group said today. The median forecast of 27
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3.2 percent decrease.  Confidence  among U.S. consumers rose as an improving job
market helped regain all the ground lost following the mid-year
government budget battle and credit-rating downgrade. The
Conference Board’s index increased to 64.5 this month, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, from a revised 55.2
reading in November, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed. The measure averaged 53.7 during the
recession that ended in June 2009.  Stock swings that reached twice the five-decade average
left the  S&P 500  Index with the smallest price change in 41
years and utilities, soapmakers and health-care providers at the
highest valuations since 2008. The S&P 500 rose 3.7 percent last
week, sending the measure to a gain of 0.6 percent for the year.
The last time it moved less on an annual basis was in 1970, when
it fell 0.1 percent.  German Economy  Germany ’s economy is robust enough to withstand a more
difficult European and global business environment, Handelsblatt
cited Economy Minister Philipp Roesler as saying in an
interview. Private consumption is sustaining growth and
businesses are strong enough to be optimistic about the future,
the German newspaper cited Roesler as saying.  National benchmark indexes gained in 10 of the 16 western
European markets trading today. Germany’s DAX advanced 0.2
percent while  France ’s CAC 40 added less than 0.1 percent . The
Swiss Market Index fell 0.1 percent.  Banco Comercial Portugues (BCP)  rallied 7.7 percent to 13 euro
cents and Banco Espirito Santo surged 14 percent to 1.34 euros.
Portugal may recapitalize its banks without becoming a
shareholder, Jornal de Negocios reported, without saying where
it got the information.  The government may subscribe contingent convertible bonds
sold by the banks, the newspaper said. So-called CoCos are bonds
that convert into equity if a bank’s capital drops below a set
level.  Wacker, Symrise  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  and Symrise AG led chemical makers higher.
The German companies added 0.9 percent to 61.33 euros and 2.4
percent to 20.27 euros, respectively.  UniCredit and Mediobanca lost 4.8 percent to 6.58 euros and
4.8 percent to 4.53 euros, respectively, in Milan trading.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA tumbled 2.4 percent to 1.28 euros.  Italy plans to sell almost 450 billion euros of debt next
year to pay for maturing bonds and bills and cover the
government’s budget deficit, Il Sole 24-Ore said, citing an
interview with Maria Cannata, director of public debt.  Sky Deutschland AG declined 1.8 percent to 1.39 euros. The
company won’t show Paramount Pictures Corp.’s movies in 2012,
and the change will damp enthusiasm for its movie channel,
according to Financial Times Deutschland. Paramount’s films
include “ Mission Impossible ,” “TinTin” and “Titanic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  