-- Euro Trades at Almost 11-Month Low Amid Concern Debt Will Hinder Economy
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2011-12-27T22:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/euro-trades-at-almost-11-month-low-amid-concern-debt-will-hinder-economy.html
The euro traded at almost its lowest
level since January against the dollar as concern lingered that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will slow regional economic growth.  The 17-nation currency fluctuated before Italy sells bills
and bonds tomorrow. The Swiss franc and the yen also appreciated
against the dollar as U.S. consumer confidence gained more than
forecast this month.  South Africa ’s rand and the Swedish krona
gained against the U.S. currency as stocks and commodities rose.  “The European peripheral bond markets are still looking
quite fragile and we’ll be watching that,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. “People are going to be quite cautious in
terms of trading events. It’s going to be a quiet week.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3071 at 5 p.m. in  New
York . It dropped to $1.2946 on Dec. 14, the lowest level since
Jan. 11. The common currency was also little changed at 101.80
yen. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to 77.88 yen.  Implied volatility  for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations dropped to 11.97 percent today, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index. It reached a high this year of 15.77 percent
in September.  Annual View  The shared currency has dropped 2.8 percent this month
against the dollar and 2.4 percent this year. It has lost 1.3
percent this year against its nine developed-nation
counterparts, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The dollar has gained 0.9 percent in the
measure and the yen rose the most among the currencies,
appreciating 3.9 percent.  The South African rand rose 0.2 percent to 8.1418 per
dollar. The krona added 0.4 percent to 6.8529 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials advanced
0.7 percent.  Italy  is scheduled to sell 9 billion euros ($11.8 billion)
of 179-day bills and as much as 2.5 billion euros of zero-coupon
2013 securities tomorrow. It will auction debt due in 2014,
2018, 2021 and 2022 the following day.  Ten-year bond  yields  in Italy advanced six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 7.04 percent, above the 7 percent
level that spurred  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts.  European Issues  “The major theme going into 2012 is going to be the  euro
zone  still,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “There’s going to be
some large bond supplies coming from some of the periphery
countries, Italy and  Spain  in particular, and that’s going to be
the focus.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in December to the
highest level in eight months as an improving job market helped
regain all the ground lost following the mid-year government
budget battle and credit-rating downgrade.  The Conference Board’s index increased to 64.5, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and the highest since
April, from a revised 55.2 reading in November, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed today. The measure
averaged 53.7 during the recession that ended in June 2009.  Growth Story  “The front story of 2012 is going to be whether U.S.
growth can sustain itself,” Boris Schlossberg, director of
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York, said
in an interview with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” “Dollar-yen is very much
reflective of this uncertainty. If we do get conviction, if the
 U.S. economy  starts to really perform well in the first half of
the year, it’s going to clear 80, possibly even go to 85.”  The dollar will appreciate to 80 yen by the fourth quarter
of 2012, according to the median estimate of 41 currency
strategists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A “few” Bank of  Japan  board members said financial-market
turmoil from the European debt crisis and the yen’s appreciation
were increasing risks for growth, according to a record of last
month’s board meeting released today.  The yen tends to gain during periods of financial stress as
Japan’s export-reliant economy doesn’t need foreign capital to
balance current accounts -- the broadest measure of trade. The
currency has strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded
peers this year, rising 4.2 percent against the dollar and 6.7
percent versus the euro.  Yen Moves  Japanese officials  sold  at least 14.3 trillion yen this
year to stem gains that cut profits for exporters from Toyota
Motor Corp. to Nintendo Co., and Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  has
pledged more action. Intervention in 2012 may fail again as
financial turmoil attracts investors to the world’s third-most
traded currency for its low volatility.  Spain’s Economy and Competition Minister Luis de Guindos
said yesterday in  Madrid  the nation’s economy has suffered a
“relapse” and will contract as the  People’s Party  takes over
the nation’s finances from the Socialists. “The next two
quarters aren’t going to be easy,” he said.  The Obama administration declined to brand  China  a currency
manipulator while saying appreciation of the yuan is
insufficient and pledging to push for more “flexibility” in
the currency.  “Over the past decade, China has resisted very strong
market pressures” for appreciation of the yuan, the Treasury
Department said today in a report to Congress on foreign-
exchange markets. “China’s real effective exchange rate has
exhibited persistent and substantial undervaluation, although
the estimated range of misalignment has narrowed over the course
of the past 18 months.”  The report, originally due Oct. 15, follows the
administration’s push for a stronger yuan. President  Barack Obama  said last month that “enough is enough” on what the U.S.
views as China moving too slowly to make changes in its economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  