-- Yen Strengthens for Fourth Day as Europe Debt Concerns Spur Safety Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-28T13:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/euro-declines-versus-most-peers-as-italian-borrowing-costs-climb-on-crisis.html
The yen rose for a fourth day
against the euro and the dollar as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will damp economic growth spurred demand for safer assets.  The euro was little changed against the dollar even as
Italian bonds rallied after the nation sold bills at lower rates
than the previous sale. The yen also gained after a U.S.
Treasury report criticized the nation for intervening in the
 currency market  and as economic reports signaled slowing
economic growth last month. The  New Zealand  and Australian
dollars rose as stocks and commodities advanced.  “There’s no appetite to assume any risk right now,” said
Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “The Treasury report had a pretty
negative impact on dollar-yen and that was compounded by the
fact that Japanese data itself was negative overnight.”  The yen rose 0.4 percent to 101.42 per euro at 8:36 a.m. in
New York extending this year’s gain to 7.1 percent. Japan’s
currency climbed 0.4 percent to 77.58 per dollar after reaching
77.57, the strongest level since Dec. 8. The euro was little
changed at $1.3072, having fallen 2.3 percent in 2011.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 79.715.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent
and the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks rose 0.2 percent.  Euro Declines  The euro has weakened against all but two of its 16 most-
traded peers this month. The 17-nation currency has declined 2.8
percent versus the dollar, and lost 2.7 percent against the yen.  South Africa ’s rand has declined 18.3 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s major peers,
according to Bloomberg data, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with an
11.7 percent loss. The yen has advanced 4.5 percent for the
largest gain against the greenback.  Italy sold 9 billion euros ($11.8 billion) of 179-day bills
at a rate of 3.251 percent, down from 6.504 percent at the
previous auction of similar-maturity debt on Nov. 25. The
Treasury also sold 1.7 billion euros of zero-coupon bonds due in
September 2013 at a yield of 4.85 percent, versus 7.81 percent
on Nov. 25.  The nation will auction as much as 8.5 billion euros of
debt due between 2014 and 2022 tomorrow.  Italian 10-year bond  yields  dropped as much as 25 basis
points to 6.75 percent, after rising to 7 percent yesterday, the
level that spurred  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts.  Italy’s Debt  “You can’t be optimistic about the Italian debt sales and
I don’t expect very good results,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a
senior currency analyst in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which
provides foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “The euro
continues to face downward pressure.”  Italian  business confidence  dropped to 93.7 this month from
94.4 in November, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News before tomorrow’s report. That would be the  least  since
January 2010.  Consumers in the euro area’s third-biggest economy spent 48
euros less per person this holiday season than the average of
the past five years, Rome-based consumer group Codacons said in
a statement on its website.  “The European economy risks a recession,” Ueda Harlow’s
Yamauchi said. “Austerity measures will certainly hurt.”  Japan ’s Economy  The yen also rose after reports showed  industrial
production  and retail sales dropped more than forecast in
November.  Industrial output decreased 2.6 percent in November from
the previous month, the trade ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for output to fall 0.8 percent.  Retail sales  fell 2.3 percent last month from the previous
year. Economists estimated the measure would be unchanged,
according to a separate Bloomberg news survey.  The Treasury Department, in a semi-annual report to
Congress on the currency policies of major trading partners,
criticized Japan, which unilaterally sold the yen twice in the
foreign-exchange market after Group of Seven economies jointly
intervened after the March earthquake. The operations in August
and October took place when market conditions were orderly and
global economic developments were affecting other major
currencies as well, the report said.  “The  United States  did not support these interventions,”
the Treasury said, adding that the impact of the unilateral yen
sales was temporary. “Rather than reacting to domestic ‘strong
yen’ concerns by intervening to try to influence the  exchange
rate , Japan should take fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to
increase the dynamism of the domestic economy.”  The report also declined to brand  China  a manipulator of
its exchange rate, while calling the yuan undervalued and vowing
to press for further appreciation of the currency. Trading in
the currency is limited to a band set daily by the People’s Bank
of China. It’s allowed to move 0.5 percent on either side of
that rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  