-- What ‘Fact Checkers’ Call Lies, I Call Politics: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2011-12-27T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/fact-checkers-find-lies-but-i-see-politics-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Last year, PolitiFact, a widely
cited “fact-checking” project of the Tampa Bay Times, awarded
its “Lie of the Year” to Republicans who said that the health-
care law President  Barack Obama  had signed amounted to a
“ government takeover ” of the field.  This year, the uncoveted prize has gone to Democrats who
said that Republicans had voted to “ end Medicare ” by voting for
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget.  PolitiFact doubtless regards its having criticized both
Republicans and Democrats as evidence of its evenhandedness and
concern for truth. And I am sure that they are indeed calling
things as they see them without regard to party. But PolitiFact
often seems unaware that the same facts can be interpreted in
different ways, with neither interpretation qualifying as a lie.
Here is a different interpretation of its evenhandedness:
PolitiFact was wrong last year and this year -- in each case
injecting a little poison into the political system in the name
of cleaning it up.  Start with this year’s winning lie. Liberals  insist  that
the Ryan plan is fairly characterized as ending Medicare because
it replaces the existing program with a very different (and,
they believe, inferior) one. Under Medicare as it is today, the
federal government pays set fees for most medical services that
senior citizens receive. Under the Ryan plan passed by the  House
of Representatives , senior citizens would instead pick among
coverage plans offered by companies, with the federal government
paying part or all of the premium. Nobody, pro or con, thinks
this plan would be a minor tweak to Medicare.  Misleading to Seniors  On the other hand, saying Republicans want to “end
Medicare” can be misleading. People who hear the phrase might
think that under the  Ryan plan  senior citizens would have to get
medical care on their own, with no help from the federal
government. That is a misimpression, and it is one that
Democrats have an interest in spreading.  Similarly, Democrats have accurately said that the
Republican plan would involve cutting  health-care spending  for
the elderly -- which yields the misleading impression that they
would cut spending on today’s elderly when only the elderly of a
decade from now would actually be affected.  Republicans should tell the parts of the story the
Democratic catchphrases omit, and so should media organizations
such as PolitiFact. But that’s not the same thing as calling the
Democrats liars for employing a characterization that many of
them sincerely believe is fair, and that isn’t so much false as
arguable.  Last year it was the Republicans who were smeared.
PolitiFact insists it’s “simply not true” that the Democratic
health-care law is a government takeover of health care because
“it is, at its heart, a system that relies on private companies
and the free market.” The government “will not seize control of
hospitals or nationalize doctors.”  Let us stipulate that any government health-care policy
falls on a continuum with laissez faire at one end and single-
payer close to the other end (which would be “nationalized
doctors,” whatever that would mean). Surely the point at which
you have moved from a mostly  free-market system (S5MANH)  to a mostly
government-controlled one is a subjective matter that depends
largely on one’s political philosophy.  Obamacare is a federal law that converts health insurance
into a product that nobody would voluntarily buy and then forces
everyone to buy it; that forces a change in the basic business
model of every private insurance company; and that seeks to
impose sweeping changes on the practice of American medicine by,
for example, promoting “accountable care organizations.”  Different Interpretations  This policy may be good or bad. It is certainly possible
for a conservative or  libertarian  to consider it, in good faith,
a government takeover behind a private-sector facade. (I have
never, incidentally, read or seen an advocate of Obamacare even
attempt to explain why this arrangement, in which insurance
companies are treated essentially as public utilities, is
superior to a single-payer system with no such facade.)  One of the worst features of contemporary politics is the
tendency -- found on the right, on the left and in between -- to
label our opponents liars, often without a shred of evidence
that the person we’re attacking is saying something he knows to
be false. PolitiFact makes that problem worse, not better, by
giving a supposedly authoritative imprimatur to such loose
accusations.  The reason we have politics at all is that we disagree,
sometimes deeply, about how to promote the common good, and we
need a peaceful and productive way to resolve or at least manage
these disagreements. We disagree about how to improve U.S.
health care, and we disagree about how each other’s proposals to
change it should be characterized. The pretense of PolitiFact,
and other media “fact checkers,” is that many of our political
disputes have obvious correct answers on which all reasonable
people looking fairly at the evidence can agree -- and any other
answer is “simply not true.”  This pretense really is false, and like dishonesty, it is
corrosive.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 