-- Fear Recoupling in ’12, Not the End of the World: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2011-12-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/fear-recoupling-in-12-not-end-of-the-world-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The Mayans were wrong. The world
won’t end in 2012, but at times it may feel as if it’s about to.
Such is  Asia (MXAP) ’s lot as Europe’s debt debacle and the U.S.’s
political paralysis fuse, presenting challenges for leaders from
Beijing to Jakarta.  In a less chaotic time, this might have been  Asia ’s big
moment. News this week that Japan and  China  will promote direct
trading of yen and yuan without using dollars is a case in
point. An eastward shift of power and capital would seem to be a
given as Brussels and  Washington  turn inward. Yet a worsening
global environment will interrupt Asia’s path to economic
dominance.  Here are eight risks that may get in Asia’s way:  No. 1. Recoupling. Asia steered around the U.S. meltdown in
2008 with remarkable agility. Doing that will be harder in the
12 months ahead as all of the world’s major growth engines stall
or go into reverse. Default risks in Europe will increase, the
U.S.’s funk will persist in an election year,  Japan ’s malaise
will deepen and China will hit a soft patch. With deft fiscal
and monetary maneuvering, Asia grew impressively in the three-
plus years since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. imploded. A
repeat performance is unlikely.  Toxic Mix  No. 2. Pocketbook Worries. Consumers will become more
dissatisfied with the toxic mix of inflation and widening income
inequality. Leaders aren’t doing enough to make sure the
benefits of growth are shared equitably. As the Gini coefficient
-- a statistical measure of wealth inequality -- rises across
Asia, increasing tensions will play out in unpredictable ways in
markets and politics.  No. 3. Occupy Wukan. It’s getting harder for China to keep
its 1.3 billion people from hearing about events in a coastal
village in  Guangdong province . There, thousands of people fed up
with land seizures took to the streets and forced out Communist
Party officials. This Occupy Wall Street dynamic is a startling
contrast to the usual success China has in quashing any hint of
public discord. As the New York Times points out, there are at
least 625,000 potential Wukans in China. The 12 months ahead
will be busy for China’s thought police.  Election Year  No. 4. Political Intrigue. China,  Hong Kong , South Korea
and  Taiwan  will pick new leaders. State elections in  India  will
help determine if Rahul Gandhi will soon replace his mother,
Sonia Gandhi, as president of the ruling Congress Party.
Taiwan’s contest could be a standout -- a verdict on President
Ma Ying-jeou’s economic policies and drive for better relations
with  China . Territorial disputes in the  South China Sea  could
bubble over. Violence might break out in  Thailand  if ousted
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra is allowed to return. In
Myanmar, Aung San Suu Kyi’s move to register her party for
elections will test the government’s recent steps toward
democracy.  No. 5. The Kim Follies. As the world gets used to Kim Jong Un replacing  Kim Jong Il  as North Korean leader, there’s no
telling how things will unfold in Pyongyang. Will the 20-
something Kim feel obliged to show he means business with
missile launches into the South and nuclear tests? Might
military generals who covet the top job rebel? The questions
about the world’s most secretive regime hover over all of Asia.  Great Wall  No. 6. Internet Clampdown. Beijing’s great wall of
censorship is raising cyber clampdowns to an art form, the
latest on Twitter-like services. Yet the Internet is under
attack throughout Asia. India is stepping up efforts to require
Facebook Inc., Google Inc. and other portals to remove content
that may be deemed offensive.  South Korea  and Thailand have been
suppressing more and more information. Balancing transparency
and state control of information will become harder.  No. 7. Japan’s Debt Trap. The conventional take is that
 Japan  is in a liquidity trap, which makes it impossible for zero
 interest rates  to stimulate the economy. The real problem is a
debt trap, and the yen is part of it. On the one hand, a strong
currency is prompting companies to go shopping overseas to hedge
against the country’s aging population, lack of growth and a
vulnerability to earthquakes and other disasters. On the other,
it is further hollowing out Japanese industry. That will lead
Japan to add to its debt, the world’s largest, risking further
credit downgrades.  Chinese Gravity  No. 8. China’s Bust. It’s a make-or-break year for  China ’s
efforts to defy the economic laws of gravity. A bad-debt
hangover from the huge stimulus of recent years is a distinct
possibility. Markedly slower growth would be a nightmare for a
Communist Party obsessed with social stability. It also would be
a big blow to a country such as  Australia , which is more
vulnerable to a Chinese slump than officials in Canberra admit.  Should the second-biggest economy join the U.S.,  Europe  and
Japan in the slow-growth club, Asia would find itself in
treacherous territory. That wouldn’t be the end of the world as
the Mayans anticipated for 2012, but it would be different than
the one we’ve come to know.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 