-- First Solar Outspent BP in California While Cultivating Political Support
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2011-12-27T15:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/first-solar-outspent-bp-in-california-while-cultivating-political-support.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the maker of thin-
film solar panels that cut jobs and lowered its profit forecast
this month, has won government aid while cultivating political
relationships from California to the White House.  First Solar is eliminating 60 jobs at a California research
center after receiving $3.43 million in state sales-tax credits.
The federal government provided $3 billion in loan guarantees to
the Tempe, Arizona-based company, the most of any recipient.  Government aid to renewable-energy companies and their
lobbying efforts have been under scrutiny by lawmakers since the
collapse of Solyndra LLC, a California maker of solar panels
that filed for bankruptcy in September after winning $535
million in U.S. loan guarantees.  First Solar spent $2.2 million on lobbying in  Washington 
since 2007 and representatives met Obama administration
officials before winning the aid, government records show. In
California, the company gave $150,000 to campaigns last year,
more than triple the $38,750 donated by BP Plc’s North America
unit, according to the secretary of state’s office.  “It’s a pretty substantial amount for an emerging tech
company,”  Phillip Ung , policy advocate for California Common
Cause, a Sacramento-based group that tracks money in politics,
said in an interview. “We can only assume they’re giving that
much to legitimize themselves in the political system. Access
got them some benefits.”  Ted Meyer, a company spokesman, declined in an interview to
comment on the contributions or its public-policy agenda.  Worst Performer  First Solar, the worst performer in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index this year after plummeting 73 percent in New York
trading through Dec. 23, has been hurt by plunging prices for
solar panels, Michael Ahearn, the chairman and acting chief
executive officer, said on a conference call Dec. 14 about its
decision to cut jobs and reduce its profit estimate for the
year.  The company fell 3 percent to $33.64 at 10:24 a.m. in New
York trading.  “Global production has effectively tripled over the last
three years,” led by  China , Ahearn said. Cheap Chinese imports
also were cited by Solyndra of Fremont, California.  Republican lawmakers such as Representative  Cliff Stearns 
of  Florida  have faulted President  Barack Obama ’s administration
for picking “winners and losers” through government subsidies
to alternative-energy companies.  Exelon, GE  While some of the U.S. aid to Solyndra may not be recouped
by taxpayers, the $3 billion in backing to First Solar helped to
develop three solar-power farms in California and  Arizona .  The company then sold those projects to NRG Energy Inc.;
Exelon Corp.; and NextEra Energy Inc. and General Electric Co.
The  power plants  will create 1,300 construction jobs and save or
create 45 permanent positions, according to the Energy
Department.  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings utility
bought a 49 percent stake in the NRG project on Dec. 16.  First Solar’s $2.2 million in Washington lobbying to
promote policies such as tax credits and renewable-energy
mandates since 2007 is about $1 million more than was spent by
Solyndra, which began lobbying in 2008, Senate records show. By
comparison, Exxon Mobil Corp., largest U.S. oil company, spent
$12.5 million in Washington lobbying last year alone, according
to the records.  First Solar opened its own office in Washington last year,
and its paid advocates included a former chief of staff to
Senator  Kent Conrad , the North Dakota Democrat who heads the
Senate Budget Committee.  White House Dinner  First Solar executives, including Maja Wessels, the
company’s director of public affairs, and Kathleen Weiss, the
company’s lobbyist, met with administration officials, including
 Heather Zichal , an Obama adviser, before the loan guarantees
were announced, White House visitor’s logs show.  Rob Gillette, First Solar’s chief executive officer until
he was ousted in October, attended a White House state dinner
for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on June 7, the records show.
The company operates a manufacturing plant in  Germany .  The records don’t say what was discussed at the White House
meetings. Melanie Friedman, a company spokeswoman, said First
Solar doesn’t comment on its executives’ schedules. A White
House spokesman declined to comment.  First Solar executives and board members also have donated
to federal political campaigns. Ahearn, who stepped down as CEO
in 2009 to focus on influencing public policy, gave about
$76,000 to Democratic candidates and campaign committees since
2008, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political giving.  ‘Big Footprint’  “Clearly they are interested in having a big footprint in
Washington,”  Bill Allison , editorial director at Washington’s
Sunlight Foundation, which promotes government transparency,
said in an interview. Solar companies “have Washington built
into their business models,” he said.  In  California , First Solar donated $22,500 to Democratic
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s election campaign in 2009 and last year
$20,000 to  Meg Whitman , his Republican opponent, according to
records provided by the California secretary of state’s office.
The company’s largest political donation, $50,000, went toward
the defeat of a ballot measure that would have suspended
environmental regulations intended to limit greenhouse-gas
emissions.  California Lobbying  First Solar employs KP Public Affairs, the second-largest
lobbying firm in California’s capital by earnings, to represent
it, according to forms filed with the secretary of state. The
forms don’t show how much First Solar spent on lobbying in
California.  The California Alternative Energy and Advanced
Transportation Financing Authority awarded First Solar $3.4
million in tax breaks in November 2010 under a program intended
to stimulate the development of alternative energy sources.
Among the authority’s five members are state Treasurer Bill Lockyer and Ana Matosantos, state finance director under Brown.  “First Solar was firmly established in California, known
to us, and viewed as a credible firm long before they came to”
the financing authority for the tax credits,  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for Lockyer, who didn’t receive campaign funds from
the company, said in an interview. “They haven’t lobbied
Lockyer or anyone on his staff. Lobbying activity and political
influence played no role whatsoever in the decision.”  First Solar appears to have been truthful in its
application for state tax breaks and probably won’t have to
reimburse the state now that it’s cutting jobs, Dresslar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  