-- BP, GE, Delphi Financial, Kynikos, Barclays in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-27T13:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ge-delphi-financial-barclays-td-news-corp-in-court-news.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  lost its
appeal to derail the February nonjury trial over which companies
should be blamed for the 2010  BP Plc  oil spill in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  A panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
rejected Cameron’s claim that U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier 
wrongly cited maritime law to allow him to conduct a nonjury
trial over liability for the incident. Cameron contended that
claims against the company fall under the federal Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, which allows for a jury trial.  “The district court did not clearly err in concluding that
the limitation proceeding is within the court’s admiralty
jurisdiction,” the three-judge panel said in a one-paragraph
decision yesterday. The court rejected review of other issues
raised by Cameron.  Cameron asked the appeals court to throw out the existing
trial plan and rule that the company has a right to a trial
before a jury. Yesterday’s ruling removes a possible obstacle to
the nonjury trial before Barbier that is scheduled to begin Feb.
27 in New Orleans to determine liability and apportion fault.  Barbier plans two subsequent nonjury phases on the size of
the spill and efforts to contain it. Test jury trials on damages
would follow, the judge said. Cameron, which settled damage
claims with BP this month, said the trial plan violates its
constitutional rights.  “There is not a claim against Cameron that does not
implicate our right to a jury trial under the Seventh
Amendment,” Russell Post, a Cameron attorney, told the judges
at the hearing Dec. 22 in federal court in Dallas. That
 amendment  to the U.S. Constitution guarantees citizens’ and
companies’ rights to jury trials in civil disputes.  David Beck, Cameron lawyer, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the decision yesterday.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and  explosion  killed 11
workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
The accident spawned hundreds of lawsuits against  BP  and its
partners, including Cameron,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that exploded, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  The appeals case is In re Cameron International,
11-30987, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The
lawsuits are combined in In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  Verdicts/Settlements  Commerce Bancshares Unit Agrees to Settle Overdraft Suits  Commerce Bancshares Inc.  said a unit of the company agreed
to pay $18.3 million to settle consumer lawsuits accusing the
Colorado bank of illegally charging excessive overdraft fees.  Officials of the unit, Denver-based  Commerce Bank , agreed
to resolve customers’ claims that the bank “improperly charged
overdraft fees on certain debit card transactions,” according
to a company filing Dec. 23 with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  “The bank, while admitting no wrongdoing, agreed to the
settlement in order to resolve the litigation and avoid further
expense,” officials said in the filing.  Commerce Bancshares, based in Kansas City, Missouri, is
among more than a dozen banks across the U.S. that settled suits
targeting overdraft policies which customers contend were
engineered to generate fees unfairly.  Consumers said banks including Bank of America Corp.,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had policies that
allowed them to debit account holders’ funds in a way that made
it more likely customers would incur overdraft fees.  The  Federal Reserve  last year prohibited lenders from
automatically charging fees when consumers have insufficient
funds for electronic or debit-card transactions.  The case is Wolfgeher v. Commerce Bank, 1:10-cv-22017, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami). The
consolidated case is In re Checking Account Overdraft
Litigation, 09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  GE Settles U.S. Investigation Into Muni-Bond Bid Rigging  General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to pay $70.4 million to resolve
a criminal investigation and civil claims for conspiring to rig
bids on U.S. municipal-bond deals, overcharging state and local
governments on investments.  GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former unit, is the
fifth company to settle in a federal probe of more than five-
years. The accord will settle cases with the  Justice Department ,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Internal Revenue Service and
25 states, the Justice Department said Dec. 23 in a  statement .  “GE Funding’s former traders entered into illegal
agreements to manipulate the bidding process on municipal
investment contracts,” said Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant
attorney general in charge of the department’s antitrust
division. “This anticompetitive conduct harmed municipalities
as well as taxpayers.”  The settlement will bring to $743 million the amount that
banks have paid to end the investigation. Some of which is being
returned to localities that were overcharged, the SEC said in a
 news release .  Bank of America Corp., (BAC)  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and Wells Fargo & Co. previously settled similar cases.  GE’s settlement stems from an investigation that centered
on three now-former employees at a unit the finance division
discontinued in April 2010, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company said in a statement Dec. 23. The conduct took place
between 1999 and 2004, GE said.  The settlement won’t have a “material impact” on
earnings, according to GE, the world’s biggest maker of jet
engines and power-generation equipment. It takes about $100
million in profit to yield 1 cent in per-share earnings at GE,
whose operations span energy, aviation, health care,
transportation and financial services.  The Justice Department said it agreed not to prosecute GE
Funding because it admitted its illegal conduct, cooperated with
the investigation and took steps to address anticompetitive
conduct. The department also cited GE Funding’s commitment to
make restitution.  For more, click here.  Murchison to Pay A$25 Million to Settle Chameleon Court Dispute  Murchison Metals Ltd. (MMX) , an Australian iron ore producer for
the Chinese market, agreed to pay A$25 million ($25.3 million)
to  Chameleon Mining NL (CHM)  to settle a dispute over the ownership of
an iron ore project.  The settlement doesn’t cover litigation involving
Chameleon, Murchison and Murchison’s former director, Phillip
Grimaldi, Murchison said in a statement to the Australian Stock
Exchange Dec. 23.  Murchison is building a A$4 billion iron ore rail and port
project with Mitsubishi Corp. The companies are partners in
Crosslands Resources Ltd., which is developing the Jack Hills
project in Western Australia.  Chameleon, a gold explorer, said Murchison used its money
to help a company called Winterfall make a A$350,000 payment to
buy the western Australian property and as a result it was
entitled to a stake in the project. Murchison, which had said
the transfer was a loan, later bought Winterfall to obtain the
mining property.  Federal Court Judge Peter Jacobson ruled in October 2010
that Chameleon is entitled to a portion of the profit from the
project, not a stake in it nor in Murchison’s shares in
Crosslands. Chameleon appealed the ruling.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Delphi Financial Sued by Pension Over Tokio Marine’s Buyout  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) ’s $2.7 billion buyout of insurer
 Delphi Financial Group Inc. (DFG)  shortchanges Delphi investors while
unfairly enriching the company’s top executive, a shareholder
said in a lawsuit.  Tokio Marine,  Japan ’s second-largest casualty insurer,
agreed on Dec. 21 to pay $2.7 billion in cash for Delphi, a
U.S.-based insurer that sells workers’ compensation and group-
life coverage. The deal is structured to discourage other
bidders and provides $55 million to Delphi Chief Executive
Officer Robert Rosenkranz, who didn’t shop for the highest offer
for the insurer, a Michigan-based pension said in the suit.  Rosenkranz, Delphi’s founder, is using his position “to
benefit personally at the direct expense of Delphi’s public
shareholders,” lawyers for the  Pontiac General Employees
Retirement System  said in the suit filed in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington.  Tokio Marine’s offer comes as Japanese insurers are looking
overseas and grappling with an aging society and declines in
returns on securities holdings in the aftermath of the nation’s
record earthquake and tsunami in March. The acquisition will
boost Tokio Marine’s overseas profit contribution to 46 percent
of earnings from 37 percent, company officials said earlier this
week.  Bernard Kilkelly, a Delphi spokesman, didn’t return a call
Dec. 23 for comment on the suit over the Tokio Marine buyout.  The case is Pontiac General Employees Retirement System v.
Brine, CA No. 7144, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Kynikos,  Third Point  Are Dismissed From $8 Billion Fairfax Suit  James Chanos ’s Kynikos Associates LP and Daniel Loeb’s
Third Point LLC won dismissal from an $8 billion lawsuit
accusing the two hedge funds of spreading negative information
to drive down  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s stock price.  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown granted their requests Dec. 23, saying they couldn’t
be sued in New Jersey. Hansbury also dismissed Institutional
Credit Partners LLC. All three firms are based in  New York . In
addition to Chanos and Loeb, also dropped from the suit were
Jeffrey Perry, an analyst at Third Point, and William Gahan, who
was an analyst at ICP.  In September, Hansbury dismissed billionaire Steven A.
Cohen and his Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital Advisors
LP from the case.  “One must establish that the defendants purposely availed
themselves of the State of New Jersey and that the alleged
improper conduct was expected or intended to be felt within the
State of New Jersey,” Hansbury wrote. He said Fairfax didn’t do
that.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the hedge funds in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. The hedge funds named in
the suit have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  “We thought Fairfax was engaged in some pretty blatant
forum shopping and it took a while but the judge saw through
it,” Bill Carmody, a lawyer for Third Point at Susman Godfrey
LLP in New York, said in a phone interview.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision, but otherwise
have no comment,” Chanos said in an e-mail.  Michael Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax, said in an e-mail that
the dismissal of its claims against the funds was “entirely
incorrect.” He said the evidence shows that “these parties
engaged in a vicious and unrelenting attack” on Fairfax.  Fairfax plans to appeal the judge’s decision, said Bowe,
who is a partner at Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP in New
York.  Fairfax said the funds coaxed John Gwynn, a former
insurance analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in Memphis, Tennessee,
into giving them his negative Fairfax reports before they were
published. It also said they hired an outside analyst, Spyro
Contogouris, to spread false Fairfax information.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  SEC Backs Lehman Brokerage in $3 Billion Barclays Dispute  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sided with the
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  brokerage in a $3 billion dispute
over assets with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , saying a judge ruled correctly
that the U.K. bank’s claim to securities in customer reserve
accounts was conditional.  If the SEC prevails, Barclays may lose its claim to as much
as $1.3 billion reserved for customers, according to a Dec. 22
SEC court filing.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the SEC filing.  Barclays and Lehman Brothers Inc. both appealed U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck’s ruling that told Barclays to
return $2 billion in margin assets to the bankrupt brokerage,
and said it had “only a conditional right” to $769 million in
the customer reserve account. Brokerage trustee James Giddens is
fighting Peck’s order to give the bank at least $1.1 billion,
and possibly the $769 million, if it leaves enough in the
reserve account to satisfy remaining customer claims.  As much as $1.3 billion in reserve assets can’t go to
Barclays if customers suffer as a result, and Giddens has said
he needs the assets to satisfy claims, the SEC said in the
filing. In addition to the $769 million, a second pool of funds,
$507 million in margin for customer transactions at the Options
Clearing Corp., raises similar issues, the SEC said.  SEC staff members told both parties in 2008 when Barclays
bought Lehman’s North American business that they might violate
a customer protection rule if Barclays took the assets,
according to the filing.  The dueling between London-based Barclays and trustee
Giddens follows a bankruptcy court trial held in 2010 before
Peck in Manhattan.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Rothstein Says TD Bank Played ‘Critical’ Role in Ponzi Scheme  Scott Rothstein, the Florida lawyer convicted in a $1.2
billion investment fraud, said  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  played a
“critical” role in his Ponzi scheme, according to a transcript
of a sworn deposition made public Dec. 22.  Rothstein, sentenced to 50 years in prison, said that on a
scale from one to 10, the assistance he got from Canada’s
second-biggest bank rated a 10.  “They were assisting me in putting fake balance statements
into the hands of my investors,” he said, according to a
transcript of the deposition taken this month at the federal
courthouse in Miami as part of Rothstein’s former law firm’s
bankruptcy case. A copy of the transcript was provided by the
law firm Conrad & Scherer, which represents investors seeking to
recover money.  Rothstein, formerly of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five
counts of racketeering, money laundering and wire fraud after
admitting he sold investors interests in bogus settlements of
sexual-harassment and whistle-blower lawsuits.  “We fundamentally disagree with many of the
characterizations contained in Mr. Rothstein’s deposition and
will continue to vigorously defend the bank against claims
related to Rothstein’s acts,” Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based TD Bank, said in an e-mail. “Beyond that, we
cannot comment on pending litigation.”  TD Bank was “critical in providing real letters to go on
top of the fake balance statements,” Rothstein said, according
to the transcript. “They were critical in the fact that they
had TD Bank employees actually handing me those phony statements
in front of the investors.”  Rothstein also said George Levin, then-chief executive
officer of hedge fund Banyon Investments, knew of the fraud,
according to deposition transcripts.  Nicole Vinson and William Merlin, lawyers for Levin, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails and a telephone call seeking
comment on Rothstein’s testimony. Levin has previously denied
claims that he knew of the Ponzi scheme. The fund manager really
was a whistle-blower, contacting the U.S. Attorney’s office in
November 2009 to report “irregularities” after Rothstein
failed to make a payment, Jesse Derris, a spokesman, said in
2009.  In his guilty plea, Rothstein said he used the law firm to
run a scheme that financed his lavish lifestyle and let him buy
political influence.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA,
09-34791, and the trustee’s case is Stettin v. TD Bank NA, 11-
ap-2368,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Southern Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here and here.  Nomura’s Mamadou Loses Bid to Strike Out Deutsche Bank Suit  Daniel Mamadou, the head of Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Asia
corporate solutions and financing group outside Japan, lost a
bid to strike out a lawsuit against him by his former employer
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The court has jurisdiction because the claim is
substantially about breach of confidence regarding the
remuneration packages of Deutsche Bank colleagues, Deputy High
Court Judge David Lok ruled Dec. 23 in Hong Kong.  Deutsche Bank alleges Mamadou disclosed employee
information to Nomura to assist in recruiting them, according to
the Dec. 23 decision.  Lok gave the Frankfurt-based bank 21 days to amend its
claim against Mamadou, its former Asia capital markets and
treasury solutions co-head, to include the breach of confidence
claim. Mamadou had argued the case should be heard by the city’s
Labour Tribunal.  Lok said in the ruling that Deutsche Bank needs to
expressly plead its allegation that Mamadou passed confidential
information, and its claim is defective without that. The bank
was ordered to pay the costs of the amendments.  Tokyo-based Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage, hired nine
other Deutsche Bank employees for Mamadou’s team in August.  Deutsche Bank’s Singapore-based spokesman Mark Bennewith
declined to comment on the case when contacted by phone Dec. 23.
Mamadou didn’t respond to an e-mail and a call to his mobile and
to his direct office line.  “These allegations are baseless and I will vigorously
contest them,” he said before the ruling.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG (Hong Kong Branch) and Daniel
Mamadou-Blanco, HCA1514/2011 , Court of First Instance (Hong
Kong).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ethical Coffee Pursues Nespresso Case After Losing Swiss Appeal  Ethical Coffee Co.  said it will appeal a ruling by a court
in the Swiss canton of Vaud upholding a nationwide injunction
against sales of the company’s capsules that that fit in
Nespresso machines.  The decision earlier this month barring sales of Ethical
Coffee capsule by  Metro AG ’s Media Markt stores doesn’t match a
ruling in a St. Gallen cantonal court that overturned a similar
prohibition against another retailer, the Fribourg, Switzerland-
based manufacturer said Dec. 23 in a statement.  “We are very surprised by the court decision,” Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said in the statement. The
cases against the two retailers are, on a factual and legal
basis, “totally similar, and we do not see any reason for
upholding a decision which was not upheld in St. Gallen.”  Nespresso’s owner, Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) , has
pursued legal action against Ethical Coffee and the U.S.
foodmaker  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  since they began last year offering
coffee-filled capsules compatible with its machines. The St.
Gallen dispute centered on Swiss supermarket chain Denner, which
was allowed to resume selling Nespresso-compatible capsules made
by another supplier, Alice Allison SA, after a temporary halt
was ordered in July.  Nestle is pleased with the decision in the Media Markt
case, the company said in a statement. “This ruling, which is
subject to the final decision of the court, supports the
Nespresso arguments.”  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. (NWSA)  Said to Be in Talks on Zweifach as General Counsel  News Corp. is in talks to hire Gerson Zweifach, a partner
with the Washington law firm of Williams & Connolly LLP, as
general counsel, a person with knowledge of the situation said.  The discussions are at an advanced stage, according to the
person, who declined to speak publicly because the talks are
private. In more than 29 years at Williams & Connolly, Zweifach
has tried antitrust, securities, libel and commercial cases,
according to the firm’s  website .  As top legal officer, a new general counsel may become
point person for News Corp.’s handling of the phone-hacking
scandal that led to the closing of the company’s News of the
World tabloid in the U.K. and at least 21 arrests. Joel Klein, a
board member and former federal prosecutor, is overseeing the
company’s internal probe of its newspaper journalists’ actions.  Zweifach would replace  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in June.
Janet Nova, a board member of the company’s News International
publishing unit, has served as interim general counsel. The Wall
Street Journal, owned by News Corp., reported the talks with
Zweifach Dec. 22.  Jack Horner, a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment. Officials with Williams & Connolly couldn’t
be reached for comment by telephone after normal business hours.
Zweifach didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 