-- GE Muni-Bond Settlement, Austria’s Alizee Bank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-27T13:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ge-muni-bond-settlement-austria-s-alizee-bank-fcc-compliance.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to pay
$70.4 million to settle a criminal probe and civil claims for
conspiring to rig bids on U.S. municipal-bond deals,
overcharging state and local governments on investments.  GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former unit, is the
fifth company to settle in a more than five-year federal
investigation that exposed “widespread corruption” in a
segment of the municipal market that deals with the investment
of proceeds from bond issues, the SEC said.  The deal entered into by GE Funding will resolve probes by
the Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Internal Revenue Service  as well as  attorneys general  in
25 states, the Justice Department said Dec. 23 in a  statement .  The settlement will bring to $743 million the amount that
banks have paid to end the case, some of which is being returned
to localities that were overcharged, the SEC said in a  news
release .  Bank of America Corp., (BAC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  previously settled similar cases.  GE’s settlement stems from an investigation that centered
on three now-former employees at a unit the finance division
discontinued in April 2010, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company said in a statement Dec. 23. The conduct took place
between 1999 and 2004, GE said.  The settlement won’t have a “material impact” on
earnings, according to GE, the world’s biggest maker of jet
engines and power-generation equipment.  The Justice Department said it agreed not to prosecute GE
Funding because it admitted its illegal conduct, cooperated with
the investigation and took steps to address anticompetitive
conduct. The department also cited GE Funding’s commitment to
make restitution.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FCC Plan to Ease Cross-Ownership Rules Points to Consolidation  The Federal Communications Commission agreed to propose
easing limits on one owner holding a television station and
newspaper in a top 20 U.S. market.  The FCC plan keeps existing caps on TV and radio station
ownership. “The public interest is best served by these modest,
incremental changes to our rules,” the agency said in its
notice on the proposed rule.  Approval of the FCC action may spur acquisitions,
increasing the value of media companies.  The FCC proposal said that some newspaper and broadcast
cross-ownership restrictions are needed to preserve a diversity
of viewpoints in communities.  The FCC plans to take comments on the proposal, and no date
has been set for a vote. Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined
to comment.  This is the second proposed change in cross-ownership rules
in the past four years.  Consumer groups and members of the media differed over
whether changes to the regulations are needed because the rules
have become obsolete or the changes would do harm by
consolidating media power.  For more, click here.  Hazare’s Fast Prods Lawmakers as Indian Graft Debate Begins  Indian anti-corruption campaigner  Anna Hazare  began a
three-day public fast in Mumbai as parliament debated
legislation to curb graft that his group of activists and
opposition parties have dismissed as too weak.  The level of support for Hazare’s renewed protest will be
monitored by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government as it
seeks to win support among lawmakers for one of the most
divisive bills of his premiership. About 4,000 people attended
the protest today, the NDTV 24x7 news  channel  reported citing
police officials it didn’t name, a smaller crowd than those
Hazare’s August hunger strike in New Delhi pulled in.  Hazare told supporters at the rally that the government has
“betrayed the people.” His 13-day fast four months ago
generated nationwide rallies and forced Singh to abandon plans
to push through an earlier draft of the so-called Lokpal bill.  The Congress-led federal government headed by Singh has
been damaged by graft scandals including those linked to a 2008
sale of mobile-phone airwaves and the hosting last year of the
Commonwealth Games in New Delhi. Protests over corruption on the
streets and in parliament derailed Singh’s policy agenda just as
 India ’s $1.7 trillion economy has slowed.  Political parties will scrutinize the bill proposals until
Dec. 29 and are seeking changes that will strengthen the
proposed corruption ombudsman’s control of the nation’s leading
criminal investigation agency and tighten oversight of the
junior bureaucrats Indians blame for everyday acts of bribery
that blight business and local governance.  Leading politicians from across the political spectrum have
criticized Hazare for using undemocratic means to pursue his
agenda and challenging the supremacy of parliament.  For more, click here.  U.K. Insurers to Discuss Bonuses With Banks, Telegraph Reports  The  Association of British Insurers  plans to arrange
several meetings between the U.K.’s five top banks and investors
in January to discuss bonuses and individual compensation, the
Telegraph reported.  The Association earlier this month sent a letter to the
banks demanding they revise payouts and award smaller bonuses,
the newspaper said, without saying where it obtained the
information. The banks promised to take shareholders’ concerns
into account without providing any detail on how they might do
this. The U.K. may by mid-2012 decide on proposals by the  Bank
of England  and Financial Services Authority to give the central
bank’s Financial Policy Committee power to restrict bank bonuses
and dividends.  Compliance Action  Austria Takes Control of Alizee Bank to Protect Creditors  Austria’s financial regulator took control of Alizee Bank
AG, a specialized lender to solar and wind-power projects, by
assigning a state supervisor charged with protecting creditors’
interests.  The regulator, FMA, Dec. 22 assigned Dorotea Rebmann as
state supervisor to the bank to “safeguard the financial
interests of creditors and the assets entrusted to the
company,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement Dec. 23. A
state supervisor is assigned if “there is a risk to the ability
of a credit institution to serve its liabilities to creditors.”  Alizee, based in Vienna, confirmed the appointment in an e-
mailed statement, adding that it didn’t mean the bank lacked
liquidity. Alizee plans to raise fresh capital soon, it said.  The bank had assets of 41 million euros ($53.5 million) at
the end of last year, according to its annual report. Its net
loss widened to 2.25 million euros in 2010, from 1.36 million
euros a year earlier.  CVC Drops Takeover of ConvergEx Amid Probes by SEC, Justice  ConvergEx Inc ., a trading-software company partially owned
by  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , said its July agreement to be
bought by CVC Capital Partners Ltd. was terminated amid
regulatory investigations of its Bermuda unit.  The parallel probes by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Department of Justice mainly involve certain
non-electronic trade-execution practices by the ConvergEx Global
Markets unit, which is expected to produce 7 percent of revenue
this year, New York-based ConvergEx said Dec. 23 in a statement.
The audit and risk committee of the board has hired outside
counsel to conduct a review, the company said.  “Since becoming aware of the matters under review, we have
taken strong actions to remedy any lapses that have occurred,”
Joseph Velli, chief executive officer of ConvergEx, said in the
statement. “We are taking additional steps to ensure that we
are in full compliance with our own policies and procedures as
well as all other regulatory requirements.”  John Nester , a SEC spokesman, and Gina Talamona, a  Justice
Department  spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
investigations. Claire Ellis, a spokeswoman for CVC, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Ron Gruendl , a spokesman for
New York-based BNY Mellon, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  Four Swiss Banks Told to Improve Finances, Le Temps Reports  The  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority  gave four
banks until the end of this month to improve their finances,  Le
Temps  reported, without citing anyone.  The regulator, known as Finma, declined to comment. Finma,
which regularly puts the country’s biggest banks, through stress
tests, said in July that it has started doing similar exercises
for smaller lenders.  Hottinger, one of two banks identified by the Swiss
newspaper, hasn’t been approached by Finma about its financial
situation, Chief Executive Officer Joerg Auf der Maur said Dec.
23 in a telephone interview from Zurich.  “Our bank is in good financial health and we fulfill all
of Finma’s capital requirements,” he said.  Nobody at Faisal Bank in Geneva, the other firm cited by Le
Temps, could immediately comment when called by Bloomberg News.  Russian Antitrust Watchdog Fines Rosneft, Bashneft $80 Million  Russia’s antitrust watchdog said it fined OAO Rosneft, the
country’s biggest oil producer, and OAO Bashneft, controlled by
billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s AFK Sistema, a combined 2.5
billion rubles ($80 million) in a “third wave” of cases into
high fuel prices.  Rosneft may have to pay 1.76 billion rubles and Bashneft
778 million rubles for “monopolistically high prices” at the
end of 2010 and beginning of this year, the  Federal Anti-
Monopoly Service  said yesterday on its website.  China Commerce Ministry Antitrust Applications Rise 43% on Year  China’s Ministry of Commerce received 194 anti-monopoly
applications from January to mid-December, an increase of 43
percent from a year earlier, according to a statement
distributed at a briefing in Beijing.  The ministry put 179 of the cases up for review and has
finished 160 of them and withdrew five, according to the
statement.  The manufacturing industry accounted for 64 percent of the
cases reviewed so far, with the information technology sector
accounting for 8 percent, according to the statement.  Courts  SEC Backs Lehman Brokerage in $3 Billion Barclays Dispute  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sided with the
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  brokerage in a $3 billion dispute
over assets with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , saying a judge ruled correctly
that the U.K. bank’s claim to securities in customer reserve
accounts was conditional.  If the SEC prevails, Barclays may lose its claim to as much
as $1.3 billion reserved for customers, according to an SEC
court filing Dec. 22.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the SEC filing.  Barclays and Lehman Brothers Inc. both appealed U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck’s ruling that told Barclays to
return $2 billion in margin assets to the bankrupt brokerage,
and said it had “only a conditional right” to $769 million in
the customer reserve account. Brokerage trustee James Giddens is
fighting Peck’s order to give the bank at least $1.1 billion,
and possibly the $769 million, if it leaves enough in the
reserve account to satisfy remaining customer claims.  Both sides were expected to file court papers Dec. 23 in
their appeals.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  MF Trustee Disputes $700 Million With U.K. Affiliate  The trustee for the  MF Global Inc.  brokerage said he’s
disputing as much as $700 million in customer assets with the
administrators of a U.K. affiliate.  Trustee James Giddens, who has said he’s trying to retrieve
U.S. commodity customers’ assets from foreign affiliates, told
the administrators the funds were held for customers’ foreign
trades and should be returned, he said in a statement Dec. 3.
The administrators said the assets didn’t fit the classification
of segregated funds under U.K. law, he said.  Monica Fiumara, a spokeswoman for KPMG LLP, administrators
of MF Global’s U.K. unit, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Giddens’s third transfer of assets to customers of $2.1
billion is underway, he has said. Two previous payouts to
commodity customers totaled about $2 billion. The transfers
would still leave customers short of about 28 percent of their
assets, he has said.  The assets he’s fighting for in the U.K. aren’t part of an
estimated shortfall in customer property of at least $1.2
billion, Giddens said in the statement.  The parent company filed for bankruptcy protection on Oct.
31.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Stricter EU Deficit Rules Have ‘Deterring Effect,’ Juncker Says  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said new stricter deficit rules
will have a “deterring effect” on governments drawing up their
budget plans.  “The rules have become clearer now in that we decided in
our meetings over the last few months that the sanctions for
budget sinners will be applied automatically,” Juncker said in
an interview with  Germany ’s RBB Inforadio. “This will have a
deterring effect.”  “But it’s not enough to fix new rules,” Juncker said.
“What’s needed are very solid budget-consolidation plans, and
these are in the process of being implemented, with a delay I
have to admit, but they’re in the process of being
implemented.”  The debt turmoil is not “a crisis of the euro,” Juncker
said. “We have a debt crisis in individual member countries of
the euro area,” he said. “We’re tackling this debt crisis
almost on a daily basis.”  Henry Says Hedge Funds ‘Likely Destination’ for Traders  Peter Henry, head of senior trader recruiting at  Commodity
Search Partners , talked about the movement of commodity traders
from banks to hedge funds and the impact of financial regulation
on compensation and the ability to trade.  Henry spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 