-- German Stocks Gain After Officials Allay Concern on Economy
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-12-27T16:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/german-stocks-advance-after-officials-allay-concern-on-economy.html
German stocks (DAX)  rose after government
officials said the economy is robust and the country won’t slide
into a recession next year.  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of business-management software,
led advances in European technology companies.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) 
paced gains in industrial goods shares.  Allianz SE (ALV)  led declining
stocks.  The DAX Index increased 0.2 percent to 5,889.76 at the
close in  Frankfurt . The benchmark gauge is still headed for a 15
percent loss this year, its biggest drop since 2008, as euro-
area leaders struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis. The
broader HDAX Index also added 0.2 percent today.  “With a lot of traders still away from the markets, still
enjoying the festive period, the volume is expected to be thin
and directional conviction low,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at
London Capital Group, wrote in a note referring to post-
Christmas trading.  Germany ’s economy is robust enough to withstand a more
difficult European and global business environment, Handelsblatt
cited Economy Minister Philipp Roesler as saying in an
interview. Germany will not slide into recession next year,
 Wolfgang Franz , the chairman of the government’s council of
economic advisers, told Handelsblatt in an interview.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in December to the
highest level in eight months as an improving job market helped
regain all the ground lost following the mid-year government
budget battle and credit-rating downgrade.  The Conference Board’s index increased to 64.5, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and the highest since
April, from a revised 55.2 reading in November, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed today.  U.S. Home Prices  An earlier report showed that the Standard & Poor’s/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities slid 3.4 percent
in October from the same month in 2010. That was more than the
average 3.2 percent drop forecast by 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  SAP increased 0.5 percent to 40.75 euros. ThyssenKrupp, the
country’s largest steelmaker, increased 1.4 percent to 17.95
euros.  Allianz ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, dropped 0.7 percent to
75.45 euros.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  declined 1.8 percent to 1.39 euros. The
company won’t show Paramount Pictures Corp.’s movies in 2012,
and the change will damp enthusiasm for its movie channel,
according to Financial Times Deutschland. Paramount’s films
include “ Mission Impossible ,” “TinTin” and “Titanic.”  Sky Deutschland has said it needs 3.2 million subscribers
to make a profit. It had 2.9 million at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  