-- German Mail-Order, Real Estate Tycoon Werner Otto Dies at 102
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2011-12-27T13:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/german-mail-order-real-estate-tycoon-werner-otto-dies-at-102.html
Werner Otto, who started Germany’s
largest mail-order company from a shoe factory in Hamburg, has
died. He was 102.  Otto died on Dec. 21 in Berlin with his family at his side,
according to a statement from  Otto Group  and ECE
Projektmanagement GmbH today.  Born in 1909 in the eastern German town of Seelow, where
50,000 people perished in the last major battles of World War
II, Otto was imprisoned for two years for distributing fliers by
an opponent of  Adolf Hitler  in 1934. In 1945, he fled with his
family to Hamburg, where he started making shoes. Four years
later, with 6,000 deutsche marks in start-up capital and four
employees, he turned the production halls into warehouses from
which he began dispatching footwear for former competitors.  “Fortune can lend its hand, but success you have to take
care of yourself,” Otto said in a 2009 biography entitled
“Werner Otto -- The Centenary Man” by Matthias Schmoock to
mark his 100th birthday.  The Otto Group, with 11.4 billion euros ($14.9 billion)
sales in the year ended Feb. 28 and almost 50,000 employees,
today ranks second behind Amazon.com Inc among companies that
sell goods through catalogs, e-commerce and over the counter,
according to Otto’s  website .  Werner Otto didn’t stop at the mail-order business. In
1965, he started a second pillar, ECE, which has grown to become
 Europe ’s biggest manager of shopping centers, according to ECE’s
 website .  Real Estate  By that time, he had also branched out into industrial
parks and real estate in  Canada  and the U.S., where he would
later establish the Paramount Group Inc., one of the largest
privately owned property companies in  New York .  Otto devoted his later years to philanthropy, setting up
the Werner Otto Foundation in 1969 to promote medical research
and provide treatment for childhood cancers in the Hamburg-
Eppendorf hospital. The Werner Otto House in Berlin supports
children who are deaf and hard of hearing.  He also helped to restore the Belvedere Palace in Potsdam
and redesign the Jungfernstieg promenade in Hamburg.  Otto was awarded the Grand Cross 1st class of the Order of
Merit of the Federal Republic of  Germany  and is remembered in
Germany’s Hall of Fame in the history museum in Bonn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  