-- Gingrich Account of First Divorce Disputed by Aides, Documents
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2011-12-28T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/gingrich-account-of-divorce-disputed-by-aides.html
Newt Gingrich, who hoped to put his
personal past behind him by saying he’d made mistakes, has
revived the issue with questionable claims about the details of
his first divorce.  The Republican presidential candidate insists that it was
his then-wife, Jackie Battley Gingrich, who sought a divorce in
1980. After court records showed he filed the action, the
Gingrich campaign said he’d done so at her request. Court
documents, Gingrich’s own previous explanations and the
recollections of two former Gingrich aides refute his current
claim.  “It’s totally untrue that she wanted the divorce, and Newt
knows that,” Dot Crews, who worked in the former  Georgia 
congressman’s office from 1979 to 1984, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Crews, 80, recalled Gingrich confiding
during a car ride in his home district that he’d decided to file
for divorce.  “He talks about redemption, and then he lies like this?”
Crews said.  Gingrich, 68, has largely sidestepped specific questions
about his two divorces as he campaigns for president, focusing
on his current marriage to Callista Gingrich. An online column
in May by daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman, referenced on his
campaign website, asserted her mother had asked for the divorce.
The elder Jackie, 75, couldn’t be reached for comment.  ‘30 Years Old’  Reporters yesterday asked Gingrich, the former U.S. House
speaker, to square the description of the divorce as her idea
with divorce papers indicating it was his.  “It’s 30 years old,” Gingrich said during a stop in
Dubuque,  Iowa . “You can read my younger daughter’s column and
talk to her. She’s covered it, I think, more than adequately,
and that’s all I’m going to say on that.”  He made the same point later in an interview on CNN.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, also referred
to the daughter’s column as the definitive account of the
divorce. “You can’t get much closer to the source than that,”
he said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The family has put
this behind them.”  Hammond questioned whether aides interviewed by Bloomberg
News were real Gingrich employees; House records show they were.  After a CNN reporter showed the Gingrich campaign divorce
documents, also obtained by Bloomberg News, that indicate  Newt
Gingrich  filed for divorce, Hammond said Gingrich had done so at
his first wife’s request.  He declined to comment to Bloomberg News about the aides’
accounts or details in the divorce papers.  Daughter’s Article  On May 7, days before Gingrich announced he’d seek the
Republican presidential nomination, Jackie Gingrich Cushman
wrote in a creators.com column headlined “Setting the Record
Straight” that her mother had “requested” the divorce.  Campaign finance records show that Gingrich has paid the
Atlanta-based company Cushman Enterprises Inc. $34,321 since
April 21 for fundraising, consulting and travel. Jackie Gingrich
Cushman is listed as the company’s chief executive officer,
chief financial officer and secretary, according to the Georgia
Office of the Secretary of State’s online corporations database.  Court documents show Newt Gingrich filed for divorce from
his first wife in July 1980. Jackie Gingrich “has adequate and
ample grounds for divorce” and “does not desire one at this
time,” according to her answer to the divorce filing.  In another filing, she stated that she “does not admit
that this marriage is irretrievably broken.” The documents also
show the court had to force Newt Gingrich to pay the required
amount of support during and after the divorce proceedings.  Gingrich’s earlier statements show he wanted the divorce --
contradicting his more recent statements.  Marriage Counseling  “When you’ve been talking about divorce for 11 years and
you’ve gone to a marriage counselor, and the other person
doesn’t want the divorce, I’m not sure there is any sensitive
way to handle it,” The Washington Post quoted Gingrich as
saying in a January 3, 1985, article. “There were long periods
in my marriage when I was in enormous pain.”  Gingrich married his second wife, Marianne Ginther
Gingrich, about six months after his divorce was finalized in
1981. During that marriage, he has acknowledged having an affair
with Callista Bisek, whom he married soon after his second
divorce was finalized in 2000.  Divorce history “is a terrible thing to be talking about
at this stage of the campaign” as the Republican candidates
focus on the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, Dennis Goldford, a political
science professor at Drake University in  Des Moines , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Infidelity had receded as a
particular issue, and to have it not just rear its head but come
roaring back with new questions about his truthfulness
exacerbates the problem.”  Former Aides’ Accounts  Two former Gingrich staff members described in recent
interviews how their onetime boss had informed them about his
decision to divorce his first wife.  He was first elected to Congress in 1978, after two
unsuccessful campaigns.  Dolores Adamson, a staff assistant in the congressman’s
Georgia office from 1980-1983 whose name was Shanks at the time,
said she picked him up at an airport in Georgia after he flew in
from Washington.  They were having lunch at a Steak and Ale restaurant when
he told her he’d decided to get divorced and wanted her help
informing other staff members and constituents.  Adamson said he told her it’s something he had to do.  “He said he was going to the hospital to talk to his wife
about the terms,” Adamson said.  Wife’s Surgery  Jackie Gingrich was diagnosed with cancer in the spring of
1978 and in the summer of 1980 was undergoing surgery on what
turned out to be a benign tumor, according to her daughter’s
online columns.  Adamson said she later asked him why he wanted the divorce.
“Jackie can’t run uphill,” she recalled him saying, which she
took to mean that his wife was overweight and ill, not a plus
for an aspiring national politician.  Today, retired and living in  St. Augustine ,  Florida ,
Adamson is a Gingrich critic. “I get very angry at his lies,”
she said. “He manipulates -- whatever he wants he can get.”  Crews, who worked for Gingrich for 10 years, said she
remembers him pulling employees aside to tell them privately
about his divorce plans.  Her exchange with him occurred in a car, she said. “He
said, ‘I wanted to tell you before you heard it from somebody
else,’” she said.  Teaching Alternative  She remembers telling him he could lose his congressional
seat over a divorce, to which he matter-of-factly replied he
would return to teaching.  Crews, now living in Jonesboro, Georgia, said she was
stunned to see recent media accounts in which the Gingrich
campaign claimed it was his first wife who sought the divorce.  “Stupid, stupid, stupid,” she said. “It’s just about the
biggest mistake they could make to say these things because they
are so easy to check up on.”  As for whether she’ll vote for her former boss, Crews said:
“I would prefer that the Republicans nominate someone else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  