-- Gingrich Forced to Master Art of the Apology on Campaign Trail
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/gingrich-forced-to-master-art-of-the-apology-to-ease-temperament-concerns.html
Newt Gingrich  is sorry. Really.  More than any other presidential candidate, Gingrich has
been forced to spend time on the campaign trail explaining away
his past --- and sometimes the present.  “It was a mistake,” he told voters in Mount Pleasant,
Iowa, after being accused of seeming arrogant in a recent
interview. “I have made mistakes and when I make mistakes I
will say to you, ‘That was a boo-boo.’”  Since the start of his campaign, Gingrich has wagered that
a display of humility will convince voters that the former House
speaker who shut down the government and earned headlines with
provocative rhetoric in the 1990s has matured into a
presidential contender.  “There is a certain maturity about him now and a modesty
that you would not have found 20 years ago,” said Steven
Gillon, a University of Oklahoma historian who has studied
Gingrich’s time as speaker. “But he is someone who is always
going to say outrageous things that he will have to retract.”  With only a week before the first round of voting in  Iowa ’s
Jan. 3 caucuses, the question of Gingrich’s temperament is a
common theme in his rivals’ attack ads.  Yet apologizing is a practice for Gingrich, who has spent
years explaining the extramarital affairs that preceded the
collapse of his first two marriages.  Suicide, Insanity or Divorce  “It was a very, very bad period of my life, and it had
been getting steadily worse,” Gingrich told Mother Jones
magazine in 1994 of his first marriage. “I ultimately wound up
at a point where probably suicide or going insane or divorce
were the last three options.”  On March 8, he  told  the Christian Broadcasting Network that
his duty to his country contributed to the failure of his
marriages. “There’s no question at times of my life, partially
driven by how passionately I felt about this country, that I
worked far too hard and things happened in my life that were not
appropriate.”  Eight months later at a forum in  Des Moines , Iowa, hosted
by the Family Leader, a socially conservative group, Gingrich
said of his first marriage that, while professionally “I had a
lot of very exciting things going on, there was a part of me
that was truly hollow. And it was almost like the harder I
worked and the more things I did, the hollower I got inside.”  Gingrich then skipped over commenting about his second
marriage and divorce and said he now had a “wonderful
marriage” and a close family with his third wife, Callista,
with whom he had an affair while still married to his second
wife, Marianne.  ‘I Regret Deeply’  “But all of that has required a great deal of pain, some
of which I have caused others which I regret deeply,” Gingrich
said. “All of it has required having to go to God to seek both
reconciliation, but also to seek God’s acceptance that I had to
recognize how limited I was and how much I had to depend on
Him.”  Gingrich earlier this month signed a  pledge  to uphold the
institution of marriage “through personal fidelity to my spouse
and respect for the marital bonds of others.”  Gillon says Gingrich’s papers from his time as speaker are
littered with apology letters to colleagues.  “He’s so skilled at knowing what nerve to hit and where
his opponents’ vulnerabilities are that it’s instinctive for him
to go for the jugular,” Gillon said. “He may apologize
afterwards, but he can’t change.”  Some Republicans in Washington share that view, warning
that Gingrich hasn’t really changed.  ‘You Can’t Change’  “When you get to 68 years old, you’ve made a career of
hyperbole and exaggeration, you can’t change,” said New York Congressman  Peter King , an outspoken Republican critic of
Gingrich, who served with him in Congress. “He has a new style
now but, as soon as he gets hit, he’ll go back to the way he
always was.”  Gingrich’s primary opponents are trying to raise similar
warnings.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney has cautioned
Republicans against nominating a “zany” candidate and
dispatched former Gingrich House colleagues to public forums to
paint him as unreliable and untrustworthy. Earlier this month,
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  accused Gingrich of
being “condescending” toward her during a Dec. 15 debate.  Their attacks appear to be having impact. A Washington
Post-ABC news poll conducted Dec. 15-18 found that 13 percent of
Republicans characterized Gingrich as the most honest and
trustworthy candidate in the primary race. He trailed Romney, at
22 percent, Bachmann at 15 percent and Texas Representative  Ron Paul  at 14 percent.  Changed Man  To bolster his argument that he’s a changed man, Gingrich
claims to have been mellowed by his current marriage, matured by
age and humbled by his March 2009 conversion to Catholicism.  “Other people, when they regret having said it, refuse to
admit it,” Gingrich told reporters last week in Iowa. “I try
to be very honest. When I make a mistake, I’ll tell you it’s a
mistake.”  Aides say that once voters meet Gingrich in person, they
see that he is jovial and self-deprecating -- not the mean-
spirited politician that his critics depict.  “He had 10 years of everyone saying he was a bad, bad,
awful speaker” of the House, said R.C. Hammond, his campaign
spokesman. “What he’s always found is, when people actually
meet him and they get to know him, they see that he’s not this
person who’s being described all the time.”  An iconic Time Magazine  cover  published in December 1994
depicted Gingrich as Uncle Scrooge, with a tagline asking
whether “Newt Gingrich’s America” was “heartless.”  ‘Cry Baby’  Gingrich’s admission almost a year later that the 1995
shutdown of the federal government was prompted in part by what
he perceived as a snub by President  Bill Clinton  on Air Force
One cemented his reputation as an undisciplined, egocentric
leader. The New York Daily News  headline  the next day declared:
“Cry Baby Newt’s Tantrum.”  When flashes of that Gingrich emerge on the campaign trail,
he now is quick to admonish himself. Campaigning in Iowa last
week, Gingrich apologized for attacking Romney -- a violation of
his pledge to run a purely positive campaign.  “I’ll confess once or twice I’ve slipped up,” he said.
“The other day Mitt got my goat a little bit. I bit back, but I
shouldn’t have.”  Creative Thinking  A few hours later, when Richard Ellis, a 75-year-old pastor
and farmer, praised his creative thinking, Gingrich humbly
accepted the compliment.  “The most I can say to that nice comment is I will try to
live up to it,” he said, standing in the warehouse of Al-jon
Manufacturing, a scrap metal recycling company in Ottumwa, Iowa.  That candor seems to be working with supporters who are
more interested in his ability to challenge President  Barack Obama  than his personal failings.  “We’re not electing a pope, we’re electing a man,” said
Charlie Gruschow, an Iowa Tea Party leader and evangelical
Christian who joined Gingrich’s campaign in early December.  Not all voters are quite as convinced.  Standing in the Hy-Vee supermarket café in Mount Pleasant,
Jenny Turner, 31, approached Gingrich and quietly asked him not
to be “narcissistic or arrogant”  “I just want you to be humble” she said. “I think you’re
great. I just get nervous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  