-- Goldman’s O’Neill Sees ‘Rosy’ BRIC Future as China, India Slow
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2011-12-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/goldman-s-o-neill-sees-rosy-bric-future-as-china-india-slow.html
Jim O’Neill , the economist who
coined the acronym BRIC, may again be ahead of his time. Or
perhaps he just has bad timing.  His new book, “The Growth Map,” reached stores this month
with predictions of “rosy prospects” for the BRIC nations of
 Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China  and other developing markets.
Yet economic growth in many of these countries is slowing these
days, casting a shadow over the sunny forecasts he dispenses
from his desk at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The BRICs, boosted by at least $870 billion of fiscal
stimulus, did become the locomotives of the global economy
during the Great Recession that battered the U.S. from December
2007 to June 2009. Now China, India and Brazil are losing speed
after raising  interest rates  to curb the  inflation  that the
stimulus stoked.  Many investors suspect that China’s  rapid growth  in recent
years stemmed from a debt-fueled bubble, if not the daddy of all
Ponzi schemes. India keeps balking at market-opening policies,
reversing its decision to let foreign retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  expand in the country.  New York University professor Nouriel Roubini, dour as
ever, says China may have a hard landing within a year. Even
O’Neill, who wrote his book in mid-2011, is now predicting that
global growth next year will decelerate to 3.4 percent.  Overtaking the U.S.?  Ten years have passed since O’Neill introduced the BRICs as
four populous, ambitious countries destined to drive global
growth in the coming decades. In follow-up research, his team
wrote that  China  could overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest
economy by 2035, while the combined gross domestic products of
the BRICs could exceed that of the Group of Seven leading
industrial nations by 2039.  The acronym transformed both O’Neill’s career and how
global investors viewed the world. The BRICs obligingly outpaced
his boldest original forecast, roughly quadrupling their
aggregate GDP from $3 trillion when he wrote  the paper  to almost
$12 trillion, he says. It was an impressive showing, even if
Western consumers, drunk on cheap credit, financed the party by
importing BRIC goodies.  Expanding the franchise, O’Neill’s team has since explored
the potential of the “Next Eleven” most populous emerging
economies, or the “N-11.” More recently, he decided that the
term “emerging markets” no longer applies to the BRICs or four
of the N-11 --  Indonesia ,  South Korea ,  Mexico  and  Turkey . These
he now calls “Growth Markets.”  ‘Marketing Gimmick’  The medley of labels can smack of a fund manager’s sales
pitch, a suggestion he rejects. “It is not a marketing gimmick
or a way to sell a new investment fund,” says O’Neill, now
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management. “It is a way to
help all of us think more globally.”  For anyone unfamiliar with his research, “The Growth Map”
offers a handy, if repetitious, guide to how he hit on the BRIC
idea and how his thinking has since evolved.  The initial impulse came when the 9/11 terrorist attacks
pulverized the World Trade Center and threatened to knock
globalization -- and all its benefits -- off track. He began
looking for a new way to think about growth, “some idea that
could be shared and accepted by everyone, and would transcend
nationalism.”  As the acronym caught on, many urged him to scramble the
letters. Why not call them CRIBs, reflecting their economic
infancy? Did the R really merit inclusion? Was the B there only
to make the acronym sound snappy?  Demography as Destiny  The BRIC concept is appealing, I suspect, because it forces
Western investors to set aside their preconceptions about the
world. O’Neill encourages us to concentrate on the basics:
population and productivity. It’s the demography, stupid.  “In all my analysis of world economies, amid all the
information and hype, I have stayed focused on the benefits of
an expanding, more productive workforce,” he writes.  This admirably simple approach is a weakness as well as a
strength. History teaches that economic development depends on
more than demographics. What about property rights, the rule of
law, education and technology?  O’Neill and his team now include some of these factors in
their assessments, yet one suspects they should spend more time
studying the BRICs’ turbulent pasts and less time finessing
their models.  Recent events -- ballot-box stuffing in  Russia , protests
against land seizures in China, the U-turn on foreign retailers
in India -- suggest that the road to lasting prosperity and
stability will be anything but smooth.  Bad Loans  O’Neill, for all his optimism, doesn’t ignore the
challenges. Yes, he’s aware that China’s boom benefited from
exports and massive investments. No, he’s not blind to the
nation’s pile of bad loans. India’s poverty remains astonishing,
its traffic jams legendary and its bureaucracy suffocating, he
says. Russia suffers from a shrinking population, poor
governance and a dependence on energy and raw materials.  Though no storyteller, he also tries to lighten the reams
of GDP projections with anecdotes from his travels to the
Himalayas, Rio and Russia. The narrative that really excites
him, though, is how the ascent of BRIC economies is freeing
millions from poverty and unleashing their ambitions. This is,
he maintains, “the dominant story of our generation.”  Let’s hope the story has a happy ending.  “The Growth Map: Economic Opportunity in the BRICs and
Beyond” is from Portfolio/Penguin (248 pages, $29.95, 25
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 