-- Google+ May Have 400 Million Users by End of Next Year, Statistician Says
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2011-12-28T22:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/google-may-have-400-million-users-by-end-of-next-year-statistician-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is adding 625,000 new
users a day to the Google+ social-networking service, which may
total 400 million members by the end of next year, according to
independent analysis of its growth.  The site’s popularity has accelerated in recent weeks, with
almost a quarter of its total user base joining in December
alone, said Paul B. Allen, the founder of Ancestry.com Inc., who
tracks the numbers as Google+’s “unofficial statistician.”  Google, the world’s largest Internet-search company, aims
to challenge the social-networking supremacy of Facebook Inc., a
site with more than 800 million members. Google+, which lets
users organize their friends in circles, was introduced earlier
this year as a test project and then opened up to the general
public in September.  Google+ may be benefiting from the popularity of Google’s
Android mobile operating system, which makes it easy to sign up.
As the service gains traction, more people will invite family
and friends to join, further accelerating its growth, Allen said
in a  Google+ posting . He works at  FamilyLink.com , a company he
helped start in 2006 with other Ancestry.com co-founders.  Katie Watson, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to discuss the current user numbers. The
company last gave an update during its October earnings
conference call, when Google+ had more than 40 million users.  Google shares were little changed today, closing at $639.70
in  New York . The stock has gained 7.7 percent this year.  Facebook, meanwhile, is said to be preparing an initial
public offering, helping generate funds for its own expansion.
The company is considering raising about $10 billion in the IPO,
which would value Facebook at more than $100 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  