-- Green Bay Holds Top Seed as Giants, Cowboys Fight for NFL Postseason Spot
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-12-27T15:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/green-bay-holds-top-seed-as-giants-cowboys-fight-for-nfl-postseason-spot.html
The  New York Giants  and  Dallas
Cowboys  will face off Jan. 1 for a spot in the National Football
League playoffs as the U.S.’s most-watched television sport
enters the final week of its regular season.  The Giants beat the New York Jets 29-14 on Dec. 24, setting
up a season finale against the Cowboys for the National Football
Conference East division title, with the loser eliminated from
postseason play. Both have 8-7 records. The Giants beat the
Cowboys 37-34 in Texas on Dec. 11.  “I did remind our team that a year ago we won down there
and lost at home,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said at a news
conference yesterday.  The Jets are among five teams still competing for a playoff
spot in the American Football Conference, along with the
 Cincinnati Bengals ,  Denver Broncos , Oakland Raiders and
Tennessee Titans. The Jets can make the playoffs if they defeat
Miami, both the Bengals and Titans lose, and either Oakland or
Denver also gets beat.  “What I talked to the players about was that there’s hope
and possibilities,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  told reporters
yesterday. “Obviously the game against Miami is critical. When
you look at all the factors involved, the most difficult thing
to happen, I think, is to beat the Dolphins.”  No. 1 Seeds  Aaron Rodgers threw five touchdown passes on Dec. 25 to
help the Green Bay Packers beat the Chicago Bears, clinching the
top seed in the NFC and home field throughout the playoffs. The
 New Orleans Saints , San Francisco 49ers, Atlanta Falcons and
Detroit Lions have also locked up NFC playoff spots.  The Saints clinched the NFC South title last night with a
45-16 victory over the Falcons, as New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees set the NFL season passing record at 5,087 yards.  The New England Patriots, Houston Texans, Baltimore Ravens
and Pittsburgh Steelers have all gained playoff berths in the
American Football Conference.  A New England win over the Buffalo Bills on New Year’s Day
would give the Patriots home field in the postseason, while
Baltimore can win home field by beating the Bengals if New
England loses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 