-- Greece Asks Turkey to Clarify Yilmaz’s Comments on Forest Fires
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2011-12-27T17:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/greece-asks-turkey-to-clarify-yilmaz-s-comments-on-forest-fires.html
Greece  asked  Turkey  to clarify press
reports that former Turkish Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz said
some Greek forest fires were deliberately set by Turkey’s secret
service.  “As long as this information remains unclarified, it
poisons public opinion and undermines efforts to build relations
of trust,” Greece’s  Foreign Ministry  said in e-mailed statement
today.  A Greek Supreme Court prosecutor requested that cases on
forest fires from 1995 to 1997 be reopened, Athens-based news
site 24h.gr reported today, without citing anyone. That followed
a Turkish newspaper report, repeated in the Greek press
yesterday, that quoted Yilmaz as saying Turkey’s secret service
had sparked the blazes, especially on eastern Aegean islands,
24h.gr said. Calls to the  Supreme Court  by Bloomberg outside
regular operating hours weren’t answered.  “The issue is completely distorted,” Yilmaz told Turkey’s
state-run Anatolia news agency today. “I was referring to forest
fires in Turkey. There was some speculation and information that
large forest fires in 1990s were related to Greek secret
services, and I said unless they are proven to be facts,
publishing that information would be very wrong in terms of our
relations with Greece.”  Greece experiences frequent forest fires during the summer
months. Some are deliberately lit to clear land for building.
Fires killed 65 people in 2007.  “Regardless of Mr. Yilmaz’s attempts to reformulate,” the
Foreign Ministry said, “we asked that these statements and other
public references that have seen the light of day in the past be
investigated and that Greece be informed of all relevant
information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  