-- Millisecond Edge Sought for Latin America ADRs in Karsh Exchange Proposal
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2011-12-27T18:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/millisecond-edge-sought-for-latin-america-adrs-in-karsh-exchange-proposal.html
(Corrects name of company in sixteenth paragraph.)  William Karsh, a former executive at
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, is raising money for an electronic
venue that that would give investors a new place to buy and sell
American depositary receipts tied to Latin American stocks.  The platform, based in a yet-to-be-determined Latin America
country, would trade securities listed in the U.S. and  Canada ,
said Karsh, the former chief operating officer at the fourth-
largest American equities exchange owner. Possible locations
include  Costa Rica , El Salvador and  Panama , he said.  Karsh’s project would cater to traders seeking to
incorporate news into prices faster and who may be attracted to
a venue where information from  New York  arrives a split second
quicker than it does in  Sao Paulo , and vice versa. The system
will give market makers trading ADRs of  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) 
and  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB (WMMVY)  the chance to arbitrage prices
between cities, Karsh said in a telephone interview. Individual
investors may get better prices in the process, he said.  “There’s a need for an electronic trading system to offer
an alternative to what’s trading in Latin America but it must be
done in a way that doesn’t step on a lot of toes,” Karsh said.
“We’re not trying to be a disrupter of other people’s business.
We want to bring more business into the region.”  Latin American Venues  Investors would be able to trade ADRs, exchange-traded
funds and other products in multiple currencies, he said.
Karsh’s initiative follows plans by U.S. exchange operators Bats
Global Markets Inc. and Direct Edge to create platforms to buy
and sell Brazilian shares. Chi-X Global Holdings LLC, owned by
New York-based Instinet Inc. and six brokers, formed a venture
with Sao Paulo-based exchange company  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  to trade
Brazilian stocks in different currencies next year.  Instead of seeking a way to trade shares listed in Sao
Paulo, Karsh’s project, called the Emerging Markets Virtual
Xchange, would be limited to ADRs and other products tied to
shares in  Brazil ,  Mexico  and other Latin American nations, he
said. Trading is planned for the second quarter, he said.  A new venue in Latin America may find it difficult to
convince brokers that it will be able to carry out clearing, the
process of guaranteeing delivery of shares and funds that
happens after a transaction occurs, said Bernardo Mariano, an
analyst at Equity Research Desk LLC, in a phone interview.  “If you’re not a well-known exchange with a household
name, it will be very hard to compete,” said Mariano, whose
Greenwich, Connecticut-based company advises  hedge funds  and
institutions about exchanges and trading platforms. “What’s the
advantage?” he said. “If you’re in a tax haven, maybe there’ll
be some benefits, but it will still be hard to convince people
to be comfortable with your clearing.”  Seeking Buyers  The platform will lower post-trade processing costs for
active firms through netting, which offsets buy and sell
transactions, and charge lower fees to execute against existing
orders, Karsh said. U.S. brokers will also be able to clear
trades in the U.S., he said.  The venue, which will use technology to match orders from
Fundamental Interactions Inc., a New York-based technology firm
that owns part of the company, plans to sell equity stakes to
about five U.S. and Latin American banks or brokers, Karsh said.  No firm has committed to investing in the platform or
“written a check,” he said. “We’re in the really early stages
in terms of getting the paperwork done, ordering the equipment,
getting the  data center  and the ducks all lined up.”  Karsh’s firm is creating a broker to operate the platform
and working out clearing and settlement issues for traders from
 Latin America , Karsh said. Conversions will be done for
investors that want to trade the ADRs or products in another
currency, he said.  Synthetic Ordinary  Instead of buying and selling shares in Petrobras, a
customer in Latin America would be able to trade the ADRs in
U.S. dollars, reais or another currency, Karsh said. Buying and
selling ADRs in the currency of the underlying company’s
domestic shares replicates the stock by creating what he calls a
synthetic ordinary.  “You can do it at a price point that’s significantly
cheaper than what they could get in that country,” he said.  The goal is to get 1 percent of overall volume in ADRs and
Latin American securities, with 0.7 percent from investors
trading primarily U.S. products, Karsh said.  Fundamental Interactions will provide its “ATS in a box”
that already enables brokers to match buy and sell orders in
U.S. equities from customers, Julian Jacobson, president and
chief operating officer, said in a phone interview. He said he
expects the venue, which can support options and futures
trading, to be profitable by the end of its first year.  Trading Hours  The system will be able to trade all U.S. and Canadian
securities, not just ADRs or products tied to Brazil,  Argentina 
or other Latin American countries, Karsh said. While equities
can trade outside the U.S., such as on Deutsche Boerse Group
AG’s Xetra system, little volume occurs there even for active
stocks. EMVX will be open during U.S. trading hours.  Brazil’s depositary receipts programs accounted for 18
percent of the value traded in global depositary receipts
programs in the first 11 months of this year, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in a year-end report. NYSE’s two most-active ADRs by
value traded are  Vale SA (VALE)  and Petrobras, the bank said.  Bats, based in Lenexa,  Kansas , said in February it was
seeking to introduce an alternative trading platform for
Brazilian shares with Sao Paulo-based asset manager Claritas
Investments. Direct Edge in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said last
month it would build an exchange in  Rio de Janeiro  that would
begin trading by the end of 2012. Both companies must find a way
to clear and settle the contracts domestically.  Direct Edge faces “difficulties” in its plans to start a
trading platform in Brazil because BM&FBovespa is unlikely to
allow the company to use its clearing services, Regina Longo Sanchez, an analyst at Itau Unibanco Holding SA in Sao Paulo,
wrote in a note to clients on Nov. 21.  Shares in BM&FBovespa have dropped 23 percent this year
through Dec. 23, in part because of concerns over competition.
That compares with the 19 percent decline in the 26-company
 Bloomberg World Exchanges Index. (BNWEXCH)   “We’re not trying to trade securities that settle in the
country of origin,” Karsh said. “We want to trade securities
that look like securities that settle in the country of
origin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 