-- India Telecom Panel Approves Plan to Ease Mergers Between Wireless Rivals
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2011-12-27T11:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/india-telecom-panel-approves-plan-to-ease-mergers-between-wireless-rivals.html
India’s telecommunications
commission approved increases in available wireless spectrum,
sharing and trading of airwaves and steps to make it easier for
mobile phone companies to buy rivals.  The National Telecom Policy would increase the maximum
market share for a merged phone company to 60 percent from 40
percent, R. Chandrashekhar, Telecom Commission chairman, told
reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. The commission, the Department
of Telecommunications’ top policy-making body, will submit its
draft to Communications Minister Kapil Sibal for review within a
week, he said.  The new regulations may lead to consolidation in a market
where competition among 15 carriers including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
and local ventures of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and NTT
DoCoMo Inc. drove call charges to less than one penny a minute,
eroding profitability.  “Many telecom players have been under financial stress, so
there was a demand to smoothen out the M&A procedure,” said
Jagannadham Thunuguntla, strategist at SMC Global Securities
Ltd. in New Delhi. “I would be surprised if somebody put down
billions of dollars to buy a telecom company in India.”  Stocks Drop  Shares of Bharti, the nation’s biggest wireless services
provider, fell 0.5 percent to 343.10 rupees at close in Mumbai
and  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)  declined 2.7 percent to 80 rupees. The
benchmark Sensitive Index dropped 0.6 percent.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  gained 4.9 percent to 72.9 rupees.  The proposals would allow spectrum auctions and would limit
a merged company to holding 25 percent of the available airwaves
in a region, Chandrashekhar said. The country has 22
telecommunications zones.  Mergers between carriers that would have a combined market
share of 35 percent or less would no longer need anti-monopoly
approval under the proposed rules. Combined companies that would
control between 35 percent and 60 percent of a zone’s wireless
phone market would require such approval, according to the
policy draft approved.  The National Telecom Policy, initially unveiled in October,
would need cabinet clearance, with some portions requiring
parliamentary approval.  Carriers need more spectrum to serve customers that reached
 626 million  in October.  The proposals may get final approval by June, according to
a Dec. 23  review  by the Department of Telecommunications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 