-- India Plans Price Curbs on Potash, Phosphate Fertilizers
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2011-12-27T12:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/india-may-curb-potash-phosphate-fertilizer-prices-jena-says.html
India  may re-introduce state
controls on retail prices of some fertilizers after soil
nutrient rates almost doubled in the past nine months, Srikant Jena, junior fertilizer minister said.  “We are considering various options to bring down prices
of di-ammonium phosphate and muriate of potash fertilizers,”
Jena said in an interview in New Delhi. “Price control could be
one of the options.”  India ended state controls on fixing the retail prices of
di-ammonium phosphate and potash in April 2010 to reduce
government  subsidy  on fertilizers. Price controls may boost
fertilizer use, potentially increasing imports from producers
including Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and  OAO Uralkali. (URKA)   Potash prices in India have surged to 11,300 rupees ($213)
per ton from 5,055 rupees in March and di-ammonium phosphate to
18,200 rupees a ton from 10,750 rupees, according to data from
the  Fertiliser Association of India .  “Other options to check price rise include streamlining
distribution and rationalization of marketing network,” Jena
said. The price surge has led to a pile-up of more than 2
million metric tons of imported fertilizers at ports, he said.  Fertilizer consumption in India, the world’s third-largest
potash importer, may tumble for a second year as rising prices
of the soil nutrients deter farmers, U.S. Awasthi, managing
director of Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd., which
represents 55 million farmers, said on Dec. 5. Consumption of
di-ammonium phosphate and potash may drop as much as 35 percent
in the year starting April 1, compared with normal use of about
15 million tons, he said.  Sales of potash and phosphate fertilizers dropped 29
percent to 7.11 million tons in the seven months ended Oct. 31
from 10.06 million tons a year earlier, data from the fertilizer
association showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  