-- Singh’s Graft Bill Faces Final Parliament Hurdle as Hazare Ends His Fast
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2011-12-28T12:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/india-s-lower-house-approves-anti-graft-bill-sought-by-singh.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is one
hurdle away from creating the anti-corruption agency that has
been repeatedly rejected by Indian lawmakers over four decades
as he bids to end a year of protests against graft.  The bill to set up the body is expected to be debated in
parliament’s  upper house  tomorrow, where the government faces a
tough fight with the ruling coalition 28 seats short of a
majority and needing to win the support of independents and
regional lawmakers. It passed in the lower house yesterday.  Amid concerns over his health and dwindling crowds, anti-
corruption activist  Anna Hazare , 73, ended his public fast in
Mumbai a day early. Hazare, who has dismissed the graft bill as
too weak and whose 13-day hunger strike in August roiled the
government, vowed his team would campaign against those who had
“betrayed the nation” and target Singh’s Congress party ahead
of elections in five states early next year.  “It looks like Hazare is losing support among the general
population,” said Sudha Pai, a professor at the  Centre for
Political Studies  at Jawaharlal Nehru University in  New Delhi .
“They have lost a lot of credibility because of the way that
they have behaved trying to hold parliament to ransom.”  The government is looking to pass the bill, known as the
Lokpal, as it seeks to cap the damage done by graft scandals
including those linked to a 2008 sale of mobile-phone airwaves
and the hosting last year of the Commonwealth Games in New
Delhi. It needs to end demonstrations on the streets and in
parliament that have stalled policy making and focus on reviving
India’s slowing $1.7 trillion  economy .  Joint Session?  If the government is defeated in the upper house it will
either have to shelve the legislation or call a rare joint
session of parliament to forge a consensus. If the bill is
passed with some changes, Singh will need to take it back to the
lower house for approval. The specially extended session of
parliament is due to end tomorrow.  “This is not a time for celebrations,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies, a
policy research group. “I expect the government to face
problems trying to pass the law through the upper house, they
don’t have the numbers and the allies are lukewarm.”  Indian governments have been introducing bills to set up an
anti-corruption agency since 1968.  Gandhi Defeat  Singh’s administration will need a repeat of last night’s
events when lawmakers of the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj
Party and Rashtriya Janata Dal walked out of the chamber before
voting began. The legislators left either after their amendments
were rejected or to avoid backing ideological rivals.  In a blow to the government, it failed to secure the two-
thirds of those present in the lower house yesterday that it
needed to make the Lokpal a constitutional body, which would
have given it greater autonomy.  The idea to give the agency the extra clout had been
proposed by  Rahul Gandhi , widely touted by political analysts to
take over Congress next year and to be India’s next prime
minister if the party wins national elections scheduled for
2014, during a speech in parliament.  Singh’s government defeated attempts by lawmakers from
several parties to give the proposed anti-graft ombudsman
overall control of the country’s main criminal investigation
agency, a key demand of Hazare who argues it is the only way to
ensure the new body has the powers to probe and punish those
accused of corruption.  The anti-graft agency will be able to scrutinize the prime
minister except over issues of national security. It won’t have
direct oversight of the junior bureaucrats responsible for the
everyday acts of petty corruption that hinder business and
effective governance in  India .  The bill passed by the lower house included changes that
require the assent of state governments before a Lokpal agency
can be set up at the provincial level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  