-- Insurers’ Profitability Plunges on Catastrophes
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-12-27T18:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/insurers-profitability-plunges-on-catastrophes.html
U.S. property and casualty insurers’
profitability fell to the lowest level since 2008 as losses from
natural disasters exceeded gains in sales and investment income.  Insurers posted a 1.9 percent annualized rate of return on
policyholders’ surplus, or cushion against unexpected claims, in
the nine months through Sept. 30, according to a  statement  today
from the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America.
That’s the lowest since the 1.2 percent return in 2008, when the
industry faced losses from Hurricane Ike and on investments.  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  are among insurers
raising prices for coverage to boost shareholder returns after
claims from storms and low  interest rates  pressured results.
Policy sales rose to $115.7 billion in the third quarter from
$111.1 billion a year earlier, according to PCI.  The increase in sales “was blunted somewhat by
deteriorating underwriting results,” Robert Gordon, PCI’s
senior vice president for policy development and research, said
in the statement. “Current low interest rates and the  Federal
Reserve ’s pledge to keep interest rates low for some time to
come continue to put pressure on insurers’ investment income.”  Catastrophes, including  Hurricane Irene , which made
landfall in  North Carolina  in August then lashed the U.S. East
Coast with rain and winds, cost the industry $9.5 billion in the
third quarter. That compares with $2.9 billion a year earlier.  Net investment income rose 1.4 percent industrywide to
$11.7 billion in the third quarter, according to the statement,
which was jointly produced with ISO, a unit of  Verisk Analytics
Inc. (VRSK) , and the  Insurance Information Institute , a trade group.  Travelers, Allstate  Travelers Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman said at an
investor conference this month that his company is driving “for
improved rate and terms” across its business. Tornadoes in
April and May wiped out the New York-based insurer’s second-
quarter profit. Irene contributed to a drop in net income in the
third quarter.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home insurer,
said in October it received approval from regulators to boost
rates for its main line of homeowners’ coverage in 15 states in
the third quarter. The premium increases averaged about 14
percent, the Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer said.  Insurers’ net income plunged in the period 69 percent from
a year earlier to $3.2 billion, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  