-- Iran to Block Oil Through Hormuz If Sanctioned, IRNA Reports
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2011-12-27T16:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/iran-to-block-oil-through-hormuz-if-sanctioned-irna-reports-2-.html
Iran  will block oil shipments
through the  Strait of Hormuz  if sanctions are imposed on its
crude exports, the official  Islamic Republic News Agency
reported , citing Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi.  “We are not interested in any hostility and our motto is
friendship and brotherhood, but westerners are not willing to
abandon their plots,” IRNA cited Rahimi as saying.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, flows through the waterway between Iran and
Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the U.S.
Department of Energy. Iran’s navy started a 10-day exercise east
of the passage that involved the use of submarines, ground-to-
sea missile systems and torpedoes, Press TV said Dec. 24.  The U.S. and European governments are seeking help from
Arab and Asian allies to reduce Iran’s oil revenue to pressure
the Islamic republic to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons
program. The strategy includes a push by  France  and Britain for
an embargo on imports of Iranian oil by the 27 European Union
countries as soon as next month. Iran claims its nuclear program
is strictly for energy.  On Dec. 13, Iran’s state-run  Fars news agency  cited Parviz
Sorouri, a member of parliament, as saying the country was
planning to conduct drills for closing the Strait of Hormuz.  “If the world wants to make the region insecure, we will
make the world insecure,” Sorouri said, according to Fars.  The next day state-run Al Alam news channel cited Ramin
Mehmanparast, spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry, as
saying closing the Strait of Hormuz to shipping was not on
Iran’s agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  