-- Iraqi Bloc Calls for Dissolving Parliament as Sectarian Tensions Increase
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2011-12-27T21:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/iraq-bloc-backing-anti-american-cleric-calls-for-dissolution-of-parliament.html
The Iraqi political bloc loyal to
anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr called for
parliament to be dissolved and new elections held as sectarian
tensions increase.  “The existing political partners cannot reach solutions
and there are blocs carrying out foreign agendas while others
work with terror,” said Baha al-Araji, head of the al-Ahrar
bloc, which has 39 seats in the 325-member parliament.  Tensions between Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s Shiite-
led allies and Sunni politicians have intensified since a
warrant was issued last week for the arrest of Vice President
Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni, on terrorism charges.  The case comes amid concern that the pullout of U.S. troops
will leave a security vacuum in  Iraq , which seeks investment and
expertise to develop the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves.
Iraqi crude oil production has jumped to the highest level in at
least 20 years, or more than 3 million barrels a day, Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for energy affairs, said
Dec. 22.  “The issue in Iraq will not be resolved without the
house’s dissolution,” Mowathiq al-Hashemi of the Iraqi Center
for Strategic Studies in  Baghdad  said in a telephone interview
today. “However, I believe this is nothing but an attempt to
impose pressure. Many of the lawmakers are certain that they
would not keep their seats if elections take place amidst such
poor parliamentary performance.”  U.S. Opposition  The U.S. would oppose dissolution of the  Iraqi parliament ,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said today.  “The political parties need to work out their
differences,” Toner said. “There’s an urgency to the
situation. These folks need to sit down in a shared fashion and
address these issues.”  Michael O’Hanlon , a defense analyst at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said the best way to diffuse the
rising political tensions in Iraq would be for al-Maliki to
appoint people outside his own party to the ministries of
interior and defense, and by allowing international
participation in a panel to look into the charges against al-
Hashimi.  Seek to Divide  In a speech to mark the end of American operations in Iraq
on Dec. 15, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said that Iraq
would be tested by terrorism and those who seek to divide.  A series of bombings on Dec. 23 targeting civilians killed
at least 57 people in Baghdad and injured 176. The blasts took
place in mainly Shiite neighborhoods.  Al-Hashimi’s political bloc, Iraqiya, which draws support
from Sunnis, announced the suspension of its participation in
parliament on Dec. 17 to protest what it says is the arrest of
its members. Iraqiya is led by  Ayad Allawi .  Al-Maliki said Dec. 21 that his deputy, Saleh al-Mutlaq, a
Sunni who had described him as a dictator in a recent television
interview, was on “extended leave.”  Al-Hashimi, who fled to the semi-autonomous northern region
of Kurdistan, denied all charges on Dec. 20, questioned the
motivation of the accusations and said the case was timed to
coincide with the U.S. forces’ withdrawal.  Al-Sadr, whose Mahdi Army militia had clashed with Iraqi
and U.S. forces, returned to Iraq on Jan. 5 after an absence of
almost four years. He has pledged to combat any form of U.S.
presence in Iraq, except for an official embassy, beyond the
Dec. 31 deadline for the complete withdrawal of American troops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansari in Dubai at 
 kalansari@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  