-- Iraq War Lives on as U.S. Conflict Fuels Debt
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-12-27T05:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/iraq-war-lives-on-as-u-s-conflict-fuels-debt.html
The war in  Iraq  is officially over.
The costs will go on.  Eight years of dodging improvised explosive devices,
repelling insurgent ambushes and quelling sectarian strife
already has drained the U.S. of more treasure than any conflict
in the nation’s history except World War II.  Even though the last U.S. combat troops have left Iraq,
American taxpayers will face decades of additional expenses,
from veterans’ health care and disability benefits to interest
on the  debt (PUBLDEBT)  accumulated to finance the war.  “Those costs are going to build for years,” said  Todd Harrison , a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments, a Washington-based research group.  That burden will come amid growing concern about the
federal government’s debt, with cuts to popular programs such as
 Medicare (USBOMDCA)  and to national defense being debated. Spending so far
on the war and related interest payments make up about a tenth
of the  U.S. Treasury ’s $10.4 trillion in publicly held  debt .  Direct federal spending on the war through 2012 will reach
$823 billion, surpassing the $738 billion in inflation-adjusted
dollars the  U.S. spent  on the  Vietnam War , the  Congressional
Research Service  estimated in a March 29  report . Only World War
II had a higher direct cost, $4.1 trillion, in current dollars.  Not counted in that is the interest of more than $200
billion the federal government has already had to pay on the
resulting debt, said Linda Bilmes, a senior lecturer in public
finance at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  Faulty Forecasts  Bilmes also estimates the price over the next 40 years of
health care and disability compensation for veterans of the Iraq
and Afghanistan conflicts will be almost $1 trillion.  “The veterans’ costs in particular will dwarf the other
budget costs,” said Bilmes, who was an assistant commerce
secretary under President  Bill Clinton .  By any measure, the price of the Iraq conflict has far
outstripped forecasts by President  George W. Bush ’s
administration as it made the case to go to war. Then-White
House budget director Mitch Daniels and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld projected the U.S. would spend $50 billion to $60
billion and said they believed part of that would be defrayed by
other countries.  Rumsfeld rejected as “baloney” a September 2002 comment
made by Lawrence Lindsey, then director of Bush’s National
Economic Council, that the war might require $100 billion to
$200 billion in spending. Lindsey was forced out of his position
several months later.  ‘Affordable’ War  Still, while the conflict turned out to be among the most
expensive in the nation’s history, the size of the  U.S. economy 
is now larger than in earlier wars and so is the nation’s
capacity to bear the financial load.  At the peak of spending on Iraq in 2008, direct costs
represented 1 percent of U.S. gross domestic product. The
portion of GDP devoted to war expenditures during the peak year
of spending on  Vietnam  was 2.3 percent, 4.2 percent in  Korea  and
35.8 percent in World War II, according to the Congressional
Research Service.  “The war cost has been affordable,” said  Gordon Adams ,
associate director for national security at the Office of
Management and Budget during the Clinton administration and now
a professor of international relations at American University in
Washington. “The worrisome question has been what is the cost
of running a high  federal deficit (FDEBGDPT) ? That’s a financing question:
how we chose to finance the war.”  Matching Stimulus  The choice to avoid tax increases and pay for the war
entirely through budget deficits has compounded the long-term
economic impact. The direct cost of the Iraq war to date is
about as large as the Obama administration’s 2009 economic
stimulus, which the  Congressional Budget Office  estimated at
$825 billion in an Aug. 24 report.  The impact will reverberate beyond the federal budget.  The war has exacted a toll on the broader economy as its
consequences rippled through families, businesses and world oil
and financial markets. Two separate teams of academics who have
sought to determine the economic toll of the conflict estimated
it at between $3 trillion and $4 trillion.  Companies, particularly small businesses, have been
disrupted by National Guard and Reserve call-ups. Family members
of wounded veterans who leave their jobs or reduce work hours to
provide care have lost income. The economy has been deprived of
the productive contribution of the more than 4,400 service
members who have been killed, as well as those who were disabled
or left psychologically tormented.  ‘People Worse Off’  “The war made people worse off during the last decade and
it added to the debt load on every American,” said Bilmes, who
co-wrote the 2008 book “The Three Trillion Dollar War: The True
Cost of the Iraq Conflict” with Joseph Stiglitz. She said they
now estimate the price tag at $4 trillion.  Brown University’s “Costs of War” project estimates the
overall expense of the wars since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
at $5.1 trillion, of which $3.2 trillion can be attributed to
Iraq, said Catherine Lutz, the project’s co-director and a
professor of anthropology at Brown’s Watson Institute for
International Studies.  Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate and former chief economist of
the  World Bank , argues in the book that the war debt encouraged
the loose monetary policy that exacerbated the housing bubble
and the resulting financial crisis. The debt from the war also
limited the Obama administration’s fiscal and political leeway
to stimulate the economy during the recession, he said.  Oil Market  Stiglitz said disruptions in Iraqi oil supplies during the
war and subsequent strife contributed to the rise in crude
prices during the middle of the decade.  The price per barrel of  Brent crude , which traded at $26.75
on the eve of the war in March 2003, climbed to a peak of
$146.08 on July 3, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While stronger demand from  China  and  India  also contributed
to higher crude, Stiglitz attributes between $5 and $10 of the
increase to the Iraq war. The impact on the oil market reduced
economic growth in the U.S. by $800 billion over eight years, he
and Bilmes estimate under one scenario they term “realistic.”  Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates, said disruption of Iraqi oil supplies was one reason
for the run-up in prices. Yet it’s hard to quantify how much the
turmoil added to the amount, said Yergin, author of “The Quest:
Energy, Security and the Remaking of the Modern World.”  “Iraq was part of a larger pattern of disruptions that
also included Nigeria, Venezuela and Hurricanes Katrina and
Rita,” Yergin said. “The single most important factor was the
surge in demand from China and the  emerging markets .”  Health Costs  The most expensive financial legacy of the war is likely to
be the cost of providing for those who fought.  Veterans from Iraq and  Afghanistan  are applying for
disability benefits and seeking medical treatment at higher
rates than those of previous conflicts, Bilmes wrote in a June
study.  In part because of improvements in battlefield medicine,
more than 90 percent of troops wounded in Iraq survived their
injuries, up from 86.5 percent in the Vietnam War, according to
the Congressional Budget Office. Those troops are returning home
with more complex and serious injuries.  Almost one in five service members who deployed to Iraq or
Afghanistan showed symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder or
major depression, according to a 2008 RAND study. About the same
portion sustained a traumatic brain injury.  Surge of Applicants  Through Oct. 31, more than 646,000 veterans of Iraq and
Afghanistan had applied for disability coverage, according to a
Department of Veterans Affairs compilation obtained by Veterans
for Common Sense, an advocacy group. That is 44 percent of
veterans from the conflicts who have been discharged from the
military so far. Veterans become eligible for benefits after
discharge.  More than 711,000 of those involved in the conflicts had
sought health care from veterans’ facilities as of June 30,
almost half those eligible. Most has been for outpatient
treatment.  Almost 1 million veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan remain in
the military and will become eligible as they are discharged,
said Paul Sullivan, executive director of the National
Organization of Veterans’ Advocates, a professional group for
advocates who provide representation on benefits claims.  “Based on current trends, we’re looking at 1 million
veterans patients by the end of 2013,” Sullivan said.  Education Spending  Bilmes estimates the present value of veterans’ medical and
disability payments over the next 40 years at between $600
billion and $1 trillion. Other benefits such as full education
costs awarded in the 2008 GI Bill make it likely the tally will
be closer to $1 trillion, she said.  “The cost of caring for war veterans typically rises for
decades and peaks 30 to 40 years or more after a conflict,”
Bilmes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 