-- Austerity Fuels Worst Christmas in 10 Years for Italy’s Retailers: Economy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2011-12-27T10:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/italians-consumers-cut-holiday-spending-in-worst-christmas-in-10-years.html
Italian retailers had the worst
Christmas in 10 years, consumer group Codacons said, as
austerity measures to combat the sovereign debt crisis prompted
households to cut spending.  Italians spent 48 euros ($62.75) less per person this
holiday season than the average of the past five years, Rome-
based Codacons said in a statement on its website. The shoe and
clothing sector was hit the most, with sales dropping 30 percent
from previous years, it said, adding retailers won’t recover the
decline during seasonal promotions that start in January.  The discount period “will be a flop,” with sales
declining as much as 40 percent compared with 2010, Carlo
Rienzi, the head of Codacons, said in the statement.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  secured final passage last week
for 30 billion euros of austerity and growth measures as he
seeks to cut the euro region’s second-biggest debt. The
measures, including a tax on  luxury goods , a levy on primary
residences and higher gasoline prices, may further sap  consumer
spending  and push the euro area’s third-biggest economy deeper
into recession.  The austerity plan will cost every Italian family 1,129
euros, according to consumer group Federconsumatori. Italians
spent 4.4 billion euros in the holiday season, 400 million euros
less than Federconsumatori’s forecast, the group said.  Stocks Gain  While the euro area’s debt crisis is threatening to tip the
17-nation economy into recession, European stocks gained for a
third day before data forecast to show the U.S. economic
recovery is strengthening. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.2
percent at 10 a.m. in  London . The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost
0.3 percent after the  Bank of Japan  said risks to the economy
have increased.  A “few” Bank of Japan board members “pointed to the
possibility that downside risks to the economy had increased
somewhat since the previous meeting” held in October, according
to minutes of the bank’s Nov. 15-16 gathering published today.  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s  consumer confidence 
index may increase to 58.6 in December, according to the median
of 61 estimates ahead of a release today.  Elsewhere in  Europe , consumer confidence fell to the lowest
in almost three years in Finland. The consumer confidence index
sank to 0.4 in December, the lowest since March 2009, from 1.5
in November, Statistics  Finland  said in Helsinki. Business
confidence was unchanged at minus 10, the Confederation of
Finnish Industries said in a separate report.  Consumer Confidence  Dutch producer confidence improved to minus 1.3 in December
from minus 4.8 the previous month, national statistics bureau
CBS said in  The Hague .  In  South Korea , consumer confidence fell to a three-month
low in December as concern the political outlook in the North
will worsen in the wake of Kim Jong Il ’s death compounds the
risk from Europe’s debt crisis.  Italian consumer confidence this month fell to the lowest
in 16 years and the economy shrank in the third quarter. The
government forecasts a further contraction in the current three-
month period, meaning  Italy  is in its fourth recession since
2001.  Italy won’t return to growth until the second half of next
year, employers’ lobby Confindustria said in a Dec. 15 report.
The $2.3 trillion economy will contract 1.6 percent in 2012
after growing 0.5 percent this year, the lobby said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  