-- When Ivy Grads Pick Teaching Over Wall Street: Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2011-12-27T00:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ivy-grads-choose-teaching-over-wall-street-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
We are witnessing the decline and
fall of the investment-banking profession as we have known it
for the past 40 years.  The evidence is everywhere. The increasing regulations on
Wall Street -- as required by the Dodd-Frank law and still being
written by the  Federal Reserve , the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and
others agencies in the U.S. and  Europe  -- will require the
remaining companies to increase their capital, curb their risk-
taking and reduce their principal investing.  Aside from the fact that investing principal and
proprietary risk-taking per se had nothing to do with the recent
financial crisis -- and that the ability of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  to make a huge proprietary bet against the mortgage market
probably helped saved the firm -- these new rules will greatly
curb Wall Street’s revenue and profitability at a time when the
business itself is suffering a severe slowdown. (What sunk  Wall
Street  in 2008 was the seemingly more conventional business of
being a middleman for the manufacture, packaging and sale of
increasingly risky mortgage-backed and other debt securities.)  Not being able to make those big proprietary bets when you
see them developing -- in effect, the closing of the casino that
Wall Street has become over the past few decades -- will
severely limit bankers’ money-making opportunities. It will also
protect the rest of us when those big bets go wrong or are
perceived to be too risky. (For every Goldman Sachs acting
brilliantly, there is an MF Global Holdings Ltd. acting
foolishly).  Signs of Withdrawal  There is little debate anymore that Wall Street had become
highly dependent on its trading operations. Something like 90
percent of Bear Stearns’s profits in the years leading up to its
March 2008 demise came from its trading and debt-origination
activities. The percentages are not that much different at
Goldman Sachs, where in 2010 its traditional investment-banking
operations generated only $1.3 billion of $12.9 billion in
pretax earnings, about 10 percent. All but $1 billion or so of
the rest of Goldman’s pretax earnings came from its trading,
lending and investing businesses.  The slowdown in business, combined with the looming trading
curbs, has resulted in job losses across Wall Street.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  recently announced it was firing 1,600 employees.
Goldman Sachs has done its usual turn of eliminating the bottom
10 percent of its workforce and a group of its long-serving
partners.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  announced that about 30,000
employees would be chopped by the end of 2012, although a number
of the firm’s investment bankers lost their jobs in the past
month.  Yet those suffering the most are the foreign firms that
were trying to break into Wall Street’s business.  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  has pretty much scuttled its most recent Wall
Street experiment (it bought Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s
European and Asian banking operations) and firms such as  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are all cutting Wall Street bodies.  In November, Bloomberg News estimated that more than
200,000 people who work in finance had already lost or would
lose their jobs this year.  Not only will the head-count reduction on Wall Street
continue for the foreseeable future, but the vast sums overpaid
to bankers and traders will inevitably continue to fall as well
-- as many of them are finding out this bonus week. There is
simply no easier and quicker way for Wall Street firms to keep
up a modicum of profitability than by cutting pay for the people
who still work there. Needless to say, the inevitable decline in
Wall Street’s compensation will mean less  tax revenue  for  New
York City  and New York State and fewer government services for
the rest of us (absent higher taxes).  Ivy League Doubts  The most reliable leading indicator of Wall Street’s future
prospects is the way recent graduates of Harvard, Princeton and
Yale -- supposedly our best and brightest -- choose to spend
their time after graduating. For years, hordes of graduates from
those schools beat a fast path to Wall Street. Now the road is
far more difficult to travel. For those who choose to make the
journey, there is the prospect of incurring the wrath and scorn
of fellow students who make up the various Occupy Wall Street
movements -- a fact not likely to deter many -- and then there
are dimmer prospects for a job on Wall Street generally, what
with the slowdown in business.  According to a Dec. 21  article  in New York Times, whereas
in 2006 some 46 percent of Princeton graduates who had jobs
lined up after graduation went to Wall Street, four years later
that number had fallen to 36 percent. At Harvard, in 2006, a
quarter of the class got jobs in finance; by 2011, that number
had fallen to 17 percent. At Yale, in 2006, 24 percent of the
graduates had jobs in finance and on Wall Street, while in 2010,
the number of graduates going to Wall Street had fallen to 14
percent.  The word around Goldman Sachs, I’m told, is that even those
offered a still highly coveted entry-level job at the firm are
having second thoughts about taking it. More and more, banks are
losing talent to Teach for America, a fact that may turn out to
be one of the most heartening consequences of the financial
crisis.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: William D. Cohan
at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 