-- Mizuho Chief Sato Considers Buying Asian Investment Bank to Bolster Fees
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2011-12-28T09:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/mizuho-considers-buying-asian-investment-bank-to-bolster-fees.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s
second-largest lender by assets, is considering buying an
investment bank in Asia to help improve slow growth in winning
equity and debt offerings in the region.  The lender’s expansion plans may also include allying with
an investment bank, and purchasing asset managers and  hedge
funds  in Singapore, India and Indonesia, Chief Executive Officer
 Yasuhiro Sato  said in an interview. He also plans to increase
the branches in Asia outside of Japan to 50 from 33 within five
years for its corporate banking unit. Mizuho isn’t currently in
talks with any banks for an acquisition or investment, he said.  Mizuho, ranked No. 22 in Asian equity underwriting this
year, aims to tap corporate banking clients to boost  fee income 
from advisory and underwriting as the domestic economy slows and
 loan demand  slumps. The bank is yet to break into the top 10 for
equity deals in the region since listing in the U.S. in 2006 in
a bid to win more investment banking businesses.  “Our power to originate deals currently is still far from
enough,” Sato, 59, said in an interview on Dec. 6. “We have to
strengthen our capability in  capital markets . It will be a big
challenge to do it alone.”  Sato added he has no plan to sell Mizuho’s stake in  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. lender by deposits, or
add to its stake of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset
manager.  Climbing the Ranks  Mizuho’s shares fell 1 percent to 103 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. The stock has lost 33
percent this year.  Mizuho sank to 22nd in equity underwriting this year,
excluding self-led transactions, from No. 13 last year and
jumped to Asia’s No. 5 bond underwriter this year from No. 7.
The bank this year climbed to No. 11 in Asian merger and
acquisition advising with deals valued at $44.6 billion,
including a merger between  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405)  and
 Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  That compares with ranking 38th last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bank’s first-half profit fell 25 percent on
“persistently sluggish” spending by Japanese companies, Sato
said last month as he announced plans to cut 3,000 jobs. Fees
and commissions had also declined.  Mizuho Securities Co. (8606) , its investment banking unit, had a
loss of 26.7 billion yen for the six months ended Sept. 30,
compared with a profit of 6.4 billion yen a year earlier. The
unit earlier this year hired Yasuo Agemura from  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  as a managing director and head of its global markets
business to help bolster its investment banking operations.  Business Abroad  Mizuho Financial’s net income for the six months ended
Sept. 30 fell to 254.7 billion yen. It had 6.2 trillion yen of
cash at that time, compared with 9.7 trillion yen at larger
rival Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and 6.7 trillion yen
at  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)   Since signing a business partnership with India’s Tata
Group earlier this year, Mizuho has arranged meetings for about
200 of its corporate clients with Tata-affiliated companies,
Sato said. More than 20 Mizuho clients are now in talks for
alliances with whose companies, possibly generating fees for the
Tokyo-based bank, he said, declining to comment on the
companies.  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd ., which has 13 branches and
offices in  China , plans to increase them to 20 in four or five
years, while it also plans to add offices in India, Turkey and
Myanmar, the CEO said.  The bank in September agreed to buy a 15 percent stake in
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, the
state-owned lender known as Vietcombank, for about $570 million.
Vietcombank is the country’s fourth-biggest bank by assets.  BofA, BlackRock  Mizuho will also keep its stake in Bank of America, Sato
said. The lender acquired the holding through its 2008
investment of $1.2 billion in Merrill Lynch & Co., before the
New York-based investment bank was taken over by Bank of
America.  Sato said in an interview on Feb. 8 that the bank would
take time to determine whether to maintain its 0.3 percent stake
in the U.S. bank or sell the shares. Since then, the stock has
declined 62 percent.  Mizuho bought a 2 percent stake in BlackRock for $500
million in November 2010 to compete with larger rival Sumitomo
Mitsui, which tied up with Barclays Plc in  wealth management . In
the February interview, Sato said he planned to leverage the
stake to buy investment advisory firms in  Asia  with BlackRock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  