-- Japan Turns Activist on Currency Reserves as Global Economic Rank Declines
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-27T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/japan-turns-activist-on-reserves-as-rank-slips.html
Japan  is crafting ways of using its
$1.2 trillion of currency reserves, the world’s second largest,
helping bolster its role in international finance as economic
stagnation diminishes its share of global output.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who is in  New Delhi  today,
is likely to seal an agreement making about $10 billion of
Japan’s reserves available to  India  if needed, according to a
Japanese government official speaking on condition of anonymity.
Noda three days ago oversaw a deal with China to expand use of
the yuan and yen in bilateral trade and purchase Chinese bonds.
At home, officials are deploying 10 trillion yen ($128 billion)
in a fund aiding companies in overseas acquisitions.  “While Japan is losing its influence in various areas in
the global economy, foreign reserves can work as an effective
tool to yield Japanese influence and show its presence,” said
Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 Tokyo  and a former chief foreign-exchange dealer at Japan’s
central bank. “This is still a remote concept, but Japan’s
recent moves are also considered as a significant step to
foresee a future possible unification of Asian economies.”  The bilateral deals with China and India help each nation
address current priorities, with Premier  Wen Jiabao  seeking to
increase the use of yuan in commerce and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  contending with financial risks from a slump in the rupee.
For Japan, the steps strengthen the country’s role after it saw
China overtake it as the world’s second-largest economy.  IMF Contribution  Japan is also prepared to use its reserves to contribute to
an expansion in the International Monetary Fund’s resources
that’s aimed in part at boosting the IMF’s ability to respond to
 Europe ’s debt woes. Japan will make that decision once European
leaders have shown a clear and specific plan on how to resolve
its crisis, the Japanese government official said.  Reserves in Japan swelled to $1.22 trillion in November
from $1.04 trillion at the end of last year, propelled in part
by a resumption of currency intervention under Noda, starting
with one round in September 2010 when he was finance minister.
With Noda as prime minister, yen sales continued with at least
three episodes this year to combat a 52 percent appreciation in
the currency in the past five years.  The government is providing some of its foreign-exchange
reserves to the state-run  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  to aid exporters and spur purchases of overseas
assets, a way of helping companies cope with a stronger currency
that intervention alone cannot reverse.  Rupee Drop  India,  Asia ’s third-largest economy, had $302 billion as of
mid-December. With a current-account deficit, slowing domestic
growth and increased international financial stress stemming
from Europe, investors have driven the rupee down 16 percent
against the dollar this year, forcing the central bank to tap
its reserves in defense. India’s holdings slid $14 billion in
the four weeks to Nov. 25.  “It’s like an insurance cover or padding to the foreign-
exchange reserves in a crisis,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-
based economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard &
Poor’s , said of the currency-swap deal with Japan. “It will
help in times of dollar shortage.”  Japanese efforts to support regional neighbors are long-
standing. In October 1998, Japan unveiled $30 billion in aid
under the so-called Miyazawa Initiative, named after Finance
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, designed to help countries obtain
funds at a time when emerging-market bond issuance had largely
dried up amid the 1997-98 financial crisis.  South Korea  Swap  The country is also a signatory to the Chiang Mai
Initiative, a $120 billion foreign-exchange pool with the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations ,  China  and South Korea.
In October, it expanded a bilateral swap agreement with South
Korea to $70 billion.  The new initiative comes under the tenure of Vice Finance
Minister for International Affairs Takehiko Nakao, 55, Japan’s
top currency official, who oversaw the estimated record 8
trillion yen of intervention on Oct. 31. On his third day in the
job, the Tokyo University and  University of California  at
Berkeley graduate helmed the nation’s Aug. 4 yen sales to stem
the currency’s advance.  With yields on U.S. Treasuries falling to record lows,
returns on Japan’s reserves have diminished. The Bank of Japan’s
capital ratio dropped to its lowest level since the 1979 fiscal
year in September, hurt by losses on foreign-currency assets. As
the nation’s relative economic links to the U.S. loosen with the
rise of China and other major  emerging markets , it makes sense
to diversify the holdings, said economist  Robert Feldman .  Relative Strength  “The relative strength of the United States economy
compared to other countries, particularly the emerging economies,
has been falling,” said Feldman, head of Japan economic
research at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. “It’s only normal for
portfolio managers -- official and private sector -- to
diversify their assets in a way that is more reflective of the
structure of global gross domestic product.”  China surpassed the U.S. as Japan’s largest export
destination in 2009, finance ministry data show. Japanese
companies such as Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. are
increasingly relying on locations including  Thailand  to boost
production.  Noda reached a deal Dec. 25 with Wen that will promote
direct trading of the yen and yuan without using dollars. Japan
will also apply to buy Chinese bonds next year, allowing the
investment of yuan that leaves China during the transactions.
Encouraging direct yen-yuan settlement should reduce currency
risks and trading costs, the two governments said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  