-- Japan Set to Unveil $10 Billion India Currency Swap Deal During Noda Visit
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-27T05:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/japan-set-to-unveil-india-currency-swap-deal.html
Japan  is poised to unveil a
currency-swap line with  India  in its second international
financial agreement with top Asian powers this week.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today in  Tokyo 
that Japan is negotiating an agreement with India, the third-
largest economy in Asia behind China and Japan. The deal is
likely to be unveiled during a trip by Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda to India that starts today, with the amount of the swap
line about $10 billion, a Japanese government official said on
condition of anonymity.  Japan agreed with China two days ago to promote direct
trading of the yen and yuan without using dollars and start
purchases of Chinese bonds for its foreign-exchange reserves.
The deal with India would expand the ability to respond to
financial shocks as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration contends with a slump in the rupee that risks
stoking inflation.  “It’s like an insurance cover or padding to the foreign-
exchange reserves in a crisis,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a
Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of
 Standard & Poor’s . “It will help in times of dollar shortage.”  The rupee has plunged about 15 percent against the dollar
this year, the worst performance in Asia, after foreign
investors sold shares worth $561 million as growth slows and
 Europe ’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis roiled global
financial markets. A weakening currency adds to the cost of
imported goods in a nation that has the fastest  inflation  among
so-called BRIC nations, with the benchmark wholesale-price index
rising more than 9 percent in each of the past 12 months.  Previous Arrangement  While India’s foreign-exchange  reserves  have risen $4.8
billion in the past year to $302 billion, the country’s holdings
are smaller than those of  China , Japan, Taiwan, South Korea and
 Hong Kong .  India and Japan have previously supported each other with
similar arrangements. In 2007, the two nations agreed to support
each other in the event of a run on their currencies in the
first such foreign-exchange accord for the South Asian nation.
Under the plan, Japan would lend dollars and other currencies
should India find its foreign-exchange reserves insufficient to
stem a fall in the rupee.  Japan has also deployed some of its reserves, the world’s
second biggest behind China’s, for aiding Japanese companies in
making overseas acquisitions.  Direct Trading  Earlier this week, the Japanese government said Asia’s two
largest economies will promote direct trading of the yen and
yuan without using dollars and will encourage the development of
a market for companies involved in the exchanges.  Japan will also apply to buy Chinese bonds next year,
allowing the investment of renminbi that leaves China during the
transactions, the Japanese government said in a statement after
a meeting between Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao in Beijing Dec. 25. Encouraging direct yen-
yuan settlement should reduce currency risks and trading costs,
the two governments said.  China is Japan’s biggest trading partner with 26.5 trillion
yen ($340 billion) in two-way transactions last year, from 9.2
trillion yen a decade earlier. The pacts between the world’s
second- and third-largest economies mirror attempts by fund
managers to diversify as the two-year-old European debt crisis
keeps global financial markets volatile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  