-- Deflation Grip Returns in Japan as Production Declines: Economy
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2011-12-28T05:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/japan-factory-output-falls-on-global-slump.html
Japan ’s rebound from the March
earthquake and tsunami sputtered in November as  production  and
retail sales tumbled, deepening the nation’s return to the
deflation that first took hold a decade ago.  Industrial output slumped 2.6 percent from October, more
than all the forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of 29
economists, a government report showed today in  Tokyo . Retail
sales slid 2.1 percent. Consumer  prices  excluding fresh food
fell 0.2 percent from a year earlier after a 0.1 percent decline
the previous month.  The weakening economy, hurt by Europe’s debt crisis and
plans by companies from Panasonic Corp. to Nissan Motor Co. to
shift production abroad, may undermine Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s plan to raise taxes and cut the world’s largest debt
burden. Lawmakers told reporters in Tokyo today that a tax panel
set up by Noda’s party has proposed doubling the nation’s sales
tax by 2015, a move opposed by some ruling party members who’ve
threatened to quit over the issue.  “Fundamentally, Japan’s economy is on a downward slope,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at Itochu Corp.
“Exports are falling and negatively impacting Japan’s economy
due to the global slowdown.”  To stoke demand and help rebuilding efforts, Japan’s
government has approved four supplementary budgets since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, worth around 20 trillion yen
($257 billion). A separate budget account will also be created
for the fiscal year starting April 1 to pay for reconstruction.  Tax Spat  To help fill government coffers, Noda is pushing for a tax
panel to decide on what to do about the  sales tax  by this week.  The Democratic Party of Japan plans to raise the tax from 5
percent to 8 percent in October 2013, and to 10 percent in April
2015, lawmakers Takeshi Miyazaki and Motoyuki Odachi said after
leaving a meeting of the panel today.  A rebellion within the party over plans for the levy adds
to troubles for Noda after two of his ministers were censured by
the upper house earlier this month. Nine DPJ members submitted
their resignation today, the DPJ’s acting secretary general,
Shinji Tarutoko, told reporters.  Asian stocks fell for a second day, with the regional
benchmark index headed for the worst year since 2008, after a
report showed U.S. housing prices fell, damping the earnings
outlook for Asian exporters. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped
0.7 percent to 112.89 as of 1:02 p.m. in Tokyo. The measure has
fallen 18 percent this year.  Stocks Drop  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which has declined 17 percent
in the past twelve months, fell less than 0.1 percent to
8,439.55 as of 12:35 p.m. in Tokyo after swinging between gains
and losses more than 15 times. The broader Topix Index fell 0.2
percent to 723.01 after rising as much as 0.1 percent.  Other reports in the Asia-Pacific region today showed
confidence among South Korean manufacturers dropping to a 30-
month low as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and the death of
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il , who is being laid to rest
today, cloud the outlook. In the Philippines, the trade deficit
narrowed to $932 million, the  National Statistics Office  said.  In  Europe , a report may show retail sales in Sweden last
month fell 0.3 percent from a month earlier.  Floods Hit Production  The second consecutive drop in Japan’s consumer prices
occurs against a backdrop of weakening global demand and the
yen’s advance against the dollar. The yen has strengthened
almost 6 percent in the past 12 months, the best performer among
Group of 10 currencies. The dollar fetched 77.80 yen as of 11
a.m. in Tokyo from 77.88.  The yen’s gain has exacerbated woes caused by Thailand’s
worst flooding in almost 70 years. The floods contributed to the
drop in production, crippling the output in  Southeast Asia  of
Japanese companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Honda Motor Co.  “The big drop in the numbers this time is due more to the
Thai flooding than to the global economy,” Itochu’s Maruyama
said. “In terms of the production numbers now, basically it’s
on a downward trend in the long run.”  The biggest seasonally adjusted monthly drops in industrial
production were in the information electronics industry, with
overall output dropping 23.7 percent, today’s figures show.
Passenger car output slid 12.6 percent; iron and steel
production declined 1.2 percent.  Japan’s manufacturers said they planned on boosting output
by 4.8 percent in December and 3.4 percent in January, signaling
optimism over the outlook as disruptions from the floods in
Thailand ease.  Recovery Stalling  “Industrial production is unlikely to recover to” levels
seen before the 2008 global financial crisis,  Junko Nishioka ,
chief Japan economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd., said before
today’s reports.  Other data also suggest Japan’s recovery may be stalling.
Exports fell for the second straight month in November from a
year earlier and  capital spending  in the third quarter dropped
9.8 percent. Large manufacturers are more concerned about
business prospects, with the Bank of Japan’s Tankan quarterly
index of corporate sentiment falling to minus 4 this month. A
negative figure indicates pessimists outnumber optimists.  The financial situation in the euro area, Japan’s third-
biggest export destination, also shows no sign of improving,
with 10-year Italian  government bonds  hovering around 7 percent.
 Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 17 lowered the credit outlook of  Spain ,
Italy and AAA-rated  France , citing Europe’s failure to find a
“comprehensive solution” to its crisis.  The appreciation of the yen is hurting exports, Japan’s
finance minister,  Jun Azumi , said on Dec. 24. The finance
minister has indicated he’s prepared to sell the currency in the
foreign-exchange markets. The  Finance Ministry  said last week
that it plans to raise the issuance limit for bills to fund
intervention to an unprecedented 195 trillion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  