-- JPMorgan Swaps Occupying Cassino Prove Curse Like World War II Destruction
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2011-12-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/jpmorgan-s-swaps-occupying-cassino-prove-curse-like-world-war-ii.html
World War II’s Battle for Cassino
leveled the Italian town and its hilltop abbey. Now, the 33,000
residents are digging out from the rubble left by  Wall Street .  Six decades after U.S.-led forces ousted the Nazis from
Cassino, a new generation is grappling with the fallout from the
debts of postwar rebuilding -- borrowings that grew because of a
derivative that backfired. Soaring costs forced Cassino, 80
miles southeast of Rome, to settle an interest-rate swap with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2009, leaving the town unable to pay for
daycare for 60 infants and services for the poor.  For Iris Volante, who chairs Cassino’s assembly finance
committee, the bankers who share responsibility for peddling the
derivatives should pay with their jobs. She, like Occupy Wall
Street protesters around the world, is demanding an overhaul of
the financial system to stop history from repeating itself.  “Heads rolling is the least we would expect,” Volante, a
57-year-old gynecologist who also has worked for the city for
more than a decade, said in an interview in a Cassino cafe
earlier this month. “When people’s attitude is to cheat others,
new rules are needed to prevent it happening again.”  Cassino , whose government office overlooks a U.S. tank and
other war relics in the town’s central square, plans to cut
funding for its daycare center and may ask families to pay
several hundred euros a month per child after running out of
other cost-cutting measures, said Volante. The town already has
reduced staff to about 250 employees from about 450 by not
replacing those who left or retired, she said.  Milan Trial  While the New York-based bank led by Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  has no retail branches in Italy, it didn’t
hesitate to sell complex swaps to municipalities over the past
decade. In Milan, JPMorgan and its employees are on trial, along
with Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s Depfa Bank Plc
and  Switzerland ’s UBS AG, for allegedly tricking the city into
buying the contracts in 2005. The banks deny any wrongdoing.  Across Italy, cities faced with shrinking income and rising
expenses bought swaps from JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, and other lenders to cut short-term interest costs,
putting them at risk of paying more in the long run. Cassino
purchased a 22 million-euro ($28.7 million) contract from New
York-based Bear Stearns Cos., acquired by JPMorgan in 2008,
which switched interest payments on the town’s debt from a fixed
rate to a variable one. The rate, a record low at the time the
contract was signed in 2003, soared over subsequent years.  About 300 municipalities, from the toe of  Italy ’s boot to
the Alps, were losing a total of 912 million euros on such
derivatives as of March,  Bank of Italy data  show.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  London ,
declined to comment.  Jefferson County  Local governments and regulators in Germany and the U.S.
also have brought cases against banks, including JPMorgan, over
derivatives contracts.  The German city of Pforzheim sued JPMorgan a year ago over
56 million euros of losses on interest-rate swaps. A hearing at
the Frankfurt Regional Court is scheduled for Jan. 16. Marchiony
declined to comment on the case.  In the U.S., JPMorgan was investigated by the  Justice
Department , the Securities and Exchange Commission and  attorneys
general  in 25 states for its role in rigging the bids of
investment contracts. The bank agreed to a $228 million
settlement this year on charges that it conspired to overcharge
cities at taxpayer expense, acknowledging responsibility for
illegal, anticompetitive conduct by former employees.  In 2009, JPMorgan entered a $722 million accord with the
SEC to end an investigation into its role in selling derivatives
that helped push Jefferson County,  Alabama , to declare the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history. The bank paid $75
million in fines and restitution and wrote off $647 million it
was owed by the county.  Interest-Rate  Swaps  The sales happened before Dimon took over as CEO in 2006.
In September 2008, the bank said it would stop marketing
interest-rate swaps to municipalities.  Banks globally sold $707.6 trillion of over-the-counter
derivatives as of June 30, about 18 percent more than the $601
trillion at the end of 2010, according to data published by the
 Bank for International Settlements  last month. Counterparties
would have to pay $19.5 trillion to replace the contracts at
market rates, the data show.  Interest-rate swaps account for more than three-quarters of
the total, BIS data show. The Basel, Switzerland-based group
doesn’t break out what percentage is bought by municipalities.  JPMorgan was the largest global dealer of interest-rate
derivatives among U.S. banks in the third quarter, according to
data from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
bank had $75.4 trillion in notional derivatives within its
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA subsidiary, of which 77 percent, or about
$58.1 trillion, were interest-rate contracts, the data show.  ‘Without Thinking’  Dimon, 55, led the charge in the U.S. against new banking
regulation, criticizing Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
in June for saddling lenders with too many proposed rules. The
rules, to be overseen by the Fed, are meant to avert future
financial crises and banking abuses.  “Banks pitched deals without thinking about the well-being
of others and created lots of financial problems for many
towns,” said Carmelo Palombo, a former Cassino official who
helped negotiate the settlement with JPMorgan. The agreement
stopped the city from losing even more money, said Palombo,
without providing details.  Secret Settlement  A 2001 Italian law said local authorities could buy swaps
only if the transactions would improve municipal finances. Italy
banned governments from signing new derivatives contracts in
mid-2008, and the Senate finance committee approved
recommendations in March 2010 that would prevent towns that
aren’t provincial capitals and have fewer than 100,000 residents
from using derivatives. Those rules are still pending.  Cassino sought to keep the settlement terms secret, citing
a confidentiality clause in its agreement with JPMorgan. An
administrative court in Latina, Italy, in September backed a
case brought by Bloomberg News under Italian freedom of
information law asking the town to make the swaps contract and
settlement public.  The city plans to comply with the court order, said Enzo
Salera, Cassino’s finance chief.  In Milan, Dimon’s bankers say they played by the book,
adhering to rules that allow swaps dealers to withhold details,
including how much they’re charging their customers. Hidden
charges on derivatives contracts are what Milan prosecutor
Alfredo Robledo says made them fraudulent.  Robledo says banks charged 101 million euros in fees in
selling the derivatives that adjusted payments on the city’s 1.7
billion-euro bond offering in 2005 and in later restructurings.  Gross Margin  “Every time I sold a derivative to a public
administration, even before getting to the details, the first
question was always, ‘How does the bank make money?’” Antonia Creanza, an  executive director  at JPMorgan in London said in
court Sept. 21 under questioning by her lawyer. “I would
explain that we would retain a margin. Never has a legal adviser
told me, ‘Look you need to detail the gross margin.’”  Banks seek to earn a gross margin when they agree to a swap
with a client by skewing the terms to their advantage, Creanza,
42, a member of the bank’s interest-rate team at the time of the
Milan deal, testified on Sept. 28.  The gross margin is “photographed” when the deal is
struck, Creanza said. That value is then managed by a trader
over the life of the contract, its magnitude varying as the
derivative agreement changes in value, she said. The final
profit for the bank can’t be known until maturity, said Creanza,
who declined to elaborate further.  ‘Asymmetry of Information’  The bank didn’t tell the city of Milan how much it was
charging, and the municipality could have sought competing bids
from other banks or independent advice, she said.  Creanza said she earned a bonus that year, a payment
JPMorgan had guaranteed irrespective of her performance when the
firm lured her from a competitor in December 2004. She didn’t
say what the bonus was.  The city of Milan is seeking damages as part of the
criminal trial.  “There’s an asymmetry of information between banks and
local governments, which have stringent limits, not least in
their spending,” Letizia Moratti, 62, Milan’s mayor from 2006
through May of this year, said in court last month. “There was
a clear conflict that the banks didn’t highlight.”  Watershed Events  In Cassino, which lies on an ancient road connecting Naples
and  Rome , residents curse two watershed events: the five-month
battle in 1944 that claimed more than 70,000 casualties and
turned the town into a moonscape, and the day in 2003 that the
government entered a seven-year swap with Bear Stearns.  The contract, which adjusted payments on about 22 million
euros of debt, switched the city’s 4.7 percent fixed interest
rate for a variable one, according to a June 2009 report by
Italy’s financial police. The floating rate was based on the
U.S.-dollar London interbank offered rate, or Libor, an
“extremely risky” bet given that it was at a record low,
police said in testimony to the Italian Senate that month.  Three-month U.S. dollar-Libor was at 1 percent in June 2003
and by January 2006 had surpassed 4.7 percent, according to data
compiled by the British Bankers’ Association. The measure
climbed as high as 5.7 percent in September 2007 as credit
markets began to seize up, before declining to a record low of
0.25 percent by December 2009 after policy makers cut rates.  Depleted Funds  Cassino started losing money on the swap with the third
half-yearly payment, paying about 2 million euros after Libor
soared, according to police  testimony . That depleted funds
intended for sanitation and road works that the city raises from
parking tickets and federal grants.  The transaction was presented as advantageous to the
municipality at the time, said Volante, who worked as a city
culture chief when Bear Stearns pitched the deal.  For Cassino, whose rundown postwar architecture bears
little of the ancient charm of neighboring towns, the challenge
now is to cut services without damaging the most vulnerable
residents, said Danilo Grossi, the city’s education chief.  A new administration, which took over after May elections,
will boost charges for the city-run nursery starting next year
to help pay the 900,000 euros it costs to operate annually, said
Grossi. Talks with the families have begun, he said. The town is
still grappling with a shortfall that in 2010 forced out the
previous administration and led the federal government to take
financial control of the municipality.  Helping the Poor  Cassino’s pain has increased as Italy’s economy contracted
in the third quarter, signaling that the country may have
entered its fifth  recession  since 2001. Facing soaring borrowing
costs amid investor concern that the nation may struggle to
repay its debt, Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government is
adopting austerity measures that may further weigh on growth.  While Cassino eventually extracted itself from the swap,
the damage may be lasting, according to Giuseppe Lauro, a
retired manager for Italy’s largest power company,  Enel SpA (ENEL) , who
now volunteers for church-sponsored charity Caritas Italiana.
The shrinking local economy and cuts in city spending are
creating a growing class of poor, he said.  On a foggy December morning, as local politicians were busy
hosting Italy’s Chamber Speaker Gianfranco Fini to mark the
150th anniversary of the nation’s unification with songs in the
town’s Teatro Manzoni, Lauro was looking after the poor, picking
up the pieces of the city’s financial wreckage.  About half of those who sought assistance from Caritas in
Cassino for the first time in 2009 were of working age, seeking
help with paying bills and food and clothes, a 2009 study by the
charity showed. More than half of those who relied on Caritas
were below 40.  “We need more city funds,” Lauro, 66, said in an
interview at the charity’s shelter, a few hundred yards from
town hall. “The city’s demise means there are new poor and
they’re younger. They need jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  