-- Nakheel Can’t Charge Palm Island Residents to Use Beaches, Regulator Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-12-27T14:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/nakheel-can-t-charge-palm-shaped-island-s-residents-extra-fees-rera-says.html
Nakheel PJSC , Dubai’s largest
property developer by assets, has no right to deny residents of
Dubai’s palm-shaped island access to communal facilities by
turning them into exclusive clubs, according to the emirate’s
property regulator.  Nakheel stopped homeowners and tenants at the Palm Jumeirah
from using the property’s beach, swimming pools and gyms earlier
this month, according to leaflets the developer distributed
earlier this month. The company plans to charge households 5,000
dirhams ($1,360) a year for access to these parts of the man-
made island, the leaflets showed.  “By law, no one can stop an owner or a registered tenant
from using the communal areas once they have paid service
fees,” Marwan bin Ghalita, chief executive officer of Dubai’s
 Real Estate Regulatory Agency , said in an interview today. “If
you bought something based on an agreement with a developer, he
can’t change it.” A spokesman for Nakheel declined to comment.  Dubai developers are trying to generate income after the
global credit crisis left many of them short of funding to
complete projects across the emirate. Nakheel has incurred 78.6
billion dirhams in losses since the crisis began in the third
quarter of 2008.  Membership Fees  Palm Jumeirah’s residents will have to pay annual
membership fees of 5,000 dirhams to gain access to the beach,
pools and gyms from Jan. 1, while non-residents will be charged
12,000 dirhams, according to membership application forms
distributed by Nakheel’s staff at clubhouses. Guests would have
to pay as much as 200 dirhams a day to use the facilities.  Nakheel, which owns the clubhouses between the shoreline
buildings, can charge residents for the use of facilities and
services that aren’t specified in their contracts such as
poolside sun beds, towels, showers and changing rooms, bin
Ghalita said. If the developer wants to block residents from
accessing the clubhouses where gyms are located, it would have
to provide gyms inside the apartment buildings, bin Ghalita
said.  Many homeowners haven’t yet paid their services charges and
Nakheel required temporary security cards to prevent those who
haven’t paid from accessing the facilities, bin Ghalita said.  The developer and the Homeowners’ Association will soon
reach an agreement that will resolve the standoff, according to
bin Ghalita. Nakheel and other developers are in the process of
submitting blueprints of their buildings to RERA to establish
and define communal areas.  ‘No Overpaying’  “We want to make sure that all non-communal areas aren’t
included in the service charges, so owners won’t overpay,” bin
Ghalita said. “That’s why we are taking our time to subdivide
all of the buildings,” he said.  Nakheel charges around 25 dirhams per square foot in common
area fees, Rakesh Sharma, a property consultant at RBA Real
Estate which manages properties on the shoreline said.  Some homeowners say that developers are inflating the fees
and using the charges as an additional source of revenue. The
formation of homeowners associations should resolve the issue as
owners would be in charge of the accounts and could manage the
costs, RERA’s CEO said.  Several members of the shoreline’s homeowners’ association
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  In the past, Nakheel derived most of its income by selling
properties before they were built. It also sold plots of land to
smaller competitors after providing infrastructure such as
roads, water, sewage and electricity. The company, which was
forced to suspend work on two other man-made islands after the
credit crisis, is trying to increase recurring income from
rentals and shopping malls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 