-- Nigeria Authorities Arrest Two Over Christmas Attack That Killed 26 People
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2011-12-27T13:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/nigerian-authorities-arrest-two-over-christmas-bomb-attacks-that-killed-26.html
Nigerian authorities arrested two
people suspected of being involved in the Christmas Day bomb
attack on a church near the capital, Abuja, the national
security adviser to President Goodluck Jonathan said.  “Two of the criminals had been apprehended, caught in
action,” Owoye Azazi, a retired army general, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. He gave no details on the arrests.  At least 26 people died in an explosion at the St.
Theresa’s Church in the early hours of Dec. 25. The Boko Haram
Muslim sect, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, claimed responsibility for the attack, the Abuja-based
Trust newspaper reported.  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame Boko Haram
for a surge of violence in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja in
which hundreds of people have been killed this year. At least 72
people died in fighting since Dec. 22 between Nigerian security
forces and the militant group in the northeastern city of
Damaturu, according to security officials.  Rescue workers have been unable to ascertain the number of
people injured in the attack on St. Theresa’s as many of those
hurt are being taken “in and out of hospitals,” Yushau Shaibu,
spokesman for National Emergency Management Agency, said by
phone yesterday.  At least five people died in two other blasts on Christmas
Day in the West African country, government officials said. An
explosion at a church in the central city of Jos, capital of
Plateau state, killed a policeman, while a suspected suicide-
bomber rammed a car into the entrance of the State Security
Service building in the northeastern city of Damaturu, killing
four people and the bomber.  U.S. Assistance  The Obama administration promised to help Nigeria find the
people responsible for the attacks.  Boko Haram, which translates to “Western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb attack on
the United Nations building in Abuja on Aug. 26 in which 24
people were killed. It also claimed several Christmas Eve blasts
last year in Jos that left 80 people dead and another blast on
New Year’s Eve at an Abuja military barracks that killed at
least 12 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  