-- Kim Jong Un Mourns Father in Pyongyang
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-28T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/north-korea-may-fete-touching-drama-for-kim-funeral-ushering-power-shift.html
Kim Jong Un, successor to North
Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il , walked weeping alongside a hearse
carrying the body of his father through the snow-covered streets
of Pyongyang yesterday, ahead of a memorial service that ends 
two days of mourning meant to bolster the new leader.  A black limousine carrying a giant portrait of Kim Jong Il,
who developed nuclear weapons during his 17-year reign while
more than 1 million of his people starved to death, led the
motorcade that included the coffin, draped in a red flag. 
State television showed thousands of soldiers massed in
formation as citizens lined the North Korean capital’s wide
avenues during the three-hour funeral.  State media have sketched the image of Kim Jong Un
solidifying his hold on succession, referring to him as
“supreme leader of the revolutionary armed forces” and “great
successor” to his late father and grandfather. The stability of
 North Korea , which has the world’s fourth-largest army and 70
submarines, may depend on the younger Kim’s ability to establish
a firm grip on the regime.  “Kim Jong Un walked the hearse himself with his hand on
the hood, while surrounded by key elders of the North Korean
elite,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North Korea studies
at Dongguk University in  Seoul . “Authorities are trying to
indirectly communicate to the people that the transition is
stable, that the new leader is stable.”  Red banners that read “Hail Comrade Kim Jong Il!” and
“Great Leader Kim Jong Il Is Immortal!” were draped over
buildings as citizens dressed in dark, heavy coats to shield
against the winter cold filled the sidewalks.  White Chrysanthemums  People en route to the ceremony carried white
chrysanthemums, said Gunter Unterbeck, a German national who has
lived in Pyongyang since 1996. Children without real flowers
made them from paper.  The procession followed the same route as the 1994 funeral
of  Kim Il Sung , North Korea’s first leader and Kim Jong Un’s
grandfather, whose beaming portrait was also paraded through the
streets at the head of a motorcade. Unlike his father, who was
kept behind the scenes during the funeral of Kim Il Sung, Kim
Jong Un featured prominently in the ceremony.  The aim was “to make him better known to the North Korean
people,” said Baek Seung Joo, a North Korea specialist at the
Korea Institute of Defense Analyses. “Average North Koreans do
not know much about Kim Jong Un, and by having him take the
lead, they were trying to build recognition as well as loyalty
toward him.”  ‘Power Dynamic’  Jang Song Thaek, the vice chairman of the National Defense
Commission and Kim Jong Un’s uncle, walked behind his nephew.
They were followed by Kim Ki Nam, secretary of the  Central
Committee  of the Workers’ Party, and Choe Thae Bok, chairman of
the Supreme People’s Assembly. On the other side of the hearse
and dressed in military uniform were Ri Yong Ho, chief of the
general staff of the Korean People’s Army, and Kim Yong Chun,
vice-chairman of the National Defense Commission.  Watching how people are aligned around Kim Jong Un, who is
thought to be 28 or 29 years old, “we can have a clue on the
power dynamic in the North Korean leadership,” said Paik Hak
Soon, a director of inter-Korean relations at the Seongnam, a
South Korea-based Sejong Institute research group.  The TV broadcast showed some mourners wailing
uncontrollably while others stood motionless, with somber
expressions, as the snow fell. “A national tragedy has
happened. How could the sky not cry?” a soldier in uniform told
state television.  A notice in yesterday’s newspaper said all social life
would stop for three minutes from noon, including trains and
cars, said Unterbeck. People were busy cleaning the streets and
buildings before the event, he said.  Recognition And Loyalty  Soldiers held back some people who surged toward the
roadway as the motorcade approached. Kim Jong Un and his
entourage walked alongside the hearse for a short part of its
journey, which covered 40 kilometers (25 miles) through the
city, according to KCNA.  Russian scientists who maintain the corpse of  Vladimir
Lenin  in Moscow are in North Korea embalming Kim Jong Il,
Russian News Service radio reported. Specialists from the
Moscow-based Center for Biomedical Technologies also have
embalmed Kim Il Sung and other Communist leaders, including the
 Soviet Union ’s  Josef Stalin  and  Vietnam ’s Ho Chi Minh, the
station said on its website.  No government officials from Seoul will pay condolences,
according to the Unification Ministry, which oversees policy
toward North Korea. Lee Hee Ho, the 89-year-old widow of former
South Korean President Kim Dae Jung, and Hyundai Group
Chairwoman Hyun Jeong Eun led a private group of 18 South
Koreans on a two-day visit. State media showed them being
greeted by Kim Jong Un on Dec. 26.  Protest Balloons  Concerns that the political outlook in the North could
worsen contributed to a slump in  consumer confidence  in  South
Korea , which fell to a three-month low in December, according to
a survey released Dec. 27. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19
when Kim Jong Il’s death was announced, then rallied 4 percent
the next two trading days.  South Korean civic groups and defectors from the North said
yesterday that they had launched balloons that would float
across the border to deliver leaflets criticizing Kim Jong Il
and his successor. North Korea had previously said that such
acts could ignite a war.  Observers around the world scrutinized the images for signs
of changes in the regime’s power hierarchy under its new leader.  It is difficult to tell whether a regency-type system will
develop, led by Kim Jong Un’s uncle Jang Song Thaek, who walked
behind his nephew in the motorcade, said  Dongguk University ’s
Kim. “For now, it’s evident that the system is being centered
around Kim Jong Un,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  