-- NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Merger Date Extended
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2011-12-27T19:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/nyse-euronext-deutsche-boerse-merger-date-extended-to-march-31.html
NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
delayed the deadline for completing their merger until March 31
as the exchange operators try to persuade European regulators to
approve the deal.  The extension was announced in a regulatory filing. The
companies previously said they expected to complete their
combination “shortly” after the Feb. 9 deadline for a ruling
by the European Commission. That date was extended on Dec. 13.
The companies said in February when they announced the merger
that they expected to close the deal this year.  NYSE Euronext of New York and Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Boerse  are trying to convince European regulators that combining
to create the world’s largest exchange operator won’t stifle
competition in derivatives and clearing.  “We expect things to be relatively quiet from now until
early January,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  told company employees in an e-mail on Dec. 22,
according to a regulatory filing. “After the holidays, we will
commence our final push to convince the College of Commissioners
that our proposed deal is good for  Europe  and does not impede
competition.”  European Union regulators told NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse that new concessions they offered to allay antitrust
concerns don’t go far enough, two people familiar with the
discussions said this month.  The exchanges met with officials in Brussels on Dec. 21 to
discuss their revised offer, which included capping fees on
derivatives trading and clearing for three years, the sale of
NYSE’s Liffe single-stock derivatives business, and the
licensing of the Eurex trading system to a third party, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  