-- Obama to Congress Approval for $1.2 Trillion Increase in U.S. Debt Limit
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2011-12-27T18:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/obama-to-seek-1-2-trillion-increase-in-u-s-debt-limit-dec-30.html
The Obama administration will ask
Congress to increase federal borrowing authority by $1.2
trillion as the nation approaches the debt  limit  set by law,
according to a Treasury Department official.  The White House will send the request to Congress on Dec.
30, the day the debt is projected to rise to within $100 billion
of the $15.194 trillion limit, the Treasury official told
reporters today on condition of anonymity.  Congress will be notified under the terms of a deal to
raise the limit worked out on Aug. 2 after a more than two-month
standoff between the administration and Republican lawmakers
that was followed by a cut in the U.S. debt rating by  Standard &
Poor’s . The Budget Control Act of 2011 gives Congress 15 days to
pass a joint resolution disapproving the increase in the limit.
The president can veto such a measure.  “This process was intended to avoid any further political
wrangling” and “make it virtually impossible to derail the
final $1.2 trillion,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  The limit has already been raised twice since the act was
approved, by a total of $900 billion. It would rise to $16.394
trillion after the latest increase.  November Election  The Treasury official said  U.S. government debt  won’t hit
the limit again until late next year. Even if it is reached
before the November election, the Treasury would be able to use
extraordinary measures, such as suspending the issuance of some
securities used to finance state and local government
infrastructure projects, to extend borrowing authority.  Under the Budget Control law, the debt limit will be
increased on Jan. 14, 2012, unless Congress acts. The Treasury
will need to deploy some extraordinary measures to keep the debt
within the limit before then, the official said.  In a note to clients last week, Crandall said there’s “no
chance” Congress would vote to override a presidential veto of
a resolution to reject an increase in the debt limit. He also
said it’s unlikely Congress would have to vote on another
increase in the debt limit before November.  Borrowing increases toward the end of the year because the
government must make $82 billion in semiannual interest
payments, such as on the Social Security trust fund, the
Treasury official said.  Obama may have little difficulty financing a fourth
consecutive year of $1 trillion  budget  deficits after the U.S.
government received record demand for its bonds in 2011, pushing
longer-maturity Treasuries to their best performance since 1995.  Interest Payments  The Treasury attracted $3.04 for each dollar of the $2.135
trillion in notes and bonds sold, the most since the government
began releasing the data in 1992 during the George H. W. Bush
administration.  Demand for Treasuries surged after S&P cut the nation’s AAA
rating by one step on Aug. 5 as investors sought the safety of
U.S. assets amid the European crisis and slowing global growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  