-- Jerome Powell, Jeremy Stein Chosen by Obama to Fill Fed’s Board Vacancies
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2011-12-27T20:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/obama-to-nominate-jerome-powell-jeremy-stein-to-fed-s-board-of-governors.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
nominate two former U.S. Treasury Department officials for the
Federal Reserve Board, including one who served in a Republican
administration.  Jerome Powell, an attorney who was a Treasury
undersecretary for former President George H.W. Bush, and  Jeremy Stein , a Harvard University economist who has advised the
current administration, are Obama’s picks.  Pairing candidates who served under both parties may help
ease approval by a Senate where the Democrats’ majority narrowed
last year, letting Republicans block administration nominees.
The Fed’s seven-member Board of Governors has two vacancies.
While the term of Elizabeth Duke, an appointee of President
 George W. Bush , expires Jan. 31, she can continue to serve until
a successor is appointed.  Referring to the nominees, Obama said today in a statement
that “their distinguished backgrounds and experience coupled
with their impressive knowledge of economic and monetary policy
make them tremendously qualified.”  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement that he plans to
move the nominations “in a timely manner” and wants to
schedule a hearing soon after lawmakers reconvene in Washington.
Senators plan to return to business Jan. 23.  Powell, 58, and Stein, 51, were reported by media
organizations including Bloomberg News to be under White House
consideration for the Fed slots.  Former Economist  If confirmed as Fed governors, the pair probably won’t sway
interest-rate decisions under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , said
Roberto Perli, a former economist in the Fed’s Division of
Monetary Affairs. Fed officials have said they’re considering
more ways to lower borrowing costs.  The number of voting policy makers who could oppose
Bernanke will fall to one in 2012 from three in 2011, Perli
said. The Fed chairman gained majorities for his decisions this
year.  “I don’t think that the addition of two members, whichever
way they might lean, will dramatically change the course of
monetary policy,” said Perli, now a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group in Washington. At the
same time, the nominees’ skills and experience in economics and
financial markets will benefit the central bank, he said.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries remained lower after the
announcement. The rate fell to 2.01 percent from 2.03 percent on
Dec. 23. U.S. markets were closed yesterday.  Potential Nominee  Obama administration officials regrouped to identify Fed
candidates after  Peter Diamond , a Nobel Prize-winning economist,
withdrew his nomination to the board in June in the face of
Republican opposition.  Richard Clarida , a potential nominee who
was a Treasury official under George W. Bush, pulled out of
consideration in August.  Perli declined to predict whether Stein and Powell will win
Senate approval, while saying the Democratic-Republican pairing
may help their odds.  A spokesman for Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the
Republican whose opposition helped sink Diamond’s candidacy,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  While Powell has Republican ties, he indicated in May that
he disagreed at the time with some Republicans’ strategy of
threatening to oppose an increase in the U.S. debt limit and
risking default unless Democrats agreed to spending cuts.  Lead Author  As a visiting scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center in
 Washington , Powell was lead author of a June  analysis  saying
failure to increase the ceiling would result in an immediate 44
percent cut in federal spending, creating a “chaotic”
situation and “public uproar.”  “I am by any fair reckoning a fiscal conservative,”
Powell, who goes by Jay, said in a May 16 interview with
Bloomberg Television. At the same time, allowing a default is
“just not a risk that you run.”  “That doesn’t mean that you don’t negotiate very hard to
get additional spending cuts and get the deficit under
control,” he said. “You do. But that crosses the line into
hostage taking, I’m afraid, and is just tactically
unacceptable.”  Powell, whose term would run through Jan. 31, 2014, has
spent most of his career outside government, spanning the worlds
of private equity, investment banking and law. He would add
financial-markets experience missing since  Kevin Warsh , 41, left
the Fed board in April.  Based in Washington  Powell was a partner at the  Carlyle Group , the Washington-
based manager of private-equity funds, from 1997 to 2005 and was
an investment banker in the 1980s with Dillon Read and Co. after
working as an attorney following his 1979 graduation from
 Georgetown University ’s law school. He holds a bachelor’s degree
from  Princeton University .  Powell joined the Treasury as an assistant secretary in
1990 and was appointed an undersecretary in 1992. While at the
department, he helped revamp government-bond auction procedures
after  Salomon Brothers  admitted to bid-rigging.  Stein’s term would end Jan. 31, 2018. He served in the
Obama administration from February to July 2009 as a senior
adviser to the Treasury secretary and on the staff of the
National Economic Council, according to Harvard’s website. He
was also a senior staff economist on President  George H.W.
Bush ’s  Council of Economic Advisers  from September 1989 to June
1990, leaving just before Powell was nominated to a Treasury
post.  Financial Crisis  Stein said in a Sept. 29, 2008, interview with Bloomberg
Television that the Fed’s policies were partly responsible for
the subprime mortgage-induced financial crisis.  “The Fed in the early part of this decade would have been
better had they been a little bit more aggressive in dealing
with the housing bubble in its early stages, both through
interest-rate policy and potentially through worrying a little
bit more about the buildup of all this leverage on bank balance
sheets,” Stein said on the day House lawmakers initially
rejected the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program. The
vote sent U.S. stocks tumbling 8.8 percent.  Bernanke, 58, whose second term as chairman expires in
January 2014, said in a January 2010 speech that the central
bank’s low interest rates didn’t cause the housing bubble and
that better regulation would have been more effective in
limiting the boom.  Capital Allocation  Like Bernanke and several other senior Fed officials, Stein
holds a doctorate in economics from the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology . Stein’s research topics include corporate
investment and financing decisions, risk management, stock-
market efficiency and capital allocation inside companies.  Stein, who has served on the New York Fed’s Financial
Advisory Roundtable since 2006, rejoined Harvard as an economics
professor in 2000. He worked as an assistant professor of
finance at the business school from 1987 to 1990. Stein taught
at MIT from 1990 to 2000.  Stein also worked as an intern at  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and Co.
from July 1986 to June 1987, according to his curriculum vitae
posted on Harvard’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  