-- Oil Declines From Six-Week High as Iranian Threat to Hormuz Supply Eases
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-28T13:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/oil-trades-near-six-week-high-on-iran-threat-to-strait-of-hormuz-shipping.html
Oil declined from a six-week high as
concerns eased that  Iran  will block the Strait of Hormuz, a
corridor linking the  Persian Gulf  with international ports.  Futures lost as much as 0.7 percent after rising yesterday
for a sixth day, the longest run of advances since November
2010. Iran’s official Islamic Republic News Agency cited Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi as saying the country would bar
shipments through the strait if sanctions are imposed on its oil
exports. Iran is attempting to “distract attention” from its
nuclear program with its threat, Mark Toner, a State Department
spokesman, said at a briefing yesterday in Washington.  “Shutting down the strait militarily is the last bullet
that Iran has,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at
Petromatrix GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based researcher. “We have
to express some doubt that they would do this, and at the same
time lose their support from  China  and Russia.”  Oil for February delivery was at $100.91 a barrel, down 43
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 1:09 p.m. London time. It added 1.7 percent to $101.34 a
barrel yesterday, the highest settlement since Nov. 16. Futures
climbed 11 percent this year, extending last year’s advance of
15 percent.  Brent oil for February settlement was down 81 cents, or 0.7
percent, at $108.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European contract’s premium to crude in New
York was $7.52 a barrel, compared with $7.93 at yesterday’s
close, the smallest differential based on settlement prices
since Jan. 20.  Iran Maneuvers  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, passes through the  Strait of Hormuz  between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Iran’s navy started a 10-day exercise
east of the passage that involved the use of submarines, ground-
to-sea missile systems and torpedoes, Press TV said Dec. 24.  More than 75 percent of crude shipments that pass through
the strait are destined for markets in Asia, particularly China,
 Japan ,  India  and  South Korea , according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Iran can block the Strait of Hormuz if necessary,
Press TV said today, citing Navy Commander Habibollah Sayyari.  U.S. oil inventories probably fell a third week, according
to a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report.  U.S. crude stockpiles shrank by 2.5 million barrels, or 0.8
percent, to 321.1 million last week, according to the  median
estimate  of seven analysts polled before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. That would be the lowest level since the period
ended Dec. 26, 2008. Six respondents forecast a decline and one
an increase.  Oil inventories fell in December in the past five years as
refiners reduced stockpiles at the year end to minimize their
taxes. Texas and Louisiana assess taxes based on the fair-market
value of inventories on Jan. 1.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. on Dec. 29 in  Washington , a day later than
usual because of the Christmas holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  