-- Olympus Auditor Ernst & Young ‘Still Investigating’ Gyrus Share Purchase
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2011-12-27T04:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/olympus-auditor-ernst-young-still-investigating-gyrus-share-purchase.html
An Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC
committee said it’s still investigating whether the audit of
 Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s accounting was appropriate after the Japanese
camera maker admitted hiding investment losses.  Olympus’s purchase of Gyrus Group Plc has complicated
links to the company’s overall cover-up and will require more
time to probe, the panel said today in a statement.  ShinNihon, which signed off on Olympus’s 2010 results,
formed the committee this month to verify an internal
investigation that earlier found nothing wrong in its audit
of the endoscope maker. Olympus, reeling from a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud, restated more than five years of past
earnings on Dec. 14, wiping out 70 percent of its net assets.  Olympus’s cover-up started “way before” ShinNihon took
over the audit, Toshifumi Takada, a panel member and
economics professor at Tohoku University in Miyagi, northern
 Japan , said in Tokyo today. “We’re probing whether it was
possible to point out issues” related to Gyrus before
Olympus admitted to the 13-year cover-up, he said.  Olympus is also investigating about 70 executives to
answer queries over losses and transactions for acquisitions,
including $687 million in payments to advisers in the
purchase of Gyrus in 2008 and stake writedowns in three other
takeovers. In March 2010, $620 million was paid to buy back
Gyrus preferred shares given to its advisers as part of fees.  Inadequate  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is looking into any
role the auditors may have played in the Olympus cover-up,
Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said earlier this month.  The panel found the handover between KPMG Azsa LLC and
ShinNihon didn’t break any rules, according to Nobuo Gohara,
a lawyer and committee member.  KPMG Azsa, which signed off on Olympus’s 2009 results
after confronting the camera maker over accounting
irregularities, and ShinNihon, failed to conduct an adequate
handover, Olympus’s investigation panel said earlier this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  