-- U.S. Home Prices Fell More Than Forecast
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-27T14:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/home-prices-in-u-s-cities-decline-more-than-forecast-case-shiller-says.html
Residential real estate prices
dropped more than forecast in the year ended October, showing a
broad-based decline that indicates the U.S. housing market
continues to be weighed down by foreclosures.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.4 percent from October 2010 after decreasing 3.5
percent in the year ended September, the New York-based group
said today. The  median forecast  of 27 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey projected a 3.2 percent decrease.  The real-estate market is bracing for another wave of
foreclosures that may keep pressure on  home prices , indicating
any housing recovery will take time to develop. Nonetheless,
rising builder confidence, a pickup in construction and fewer
unsold new properties for sale are among signs the industry that
triggered the last recession is steadying.  “It’s a picture of a market that’s trying to get back to
equilibrium,”  Karl Case , co-creator of the index, said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio. “Different things are
happening in different markets. It’s very segmented. You’ve got
these huge inventories that we’ve never really had before.”  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March fell 0.3 percent to 1,256.7 at 9:27 a.m. in  New York .  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for the price change
ranged from declines of 2.4 percent to 3.6 percent. The Case-
Shiller index is based on a three-month average, which means the
October data were influenced by transactions in August and
September.  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations fell 0.6
percent  in October  from the prior month after dropping 0.7
percent in September. Unadjusted prices decreased 1.2 percent
from September as 19 of 20 cities showed declines. Eleven of the
cities slumped by 1 percent or more. Only Phoenix posted a gain.  Atlanta and  Las Vegas  posted new post-peak lows in October,
the report showed.  “Atlanta and the Midwest are regions that really stand out
in terms of recent relative weakness,”  David Blitzer , chairman
of the S&P index committee, said in a statement. “These markets
were some of the strongest during the spring/summer buying
season.”  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes Case and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Broad-Based Drop  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 12 percent drop in Atlanta.  Detroit  showed the biggest year-over-year increase, with
prices rising 2.5 percent in the 12 months to October. Property
values in Washington were up 1.3 percent.  The overall decline in prices is hurting earnings at some
homebuilders. Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) , which targets first-
time buyers, last week reported a decline in quarterly profit
and gross margins weaker than the company forecast earlier.  At the same time, the company said net orders increased 38
percent in the fourth quarter from the same three months last
year.  Policy makers are pushing programs aimed at reviving the
U.S. housing market. The Obama administration this month started
a new version of the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program,
or HARP, after the original plan helped less than a quarter of
the people targeted to lock in lower  mortgage rates .  Federal Reserve officials reiterated at a meeting this
month that they will keep their benchmark  interest rate  near
zero until at least mid-2013. The central bank in September
decided to reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-
backed securities instead of Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  