-- U.S. Home Prices Likely Dropped at Slower Rate
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-27T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/home-prices-in-u-s-probably-fell-at-slower-pace-as-market-gained-traction.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
probably fell at a slower pace and  consumer confidence  climbed,
signs of resilience in the economy heading into 2012, economists
said before reports today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values dropped 3.2
percent in October from the same month in 2010, the smallest
year-over-year decrease since January, according to the median
forecast of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Conference Board’s confidence gauge rose to a five-month high of
58.6 in December from 56 the previous month, separate figures
may show.  Rising builder confidence, a decline in the number of
unsold properties on the market and a pickup in construction
suggest stabilization in the housing market early next year.
Still, the  unemployment rate  at 8.6 percent and the prospect of
another wave of foreclosures represent obstacles for residential
real estate and consumer sentiment.  “The housing market is evidently making a turn for the
better,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist at the
Parthenon Group Inc. in  Boston . “November saw some pretty
strong momentum heading into yearend, with consumers looking
up.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index (S15HOME) , based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey estimates ranged from
declines of 2.4 percent to 3.5 percent.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
measure is due at 10 a.m. The Bloomberg survey median was based
on 61 estimates that ranged from 52 to 63.  Confidence Measures  Increased optimism has been evident in other data. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 45 in the
period ended Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior
week, marking the biggest seven-day gain since January. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment rose to a six-month high in December.  Better job prospects and lower  gasoline prices  may be
helping brighten consumers’ moods.  Employers boosted payrolls by 120,000 workers in November
and the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.6 percent, according
to Labor Department figures earlier this month. The price of
regular unleaded gasoline at the pump fell to $3.22 on Dec. 22,
from $3.43 at the beginning of November, according to AAA, the
biggest U.S. auto group.  Faster job growth may be needed to spur enough home sales
to reduce inventory and push up property values. The Case-
Shiller report will show  home prices , after adjusting for
seasonal variations, fell 0.3 percent in October from the prior
month, according to the survey median.  Year-Over-Year  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Those gains have buoyed builders’ stocks since the end of
the third quarter. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index, which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar
Corp., has climbed 32 percent, while the broader  S&P 500  has
increased 12 percent.  Some homebuilders say an increase in sentiment is needed to
help boost sales.  “We need a higher level of confidence to get back to the
traditional move-upstream or first-time buyer out of the
rental,”  Jeffrey Mezger , chief executive officer of  KB Home (KBH) ,
said on a Dec. 21 conference call with analysts. “A lot of
consumers are surprised, frankly, at how low home payments are
compared to rent.”  Policy makers are promoting programs designed to
reinvigorate the housing market. The Obama administration this
month started a new version of the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program, or HARP, after the original plan helped less
than a quarter of the people targeted to lock in lower  mortgage
rates .  Officials at the  Federal Reserve  this month reiterated that
they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013. The central bank in September decided to
reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  