-- London Bargain-Hunters Make Post-Christmas Shopping Day Busiest Since 2008
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2011-12-27T12:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/london-bargain-hunters-make-post-christmas-shopping-day-busiest-since-2008.html
Sales in one of  London ’s busiest
shopping districts reached 50 million pounds ($78 million)
yesterday as consumers flocked to bigger-than-average discounts
on everything from designer handbags to electric toothbrushes.  The  New West End Company , which represents more than 600
fashion-led brands in central London’s Bond Street, Oxford
Street and Regent Street, said the Boxing Day holiday sales were
5 percent to 10 percent up on 2009 and ’considerably’ higher
than last year, which fell on a Sunday.  “Retailers have a lot of stock to clear so we are seeing
larger discounts similar to those seen after the financial
crisis,” Jace Tyrell, spokesman for New West End said.
“Retailers have become much better at managing their stock and
therefore their margins.”  New  West End  estimated more than 700,000 shoppers visited
the area despite parts of the subway, known as the Tube, being
closed down because of industrial action by train drivers,
Tyrell said. Some stores were also temporarily closed and parts
of the street cordoned off after an 18-year-old man was stabbed
to death on Oxford Street.  Police said in  statement  today 11 people remain in custody
after yesterday’s stabbing. The man was pronounced dead at the
scene. The area has now reopened for business, police said.  Selfridges , the biggest department store on Oxford Street,
said it enjoyed record first-hour sales yesterday, beating its
previous record set in 2009 by 15 percent. John Lewis
Partnership, owner of Britain’s biggest department store chain,
begins its sale today.  “Even with events on Oxford Street it has been a very busy
start to the sales,” Tyrell said. “We expect that to continue
throughout the week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 Lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sheldon Reback at 
 sreback@bloomberg.net  