-- Schweitzer Hands Out Palladium to Ensure Montana Is Running ‘Like a Ranch’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2011-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/montana-governor-builds-surplus-running-government-like-ranch-.html
Governor Brian Schweitzer has given
out coins made of  Montana  palladium worth more than $600 to
people who suggest ways for the state to save money.  His favorite idea: quit printing government telephone
directories.  “If you ain’t smart enough to figure out how to find
someone online, you probably got no information that we needed
anyway,” Schweitzer said in an interview.  While other governors commonly say they run their states
like a business, Schweitzer, a 56-year-old Democrat, calls his
management style “running government like a ranch.” Montana
was one of only two states to report surpluses from 2009 to
2011, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .
The other was  North Dakota .  Rising tax collections on individual income, corporate
licenses, oil and gas production and insurance will leave $427
million to spare at the end of June 2013, according to a Dec. 5
report by the Legislative Fiscal Division, almost three times
what was forecast earlier this year.  One result is that municipal bonds from Montana have
returned 10.35 percent this year, second only to  Wyoming ,
outperforming the national average of 8.63 percent, according to
 Barclays Capital . As for those one-ounce palladium coins donated
by a local mining company, they’re worth about $660 now, up from
$430 in May, 2010.  ‘Not Boom State’  Gains have come “even though the economy doesn’t seem to
be quite breaking out,” according to Patrick Barkey, director
of the Bureau of Business and  Economic Research  at the
University of Montana, Missoula. “We’re not a boom state like
North Dakota. There have been decent earnings and employment
growth in mining.”  The state ranked 18th in the U.S. in employment growth and
25th in income growth for the 12 months ended in September,
according to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index.   Prices on publicly-traded Montana companies fell 19 percent
this year through Dec. 23, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
equity index rose 0.68 percent, according to the index. An
exception was Bozeman-based  RightNow Technologies Inc. (RNOW) , an
online customer-service software company that jumped 80 percent,
the most in the index, after it agreed to be acquired for $1.5
billion by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   When it comes to the surplus, Don Cowles, president of Wild
West Shirt Co. of Bozeman, says Montana lawmakers deserve more
credit than the governor. It was the Legislature that opposed
Schweitzer’s proposal to give state employees a 4 percent raise
over two years, for instance, he said.  “The reason the budget has a surplus is the Legislature
put a lid on spending,” Cowles said. “They didn’t approve a
pay increase for employees. They didn’t give the universities
the money they asked for. They really held back on their
spending.”  Health-Care Target  Schweitzer, who has one year left in his second and final
term, has turned his budget scythe to what has become, according
to the  National Governors Association , the largest expenditure
among states: health care.  “My constant quest is to find more efficiencies, whether
it’s how much gas we use or how much electricity we use, or how
many vehicles we buy or how many computers,” Schweitzer said
Dec. 6. “Every one of these is a fight in its own way, but they
save us a little money.”  Schweitzer’s plan is to create a medical purchasing pool
that combines recipients of Medicaid, the joint state-federal
health-care program for the poor, with state employees,
university students and beneficiaries of federal agencies such
as the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The pool would negotiate
discounted rates for drugs and services.  Montana would also open clinics staffed by state employees
whose goal would be to keep patients from expensive hospital
stays. Co-payments would discourage overuse, Schweitzer said.  Medical Makeover  He said his medical makeover is based on what he observed
in neighboring Saskatchewan. While similar in population, the
Canadian province’s health-care costs are half of the $8 billion
a year that Montana spends, the governor said.  “How do we get it for half price?” Schweitzer asked.
“Eighty-seven percent of their health care is delivered at
clinics.”  Helena, the state capital, has three magnetic resonance
imaging machines for its 28,000 residents, Schweitzer said. The
entire province of Saskatchewan has five.  “We have five times as many procedures per patients as
they do,” Schweitzer said. “You had no idea when they drew
that blood that they tested it for everything they could think
of including malaria and there was a billing code for each one
of them.”  Federal Waiver  The governor said he’ll ask the federal  Department of
Health  and Human Services for a waiver from Medicaid rules to
get more control over where people are treated. Ideally, he
said, the federal government would give the state block grants,
allowing it to spend federal money as it wants, rather than
relying on reimbursements for expenses. That is an idea popular
with Republican governors including  Florida ’s  Rick Scott  and
 Texas ’s  Rick Perry .  The state health takeover is not as far-fetched as it might
seem, according to Edwin Park, a vice president for health
policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which is
based in Washington. The federal government will be granting
waivers to states that want to experiment with different health-
care delivery models in 2017, he said.  Single-Payer System  Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, a Democrat,  signed 
legislation in May to give residents health-care cards and make
the state the purchaser of all services by 2017, the first such
single-payer system in the nation.  Schweitzer, a soil engineer who owns two working ranches,
used a branding iron to burn the word “veto” on seven paper
bills passed by the Republican-led Legislature in April. With
his term expiring in January 2013, he concedes he’ll probably be
out of the statehouse before  Washington  responds to his
proposal.  Schweitzer is a “showman” who often takes credit for
budget cuts pushed by political rivals, according to Mike
Milburn, a Republican from Cascade who serves as speaker of the
 House of Representatives .  After the governor leaves office, “I don’t know what he’ll
be doing,” Milburn said in a telephone interview. “He’s
positioning for something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  