-- ‘Mission Impossible’ Clinches Paramount’s Box Office Crown
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2011-12-27T22:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/paramount-pictures-grabs-box-office-crown-with-mission-impossible-boost.html
“Mission: Impossible - Ghost
Protocol” collected $46.2 million in U.S. and Canadian cinemas
over the holiday weekend, clinching  Paramount Pictures ’ first
annual domestic box-office title in at least a decade.  The studio, part of  Viacom Inc. , heads into the last week
of the year with $1.86 billion in sales through Dec. 25,
including films carried over from 2010, according to researcher
Box Office Mojo.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., the leader for
the previous four years, is second with $1.76 billion.  “These are like two big behemoths duking it out, like
Godzilla and King Kong, and they both generated a ton of money
in a tough year,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office division.  Counting only films released this year, the two studios are
close, Dergarabedian said. Attendance for 2011 will probably
fall to 1.269 billion tickets sold, the smallest annual total
since 1.264 billion were purchased in 1995, he said. Through
yesterday, domestic box-office sales fell 4.2 percent to $9.99
billion. Attendance was off 5.1 percent.  The top 2011 film for Los Angeles-based Paramount was
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” with $352.4 million in U.S.
and Canadian sales, according to  Box Office Mojo . Burbank,
California-based  Warner Bros . had the industry’s top-grossing
movie of 2011 in “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows, Part
2,” which took in $381 million domestically.  Scheduling contributed to the year’s decline, along with
other media that vied for moviegoer attention, such as holiday
video games, Dergarabedian said. Five new films opened last
weekend, including two from  Steven Spielberg .  Missing Male  “There was no movie aimed at the young male between ‘The
Immortals’ and ‘Sherlock Holmes,’” Dergarabedian said.  In that five-week span since Nov. 11, the game “‘Call of
Duty’ came out, and you can’t ignore those other markets,” he
said. “The studios really need to look at the big picture, the
competitive landscape, including video games.”  End-of-year films, including the new “ Sherlock Holmes ”
movie and  Martin Scorsese ’s “Hugo,” failed to generate enough
sales to lift revenue past the $10.6 billion collected in 2010.
Studios have struggled to attract audiences to a 2011 lineup
filled with sequels and a record 36 movies in 3-D.  “You started off with an awful first quarter, and that was
just a case of bad content,” said Martin Pyykkonen, an analyst
with Wedge Partners Corp., an independent equity-analysis group
based in Greenwood Village,  Colorado .  “‘Green Hornet’ was the biggest example,” he said. “The
other problem was during the summer, you just had a lot of
crowding of good films that just couldn’t get enough breathing
room.”  Runners Up  Through the Christmas weekend,  Sony Pictures (6758)  is in third
place for 2011 with $1.33 billion in U.S. and Canadian sales.
The top domestic film for the Culver City, California-based unit
of Sony Corp. was “The Smurfs,” with $142.6 million.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , based in Burbank, is fourth with $1.2
billion in revenue, led by $241.1 million from “Pirates of the
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” according to Box Office Mojo.
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures is fifth with $1.17 billion
and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox studio is sixth with $1.05 billion.  Last weekend’s leader, “Ghost Protocol,” collected its
$46.2 million over the four-day holiday weekend and has taken in
$78.6 million in two weeks of release for Paramount.  The film, the fourth in the “ Mission Impossible ” series,
opened Dec. 16 for an exclusive, five-day run in large-screen
theaters, including 300  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  locations, before moving to
wide release on Dec. 21.  Elite Unit  In the latest release,  Tom Cruise  returns as Ethan Hunt,
leader of an elite special-operations squad that takes on the
government’s most difficult assignments. This time, team members
go underground to clear their names after being falsely
implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The movie also features
 Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  Sony’s “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” opened with
sales of $19.4 million. The film features Rooney Mara as Lisbeth
Salander, a computer hacker employed by a security firm. She
joins with a journalist, played by Daniel Craig, to investigate
a chain of homicides. The movie is a remake of a Swedish film
based on the novel by Stieg Larsson.  ‘Tintin’  “The Adventures of Tintin,” Spielberg’s adaption of the
comic books by Belgian author Herge, took in $16.1 million over
the four days. Distributed by Paramount, the picture tells the
story of an intrepid young journalist who tries to unravel the
mystery surrounding a lost treasure. The computer-animated film
features the voices of Jamie Bell, Andy Serkis and  Daniel Craig .  Three other films opened last week. “We Bought a Zoo”
from Fox collected $14.6 million over the weekend, while
Spielberg’s “War Horse” took in $14.5 million for Disney, its
distributor. “The Darkest Hour,” from Summit Entertainment
LLC, opened with sales of $5.07 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 15 percent to
$114.3 million from a year ago, Hollywood.com said. The amounts
below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec. 23 to Dec. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  