-- How Paterno Put His Penn State Money Above Full Disclosure of Child Abuse
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/paterno-put-his-penn-state-money-above-disclosure-of-child-abuse.html
Joe Paterno  sat in his kitchen one
morning in March 2002 as a graduate assistant described a
locker-room shower encounter he saw between a boy and a longtime
friend and colleague of Penn State University’s football coach.
Paterno slumped in his chair, “shocked and saddened,”
according to court testimony.  Mike McQueary ’s words couldn’t have come at a worse time.
Paterno was trying to fix the Nittany Lions’ money-making
football program he built on a motto of “success with honor,”
after the low point of his coaching career. The State College,
Pennsylvania, university was near the end of a $1.4 billion
fundraising campaign, was six years removed from the opening of 
a $55 million basketball arena and had just expanded the 
football stadium to the nation’s second-biggest.  Paterno, in his 37th year as coach, told McQueary he had
done the right thing describing what he saw involving Jerry Sandusky, a former Nittany Lions defensive coach. The biggest
man on campus then sent the case to his immediate bosses and did
nothing else. That set the stage for his firing nine years later,
11 days after his record 409th win, amid a scandal over alleged
child-sex abuse and coverup that has echoed far beyond the
Central Pennsylvania region known as Happy Valley.  “The revenue opportunities are so substantial that the
pressure placed upon the athletic department and coach,
specifically, make it ever more difficult to pursue a school’s
mission,” Warren Zola, 44, assistant dean of graduate programs
at the Carroll School of Management at  Boston College , said in a
telephone interview from his Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts,
office.  Health Issues  Paterno, who turned 85 on Dec. 21, was unable to comment
for this story because of health issues, said Dan McGinn, a
spokesman. Paterno is being treated for lung cancer found after
his firing and broke his pelvis in a fall at his home this month.  The dependence by U.S. universities on sports to help fund
everything from money-losing gymnastics teams to general
scholarships has created a system where the needs of coaches and
their programs supersede the educational values of their
institutions, said Robin Harris, executive director of the Ivy
League, whose schools don’t give athletic scholarships.  It also creates an environment where a coach like Paterno,
a Brooklyn,  New York , native known as “JoePa” whose bronze
statue stands outside 107,000-seat Beaver Stadium, had the power
to tell the university’s president that he wouldn’t help raise
another penny if the school’s top disciplinarian wasn’t fired
for being too strict with his players.  ‘So Much Money’  “There is so much money tied into big-time college
athletics that it forces some people to make bad decisions,”
Harris said in a telephone interview. “They may be people
affiliated with a program, or coaches and administrators who do
things purposely wrong, or turn a blind eye, because they are
focused on generating revenue and not necessarily the integrity
of the enterprise.”  Paterno and Graham B. Spanier, 63,  Penn State ’s president,
were fired by the school’s trustees on Nov. 9, four days after
Sandusky, 67, was charged with sexually assaulting eight boys
from 1994 to 2009. While neither Paterno nor Spanier was charged
in the case, the trustees said the two leaders should have done
more.  Athletic Director Tim Curley, 57, was placed on
administrative leave and  Gary Schultz , 62, a vice president in
charge of finance and the campus police, retired after they were
accused of lying to a grand jury about what McQueary told them
about Sandusky’s actions. Sandusky, Curley and Schultz all have
denied wrongdoing.  McQueary Testimony  McQueary, 36, testified at a Dec. 16 preliminary hearing
for Curley and Schultz that he went to Paterno’s house the day
after the shower incident and told the coach what he had seen,
although he didn’t offer explicit details. About 10 days later,
McQueary met with Curley and Schultz and told them he had seen
Sandusky and a boy, both naked, in the shower.  “I conveyed to them that I saw Jerry with a boy in the
showers and that it was severe sexual acts going on and that it
was wrong and over the line,” McQueary testified.  Educators said they see plenty wrong with big-time college
sports.  Winning generates money from television, ticket sales,
sponsors and alumni, according to a 2010 report by the Knight
Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, an independent, non-
profit group dedicated to reforming college sports.  Networks including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox will combine to pay the top five conferences and the Bowl
Championship Series that determines the national football title
about $14 billion in rights fees through 2032.  Bowl Money  Football teams received a collective $281 million in bowl
payouts last season, the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  said. Of that, $182 million, or 65 percent, came
from the five BCS games, including the national championship.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Sports signed a 14-
year deal worth almost $11 billion to televise the NCAA men’s
basketball tournament.  ESPN is an investor in the Longhorn Network, which
guarantees the University of Texas an average $15 million
annually for 20 years. Texas had a nation-leading operating
profit of $70.1 million last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Penn State football generated $63.3 million in fiscal
2010, about 60 percent of the athletic department’s revenue.  Campus Power  Coaches like Paterno are the most powerful people at their
universities, including the presidents, said Lewis Katz, a
former owner of the National Basketball Association’s New Jersey
Nets who donated $15 million to Penn State and whose name
appears on a campus law building.  “Football trumps everything at Penn State,” Katz said.
“There’s nothing that comes close to second.”  Winning requires universities to build facilities that lure
top high-school recruits, and hire marquee coaches whose
salaries often dwarf that of university presidents, says Jason
Lanter, assistant professor of psychology at  Pennsylvania ’s
 Kutztown University  and president of the Drake Group, a
professors’ alliance to defend academic integrity from the
sports industry.  “We’re talking big, big money here,” Lanter, 38, said in
a telephone interview. “You need to have it to build the
facility, to recruit, to get more money. It’s a vicious cycle.”  JD Reive is in his second season as the men’s gymnastics
coach at the University of Iowa, where the football team
accounted for 52.6 percent of athletic department revenue last
year. The gymnastics team lost almost $600,000 in fiscal year
2010, according to university figures obtained through open-
records laws. Reive said his program might disappear if the
football team falters.  Coaches’ Concerns  “There isn’t a gymnastics coach in the country that
doesn’t worry about what happens if the football team doesn’t
make a bowl game,” Reive, 35, said in a telephone interview.
The Hawkeyes play in the Insight Bowl on Dec. 30 against
 Oklahoma .  Ohio State University’s football program had an operating
profit of about $18.2 million last year. It hired Urban Meyer, a
two-time national title winner at the University of Florida, as
coach last month at $4 million a year, more than triple the $1.3
million paid in the fiscal year ending June 2010 to Gordon Gee,
the Columbus, Ohio, university’s president.  Meyer, 47, succeeded Jim Tressel, who quit in May in a
memorabilia-selling scandal involving top players. Tressel
produced a national championship at Ohio State before the NCAA
said he kept information about rule-breaking from school
administrators for more than nine months. Asked early in the
case if he was going to fire Tressel, Gee, 67, responded, “I
hope he doesn’t fire me.”  Buckeye Ban  Gee, through a university spokeswoman, declined to comment
for this article. The NCAA on Dec. 20 banned the Buckeye
football team from postseason play next year.  Zola, the Boston College assistant dean, said coaches have
become “preposterously powerful,” and chancellors and trustees
must “realign their mission along with athletic priority.”  Behind Paterno’s Coke-bottle eyeglasses and grandfatherly
exterior was a bully, said Vicky Triponey, Penn State’s former
standards and conduct officer who clashed with the coach over
players who broke laws or school rules.  Triponey said in a 2005 e-mail to Spanier that Paterno
believed she should have no interest in holding players
accountable to general student standards.  “I do not support the way this man is running our football
program,” Triponey, 54, said in e-mails first reported by the
Wall Street Journal last month. “We certainly would not
tolerate this behavior in our students, so I struggle with how
we tolerate it in our coach.”  Funds Cutoff  Triponey also said she was told by Spanier that the coach
had given the president an ultimatum: Fire her or Paterno would
stop raising funds for the university. Spanier told Triponey
that he would pick her, though he didn’t want to have to make
that decision.  The content of the e-mails was confirmed to Bloomberg News
by Triponey’s husband, Michael Meacham, a former Penn State
professor. Triponey, through her husband, declined to comment
further.  Raymond Marsh, a spokesman for Penn State’s Office of
University Development, wouldn’t say how much total money
Paterno had helped to bring in.  “Penn State clearly raised more funds because he was
involved,” Marsh wrote in an e-mail response to questions.  Spanier declined to comment through Bill Mahon, a
university spokesman. The former president remains a tenured
professor in the College of Health and Human Development and the
College of the Liberal Arts.  Triponey Resigns  Triponey quit in September 2007, a month before the
university limited the ability of its judicial-review process to
end a student’s participation in activities, including sports.  Walter DeShields, a 2004 graduate of Penn State and head of
the Philadelphia chapter of the African American Alumni
Organization, said in a telephone interview it was clear during
his time at the university that football and basketball players
were given more leeway when it came to behavior and punishment.  “But playing on Saturday in a multimillion-dollar business
is the only thing that matters,” he said in a telephone
interview.  On Saturday, Oct. 29, Penn State beat Illinois 10-7 at
Beaver Stadium, lifting Paterno above Eddie Robinson for the
most wins by a coach at college football’s top level.  The Nittany Lions were off the next Saturday, Nov. 5, when
State Attorney General Linda Kelly announced the grand jury
presentation against Sandusky, Schultz and Curley.  Paterno’s Role  According to the grand jury report, Paterno, after being
informed by McQueary of what he saw, told Curley the next day.
Paterno didn’t contact police. In a Nov. 9 statement, the coach
said in hindsight he wished he had done more.  By the time Penn State played again, against  Nebraska  on
Saturday, Nov. 12, Paterno was gone after 46 years in charge.  The NCAA said on Nov. 18 it would investigate the Sandusky
case, hours before Paterno’s cancer was disclosed by his family.  Penn State said this month it would no longer assist in the
management of licensing for Paterno’s name and likeness.
Licensing for Paterno-related merchandise will now be
coordinated by his daughter, Mary Kay Hort, the school said, and
Paterno is barred from using university trademarks. Hort didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the move.  The scandal is costing the football team, which is
searching for a permanent successor to Paterno. It has lost at
least three top high-school recruits, including Noah Spence, a
6-foot-4, 245-pound defensive end from Harrisburg and the No. 1-
rated player in Pennsylvania. Spence hinted via Twitter two days
after Sandusky was charged that he might not choose the
university that’s about 85 miles from his hometown.  No to PSU  “Um psu might be a no no for me ewwww,” Spence wrote.
Spence’s father declined to comment and his son didn’t return
repeated messages at their home. On Dec. 18, Spence said he
would join Meyer at Ohio State.  Tommy Schutt, a 301-pound defensive tackle rated the
leading recruit in Illinois, verbally committed to Penn State in
June only to balk and pick the Buckeyes after the scandal. Chad
Hetlet, Schutt’s coach at Glenbard West High School in Glen
Ellyn, Illinois, said the player “wasn’t comfortable” with the
situation at Penn State.  “He’s concerned about the future and what’s hanging over
their head,” Hetlet said in a telephone interview.  Recruiting Low  Scout.com, a college recruiting website, said Penn State
has its fewest commitments from the two highest levels of
players since 2002, the same year McQueary said he saw Sandusky
and the boy in the shower and the year after the Nittany Lions
had their first back-to-back losing seasons under Paterno, who
became head coach in 1966.  “There’s blood in the water,” said Mike Farrell of
Rivals.com, another recruiting service.  John L. Lahey, president of Quinnipiac University in Hamden,
 Connecticut , said the biggest headaches in college sports seem
to come from the more visible and valuable teams.  “When any part of the university, in this case athletics,
becomes so important to the university, to the university’s
brand, image, resources, as certainly is the case with the Penn
State football program, it can cloud the better judgment of
people with high intelligence and integrity,” Lahey said at the
IMG Intercollegiate Athletics Forum in New York this month.  The college football chase for bigger, better and richer
goes on.  The Board of Regents at  Washington  State last month
approved $80 million to add premium seating and a new press box
to Martin Stadium.  New Revenue  “It allows for new revenue streams which I believe are
necessary to reinvest in scholarships and additional facility
enhancement projects which are essential to attract top talent
to our campus,” Athletic Director Bill Moos said.  The Cougars, who finished with two Pac-12 Conference wins
last season, picked Mike Leach as football coach this month,
giving him $2.25 million annually. The Pac-12 this year
announced a 12-year, $2.7 billion TV contract with ESPN.  Washington State football generated $12.8 million in
revenue in fiscal year 2010, almost a third of conference rival
Washington. Leach’s contract includes a $25,000 bonus for
beating the Huskies in the annual game known as the Apple Cup.  Of 53 universities surveyed by Bloomberg this year, 46
diverted money to sports in their fiscal years ended in 2010,
based on financial reports to the NCAA obtained from state
schools under open-records laws.  Rutgers Budget  Rutgers University , the 245-year-old state university of
New Jersey, spent more money on athletics than any other public
institution in the six biggest football conferences. More than
40 percent of sports revenue at Rutgers came from student fees
and the university’s general fund, while budget cuts froze
professors’ salaries, cut the use of photocopies for exams and
increased tuition, housing and other fees.  “There are a lot of people chasing the Holy Grail,”
Stanford University Athletic Director Bob Bowlsby said in a
telephone interview. “Chasing leads to some bad decisions.
Sometimes it’s doing things that you think you have to do to
compete on the playing field.”  Stanford, based in Palo Alto,  California , is among four
schools in college football’s six largest conferences without a
major NCAA infraction. Penn State is another, along with
Northwestern and Boston College. The NCAA is investigating
whether Penn State broke the governing body’s rules about
institutional control of sports in the scandal.  Smaller Stanford  John Etchemendy, Stanford’s provost, said the relatively
small size of the Cardinal’s football and basketball venues
keeps officials from becoming too reliant on those programs for
revenue. No. 4 Stanford -- which is playing No. 3 Oklahoma State
in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 2 -- completed a $100 million
renovation of the football stadium in 2006 that removed 35,000
seats, to a capacity of 50,000. The basketball arena, Maples
Pavilion, seats about 7,000. The University of Oregon’s $227
million Matthew Knight Arena, which opened last season, holds
about 12,000.  “If you have a large stadium, you feel the need to fill
it,” Etchemendy said. “Somehow the priorities have gotten
distorted, if the football or basketball coach ends up having
more influence or power than that president.”  Paterno’s teams had losing records in 2000 and 2001, going
a combined 10-13. Penn State went 9-4 in 2002, setting a Beaver
Stadium attendance record for a game against Nebraska, before
losing records the following two seasons, including a Paterno
career-low 3-9 in 2003. After a 4-7 record in 2004, university
administrators asked Paterno to consider stepping down,
according to the Centre Daily Times in  State College . Paterno
said no, and the Nittany Lions went 11-1 in 2005.  Bowden’s Comedown  Bobby Bowden took Florida State to 31 bowls in 34 years and
won 76 percent of his games. Toward the end of his tenure,
Bowden, who went 33 years without a losing season, said he began
receiving office visits from university administrators voicing
concerns about empty seats on game day. He left under pressure
after the 2009 season with a total of 377 victories.  “At the end, I didn’t win enough,” Bowden, 82, said in a
telephone interview from his home in Tallahassee, Florida, where
the university is based. “You can bet your life if you’re not
winning and filling the stadium, got to sell those seats.
Football pays 90 percent of our bills. Got to win to get those
TV contracts.”  Whether the Sandusky case will affect wins, losses and
revenue is the next question at Penn State. Since Sandusky’s
arrest, sales of licensed T-shirts, caps and other merchandise
have plunged by almost 40 percent from previous years, Brian
Swallow, vice president of sales and marketing for Fanatics LLC,
which runs the school’s online store, said in an e-mail.  Applicants Up  Applications for admission are up more than 3.4 percent
over last year, and alumni giving is up an undisclosed amount,
Rodney Erickson, who succeeded Spanier as Penn State president,
said in a Dec. 6 e-mail to alumni.  Students rioted the night Paterno was fired. The former
coach and his wife, Sue, donated $4 million to the university
and helped raise almost $14 million for an addition to the
library, which was dedicated in 2000 and named in their honor.
The football team this year was ranked No. 1  in academics  among
the top 25 by the New America Foundation, which compared
graduation rates and the NCAA’s academic progress rate.  Tom Bradley has replaced Paterno on an interim basis as the
Nittany Lions prepare to face the University of Houston in the
TicketCity Bowl on Jan. 2 in Dallas. The game paid its
participants $2.2 million last season, according to the NCAA.  “Football Saturdays are a ton of fun,” said Lanter, the
Drake Group president. “But when you peel back the layers,
people are becoming more ready to acknowledge that if we look at
the money, as to where it’s going, control should go back to the
universities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  