-- Peruvian Sol Retreats From Three-Year High as Metals Decline
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-27T20:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/peruvian-sol-retreats-from-three-year-high-as-metals-decline.html
The Peruvian sol declined from a
three-year high as the  U.S. dollar  strengthened against regional
currencies on declining metals prices and concern about the
European debt crisis.  The sol fell 0.1 percent to 2.695 per U.S. dollar after
reaching 2.6925 on Dec. 23, the strongest since at least 2008,
according to prices from the Peruvian unit of Deutsche Bank AG.
The central bank didn’t buy or sell dollars today, it said on
its website.  The U.S. dollar strengthened against Latin American
currencies and prices for metals such as gold and copper fell on
concern a deepening crisis in  Europe  could damp global growth.
Declining metal prices could trim Peru’s exports next year by 3
percent to $45 billion, Juan Varilias, president of exporter
association Adex said today in  Lima .  “There is usually seasonal demand for soles in December
because of payments of year-end bonuses and mining companies
wanting to pay taxes,” said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at
Scotiabank Peru in Lima. “Added to which December is a time of
relative quiet in international markets, so we saw an increase
in the value of the sol. Today it has weakened in line with
other markets.”  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 was unchanged at 5.76 percent,
according to prices from Citigroup Inc’s local unit. The extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Peru’s 7.35 percent
dollar bonds due in 2025 instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 205 basis points.  -- With assistance from  Alex Emery  in Lima. Editors: James
Attwood, Richard Richtmyer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  