-- Petroplus Plunges as Lenders Freeze $1 Billion of ‘Critical’ Credit Lines
-- B y   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2011-12-27T18:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/petroplus-plunges-as-lenders-freeze-1-billion-of-critical-credit-lines.html
Petroplus Holdings AG ,  Europe ’s
largest independent refiner, fell to a record low after lenders
froze about $1 billion in uncommitted loans that the company
needs to buy crude for its five European oil refineries.  The revolving credit lines are “critical” for business,
the Zug, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Petroplus’s five refineries have a combined throughput capacity
of about 667,000 barrels a day, according to the company. A
spokesperson couldn’t be reached for comment.  Petroplus has only a few days’ worth of oil reserves left,
Swiss newswire AWP reported, citing Chief Financial Officer
Joseph Watson. The refiner, which usually buys about half a
million barrels of crude a day, can’t buy any more oil at the
moment and needs all its credit lines to keep business going, he
was quoted as saying.  Petroplus fell 46 percent to close at 1.85 francs in
Zurich. The shares have lost 85 percent this year.  The credit freeze “is a serious issue as in the worst case
the company would lack the funds required to maintain
operations,” Vontobel Holding AG said in a note today. “We
strongly advise investors to stay clear of the stock until a
sustainable financing can be restored.”  Petroplus is “evaluating additional strategic options to
maintain operations in its European refining and marketing
system,” according to the statement.  No Government Assistance  The Swiss government hasn’t had a request for assistance
from Petroplus,  Switzerland ’s only independent refinery company,
Economy Ministry spokeswoman Evelyn Kobelt said.  “The government normally doesn’t give assistance to
companies having problems,” she said.  The refiner reported a net loss of $147 million in the
third quarter, which widened from a loss of $93.8 million a year
earlier, according to a  presentation  published Nov. 2 on its
website. Petroplus also reported net losses in the previous two
quarters.  Profits from processing  Brent crude , the European
benchmark, into fuels in northwest Europe plunged to 51 cents a
barrel last month from $1.52 in October, the  International
Energy Agency  said in a Dec. 13 report.  “The company intends to continue negotiations with the
banks for a prompt restoration of the credit lines,” Petroplus
said in the statement.  Petroplus signed a three-year, $1.05 billion revolving
credit facility secured by oil inventories and trade receivables
in 2009, with an option to increase the amount to $2 billion on
a “preapproved but uncommitted basis,” it said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  