-- PetroChina’s Parent to Sign Accord to Develop Afghan Oilfields
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2011-12-27T07:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/petrochina-s-parent-to-sign-accord-to-develop-afghan-oilfields.html
China  National Petroleum Corp. will
sign an agreement to develop  Afghanistan ’s  Amu Darya basin  after
winning the country’s first oilfield auction.  “The contract will be signed tomorrow,” Jawad Omar,
spokesman at the Afghan mines ministry, said in a phone
interview today. “The deal was supported and approved by
President Hamid Karzai’s cabinet yesterday.”  PetroChina Co.’s parent won the auction in August after
offering to pay more royalty than rivals from  Australia , the
U.K., the U.S. and  Pakistan , and proposing to build a refinery
in the north. The deal will bolster China’s position as
Afghanistan’s largest foreign investor after Metallurgical Corp.
of China won the right in 2007 to develop the nation’s biggest
copper deposit.  The 25-year oil project will “create thousands of jobs,”
Minister of Mines Wahidullah Shahrani said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Eventual investments in the Amu Darya
Basin are expected to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars,
and will spur improvements in roads and other infrastructure.”  An Indian government-backed group plans to spend $11
billion to mine the Hajigak iron ore deposit west of Kabul,
build a steel mill, a power plant and transport links. The
project will help  India  challenge China as the biggest overseas
investor in Afghanistan, which the U.S. says holds $1 trillion
in untapped mineral reserves.  Afghan Oil Reserves  State-controlled CNPC has formed a venture with Afghan Oil
and Gas Co. to develop three oil blocks in the Amu Darya basin,
and the companies “have pledged to begin production within one
year,” according to the statement.  CNPC agreed to pay a 15 percent royalty on oil from the
blocks and a corporate tax rate of 30 percent. Australia’s
 Buccaneer Energy Ltd. (BCC)  was behind CNPC with a proposed 10 percent
royalty. The Chinese energy producer also beat Tethys Petroleum
Ltd., Shahzad International of Pakistan, and Houston-based
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the largest oilfield-services provider.  Negotiations on the size of the planned refinery pushed
back the signing of the contract, Omar said, without elaborating
on its capacity. Afghanistan has one oil-processing plant
capable of making 500 metric tons of fuels daily.  Northern Afghanistan may hold more than 1.6 billion barrels
of crude, 16 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 500 million
barrels of natural gas liquids, according to the ministry’s
statement. The three blocks to be developed by CNPC may contain
80 million barrels of crude, Omar said.  The government will hold its next oilfield auction in
February, Abdul Jalil Jumriany, policy director at the mines
ministry, said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 