-- Philippine Peso Declines as Bank of Japan Warns of Economic Risk
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-27T09:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/philippine-peso-declines-as-bank-of-japan-warns-of-economic-risk.html
The Philippine peso dropped for a
second day after the Bank of  Japan  warned of economic risks
stemming from  Europe ’s unresolved debt crisis, sapping demand
for emerging-market assets. Bonds dropped.  The MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional stocks snapped two
days of gains after minutes of the Nov. 15-16 board meeting of
Japan’s central bank showed some members saying risks to the
economy had increased. The  Asian Development Bank  cut its 2011
and 2012 growth forecasts for the region earlier this month,
saying nations must safeguard growth against the threat of
another global economic crisis.  “The  Philippines ’ fundamentals are strong but the external
problems are weighing on investors’ appetite,” said Marcelo
Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in
Manila. “Because of the deleveraging in Europe, some people are
leaving Asian assets.”  The peso lost 0.6 percent to 43.825 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , its biggest drop in almost two weeks, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The Philippines may consider a fresh “stimulus package”
next year to support the economy, President Benigno Aquino’s
spokesman Edwin Lacierda told reporters today in Manila.  Inflation is forecast to be within 4 percent to 4.9 percent
this month, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a
mobile phone message today, using 2000 as the base year. That
compares with 4.7 percent in November.  “The outlook for inflation remains manageable as we
continue to see within-target inflation over the policy
horizon,” Tetangco said. The central bank “remains watchful of
global developments to ensure our policy settings remain
appropriate,” he said.  Benchmark 10-year bonds fell for a third day, with the
yield rising to a one-week high. The yield on the government’s
7.375 percent bonds due March 2021 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 5.18 percent, according to Amstel
Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  