-- Pianist Gould Wore Fingerless Gloves, Hummed on Records: DVDs
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2011-12-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/pianist-gould-wore-fingerless-gloves-hummed-on-recordings-peter-rainer.html
“That nut is a genius,” Cleveland
Orchestra conductor George Szell once said of the legendary
Canadian pianist Glenn Gould.  Both the wackiness and the brilliance get full play in the
Kino film “ Genius Within: The Inner Life of Glenn Gould .”  There have been other documentaries on Gould, including one
for the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. that Gould himself wrote and
starred in. This one, directed by Michele Hozer and Peter
Raymont, is the most comprehensive.  The filmmakers draw on a huge trove of never-before-seen
concert footage, private home recordings, photographs, even
goofy home movies of Gould cavorting on tropical beaches.  For such an eccentric recluse, Gould, who died in 1982 at
the age of 50, was often out and about.  On his eclectic Toronto radio show, he discussed sports,
politics and his admiration for singer Petula Clark. He also
loved Barbara Streisand and wrote insightfully about her and
music in general. Then there were his innovations in recording
technology, such as his early experiments with overdubbing.  “I hate audiences,” said Gould, who gave up concerts in
the early 1960s while continuing to record in the studio.  Fingerless Gloves  It’s clear from the film that renouncing the concert hall
allowed him to communicate directly with his audience without
the circus of a staged event. In his studio recordings, you can
appreciate Gould’s genius without the distractions of his
performing persona -- the gloves with the fingers cut away that
he often wore while playing, the piano stool raised a mere 14
inches off the ground, and so on. One eccentricity remains on
the recordings: He hums loudly as he plays.  Gould’s debut 1955 album of Bach’s “Goldberg Variations,”
recorded when he was 22, has cover photos of the artist in all
his blazing charisma. He was the classical music equivalent of
 James Dean  and  Marlon Brando , the reigning movie outlaws of the
era.  “Genius Within” shows us Gould in recording sessions from
that time and contrasts this with his later years, when he
seemed worn away by his phobias.  Cornelia Foss, the wife of composer/conductor Lukas Foss
and Gould’s sometime lover, says some of the pianist’s fears
stemmed from real concerns.  “He didn’t like shaking hands because it aggravated a
shoulder injury,” she says in the documentary.  Foss recalls Gould watching his favorite TV show, “Get
Smart,” with her young children while at the same time
spreading out an entire Bach score on the floor and learning it
on the spot by heart.  Now that’s genius.  Jazzy Kenton  Stan Kenton, a founding father of big-band jazz, may seem a
world away from the dark intensity of Gould. In his own realm,
however, the influential bandleader/pianist was just as
innovative.  Graham Carter’s documentary, “ Stan Kenton: Artistry in
Rhythm ,” covers Kenton’s entire career from the late 1930s to
his death in 1979 at the age of 67.  Starting in the late ‘40s Kenton pioneered the use of Afro-
Cuban rhythms in big-band jazz. In the later “Progressive” era
he worked in classical elements that echoed such composers as
Darius Milhaud. He also founded jazz-education schools that
brought forth an entire generation of jazz artists, including
trumpeter Donald Byrd.  The documentary steers clear of some of the controversies
in Kenton’s career, particularly the unfounded charge that he
favored white musicians.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  