-- Zloty Strengthens to Six-Week High on Poland Intervention Bets
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2011-12-27T16:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/polish-zloty-rises-to-five-week-high-on-bets-of-intervention.html
Poland ’s zloty appreciated to its
strongest level against the euro in six weeks on speculation the
country will intervene to support the currency.  The zloty gained as much as 0.7 percent to 4.3939 per euro,
its strongest since Nov. 14, before paring its advance to 0.6
percent at 4.3969 as of 4:30 p.m. in Warsaw. The move today
trimmed this year’s losses to 10 percent.  State-run Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the central bank
have been selling dollars and euros since September, partly
because depreciation increases the zloty value of Poland’s debt,
about 29 percent of which is denominated in foreign currencies.
Public borrowing rose to 52.8 percent of gross domestic product
in 2010, and a rise above 55 percent will trigger compulsory
spending cuts and tax increases under public-finance laws.  The zloty is “supported by threat of intervention” in a
relatively less liquid market,’’  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist
at Bank Pekao SA in Warsaw, wrote in a report to clients today.  U.S. stocks rose after a report showing  consumer confidence 
in the world’s largest economy climbed more than expected fueled
optimism the recovery is gaining momentum. American employers
added 120,000 jobs last month and the  unemployment rate  fell to
8.6 percent, Labor Department figures earlier this month showed.  “Thanks to positive American figures, the end of the year
doesn’t look as bleak as it may have seemed only a few weeks
ago,” Jan Bures, currency analyst at CSOB AS in Prague, wrote
in a report today. “Planned interventions by BGK to support the
Polish currency are a well-known secret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  