-- Putin Says Manipulation Isn’t Needed to Win Popular Support
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-27T11:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/putin-says-manipulation-isn-t-needed-to-win-popular-support-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said he doesn’t need “any manipulation” in March
presidential elections as he maintained his refusal to review
this month’s disputed parliamentary ballot.  “I want to rely on the will of the people, popular
backing,” Putin said at a meeting with his All-Russia People’s
Front in Moscow today. “Otherwise it doesn’t make sense.”  At least 30,000 people rallied last weekend in Moscow
against alleged election fraud in the Dec. 4 poll as the largest
protests against Putin in his 12 years in power gathered pace.
The premier’s opponents are demanding that the parliamentary
elections be held again and the March presidential poll delayed
to ensure it is held under democratic rules. A leading
opposition figure and blogger, Alexei Navalny, said yesterday
he’d run for president if the elections are free and fair.  “There can be no discussion of reviewing” the election
results, Putin said, adding that people who disagreed with them
can appeal to the courts.  Putin’s former finance minister,  Alexei Kudrin , who
addressed the Dec. 24 protest rally, and billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who is running in the presidential election, have
both backed the demand for a repeat vote.  Transparent Ballot Boxes  The prime minister endorsed a suggestion by Prokhorov to
use transparent ballot boxes to reduce the possibility for fraud
in the March 4 election. Putin has already ordered authorities
to install web cameras in every polling station.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , 46, who agreed in September to
step down and allow Putin’s comeback, announced measures to
loosen political controls in his state-of-the-nation speech on
Dec. 22, promising to make it easier to register parties and run
for president. The changes won’t take full effect until the
parliamentary and presidential elections in 2016 and 2018.  Putin, 59, served two terms as president before stepping
down in 2008 after completing the constitutional maximum two
consecutive terms.  The ruling  United Russia  party won just over half of seats
in the Dec. 4 vote, losing the two-thirds parliamentary majority
that allowed it to alter the constitution unilaterally.
International observers said the elections were marred by
ballot-box stuffing.  Navalny, 35, who shot to prominence this year after winning
a following for his campaign against corruption at state
companies, was the preferred presidential candidate for 22
percent of 791 people surveyed at the Dec. 24 protest in Moscow,
a survey showed. The opinion poll by the  Levada Center  had a
margin of error of 4.8 percentage points.  “We will hold fair elections and we will take the Kremlin
and White House in the sense that people will sit there who have
been elected,” Navalny said. “Maybe Putin will sit there and
United Russia will sit in parliament, but only through honest
elections.” The White House is the Russian seat of government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  