-- Romney-Gingrich Iowa Ground Campaigns Intensify in Final Stretch
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-27T13:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/romney-gingrich-iowa-campaigns-intensify.html
After a yearlong contest marked by
the rise and fall of a series of candidates, the Republican
presidential contenders competing in  Iowa  will flood corn fields
and college towns with bus tours, television ads and phone calls
in the final week of the U.S.’s first primary-election campaign.  The rush to reach voters on the ground marks a departure
for a field largely unified by its attempts to campaign from a
distance. Rather than reaching voters at town halls and pizza
parlors across rural  Iowa , the candidates have gotten their
messages out through more than a dozen televised debates,
nationally broadcast media interviews, and a multimillion-dollar
ad war.  Those who have spent time doing traditional retail
politicking have struggled to get traction in the polls.  “We still believe that the caucuses are a little different
kettle of fish then most other elections,” former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  told reporters yesterday, after an
afternoon shooting pheasants with local politicians in Adel.  The outcome of the Jan. 3 caucuses is expected to narrow
what remains a volatile race.  Newt Gingrich  has lost ground to
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, making the former U.S. House
speaker the latest candidate to surge in the polls only to see
his ratings drop.  Both are competing against former  Massachusetts  Governor
Mitt Romney. While Romney has won the backing of many party
leaders, he has failed to gain a majority of rank-and-file
primary voters.  Voters Undecided  Polls show many Iowans remain undecided, and a majority are
open to changing their minds before next week’s caucuses. The
campaigns want to win over these uncommitted voters, while
identifying precinct captains to wrangle supporters to the 1,774
Republican caucuses that will be held across the state.  Iowa voters have a mixed track record for picking their
party’s nominee. In 2008, former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee 
unified social conservatives to win an upset victory over
Romney, who poured $10 million into the state. Huckabee’s
candidacy quickly faded after Arizona Senator  John McCain , the
eventual nominee, won the New Hampshire primary.  This year, Romney has devoted less energy to Iowa,
attempting to lower expectations by spending little time there
and hiring only a handful of staff members.  Romney Steps In  Now, with polls finding him in a stronger position, Romney
plans to intensify his presence in the state this week. He has
been addressing supporters in Iowa,  South Carolina  and  Florida 
on conference calls, and his campaign released an ad
highlighting his record as a “conservative businessman.”  “The experience of balancing budgets is desperately needed
in  Washington , and I will take it there,” he says in the ad.  Today, he will deliver a speech in Davenport, Iowa --billed
as his final argument to voters -- before setting out on a
three-day bus tour across the state.  Gingrich, too, is working to make up for lost time in Iowa.
He has fallen in the polls after facing weeks of attacks from
other candidates questioning his conservative record. While he
held a double-digit lead over Paul and Romney in a CBS-New York
Times  poll  conducted Nov. 30-Dec. 5, he ranked second behind
Paul in an Iowa State University/Gazette/KCRG  poll  taken Dec.
8-18.  Lowered Expectations  Last week, he began lowering expectations for his
performance in the Iowa caucuses, telling supporters in  Virginia 
that finishing in the top three or four would still position him
to be the Republican nominee.  Gingrich has struggled to build a campaign organization to
sustain his rise in the polls and deflect attacks. After
spending much of the summer focused on getting his message out
through social media, Gingrich’s nine-person Iowa staff is
working to set up the standard infrastructure to build support
in the state.  As of last week, Gingrich had spent just one-fifth of the
amount of money on advertising promoting his candidacy as his
opponents and their backers had spent attacking him and his
record, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG, a New York-based
company that tracks the expenditures.  Anti-Gingrich Advertising  Restore Our Future, a political action committee supporting
Romney, has spent about $670,000 on commercials criticizing
Gingrich as someone with “a ton of baggage,” and Paul has
spent about $50,000 on spots charging the former speaker with
“serial hypocrisy.”  Seeking to regain ground, Gingrich is scheduled to embark
today on an eight-day, 40-city tour of the state. He is expected
to compare his economic proposal with that of President  Ronald Reagan .  He aims to start a fresh assault on Romney, with plans to
challenge the former private equity manager on his economic
credentials. Gingrich will draw a contrast between his tax plan
and Romney’s proposal, arguing that he would make deeper cuts to
corporate and capital gains taxes. His plan also offers
taxpayers the option of filing at a flat 15 percent rate, while
Romney’s retains the current graduated income tax system.  Health-Care Law  Gingrich may have to explain a column that appeared five
years ago under his name praising the health-care law Romney
championed while governor of  Massachusetts  -- a measure seen as
the model for the national legislation that was enacted last
year and that Republicans, including all the presidential
candidates, have vowed to dismantle. The Wall Street Journal
reported today that in April 2006, a newsletter published by the
Center for Health Transformation, a consulting firm Gingrich
headed, included a “Newt’s Notes” column praising the
Massachusetts law as having “tremendous potential to effect
major change in the American health care system.”  “We agree entirely with Governor Romney and Massachusetts
legislators that our goal should be 100% insurance coverage for
all Americans,” the column said.  A Gingrich spokesman, R.C. Hammond, told the Journal that
Gingrich didn’t write that column himself. The column, which is
no longer available online, was found using a search engine that
has archives of old, and even deleted, web pages, the Journal
said.  Challenge from Paul  Both Gingrich and Romney face a growing challenge from
Paul, whose fundraising strength has helped his campaign after a
failed 2008 run. Paul will rally supporters this week in a
series of town hall meetings across the state.  The remainder of those competing in Iowa --  Texas  Governor
 Rick Perry , Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota and
Santorum -- are struggling to break out of the single digits.  All three tout their strong ties to evangelical Christians
and opposition to abortion rights and same-sex marriage. That
community plays a crucial role in the caucuses: In 2008, 60
percent of Republicans who attended the caucuses described
themselves to pollsters as born-again or evangelical Christians.  So far, those voters haven’t coalesced around a candidate.  Bidding for social conservative support, Perry has shifted
from focusing on his economic record in Texas to his religion,
proclaiming himself “not ashamed to talk about my faith” in an
ad. He plans to resume his three-week bus tour today.  Bachmann, who rose in the polls after winning the Iowa
Straw Poll in August, is aiming to visit all 99 Iowa counties
before the caucuses.  Questions About Endorsement  Even an endorsement of Santorum by Bob Vander Plaats, an
influential social conservative in the state, has been shadowed
by questions over whether the Christian leader had sought a
contribution before giving his endorsement.  Lacking the money to fund a major advertising campaign,
Santorum has made hundreds of campaign appearances in the state.
Still, he trails in the polls.  Standing in a bright orange hunting jacket outside Doc’s
Hunt Club yesterday, he told reporters that he expects his work
will pay off on caucus night.  “I’m someone who’s run a very strong steady campaign and
done it the way the people of Iowa want to see a campaign run,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Des Moines 
at   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  