-- Sears Tumbles After Retailer Plans to Close 120 Stores Amid Weak Economy
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2011-12-27T21:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/sears-will-shutter-120-stores-as-consumer-electronics-clothing-sales-drop.html
Sears Holdings Corp.  tumbled the
most in 8 1/2 years after saying it will close as many as 120
stores, with a deeper-than-expected sales decline casting doubt
on Chairman  Edward Lampert ’s efforts to turn around the chain.  Lampert has tried several strategies since merging Sears
with Kmart in 2005, none of which have reversed falling sales.
His latest push involves moving toward smaller stores and
licensing the Craftsman, DieHard and Kenmore brands. As a
result, the larger stores have received less investment and
prompted customers to shop elsewhere, according to Gary Balter,
an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .  Same-store sales at the largest U.S. department store chain
fell 5.2 percent in the eight weeks ended Dec. 25, Sears said
today. By contrast, such sales in the department-store sector as
a whole will climb an estimated 4 percent in November and
December, compared with the same period a year ago, according to
the  International Council of Shopping Centers , a New York-based
trade group.  “Results were much worse than anticipated,” Balter said.
The share price also was artificially high because of a very
limited number of shares outstanding, he said. Today’s news also
“scares” investors who are long on the stock, said Balter, who
rates the shares “underperform.”  Sears  fell (SHLD)  27 percent to $33.38 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since April 29, 2003. The shares have fallen
55 percent this year.  Bond Prices  The chain’s $987.4 million of 6.625 percent notes due in
October 2018 declined 4.6 cents to 76 cents on the dollar to
yield 11.9 percent today in New York, according to Trace, the
bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s the lowest price since the notes were issued
in exchange for other debt in August, Bloomberg and Trace data
show.  Closing the Kmart and Sears stores will generate $140
million to $170 million of cash from inventory sales and leasing
or sales of the locations, the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
company said today in a statement. Sears will incur non-cash
expenses of as much as $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter to
write down the value of potential tax benefits and goodwill.  The company plans to reduce fixed costs by $100 million to
$200 million, according to the statement.  “There is not enough value in the real estate to do much
with,” Balter said. “Who is going to buy the stores? There are
no buyers. There is no one growing in U.S. retail.”  Hedge Fund  Lampert, who along with his hedge fund owns 60 percent of
Sears, has presided over 18 consecutive quarters of declining
sales. Before today’s announcement, Sears had closed 171 of its
large U.S. stores since 2005. Besides turning to smaller stores
and franchising, Lampert also has been leasing space to other
retailers and trying to boost Web sales.  Instead of reviving growth, Sears has lost customers and
market share to discounters such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , which are attracting budget-minded consumers.  Earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization in
the fourth quarter will be less than half of last year’s $933
million, Sears said.  “There is this philosophy that you don’t need to make as
much of an investment in the stores if you have a brand,”
Balter said in a telephone interview. “That has not worked.”  Sears didn’t identify which stores will be closed. In his
annual investor letters, Lampert has identified the smaller
Hometown and Sears Outlet stores as sources of growth and
profit. The company opened 122 of those “specialty” stores
last year, he said in his 2011 letter, and now has 945 -- less
than a quarter of the total.  Biggest Exposure  Landlords with the biggest exposure to Sears are Simon
Property Group Inc., which has Sears as a tenant at 137 of its
190 malls, and  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , with Sears as a
tenant at 110 of its 167 malls, according to Andrew Johns, an
analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,
 California .  “Generally, when Sears decides to close, it’s the lower
productivity stores with lower sales per square foot,” Johns
said in a telephone interview. “Sears has good real estate at
some malls.”  The company is allowing other retailers to sell its
DieHard, Craftsman and Kenmore products. Sears has also cut
deals with such retailers as Costco Wholesale Corp. and Ace
Hardware to sell Craftsman tools in their stores.  “If they can just create enough  cash flow  to get through
the downturn, at some point there is going to be a huge uptick
in appliance sales,”  Paul Swinand, an analyst with Morningstar
Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “They just have
to make sure that when that happens they are not cut off at the
knees, and that it doesn’t all go to Home Depot and Best Buy.”  Sears is to report fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 23.  “The market is assuming there’s more bad news to come,”
Swinand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  