-- SEC Wants Citigroup Suit Put on Hold During Appeal of Settlement Rejection
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-27T21:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/sec-seeks-delay-and-fast-appeal-in-citigroup-securities-fraud-lawsuit.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked a federal appeals court to put an emergency
hold on its lawsuit against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  over mortgage-backed
securities, and to expedite its appeal of a judge’s rejection of
a $285 million settlement in the case.  Citigroup consented to the requests, the SEC said in a
filing today with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York . The
agency is challenging U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal
last month to approve an accord resolving claims that  New York- 
based Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial
product linked to risky mortgages. It said halting the case was
necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to the SEC’s
complaint next week.  “The commission seeks a stay on an emergency basis because
the Jan. 3 deadline for Citigroup to answer creates an exigency
that threatens the commission with additional irreparable
harm,” the regulator said in court papers.  In his Nov. 28 ruling, Rakoff criticized the agency’s
practice of settling without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. The  Manhattan  judge said the
Citigroup settlement didn’t provide him with “any proven or
admitted facts” to inform his judgment.  Agency Resources  The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s ruling and
believe the settlement fully complies with long-established
legal standards,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup, said in an e-mailed statement. “In the event the
case is tried, we would present substantial factual and legal
defenses to the charges.”  Rakoff issued an order today denying the SEC and
Citigroup’s request that he halt the lower-court case during the
appeal.  Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and civil litigator,
has previously criticized the SEC’s practice of allowing
financial institutions to settle enforcement actions without
admitting or denying the agency’s allegations. In 2009, he
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   The commission said earlier this month that it was unaware
any court has ever before required that “proven or acknowledged
facts” be established as a condition to the approval of a
proposed consent judgment submitted by a federal government
agency.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second (New York). The district court case is 11-cv-
7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Manhattan federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 