-- Shale Spurs U.S. States to Vie for Chemical Projects, WSJ Says
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2011-12-27T17:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/shale-spurs-u-s-states-to-vie-for-chemical-projects-wsj-says.html
A surge in U.S. natural-gas
production from shale rock is spurring states to compete for
companies to produce chemicals from the fuel, the Wall Street
Journal reported.  Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia are vying to attract a
plant that will turn gas into ethylene proposed by  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , the Journal reported today. Shell intends to announce
a site early next year, the newspaper said. Ethylene is a
building block of plastics and other materials used to make
pipes, paint and antifreeze.  Plentiful domestic gas supplies have depressed prices,
attracting chemical, fertilizer and steel manufacturers to
construct new U.S. plants and reopen shuttered mills in what was
a high-priced market a few years ago, the newspaper said.  West Virginia’s legislature passed a bill this month
establishing regulations for drilling into shale formations, a
process known as hydraulic fracturing that involves pumping
high-pressure water, sand and chemicals into the ground to
shatter rocks and allow gas to flow, the Journal said, citing
Keith Burdette, the state’s commerce secretary. The legislation
should dispel any uncertainty about  West Virginia ’s ability to
provide a “reliable supply” of gas, the paper quoted Burdette
as saying.  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  is spending $750 million to build a steel mill
in Louisiana, an investment that wouldn’t have been feasible
without the plunge in gas prices, the newspaper said, citing
Nucor Chief Executive Officer Dan DiMicco.  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , which makes fertilizer from
gas-derived ingredients, plans to spend $1 billion to $1.5
billion over several years to expand its North American plants,
the newspaper said. Low gas prices also have reduced electricity
costs in some regions where generators burn gas, prompting
 Brazil ’s Santana Textiles to build a $180 million denim plant in
Edinburg, Texas, the Journal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  