-- Samsung, LCD Makers Agree to Pay $538.6 Million to Settle Antitrust Claims
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2011-12-27T23:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/sharp-samsung-propose-539-million-settlement-in-panel-antitrust-cases.html
Sharp Corp .,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and five other makers of liquid crystal display panels used in
computers and televisions agreed to pay $538.6 million to settle
antitrust claims by indirect purchasers.  Earlier this month, the panel makers agreed to pay $388
million to settle price-fixing claims by direct buyers of the
products as part of a series of cases consolidated in federal
court in San Francisco. Under the new agreement, about $501
million will be available for partial refunds to consumers and
about $37 million to compensate governments and other public
entities for damages, according to a court filing dated Dec. 23.  The companies allegedly fixed prices of thin-film liquid
crystal display panels, driving up prices for purchasers of
televisions,  notebook computers  and monitors from 1999 to 2006,
according to a class action, or group, lawsuit filed in 2007.  “We think that the amount of the settlement, along with
the injunction the defendants had to agree to, will prevent
price-fixing by these powerful companies in the consumer
electronics industry,”  Joseph Alioto , a lawyer for the class-
action plaintiffs, said in a telephone interview. “The only way
they pay attention to the law is to have to pay money.”  The attorneys general of eight states, including  Florida ,
California and  New York , were part of the settlement agreements
with the manufacturers.  ‘Detrimental’  “Price-fixing is detrimental to Florida’s consumers,
governmental agencies, and the economy,”  Pam Bondi , Florida’s
attorney general, said in a statement. “I am pleased that we
will be able to return funds to those who were harmed by this
illegal and deceptive behavior.”  New York taxpayers may receive as much as $11 million from
the settlement, according to a release from the state’s attorney
general,  Eric Schneiderman .  Besides the $538.6 million settlement of the antitrust
claims, five of the companies also agreed to pay more than $14
million in civil fines and penalties to New York, according to
the statement from Schneiderman.  “This price-fixing scheme manipulated the playing field
for businesses that abide by the rules, and left consumers to
pay artificially higher costs for televisions, computers and
other electronics,” Schneiderman said in the statement.  Lawyers representing Samsung and Sharp didn’t return
messages seeking comment on the settlement.  Criminal Fines  Samsung agreed to pay $240 million in the settlement, the
highest figure. The second-biggest amount, $115.5 million, will
be paid by Sharp. The other companies in this agreement are
Chimei, Chunghwa, Epson, Hannstar and Hitachi.  Alioto said he believed the $539 million settlement was the
largest ever for consumers in a class-action price-fixing case.  A U.S. Justice Department investigation that led to guilty
pleas by LG Display Co., Chunghwa Picture Tubes and Sharp
preceded the litigation. The companies agreed in 2008 and 2009
to pay $585 million in criminal fines, the U.S. said.  Litigation will continue against companies that didn’t
agree to the class-action settlement, including LG, Toshiba and
AU Optronics, according to the statement from Bondi. Bondi’s
suit against those defendants is scheduled to go to trial in
November 2012.  The class-action suit in  California  is set for trial in
April 2012, according to a court filing.  Jury Trial  Alioto said the class-action defendants are seeking more
than $2 billion in damages in that jury trial in San Francisco.
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston will preside.  This settlement followed the exchange of “more than 7.8
million documents totaling more than 40 million pages” and more
than 100 depositions, lawyers said in the Dec. 23 filing
requesting preliminary approval of the accord.  The other states involved in the settlement are Arkansas,
 Michigan , Missouri,  West Virginia  and Wisconsin.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel)  Antitrust
Litigation , 07-01827, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net 
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 