-- South Korea Stocks Drop on Wrong Order, North Speculation, Exchange Says
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2011-12-27T07:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/south-korea-stocks-drop-on-wrong-order-north-speculation-exchange-says.html
South Korea’s  stocks (KOSPI)  fell, with
losses triggered by what exchange officials said was possibly an
“erroneous” trading order and concern North Korea’s leadership
transition may heighten tensions on the peninsula.  The benchmark Kospi stock gauge dropped 0.8 percent to
1,842.02 at the close in Seoul, paring losses from a 2.3 percent
plunge earlier.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Samsung Electro-
Mechanics Co. (009150)  paced declines, sliding more than 2 percent. The
Korean won slumped to a one-week low against the dollar.  “An investor, which we can’t verify yet, appears to have
placed an erroneous order,” La Sung Chae, an official at the
market trading analysis team at Korea Exchange Inc., said by
phone today. “That, combined with unconfirmed rumors about the
health of the new leader of  North Korea  and that  China  may send
troops to the communist nation, drove the index sharply lower. I
think it seems a one-time occurrence.”  South Korean equities have fallen 10 percent this year on
concern slowing global economic growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis
will curb exports. A central bank report today showed consumer
confidence slumping to a three-month low this month.  The Kospi slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 when the death of
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  was announced, dragging the
gauge’s valuation to 1.1 times net assets, the cheapest level
since Nov. 27. The index rallied 4 percent the next two trading
days as the government pledged to take action to soothe markets
and maintain growth in  Asia ’s fourth-largest  economy . Trading
was below average across Asian markets, with Hong Kong shut
today and the U.S. closed yesterday for the Christmas holiday.  ‘Supreme Commander’  North Korean state media began addressing Kim Jong Un by
the “Supreme Commander” title held by his late father,
signaling the regime’s new leader is tightening his control over
the nation’s military. Kim Jong Un got his first chance to play
the role of North Korean statesman as a former first lady from
the South and the chairwoman of Hyundai Group visited to pay
their condolences over the death of Kim Jong Il.  South Korea  and China share a common interest in peace and
stability on the Korean peninsula and need to be in close
communication, said Park Suk Hwan, South Korea’s Vice Foreign
Minister. Park made the comments to his Chinese counterpart
Zhang Zhijun during a meeting in Seoul today that was partly
open to the media.  LG Electronics, the world’s third-largest mobile-phone
maker, slid 2.4 percent to 72,500 won. Samsung Electro-
Mechanics, a maker of electronic parts, slipped 6.8 percent to
80,700 won after Woori Investment & Securities Co. said its sale
of a stake in Samsung LED Co. for 283 billion won ($245 million)
was lower than estimated.  Defense equipment manufacturer Speco Co. led gains among
South Korean defense-related companies in Seoul, climbing 4.9
percent to 2,670 won.  Huneed Technologies (005870) , a military
communication equipment manufacturer, added 2.1 percent to 3,470
won.  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,158.68 per dollar, after
touching 1,160.09, the weakest since Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  