-- Stress-Medication Sales Hold Up as Economy Gives Heartburn to U.S. Jobless
-- B y   F r e d   J e s p e r s e n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-12-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/stress-medications-holding-up-through-economic-doldrums-study-suggests.html
If you think the economy is giving
you heartburn, you may not be alone.  Use of acid reflux medications showed a 93 percent
correlation with the U.S.  unemployment  rate over the last five
years, according to a study by Bloomberg Rankings. Drugs for
high  blood pressure  and antidepressants had correlation rates of
92 percent and 85 percent respectively, the data show.  Unemployment in the U.S. declined to 8.6 percent as of Nov.
30, from a high of 10.1 percent in October 2009. Patients taking
drugs for high blood pressure, including ACE inhibitors like
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Accupril and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Zestril, or
antidepressants such as  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cymbalta have found
ways to keep paying for them through economic doldrums, said
Andrew Berens of Bloomberg Industries.  “The demand for drugs, especially in those classes,
appears to be independent of major macro indicators, suggesting
that people will find a way to pay for them,” said Berens, a
senior health-care analyst based in Skillman, New Jersey, in a
telephone interview. “Especially the ones that alleviate
anxiety, depression and maybe hypertension, which can be related
to anxiety, too.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index (S5PHAR) , with 12
members led by New York-based Pfizer and New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , has gained 14 percent this year.
That compares with a gain of less than 1 percent for the  S&P 500. (SPX)   Correlation Vs. Causation  To be sure, “correlation does not mean causation,” said
 Les Funtleyder , a health-care strategist and portfolio manager
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  “Just because a number is high and positive doesn’t mean
the two are related,” Berens said. “It just means in that time
period they traveled in the same direction.”  The study examined medicines for pain, cholesterol and
erectile dysfunction as well, showing correlation rates with
unemployment of 87 percent, 93 percent and 68 percent,
respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Jespersen in  New York  at 
 fjespersen@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  