-- Syrian Forces Fire Tear Gas at Protesters as Arab League Observers Visit
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-12-28T12:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/syria-begins-withdrawal-from-city-of-homs-as-arab-league-deploys-monitors.html
Syrian soldiers fired tear gas and
live ammunition into the air to disperse a crowd of tens of
thousands of protesters who gathered in Homs as  Arab League 
observers visited the city to monitor violence.  About 70,000 protesters rallied in the city after the
observers arrived yesterday, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone today. There
were no immediate reports of casualties. At least 16 people were
killed yesterday, mostly in the countryside outside the capital
Damascus,  Ammar Qurabi , head of the Syrian National Organization
for Human Rights, said.  Syria withdrew tanks yesterday from the streets of Homs,
where fighting had intensified in the past few days and is
keeping armored forces in the suburbs, Merei and Qurabi said.
The government freed 755 people today, state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency said.  “This is a calculation to muddy the waters, to stretch
things out,” said David Butter, director for the  Middle East  at
the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London . “Chances of Arab
League observers defusing the whole situation, creating some
assurance among the population that they are safe is pretty
minimal.”  Syria agreed on Dec. 19 to allow a monthlong visit by Arab
League observers after the organization imposed sanctions and
threatened to seek intervention by the  United Nations . More than
5,000 people have died since the unrest started mid-March,
according to the UN. The country has moved closer to civil war
as soldiers defect and take up arms against the government.  ‘Short-Term Benefit’  “It’s unlikely that the regime will switch off the
violence from the inside, it will only be a short-term
benefit,” Butter said in a telephone interview today. The
Syrian regime’s end goal is survival and President Bashar al- Assad is calculating that the Arab League won’t be too critical
of his government, he said. Pushing ahead with the troop
withdrawals, allowing media access, freeing detainees and
allowing the observers to produce a report on torture would
“embolden” the opposition, he said.  Observers arrived in Homs at 10 a.m. yesterday and met with
local government officials, Qurabi said. They visited the
central neighborhoods and weren’t allowed in the Baba Amr
district, where government forces are keeping some tanks, he
said.  Human Rights Watch  said the Syrian government transferred
“hundreds” of detainees to military sites that are off-limits
to the observers.  Undermining Monitors  “Syria has shown it will stop at nothing to undermine
independent monitoring of its crackdown,” Human Rights Watch
Middle East Director Sarah Leah Whitson said in a  statement  on
the group’s website.  The U.S. government decried what it called a deliberate
decision to escalate attacks against protesters just before the
arrival of international monitors.  “We obviously condemn this escalation of violence,” State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday in  Washington .
“They saw an opportunity prior to these Arab League monitors
arriving.”  The Syrian National Council, an umbrella opposition
movement, said in a Dec. 25 statement that 4,000 Syrian soldiers
were massing at Homs and called for the league to urgently send
observers there.  The first group of 50 observers plans to visit Damascus,
Homs, Idlib, Hama and Daraa, Arab League Ambassador Mohamed El-
Fateh El-Naserey said yesterday in a telephone interview from
his Ankara office. A second group will arrive in Syria shortly,
he said. As many as 500 monitors are expected to be deployed.  International Team  The first team of observers includes monitors from  Jordan ,
 Tunisia ,  Algeria ,  Sudan ,  Iraq , Oman,  Egypt , Morocco and
Mauritania, El-Naserey said.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs and his
forces have used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to crush
the uprising.  Bloomberg is unable to verify reports of violence as the
Syrian government restricts foreign media access in the country
and places curbs on local journalists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  