-- Consumer Confidence Rose More Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-27T21:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-more-than-forecast-on-improving-job-market.html
Confidence among consumers rose to
an eight-month high in December as an improving job market
helped Americans regain all the ground lost following the mid-
year government budget battle and credit-rating downgrade.  The Conference Board’s  index  increased to 64.5, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and the highest since
April, from a revised 55.2 reading in November, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed today. Another
report showed  home prices  fell more than projected in October.  Unemployment  that dropped last month to its lowest in more
than two years and the cheapest gasoline since February are
prompting households to take advantage of discounts during the
 holiday shopping season . The improvement in sentiment may help
sustain household purchases, which account for about 70 percent
of the economy, into the new year.  “A large part of the problem in the economy is one of
confidence, and to the extent that sentiment begins improving it
would be a positive for growth,” said  Dana Saporta , director of
U.S. economic research at Credit Suisse in New York, one of
three forecasters that projected a reading of 63, the highest in
the Bloomberg survey. “There are still a lot of headwinds out
there, including the continued decline in home prices.”  Stocks were little changed after the reports as the
improvement in confidence overshadowed concern about Europe’s
debt crisis and the drop in home prices. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index closed at 1,265.43 at in  New York .  Italian Retailers  Italian retailers had the worst Christmas in 10 years,
consumer group Codacons said today, as austerity measures to
combat the sovereign debt crisis prompted households to cut
spending. Italians spent 48 euros ($62.75) less per person this
holiday season than the average of the past five years,  Rome 
based Codacons said in a statement on its website.  In  China , profit gains at industrial companies cooled. Net
income increased 24.4 percent in the first 11 months of 2011
from a year earlier to 4.66 trillion yuan ($737 billion), the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. The
pace compared with a 25.3 percent gain in the first 10 months
and a 27 percent rise in the first three quarters. The lingering
 Europe  debt crisis and a cooling domestic property market are
dimming growth prospects for the world’s second-largest economy.  The  median forecast  of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the U.S. consumer confidence gauge would rise to 58.9.
Estimates ranged from 52 to 63. The measure averaged 53.7 during
the recession that ended in June 2009 and 98 during the economic
expansion that ended in December 2007.  Confidence Measures  Other surveys have reflected similar gains in optimism. The
Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index  improved to minus 45 in the
period ended Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior
week, marking the biggest seven-day gain since January. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
 sentiment  rose to a six-month high in December.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values in cities dropped
3.4 percent from October 2010 after decreasing 3.5 percent in
the year ended September, the New York-based group said. The
 median forecast  of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey projected
a 3.2 percent decrease.  The real-estate market is bracing for another wave of
foreclosures that may keep pressure on home prices, indicating
any housing recovery will take time to develop. Nonetheless,
rising builder confidence, a pickup in construction and fewer
unsold new properties for sale are among signs the industry that
triggered the last recession is steadying.  Striving for ‘Equilibrium’  “It’s a picture of a market that’s trying to get back to
equilibrium,”  Karl Case , co-creator of the index, said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio. “Different things are
happening in different markets. It’s very segmented. You’ve got
these huge inventories that we’ve never really had before.”  The Conference Board’s confidence data showed a measure of
present conditions increased to the highest level since
September 2008. The measure of expectations for the next six
months also climbed.  The share of consumers saying jobs were plentiful rose to
the highest since January 2009, while those saying employment
was hard to get decreased to the lowest since the same month.  Confidence slumped in August when S&P stripped the U.S. of
its AAA credit rating after congressional gridlock on raising
the debt limit almost forced a government shutdown and brought
the nation to the brink of default.  Debt Limit  A similar battle may be on the horizon. The Obama
administration will ask Congress to increase federal borrowing
authority by $1.2 trillion as the nation approaches the debt
limit set by law, according to a Treasury Department official.
The White House will send the request to Congress on Dec. 30,
the day the debt is projected to rise to within $100 billion of
the $15.194 trillion limit, the Treasury official told reporters
today on condition of anonymity.  Americans will be helped by Congress’ decision last week to
pass a two-month payroll tax cut extension, eight days before
its scheduled expiration. Yet fiscal policy uncertainty remains
as congressmen are debating measures to cut the  budget deficit 
by $1.2 trillion over 10 years.  The labor market has gained traction in recent weeks,
gasoline prices have fallen and stocks have climbed as European
leaders worked to resolve their debt crisis, helping revive
confidence.  Fewer Firings  Initial claims  in the week ended Dec. 17 declined by 4,000
to 364,000, the lowest level since April 2008, while those
continuing to receive benefits fell by 79,000 to 3.55 million in
the prior week, the lowest since September 2008.  The  unemployment rate  in November fell to 8.6 percent, the
lowest since March 2009, while the  S&P 500 (SPX)  gained 9.2 percent
from Nov. 25 through Dec. 23.  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline fell to $3.21 on Dec.
20, the lowest since February, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest automobile association.  Holiday sales will rise 3.8 percent, compared with a 5.2
percent advance last year, according to the Washington-based
 National Retail Federation .  As they have throughout the season, retailers continued to
discount and keep stores open longer than ever. Almost all 600
Toys “R” Us U.S. locations were to remain open from Dec. 20 to
Christmas Eve -- or 112 hours straight.  “We took a number of actions to drive our business,
including running effective promotions across multiple
channels,” Brian Dunn, chief executive officer at Best Buy Co.,
the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, said on a
Dec. 13 conference call. “We’re excited about momentum we’ve
seen in hot products like mobile phones, tables, and e-readers
for the rest of the holiday season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  