-- Iran Regime Profiting From Currency Decline, U.S. Treasury Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2011-12-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-says-iran-elite-profiting-from-currency-plunge-triggered-by-sanctions.html
The Obama administration is accusing
the elite of  Iran ’s regime and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps of profiting “on the back of the average Iranian” as the
nation’s currency plunges under pressure from international
sanctions.  The new allegation coincides with the decline in the market
value of the Iranian rial, which has dropped about 15 percent
against the dollar in the past five weeks and 35 percent since
March, according to Tehran’s independent Donya-e-Eqtesad
newspaper. The 39 percent difference between the central bank’s
official rate and market rates on Dec. 21 was the largest in
almost two decades, economists in Tehran and Washington said in
interviews.  U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  David Cohen  said the gap
between the two rates has provided an arbitrage opportunity
exploited by officials and businesses affiliated with the IRGC,
the elite military arm that’s under international sanctions for
suspected nuclear weapons work and terrorism. They are among
regime elements able to obtain foreign currency at the favorable
official  exchange rate  and sell it for a profit in exchange
bureaus at the market rate, he told the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee in written testimony Dec. 1.  “Ordinary Iranians are urgently seeking out foreign
currency such as dollars or euros for safety, yet they are
having trouble accessing hard currency, and when they can, they
have to pay the unofficial market rate,” said Cohen, the
Treasury undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence.  ‘Profitable Arbitrage’  “At the same time, senior government officials and
preferred businesses, including IRGC-owned and controlled
operations, are able to access foreign exchange at the official
rate, essentially engaging in profitable arbitrage on the back
of the average Iranian,” according to Cohen.  The market value of the rial has been dropping for months.
Iranians are reacting to the prospect that their government may
be incapable of slowing the 19.8 percent  inflation  rate or
improving the domestic  economy , as the U.S. and  Europe  approved
new sanctions on the banking system and discuss a possible
European embargo of Iranian oil, Hossein Raghfar, an economist
at Al Zahra University in Tehran, said in a telephone interview.  The official rial-to-dollar rate was 11,030 on Dec. 21,
while the market rate at currency bureaus soared to 15,300 the
same day. That gap narrowed yesterday to 11,100 and 15,150, a 36
percent difference, according to Donya-e-Eqtesad. The 39 percent
gap last week was the widest in about 20 years and it
underscores that Iranians don’t trust politicians and finance
officials to stabilize the economy, said Raghfar.  Iranian Media  U.S. Treasury officials declined to provide Bloomberg News
with documentation backing up Cohen’s allegation. Treasury
spokesman  John Sullivan  did point to reports in the Iranian
media citing central bank of Iran officials and a prominent
researcher with Iran’s parliament warning about currency
profiteering. Those reports do not explicitly refer to regime
officials and the IRGC benefiting as Cohen did.  The Alef news website linked to Ahmad Tavakoli, an
economist who runs the Iranian parliament’s research center,
cited him as saying that the gap between the rates “will lead
to massive undue incomes at the expense of the nation’s
assets.”  That will result in the “emergence of a new class of
people who will have reached a certain structure through the
economy’s muddy waters and the blessings of the CBI,” the
central bank of Iran, said Tavakoli, who has frequently
criticized President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s economic policies.  ‘Domestic Discontent’  Cohen told Congress that for a decade, until September
2010, Iran successfully supported a single, official exchange
rate using hard currency earned from oil sales. He credited
 United Nations  sanctions imposed in June, 2010, with making it
hard for the central bank to access foreign currency to defend
the rial. The plunging currency was “fueling serious inflation,
high unemployment and domestic discontent,” he said.  Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  was
not immediately available to comment when called at his office
in Tehran yesterday.  The assertion that the IRGC and senior regime members are
profiting from the rial’s fall raises questions about whether
sanctions are having the unintended effect of enriching entities
involved in nuclear and missile proliferation, said Ken Katzman
of the non-partisan  Congressional Research Service  in  Washington 
and author of a book on the IRGC.  “Clearly sanctions are hurting the economy, but are the
sanctions putting pressure on the key institutions they are
intended to pressure, or could it be making the government more
powerful relative to the population than it was before?”
Katzman said in an interview.  Current Sanctions  Iran is under sanctions targeting the IRGC, finance,
shipping, transport, missile and nuclear procurement and energy,
in a concerted effort by the United Nations, the U.S., Europe
and other nations to press Iran to abandon its suspected nuclear
weapons program. Iran insists its nuclear program is for
peaceful use.  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency on Nov. 8
detailed nuclear work that inspectors said could only be for
military purposes. The latest report prompted additional
sanctions last month in Washington,  London  and Ottawa, and is
driving discussions in Europe on imposing an oil embargo.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, earning the country
$73 billion in 2010 and supplying more than 50 percent of the
national budget, according to the U.S. Energy Department and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Oil Revenue  The second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , Iran exported
an average of 2.58 million barrels a day in 2010, according to
OPEC. Iran expects to earn $110 billion from crude oil
production in the Iranian calendar year that ends March 19, the
state-run Mehr news agency said, citing a member of the
parliament’s economic committee, Gholamreza Mesbahi-Moghadam.  Ali Alfoneh, an Iran researcher and IRGC specialist at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington, said government
institutions, including the IRGC, benefited from a similar
currency situation during the Iran-Iraq War in the 1980s. They
were given preferential access to foreign currency at an
official rate, which they used both to buy weapons overseas and
to sell currency on the black market, he said.  ‘More Corrupt’  It would “make sense” that the IRGC now is trying to do
what it did in the 1980s, Alfoneh said in an interview. “In
every single profitable industry in Iran, you see the IRGC. They
are becoming more and more corrupt every day.”  “The wrong people are benefiting,” while ordinary
Iranians suffer inflation, feeble economic growth and a decline
in the rial brought on by sanctions, he said.  Growing public anger over the falling rial and growing
opportunities for corruption are also feeding divisions within
Iran’s leadership. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s political
rivals accuse him and his loyalists of economic mismanagement.
The president and the central bank governor have disavowed blame
for the fall of the rial.  As state television last week showed lines of people camped
out with blankets overnight in front of state banks waiting to
buy gold, Ahmadinejad accused unnamed culprits of seeking to
drive down the rial and portray Iran “in a state of crisis,”
the business paper Donya-e-Eqtesad reported.  Losing Defense  Ahmadinejad pledged the government would bring currency and
gold markets under control, and asserted on Dec. 21 that Iran
has huge reserves of both and could use them “for 15 years and
still have gold” to defend the rial.  A few months ago, the central bank of Iran tried to
stabilize the price of gold by auctioning gold reserves, Alfoneh
said. “After two weeks, they abandoned the strategy because
they could no longer defend the currency. The price of gold was
still going up, because there’s no public confidence in the
CBI.”  Central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani has acknowledged the
bank is struggling to restore stability to the currency, and had
limited ability to defend the rial. Iran’s economy needs to be
managed as if it were under siege by western countries, Bahmani
said Dec. 11, according to the Mehr news agency.  Anyone with preferential access to cheaper dollars “will
try to make profit out of this,”  Scott Lucas , an Iran
specialist at the University of Birmingham in  England , said in
an interview. “Whether it’s Ahmadinejad or the Guards, we’re
talking about people making short term gains to the detriment of
the long term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  