-- U.S. Stores Ramp Up Bargains as Sales Lag
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2011-12-27T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-stores-ramp-up-bargains-as-sales-growth-lags-2010-retail.html
Tina Teague arrived at 5 a.m.
yesterday at a  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  store in Greensboro,  North Carolina ,
armed with more than $200 in gift cards from  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ,  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  and  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)   “No lines, that’s what we like,” said Teague 42, who last
month waited for more than two hours in a checkout queue at a
 Gap Inc. (GPS)  Old Navy location on Black Friday.  Teague was one of many consumers across the U.S. who were
taking advantage of discounts on the day after Christmas, which
this year was a holiday and a potential boon to retailers aiming
for a strong finish to the shopping season.  Holiday sales will rise 3.8 percent, compared with a 5.2
percent advance last year, according to the Washington-based
National Retail Federation. Sagging  home prices  and 8.6 percent
unemployment continue to weigh on U.S. consumers,  Chris Christopher , an IHS Global Insight economist, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  “It’s not going to be a gangbusters Christmas,” said
Christopher, who is based in Lexington, Massachusetts. “People
are not doing that well. What’s happening with personal income
and consumption is disheartening.”  Personal spending climbed 0.1 percent last month, the
Commerce Department reported on Dec. 23. That was less than the
median 0.3 percent gain projected in a Bloomberg News survey of
79 economists. Wages and salaries fell 0.1 percent from October,
according to the Commerce Department.  Last Minute  As they have throughout the season, U.S. retailers
continued to discount and keep stores open longer than ever.
Almost all 600 Toys “R” Us U.S. locations were to remain open
from Dec. 20 to Christmas Eve -- or 112 hours straight.  While the discounts may help move the merchandise, they
also could squeeze profit margins, according to Poonam Goyal, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst based in Princeton,  New Jersey .  The fact that Christmas fell on a Sunday this year allowed
Americans to shop right up to the last minute.  Beza Dejene, 23, was at the Fashion Centre at Pentagon
City, a mall in Arlington, Virginia, on Christmas Eve. Dejene,
who works in software sales, bought a handbag and fragrances for
relatives and her boyfriend, and was looking for a video game
for her little brother.  “I like last-minute shopping because it gets crazy and
gives you the holiday feeling,” Dejene said. She doubled her
spending this year to $400.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , based in Matthews, North
Carolina, operated on Christmas for the first time, opening
about half of its 7,000-plus stores from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.  Canon Camera  Many chains opened early yesterday, too.  Target Corp. (TGT)  swung
open its doors at 7 a.m., an hour before usual, with a $100
discount on a Canon digital camera regularly priced at $299.99
and lower prices on plastic storage containers.  Doug Hutchinson, a 41-year-old teacher and father of two,
arrived at Cincinnati Premium Outlets for the 7 a.m. opening. He
purchased a scarf and gloves from Kenneth Cole Productions Inc.
for $40, about 50 percent off the original price. He also bought
two pairs of jeans for the price of one at  Pacific Sunwear of
California Inc. (PSUN)   “I spent too much on my kids and this is the first time
I’m shopping for myself this year,” Hutchinson said.  Retailers continued to dangle deep discounts the day after
Christmas. As an early-bird special, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-
based Kohl’s offered an extra 10 percent off kitchen electronics
and bedding already marked down as much as 60 percent, according
to its newspaper circular.  Pizza Rolls  Target, which is based in Minneapolis, cut prices on New
Year’s Eve appetizers from shrimp to pizza rolls.  Still, crowds were sparse at some malls -- at least early
on.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , discounting $10 bath towels to $3.99 as a
doorbuster special, drew a crowd of about 15 people for its 6
a.m. opening in Greensboro. The parking lot at a  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  store in Greensboro was about half full by midmorning.  “There aren’t that many people out,” said Terryl Sevast,
a 62-year-old retired school teacher from Magnolia, Delaware,
who was in Greensboro taking advantage of a Sears doorbuster
coupon for $10 and looking to buy slacks for herself and socks
and underwear for her son.  “We are trying to get the lowest price on our daily
clothes,” said Sevast’s 65-year-old husband Jim, who bought
three pairs of pants for $26.99 each, $3 off the regular price.  Consumers who have held back so far will buy clothes,
furniture or appliances if they need them,  Marshal Cohen , chief
industry analyst at NPD Group in Port Washington,  New York , said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  “The consumer is not feeling much better about the
economy, but they’re getting frugal fatigue,” he said. “They
are tired of not spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at  rajello@bloomberg.net  