-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Decline as Consumer Confidence Surges
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2011-12-27T21:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-company-credit-swaps-decline.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell to the lowest level in almost three weeks after
data signaled  consumer confidence  rising to the highest since
April.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1 basis point to a mid-price of 120.7 basis points at
4:18 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. The index
fell as low as 120.3, the lowest since Dec. 8.  The gauge, which typically declines as investor sentiment
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped from 132.1 on
Dec. 19 as data signaled the  U.S. economy , the world’s largest,
is recovering. The Conference Board’s gauge of confidence among
consumers rose to an eight-month high of 64.5 in December,
exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey and
outweighing data showing  home prices  fell more than forecast.  “We’re beginning to get the turning point where the
consumer is beginning to say, ‘you know what, it’s really not
that bad,’ ”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. said in a telephone interview. Improving
 consumer confidence  is “another line of defense to counter
against the euro zone fallout.”  Optimism surged even as the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values in 20 cities dropped 3.4 percent in October from
the same month in 2010, showing that housing remains weak.  The index, which climbed from as low as 117.7 on Dec. 8, is
headed for its first annual increase since 2008. Credit swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  