-- U.S. Declines to Name China a Currency Manipulator, Pushes for Flexibility
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-12-27T23:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-to-press-for-yuan-gains-while-declining-to-name-china-a-manipulator.html
The Obama administration said it
will press for further appreciation of the yuan and called the
currency undervalued, while declining to brand  China  a
manipulator of its exchange rate.  The Treasury Department, releasing its semi-annual report
to Congress on the currency policies of major trading partners,
said today it will “closely monitor the pace” of yuan
appreciation and “press for policy changes that yield greater
exchange-rate flexibility.”  The U.S. contends that China uses an undervalued currency
to give its exporters an unfair advantage in overseas markets
and boost growth. At the same time, the administration of
President  Barack Obama  has sought to avoid actions that could
cause friction with the world’s No. 2 economy and the second-
largest U.S. trade partner.  Branding China a manipulator “would have no positive
substantive impact on China’s exchange-rate policy and might
well have a negative impact,” said Ted Truman, a former Federal
Reserve official and assistant Treasury secretary, who’s now a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  “Over the past decade, China has resisted very strong
market pressures” for appreciation of the yuan, the Treasury
Department said in the report. “China’s real effective exchange
rate has exhibited persistent and substantial undervaluation,
although the estimated range of misalignment has narrowed over
the course of the past 18 months.”  China Embassy  Geng Shuang, a spokesman for China’s embassy in Washington,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on the Treasury report.  China often bristles at criticism that its exchange rate is
undervalued. China disputed an  International Monetary Fund  staff
assessment in July that the currency is “substantially below
the level consistent with medium-term fundamentals,” citing
reasons including faulty current-account projections.  China’s currency appreciated about 7.5 percent against the
dollar as of Dec. 16 since it decided to loosen controls on the
yuan in June 2010. Because inflation in China is higher than it
is in the U.S., the yuan has risen by about 12 percent against
the dollar in real terms, the Treasury said.  “While China’s real exchange rate has appreciated, the
process of appreciation remains incomplete,” the Treasury said.
It cited China’s accumulation of $3.2 trillion in foreign
exchange reserves as of September and a persistent current-
account surplus as evidence that the yuan “is persistently
misaligned and remains substantially undervalued.”  Estimated Value  “It’s time for them to go ahead and move towards a market-
based system for their currency,” Obama said in  Hawaii  at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit last month. “We
recognize they may not be able to do it overnight, but they can
do it much more quickly than they’ve done it so far.” Obama
said that “most economists” estimate the yuan is 20 percent to
25 percent undervalued.  The yuan weakened today to 6.3219 per dollar. It touched
6.3160 yesterday, the strongest level since the country unified
the official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  China will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported Dec. 10, citing a meeting of the Communist
Party’s Politburo led by President  Hu Jintao .  Legislation Vote  The Senate voted 63-35 on Oct. 12 for legislation that
would let U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for
“misaligned” currencies. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
has “grave concerns” with the bill because it might start a
“trade war,” casting doubt on whether it will become law.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said Nov. 12
he would make a case against China at the  World Trade
Organization  for manipulating its currency to artificially lower
prices and run a  trade surplus . The U.S. had a $273 billion
trade deficit with China last year.  The Treasury has taken the “right approach” by
negotiating with China directly and at international forums,
John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council, told
reporters in  Washington  last month. The council’s members
include JPMorgan Chase & Co., Coca-Cola Co., Boeing Co. and
General Motors Co.  Commission Criticism  The Treasury’s stance isn’t shared by other corners of the
government. The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review
Commission, a body created by Congress in 2000, said in its
annual report last month that China “continues to manipulate
the value of its currency,” keeping the yuan low to reduce
export prices and increase the cost of imports.  “This policy also reduces U.S. exports to China while it
encourages U.S. consumers to purchase Chinese exports,” the
commission said. “The result has been lost production and jobs
in the  United States .”  Under a 1988 law, the Treasury is required to report to
Congress twice a year on international economic conditions and
 exchange-rate  policies. The Treasury is required to enter direct
talks with a country deemed to be manipulating its currency, and
also seek redress through the International Monetary Fund. The
last country labeled a manipulator was China, in 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  