-- U.S. December Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2011-12-27T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-december-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity weakened slightly in December, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production
index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, posted a second negative
reading but moved up from -5.1 to -1.3. This suggests a slowing of the pace of
decline.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions indicated flat activity in
December. The new orders index suggested stagnant demand, registering a near-zero
reading after dipping into negative territory last month. The shipments index was
little changed from its November reading and continued to suggest flat shipment
volumes. The capacity utilization index was also near zero although it rebounded
from last month, rising from -10.2 to 0.7.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions were mixed in December. The general
business activity index dipped into negative territory after two consecutive
positive readings.  The index came in at -3, with 12 percent of manufacturers noting
improvement in the level of business activity while 15 percent noted a worsening.
The company outlook index remained positive and edged up from 4.7 to 6.6. Nearly 90
percent of manufacturers said their outlooks were unchanged or improved from last
month.  Labor market indicators reflected continued labor demand growth. The employment
index came in at 11.8, up from 9 in November. Twenty-one percent of firms reported
hiring new workers, while 9 percent reported layoffs. The hours worked index
continued to suggest average workweeks lengthened.  Input prices and wages continued to increase in December, while selling prices
declined. The raw materials price index rose from 19 to 26.6 but remained below
levels seen earlier in the year. The finished goods price index edged down to -2.6,
continuing its recent trend of readings centered around zero. Forty-three percent of
respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six
months, while 31 percent expect higher finished goods prices. The December wages and
benefits index came in at 16.7 after a reading of 11 in November.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were largely unchanged in
December, and all indexes remained in solid positive territory. The index of future
general business activity was 10.3, about the same as in November. The index of
future company outlook came in at 22.8, also little changed from last month.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected
Dec.13-21, and 90 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked
whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased
or remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: January 30, 2012 