-- U.S. Should Ease Visa Access for Tourists Wielding Cash: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-27T00:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-should-ease-visa-access-to-entice-more-tourists-wielding-cash-view.html
This holiday season, millions of
tourists visited the U.S. Given the economic benefits they
bring, the U.S. should be working overtime to welcome their
friends and families next year.  An estimated 60 million international visitors arrived in
the U.S. in 2011, spending about $150 billion, supporting nearly
2 million American jobs and accounting for more than one-quarter
of U.S. service exports. From taxi fares to tchotchke purchases,
tourists account for a big chunk of economic activity. States
from  New York  (the most popular travel destination) to  Colorado 
and Wyoming (both of which have a high concentration of jobs in
tourism) depend on visitors’ dollars.  The good news for Americans is that the U.S. is still the
world’s biggest tourist destination by dollar value. (The U.S.
ranks second after  France  as the world’s most popular
destination.) After a fall in 2009, tourist arrivals climbed in
2010 and 2011. Still, as groups such as the  U.S. Travel
Association  point out, the U.S. could be doing much better.
Although global long-haul travel grew by 40 percent from 2000 to
2010, the U.S.’s share of the market dropped from 17 percent to
12.4 percent. Even taking into account the U.S.’s declining
share of the global economy, that’s a steep dip.  One problem is the U.S. visa bureaucracy, which proved
unprepared to cope with the growth in demand for tourist and
business visas. About 65 million Chinese, for example, are
expected to go abroad this year, up 15 percent from 2010, when
800,000 Chinese visitors pumped $5 billion into the  U.S.
economy . Chinese visa applicants, many of whom travel great
distances to get to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing or to one of
four U.S. consulates, must sometimes wait weeks for visa
interviews. The same bottlenecks bedevil visa operations in
other  emerging markets , including  Brazil  and  India .  Breaking Logjams  A few sensible reforms could help break the logjams. These
include inserting a corps of visa-adjudication officers in high-
growth markets, creating video visa-interview centers for
applicants who don’t live near a U.S. consulate, and relaxing
the requirement for in-person visa interviews. Happily, all
three of these proposals were incorporated in the omnibus budget
 legislation  that President  Barack Obama  signed last week.  Next on the agenda is an expansion of the Visa Waiver
Program, which now enables tourists and business travelers from
36 countries to visit the U.S. without a visa. To participate,
countries must have a low refusal rate in granting nonimmigrant
visas to U.S. citizens, agree to beef up their passport
security, and share law-enforcement and security data. When
 South Korea  joined the program in 2008, the U.S. market share of
South Korean tourists jumped from 26 percent to 37 percent in
2010. Tourism receipts from South Korean visitors that year rose
by $1.6 billion over the average from the previous four years.  No Reliable System  To expand the program, the Department of  Homeland Security 
must be able to verify the departures of almost all foreign
visitors who arrive by air. Yet the department has no reliable
system to achieve that goal. For countries like Poland and
 Taiwan , which show the requisite declines in visa refusal rates,
that’s not necessarily a big problem. But for less-developed
countries like Brazil, India and China, many of whose citizens
would like to reside permanently in the U.S., the problem is
huge.  Anywhere from one-quarter to one-half of the 11 million
illegal immigrants currently in the U.S. overstayed their visas
-- without reliable departure data, it’s hard to tell exactly.
To reduce that number, the Department of Homeland Security will
have to not only match departures to arrivals, but also do a
 better job  of tracking down those who are out of status. It
should focus not on draconian enforcement but on finding those
people most likely to threaten national security or public
safety.  At the Republican debate on Dec. 15 in Sioux City,  Iowa ,
former Ambassador to  China  Jon Huntsman observed that the U.S.’s
share of tourism has declined “because our visa system is so
screwed up. ... This is an economic development opportunity, and
we are missing it.”  We agree. Which is why during this busy travel week, we
hope that Congress and the Obama administration are thinking
about how to make next year’s holiday even busier for the
 tourism industry .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 