-- U.S. Northeast May End 2011 Warmer Than Normal, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-12-27T13:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/u-s-northeast-may-end-2011-warmer-than-normal-forecasters-say.html
The U.S. Northeast may remain warmer
than normal until year’s end, say forecasters who disagree on
whether January will then turn cold on the East Coast.  Commodity Weather Group LLC and MDA EarthSat Weather
predict most of the U.S., including the Northeast, will have
temperatures at least 3 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 4
Celsius) above normal from Dec. 27 to Jan. 1. The upper Great
Plains and Midwest may be even warmer.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according
to Energy Department data.  Heating degree days values for this week nationwide are
forecast be an average of 161, or 41 below normal and 38 less
than last year, according to the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center .  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and business.  Beyond this week, forecasters disagree over how much cold
will creep into the populated areas of the East Coast.  MDA, based in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicts the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions will remain 3 to 4 degrees
above normal. The South may become more seasonal, with
temperatures in  Florida  falling below normal, MDA said.  Differing Forecast  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather in Bethesda,
Maryland, said the East Coast will probably cool to more
seasonal temperatures next week.  In its 6- to 10-day forecast, Weather Derivatives calls for
the much of the Northeast to range from seasonal to temperatures
2 degrees above normal, with pockets of colder weather.  Eastern Massachusetts,  Rhode Island  and Connecticut may be
about 2 degrees below normal from Jan. 2 to Jan. 6, said  David Salmon , Weather Derivatives meteorologist in Belton, Missouri.  The northern U.S. is expected to remain warmer than normal
from Jan. 6 to Jan. 10, according to 11- to 15-day forecasts
released by both MDA and Commodity Weather.  Both forecasters predict more seasonal weather along the
East Coast during that time. MDA predicts the northern New
England states of Vermont, Maine and  New Hampshire  may be warmer
than normal.  Salmon didn’t release a forecast for the period.  The normal average temperature in  New York  for Jan. 5 is
about 34 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston, it’s 29; Chicago,
24; Atlanta, 43; Seattle, 41; Houston, 50; and in Burbank,
California, it’s 55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  