-- United Nations Urges South Sudan to Help Avert Possible Attack
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2011-12-27T14:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/united-nations-urges-south-sudan-to-help-avert-possible-attack.html
The  United Nations  urged  South Sudan 
to protect civilians after its air patrols detected thousands of
members of the Lou Nuer ethnic group preparing to attack on
Murle communities in the eastern Jonglei state.  “I am deeply concerned to learn of reports of this imminent
large-scale attack on civilians in Jonglei state,” Hilde F.
Johnson, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s special
representative, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The
government must act now if we are to avert a major tragedy.”  The UN said it’s conducting continuous air patrols and sent
more peacekeepers to Jonglei, a state bordering  Ethiopia  that is
plagued by ethnic tensions, cattle rustling attacks and anti-
government militias. At least 1,000 people have been killed in
ethnic clashes in the region this year.  Most of Jonglei is covered by Block B, an unexploited oil
concession in which Paris-based  Total SA (FP)  holds a 32.5 percent
stake. Attacks by the Murle against Lou Nuer communities in
August killed about 600 people, wounded 850 and displaced
26,000, according to the UN.  On Dec. 25, a newly formed group calling itself the Nuer
White Army released a statement announcing its intention to
“wipe out the entire Murle tribe on the face of the earth as the
only solution to guarantee long-term security of Nuer’s cattle.”  The group warned it would also fight UN and South Sudanese
forces, which it accused of failing to protect the Nuer from
Murle attacks. Murle community leaders made similar claims after
a series of cattle raids by the Lou Nuer in April and June
killed as many as 730 people, according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 