-- Turkish Central Bank Stays Flexible, Pledges More Predictability in 2012
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2011-12-27T12:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/turkish-central-bank-stays-flexible-pledges-more-predictability-in-2012.html
Turkey ’s central bank will try to
make its actions more predictable next year while sticking to a
monetary policy that gives it “wide freedom of action,”
Governor Erdem Basci said.  The bank will drop the monthly briefings for economists it
introduced this year and instead try to accept more requests
from analysts for individual meetings with senior officials in
Ankara, Basci said in an annual strategy announcement today. The
monthly briefings became public events, when they were only
designed to be informative for market participants, he said.  The governor surprised markets this year with a  rate cut  in
August, followed by the introduction of an “interest rate
corridor” in October within which policy makers can set
 interest rates  on a daily basis. They immediately used the
corridor to tighten policy.  Inflation  may end this year at more
than 10 percent, compared to a target of 5.5 percent, he said.  Next year “will be a year in which policy flexibility
remains and policy predictability increases rapidly,” Basci
said. The October tightening has been “very effective” and
high inflation “will be temporary and is the price paid for a
soft landing” in an economy that expanded 8.2 percent annually
in the third quarter of the year.  The lira fell 18.4 percent in the year to Dec. 27, a
decline that Basci said added about 4 percentage points to
inflation by driving up import costs. Tax increases and higher
commodity prices are also pushing up prices, he said. The
inflation rate will decline from May next year and will approach
the 5 percent goal for the end of 2012, he said.  Dollar Sales Targets  The central bank will help markets and banks plan ahead by
offering lending in liras and foreign currency over one month,
in addition to one-week auctions, it said today. The monthly
monetary policy meetings will also set a target for the amount
of dollars the bank sells in daily auctions.  Until the meeting on Jan. 24 the target is $50 million a
day, and the bank can sell more in “exceptional
circumstances,” Basci said. The bank’s policy tools give it the
freedom of action needed to manage volatile capital flows caused
by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, he said.  “The bank says it’s going to press ahead with the flexible
policy with more flexibility, this means markets will carry on
trying to see the way ahead,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  