-- Ventas to Buy Cogdell Spencer in Deal Valued at as Much as $770 Million
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2011-12-27T15:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/ventas-to-buy-cogdell-spencer-in-deal-valued-at-as-much-as-770-million.html
Ventas Inc. (VTR) , the owner of more than
1,300 senior-housing and medical properties, said it will
acquire Cogdell Spencer Inc. and its 72 medical office buildings
in a deal valued at $760 million to $770 million.  Holders of Cogdell’s common stock will receive $4.25 a
share, 8 percent more than the Dec. 23 closing price, the
companies said in a statement today. The transaction is expected
to close by June.  Ventas last year agreed to buy Nationwide Health Properties
Inc. for about $5.7 billion in the biggest deal ever among
health-care real estate investment trusts. With the acquisition
of the Cogdell properties, Chicago-based Ventas will own or
manage more than 20 million square feet (1.9 million square
meters) of medical office buildings, according to the statement.  “Our initial impression of the transaction is positive for
Ventas, likely accretive and improves diversification,” Jerry
Doctrow, Dan Bernstein, and Seth Cohn, analysts for Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in a note to clients today.  Ventas’s purchase of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Cogdell is expected to be financed through the assumption of
existing Cogdell mortgage debt and other Ventas borrowings,
according to the statement.  “Cogdell’s high-quality properties enhance our medical
office building market presence, especially in the southeast,”
Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra Cafaro said in
the statement.  Cogdell reached a separate agreement to sell its design-
build and development business, Erdman, to an affiliate of
private-equity firm Lubar & Co., according to the statement. The
transaction will include all assets and liabilities of the
Erdman business, including about $11 million in projected net
working capital on its balance sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  