-- Wen Urges Protection for Farmer Rights in China, End to Cheap Land Grab
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-28T05:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/wen-urges-protecting-farmer-rights-end-to-land-grabs-correct-.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called on
officials to better protect the rights of farmers and ensure
they receive a bigger share of profits from the conversion of
their land to industrial and residential use.  “We can no longer sacrifice farmers’ land ownership rights
to reduce urbanization and industrialization costs,” the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Wen as saying at an annual
national work conference on rural affairs yesterday. “It’s both
necessary and possible for us to significantly increase farmers’
gains from the increase in land value.”  Wen’s comments come as the ruling Communist Party seeks to
alleviate social unrest, and after a two-week protest by
residents of a southern Chinese village this month forced
authorities to back down in a dispute over land. Strikes,
demonstrations and other protests in  China  doubled to at least
180,000 in 2010 from 2006, according to Sun Liping, a sociology
professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  The residents of the southern village of Wukan called off a
protest march last week after a senior Communist Party official
from  Guangdong province  promised to release villagers detained
by police. About 8,000 Chinese workers in South Korean company
LG Display Co.’s factory in eastern Nanjing city went on strike
this week over pay, Chinese media reported today.  Year-end Bonuses  LG Display workers are unhappy with a cut in year-end
bonuses and plans by the company to pay larger ones to Korean
employees, according to QQ.com, a news website run by  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700)  Bonuses were reduced to one month’s pay from three
months’ last year, QQ.com said, citing two unidentified workers.
LG Display has started negotiating with the workers, Sina.com
said, citing an unidentified company official.  Claire Ohm, a Seoul-based spokeswoman at LG Display,
declined to comment. The Nanjing government press department
didn’t return calls.  China has ordered all levels of governments to help needy
people while maintaining market order and social harmony ahead
of New Year’s Day and the Chinese New Year that falls on Jan.
23, according to a separate Xinhua report posted on the
government website yesterday. Authorities should enhance
supervision targeting employers who default on payments to
migrant workers from rural areas, it said.  More relevant legal provisions and judicial interpretations
are needed to penalize employers that default on wages,
according to a China Daily editorial on Dec. 8. Migrant workers
in the construction industry are sometimes exploited by their
employers and experience deferred wages leading to protests and
suicides, it said.  Farmers Rights  Premier Wen said rural residents shouldn’t be forced to
give up their rights to land even if they move to cities.  “No one is empowered to take away such rights,” Wen was
quoted as saying by the state-run  news agency .  China’s housing ministry has allowed some local governments
to build affordable homes on land that’s collectively owned by
farmers under a trial program to ease land supply pressure, the
21st Century Business Herald reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  Wukan Protests  The Wukan residents canceled a protest march last week
after a senior Guangdong official also agreed to address flaws
in electing local officials and redistribute land that had been
sold off unfairly.  The unrest first began in September, when disputes over
land, local elections and village finances between residents and
local officials led protesters to attack police and overturn
cars, according to the Shanwei city government.  Protests flared again this month after police detained five
villagers on accusations that they had led demonstrations and
one of the men, Xue Jinbo, died while in custody on Dec. 11.  The decision to meet the villagers’ demands is part of a
wider government strategy aimed at containing such protests
before they spread, according to  Joseph Cheng , a politics
professor at the  City University  of  Hong Kong . The standoff and
other protests have sparked concerns that unrest stemming from
China’s growth could undermine the Communist Party’s rule.  Thousands of villagers near the city of Shantou, also in
Guangdong, called off their protests over a planned power
station when officials promised to suspend work, Xinhua
reported.  About 40 percent of local government revenue came from land
sales last year, according to China Real Estate Information
Corp., a property data and consulting firm.  ‘Improve Skills’  Separately, a senior Party official in Guangdong province
also called officials to improve their skills in dealing with
public’s complaints and claims and take a quick response,
according to Xinhua.  “It is imperative for us to improve our work in response
to complaints and claims from the people as ideas of democracy,
equality and rights are taking root among the public,” said Zhu
Mingguo, vice secretary of the Guangdong provincial committee of
the  Communist Party of China , at a recent stability maintenance
workshop.  “We need to resolve issues of people’s immediate interests
and concerns in a timely manner,” said, Zhu, who was the key
government official who initiated the negotiations to end the
protests in Wukan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  