-- Wheat, Rapeseed Rise in Paris as Argentina Crops Face Hot Week
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-27T13:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-27/wheat-rapeseed-rise-in-paris-as-argentina-crops-face-hot-week.html
Wheat futures rose for an eighth day
in Paris and rapeseed climbed for a seventh session as the
return of hot and dry weather in  Argentina  this week may cause
stress to grain and oilseed crops there.  Hot temperatures are expected to return to Argentina’s
western crop areas this week, with no significant rain for the
next seven days or longer, putting crops under increasing
stress, forecaster DTN Telvent Inc. wrote in a report today.  “The markets are very calm in this festive period, with a
continuing focus on the situation in  South America  because of
the weather,” Paris-based farm adviser  Agritel  wrote in a
comment today. “The dry conditions persist and the forecasts
for this week don’t announce any significant rains.”  Wheat for March delivery gained 0.5 percent to 187.25 euros
($244.64) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in the French capital at
1:58 p.m. local time. The most-active wheat contract has
declined 26 percent this year.  Rapeseed for delivery in February advanced 0.8 percent to
435.50 euros a ton. The most-active contract for the oilseed has
dropped 12 percent this year.  Argentina was the world’s fifth-largest wheat exporter in
the 2010-2011 crop year, competing with  France , based on data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The country is third-
biggest shipper of soybeans, which compete with rapeseed for
producing vegetable oil and livestock feed.  “Much of the northern Argentina cropland will be dry and
very warm to hot through Thursday, favouring fieldwork but
stressing immature and developing crops,” forecaster
AccuWeather Inc. wrote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  