-- Acid Attack on Bolshoi Boss Adds to Porn, Pimping Claims
-- B y   S h a u n   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/acid-attack-on-bolshoi-director-adds-to-porn-pimping-claims.html
The backstage battles at Moscow’s
fabled Bolshoi ballet have included leaked, hacked emails,
pornographic photographs (also leaked), controversial firings
and hirings.  But with the acid attack on artistic director  Sergei Filin 
on Jan. 17, the company reaches a violent low, comparable to the
bloody fictions of “Black Swan.”  Assaulted close to his home in central Moscow by a masked
assailant who threw a jar of acid at him, Filin, 42, will have a
second operation on his eyes as soon as today or in the next few
days. He has third-degree burns to much of his face.  The attack brought  Russia ’s culture minister, Vladimir Medinsky, to his bedside. While Russian President Vladimir Putin
hasn’t commented, police said they are still hunting for the
perpetrators and spoke to Filin. They have established that the
assailant used sulfuric acid.  Filin himself, and most of his colleagues, believe that the
attack was motivated by disgruntlement over his work.  “We are all in complete shock,” said the  Bolshoi’s 
spokeswoman, Katerina Novikova. “It cannot be comprehended that
someone would do this. This is not a business. This is a
theater.”  The Bolshoi, however, is no ordinary theater. The privilege
of dancing on Russia’s most prestigious stage has always come
with an accompanying burden.  In the Soviet era, there was the overseeing eye of the
Communist Party and the threat that artists deemed politically
unreliable would be left out of sought-after foreign tours.  Party Escorts  In the 1990s, according to Anastasia Volochkova, who was
fired in 2003 for being overweight, dancers were pimped out as
escorts at oligarchic parties. (The theater has always denied
such practices.)  Even the renovations that restored the theater to its
Tsarist-era glory were beset by delays and allegations of
corruption. The work took six years and cost $680 million.  When the doors  finally opened in  2011, principal dancer
 Nikolai Tsiskaridze  complained that Bolshoi looked like a
“Turkish hotel,” and moaned of windowless dressing rooms and
an uneven stage floor.  “When I heard about what happened to Sergei I was
shocked,” Volochkova said in an interview. “Over more than ten
years, the current Bolshoi leadership has slowly ruined the
theater. Each year it has got crueler and crueler.”  Many in the current troupe deny that the situation is as
bad as the theater’s foes suggest.  Poisonous Atmosphere  “Like in any big family there are arguments and
misunderstandings,” said  Anastasia Meskova , a soloist at the
Bolshoi who has worked with Filin for years. “We should always
work these out inside the theater. That it has come to something
like this is unthinkable.”  The poisonous atmosphere has taken its toll on the artistic
side. Rising superstar dancing pair Ivan Vasiliev and Natalia
Osipova left in late 2011 for the  Mikhailovsky , an upstart
theater in St. Petersburg that received funds from fruit magnate
Vladimir Kekhman.  Earlier that year, the Bolshoi’s director Gennady Yanin
resigned after gay pornographic photographs resembling him were
posted online and anonymously emailed to staff and artists.  Filin, too, has had his e-mail hacked in recent months and
messages posted online. He also reported that the tires on his
car had been slashed and that he had received written threats.  Tsiskaridze, a Georgian who frequently appears on
television, has led a campaign against the current management,
leading to his almost total exclusion from performances.  National Reputation  While he wasn’t answering calls to his mobile phone, he
told  Moskovskii Komsomolets  newspaper that he had nothing to do
with the attack on Filin. He stopped short of condemning it.  “Such things have always happened,” he said, and hinted
the attack could be because of personal difficulties. Novikova
denied that Filin had any problems at home and said that work
will continue as usual.  “It is not just Sergei’s health at stake, but the
reputation of the entire country,” she said. At the weekend,
the premiere of a new children’s opera went ahead on the
Bolshoi’s second stage, and ballet rehearsals continued.  “We are finding it hard to eat and drink, but we have to
rehearse, first and foremost because it’s what Sergei would have
wanted,” said Meskova. “We are all stressed and we’re all
waiting for the police and investigators to tell us who it was
that did this horrible thing.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Warwick Thompson  on  London  theater and  Erika Lederman  on London
going out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaun Walker in Moscow at  shaunwalker7@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 