-- Algeria Gas Plant Seizure Ends as Militants, Hostages Die
-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-20T23:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/algeria-gas-plant-seizure-ends-as-militants-hostages-die.html
The Algerian government warned that
the death toll could rise after reporting that 23 hostages and
32 terrorists died in the four-day standoff that ended Jan. 19
at a natural-gas plant.  The dead may have included as many as six Britons and five
Norwegians. One American, Frederick Buttaccio of Katy,  Texas ,
was killed. Citizens of Colombia,  France , Japan and Malaysia
were also either reported dead or missing. With no authoritative
word on the total number of hostages or attackers killed,
another 25 unidentified burned bodies were found, Ennahar
television said yesterday on its website.  President  Barack Obama , who took the oath of office for a
second term in  Washington  yesterday, and U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said the attack by militants was a reminder of the
threat posed by terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda. French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said governments must be
“unrelenting” in their battle.  “Whether it’s in North Africa, Yemen, there are real
threats out there from terrorism and we need to stay vigilant,”
said  David Plouffe , Obama’s senior political adviser. “We’re
obviously going to be working closely with the Algerian
government to have a full understanding of what happened,” he
said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  Military Raid  Algerian forces freed 107 foreigners and 685 Algerian
workers after a military operation at the gas plant, the
 Interior Ministry  said in a statement on the state-run Algeria
Press Service. The ministry said 32 terrorists were involved --
the same number it said were killed -- and that only three were
Algerian, with the rest mainly from neighboring countries.  The army was continuing to search the site and the death
toll may rise, Algerian Communications Minister Mohamed Said
told national television yesterday, the newspaper El Watan
reported. Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal will hold a  press
conference  today, APS said.  The plant, which supplies about 2 percent of Europe’s gas
imports, is operated by London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , Statoil SAS of
 Norway  and Algeria’s Sonatrach.  Energy Minister Youcef Yousfi told APS that Algeria
“simply compensated for the lack of production by producing
other fields.”  Restarting Equipment  Yousfi visited the gas site yesterday and told reporters
the damage isn’t so great, according to  APS . “Once the damage
is assessed, we will replace the equipment hit” and determine
when the plant will resume operating, he told APS. He said
workers expect to re-start the equipment within the next two
days.  Algerian troops had first attempted a rescue on Jan. 17, a
day after militants from a group called al Mulathameen attacked
the complex.  “The blame for this tragedy rests with the terrorists who
carried it out, and the  United States  condemns their actions in
the strongest possible terms,” Obama said in an e-mailed
statement. “This attack is another reminder of the threat posed
by al-Qaeda and other violent extremist groups in North
Africa.”  ‘Unrelenting’  The French government defended its former colony. Fabius,
the foreign minister, said yesterday on Europe1 radio that “it
bothers me that people have criticized the Algerian response
when it’s the terrorists they should be talking about. Against
terrorism, you have to be unrelenting.”  A French security worker was killed in the attack, while
three French survived, the Foreign Ministry said.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said three Britons
were known to be dead and three were believed to be dead, and
that 22 others have returned home. Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said his country has five citizens it can’t account
for. Statoil Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said five of the
company’s employees are missing.  “We now know that there have been many casualties,” Lund
said in a televised press conference from Stavanger, Norway.
“Another day without answers has strengthened our concern, and
we are doing everything we can to find our five colleagues.”  Ten of 17 employees of the Japanese engineering company  JGC
Corp. (1963)  at the complex were missing and seven were confirmed safe,
Japanese government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said early today,
according to AFP. Suga told reporters said he couldn’t confirm
media reports that nine had been killed.  Missing Japanese  The government spokesman said Japan’s Parliamentary Vice
Foreign Minister Minoru Kiuchi had arrived in In Amenas to look
into the fate of the 10 missing Japanese JGC employees, and a
government plane would be sent to bring home the workers who
were confirmed safe.  BP said in an e-mailed statement that the company is
“gravely concerned” about the four of its 18 employees who
remain missing, and that the company has no new information on
their status. A Colombian BP worker, Carlos Estrada, may have
been among those killed, that country’s president,  Juan Manuel Santos , said. BP’s statement said it has moved non-essential
staff out of Algeria overnight.  Malaysia’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said one of two
Malaysians unaccounted for is possibly dead. Five Malaysians
were working at the facility, it said.  The Islamist militants struck Jan. 16. According to a
statement from the Algerian Interior Ministry, the saga began
when gunmen attacked a bus carrying 19 foreigners to the airport
of In Amenas. Gendarmes fought off the assault with the loss of
one of their men and a British passenger.  The repulsed gunmen then attacked the gas facility itself,
3 kilometers (2 miles) away, and started taking hostages.  Complex Intervention  “The priority of preserving lives, the risks linked to the
nature of gas facilities, the configuration of the site, and the
menace that weighed on the hostages made the intervention of the
National Popular Army very complex,” the ministry said.  The attackers included citizens of  Algeria ,  Canada ,  Mali ,
 Egypt , Niger and Mauritania, according to Mauritania’s private
ANI news agency, citing an unidentified source in the group.
They had demanded that France end its military intervention in
neighboring Mali, which began Jan. 11.  Several hostages reported hearing at least two attackers
speaking fluent North American English.  Hague said none of the nations whose citizens were among
the hostages was consulted about the military operation.  Cameron refused to criticize the Algerian government,
saying “no one should underestimate the difficulties of
responding to an attack on this scale with 30 terrorists
absolutely determined to take lives.”  The stoppage of the Tiguentourine complex since Jan. 16 has
cost the state-run  oil company  Sonatrach $44 million in losses,
El Khabar reported separately, citing an energy official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salah Slimani in Algiers at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  