-- Beijing Smog Rules Would Shut Factories When Pollution Spikes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-21T02:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/beijing-seeks-public-comment-on-draft-rules-to-curb-pollution.html
The city of Beijing proposed rules
that would shut down factories and take cars off the road when
smog reaches dangerous levels, as officials stepped up efforts
to address pollution that reached record levels this month.  Under the new rules, drivers could face 3,000  yuan  ($482)
in fines if their vehicles exceed emissions limits, while the
construction of new cement and steel plants would be outlawed. A
draft was posted on the Beijing government’s  website  Jan. 19 and
the public will have until Feb. 8 to comment.  The stricter anti-smog efforts appeared a week after
pollution levels in the city hit a level that was almost 40
times recommended  World Health Organization  limits. State-run
media expressed skepticism that the new rules would have much
effect, underscoring the challenges the government faces in
tackling pollution.  “New regulations intended to kick in when pollution in
Beijing reaches extreme levels will likely be as ineffective as
the previous law,” the Global Times said in an article today,
citing environmental experts in the city.  Official measurements of PM2.5, fine airborne particulates
that pose the greatest health risks, rose as high as 993
micrograms per cubic meter on Jan. 12, a record high, according
to the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs. The  World
Health Organization  recommends 24-hour exposure to PM2.5 levels
no higher than 25.  After pollution levels fell during the week, smog rose
again over the weekend and children and the elderly were advised
to stay indoors as the air became “heavily polluted,”
according to Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center
classifications.  Quality Improves  Air quality  in Beijing improved yesterday after snowfall
slowed the accumulation of pollutants, and will remain
“relatively good” for the next couple of days, the city’s
environment monitoring center said on its official Weibo
microblog on Sina.com.  Levels of PM2.5 levels hit 155 at 9 a.m. near  Tiananmen
Square , according to government readings. The U.S. Embassy’s
pollution monitor said PM2.5 levels were 198, or “unhealthy.”  The draft regulation proposed that construction sites and
transportation operators should take measures to control the
release of particulates.  Long-term exposure to fine particulates raises the risk of
cardiovascular and respiratory diseases as well as  lung cancer ,
according to the WHO. The official English-language  China  Daily
newspaper said Jan. 14 that Beijing was becoming better known
for “Beijing Cough” than it was for Peking Duck or Peking
Opera.  Most Polluted  China, which the World Bank estimates has 16 of the world’s
20 most-polluted cities, is the largest emitter of  greenhouse
gases . The burning of coal is the main source of pollution,
accounting for 19 percent, while vehicle emissions contribute 6
percent, according to a study by Greenpeace and Peking
University’s School of  Public Health  published Dec. 18.  Li Keqiang , set to become China’s next premier, called for
the nation’s citizens to be patient as authorities work to
reduce pollution.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  