-- Rangers Lose to Bruins as Lockout-Shortened NHL Season Starts
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-20T06:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/blackhawks-top-champion-kings-5-2-as-shortened-nhl-season-starts.html
The  New York Rangers  opened their
lockout-shortened National Hockey League season with a 3-1 loss
to the  Boston Bruins .  The NHL scheduled 13 games yesterday for the start of the
48-game season after the lockout ended Jan. 12, when the
players’ union and league signed a 10-year Collective Bargaining
Agreement. The teams have conducted six days of training camp.  “Let’s just move by that,” Rangers coach  John Tortorella 
said when asked if he blamed the lockout for his team’s
performance. “I’m not going to keep talking about the short
season. We’ve started the season, and we did not play well
enough to win. The Bruins did.”  Bruins’ Milan Lucic started the scoring four minutes into
the game on his home ice at TD Garden.  “There was a lot of rust in the first period,” said Rick Nash, the 30-goal Columbus player acquired by the Rangers in the
off-season. “There was a lot of hype in the last few days to
play this game, and we didn’t play the way wanted to.”  Boston ’s Daniel Paille added a goal midway through the
second period before  Brad Richards  gave the Rangers their only
score four minutes later.  Still Learning  “We definitely have a way to go,” Richards told reporters.
“We have to learn some things pretty quickly.”  Johnny Boychuk ended the scoring with Boston’s third goal
at eight minutes, 13 seconds into the final period.  The loss ended the Rangers’ four-game winning streak on
Boston’s ice.  In other games yesterday, the  Chicago Blackhawks  beat the
defending  Stanley Cup  Champion  Los Angeles  Kings 5-2, the
 Pittsburgh Penguins  defeated Philadelphia Flyers 3-1 and Ottawa
Senators topped Winnipeg Jets 4-1.  Chicago’s  Patrick Kane  scored a power-play goal three
minutes, 41 seconds into the first period at Staples Center in
Los Angeles.  Marian Hossa  scored the first of his two goals and
Michael Frolik added another for a 3-0 first-period lead.  Jonathan Toews  tallied the fourth goal for the Blackhawks
one minute, 16 seconds after the start of the second period with
Rob Scuderi scoring the Kings’ first goal with less than two
minutes remaining in the period.  Hossa’s Goals  Jordan Nolan gave the Kings their second goal and Hossa
added his second for the Blackhawks in the last period.  In other season openers yesterday, it was Toronto 2,
Montreal 1; New Jersey 2, the New York Islanders 1; Tampa Bay 6,
Washington 3; Florida 5, Carolina 1; St. Louis 6, Detroit 0;
Columbus 3, Nashville 2; Dallas 4, Phoenix 3; Minnesota 4,
Columbus 2; and Anaheim 7, Vancouver 3.  The shutdown began Sept. 16 and forced the cancellation of
625 games, or 51 percent of a schedule that originally had each
team playing 82 games.  The lockout also forced cancellation of this year’s outdoor
Winter Classic game on New Year’s Day and the All-Star Game in
Columbus,  Ohio .  The NHL, which had $3.3 billion in revenue last season,
gave up about $1 billion to get the 10-year deal that reduced
the players’ share of the earnings to 50 percent, the  New York 
Times reported without saying where it got the information.  Lockout History  The work stoppage was the second time in the last seven
seasons that owners shut the league down following the
expiration of a collective bargaining agreement.  The previous lockout resulted in the loss of the 2004-05
season, the only time a complete schedule of one of  North
America ’s four major pro sports leagues was wiped out in a labor
dispute. It also was the first year since 1919 that the Stanley
Cup wasn’t awarded.  In the 1994-95 season, a lockout ended Jan. 11 and a 48-
game schedule began on Jan. 20.  The newest dispute was focused on how players and owners
would split revenue that grew 50 percent by last season from
$2.2 billion in 2003-04. Under the previous agreement, players
received 57 percent, or $1.9 billion, of league revenue.  The collective bargaining agreement runs through the 2021-
22 season, with both sides having the right to opt out after
eight years, according to the provisions.  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million at
the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, National Basketball Association players made
an average of $5.15 million, the highest among North America’s
four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average salary for a
National Football League player was $1.9 million, the lowest of
the four leagues, with  Major League Baseball ’s $3.3 million
average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  