-- BP Says Some Employees May Have Been Killed in Algeria
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-19T18:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/bp-says-some-employees-may-have-been-killed-in-algeria.html
BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said four of 18 employees remain missing and some may
have been killed after an al-Qaeda-linked group attacked a
natural-gas plant in  Algeria .  “While the situation has evolved, it may still be some
time before we have the clarity we all desire,” Dudley said in
an e-mailed statement from London today. “While not confirmed,
tragically we have great fears that there may be one or more
fatalities within this number.”  Algerian special forces today attacked the plant operated
by BP, Statoil SAS of  Norway  and Algeria’s Sonatrach, killing 11
terrorists in a “final raid” on the complex, the state-run
Algerian Press Service reported. Sixteen hostages were found
alive, while seven were killed by the captors, who had set fire
to part of the facility near In Amenas in the country’s
southeastern desert.  The BP CEO, on a conference call with reporters, said the
“highly secured” site employed workers from more than 25
countries, with a total workforce of as many as 700 people. He
declined to disclose the nationalities or names of the 18
employees at In Amenas at the request of their families. He
called the attack “an unprovoked, violent assault by heavily
armed murderers.”  Two Injured  “We haven’t experienced an attack on any such facility on
this scale before,” Dudley said. “We are reviewing security at
our other operations in the region and around the world. There
will undoubtedly be government investigations into the
horrendous events and we will participate in them fully.”  The  14 BP employees  have left the site and are “in a
number of places, preparing for transport,” while some of them
have already left the country, Dudley said. Two of them
sustained non-life-threatening injuries, according to BP.  The Islamic militants struck Jan. 16, and about 30
attackers of various nationalities were involved, APS said,
citing security sources.  The group, calling itself Al Mulathameen, had demanded that
 France  end its military intervention in neighboring  Mali , which
began Jan. 11.  French ground troops advanced in Mali on Jan. 16 to engage
Islamist fighters and ethnic Touareg separatists who have taken
control of the north of the nation and were moving toward the
capital, Bamako. France has a military force of 2,000 in Mali
and the number may reach 2,500, the government in Paris said.  “Our focus remains on our colleagues who we have not yet
been able to locate and on supporting their families through a
time of agonizing uncertainty,” Dudley said in the statement.
“BP is a company that cares about its people -- this is a
difficult and sad time for all of us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in  London  at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  