-- BP Spill Settlement Approval Appealed by Opt-Out Victims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/bp-spill-settlement-approval-appealed-by-opt-out-victims.html
Thousands of individuals and
businesses that sued  BP Plc (BP/)  over damage from the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill appealed a judge’s approval of a $7.8 billion
class-action settlement.  Brent Coon , a lawyer for plaintiffs who opted out of the
settlement, said in a filing yesterday in federal court in  New
Orleans  that he’s appealing the judge’s orders approving the
settlement. An attached list names more than 10,000 individuals
and businesses who are challenging the accord.  Coon said last year that his clients wouldn’t participate
in the class-action settlement because there were too many
technical problems with the claims process, which he called
“slow, arduous and unexplainable.”  BP, based in London, agreed in March of last year to pay an
estimated $7.8 billion to resolve most private plaintiffs’
claims for economic loss, property damage and injuries. The
settlement was reached days before a scheduled trial on
liability for the 2010 spill.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels
of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds
of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services for the well.  Feb. 25 Trial  BP faces additional billions of dollars in civil
pollution fines and costs to restore natural resources damaged
by the spill. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  has scheduled a
non-jury trial for Feb. 25 in New Orleans, where he
will apportion civil liability among BP and the other
companies involved in the disaster.  In a court filing yesterday, BP asked that some criminal
proceedings against it and its employees not be used as 
evidence in the civil trial. BP has agreed to plead guilty to 
14 counts, including 11 for felony seaman’s manslaughter, and 
pay $4 billion.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 