-- Dark Pool Disclosures to Users Are Subject of Review by Finra
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-19T00:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/dark-pool-disclosures-to-users-are-subject-of-review-by-finra.html
Securities regulators are examining
disclosures by broker-run trading venues known as dark pools,
concerned they are not always giving their customers a complete
picture of how they work.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority have identified “concerns” about
alternative trading systems according to a  letter  Finra
published on its website outlining regulatory and examination
priorities for 2013. Most of the platforms known as ATSs are
private venues owned by brokers that match buy and sell equity
orders from customers.  “Finra is conducting a series of examinations of firms
that operate an ATS and the firms’ affiliates,” it said in the
letter to broker-dealers. The private-sector regulator “is
seeking to determine through its examination program whether
firms are consistently representing and disclosing various
aspects of their ATS operations to their subscribers,” it said.  The announcement detailed a series of initiatives Finra is
undertaking to ensure market integrity and limit risks,
including a focus on whether algorithmic and high-frequency
trading could cause dislocations that hurt investors. Finra will
examine brokers to see if high-frequency strategies are tested
before and after they’re introduced into the market and make
sure they don’t engage in “abusive trading,” the letter said.  Automated Trading  Federal regulators have stepped up scrutiny of stock
trading practices that gained dominance in the past decade amid
a shift to automation, Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse
unit in the SEC’s enforcement division, said last year. Dark
pools, broker-operated private venues that don’t display quotes
publicly, rose to prominence as a way for institutions to buy
and sell without moving share prices. Brokers, which have a
fiduciary duty to get clients the best execution possible, can
also avoid fees charged by exchanges for transactions.  More than 40 such pools now exist to trade U.S. equities,
including those run by Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Barclays Plc and Getco LLC. One of their key
features is that they don’t identify the brokers and
institutions that buy and sell on their systems and publish no
information about their orders. The platforms are designed to
avoid the market impact of trading requests by keeping them out
of view until the moment a transaction is done.  Finra is focusing on how dark pools route, represent and
handle customers’ buy and sell requests and what they disclose
about the order types they use, the letter said. It’s also
probing whether brokers participate in their own dark pool as an
agent for clients or on a principal basis, Finra said.  Confidential Data  Other issues are how brokers are paid for their services,
how they handle erroneous trades, and how they protect the
confidential order information supplied by customers. Finra is
reviewing the use of indications of interest, or messages that
let automated computer systems outside the dark pool know of buy
or sell interest within the venue in order to solicit new
orders, according to the letter.  The SEC proposed a rule in 2009 to regulate the use of IOIs
by dark pools, increase the data available from the venues after
transactions occur and limit the growth of individual platforms.
The agency never finalized it. Certain data about transactions
in dark pools are provided by brokers to their own clients.
Rosenblatt Securities Inc., a broker, and research firm Tabb
Group LLC provide information about volume on these venues to
customers and the media.  Off Exchange  A third of  trading  now occurs away from exchanges, up from
16 percent in early 2008, excluding platforms called electronic
communication networks that compete with public markets,
according to data compiled by Rosenblatt. Dark pools, which
accounted for less than half the off-exchange volume in October,
tripled their share since the first quarter of 2008, the
Rosenblatt data show.  While some critics have associated dark pools with an
increase in market opaqueness, regulatory scrutiny has focused
on their dealings with clients.  Pipeline Financial Group Inc. settled government
allegations in 2011 that it failed to provide the liquidity and
confidentiality it advertised to customers of its dark pool. The
SEC said in June it was probing Liquidnet Holdings Inc. for
possible shortcomings in how the dark-pool owner guarded private
information about firms using its platform. eBX LLC agreed to
pay an $800,000 penalty to settle charges that it failed to
protect customers’ trading information, the SEC said in October.  Finra is also assessing how brokers develop algorithms and
trading systems, according to the letter it sent firms. Its
evaluation of brokers’ testing and controls may occur through
examinations and “targeted investigations,” the regulator
said. Finra wants to make sure that legal, compliance and
operations staff are involved with the design and development of
algorithms and that brokers are monitoring activity to detect
potential trading abuses, the letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 