-- Defect in 787 Elusive as Burned Evidence Adds Obstacle
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-01-19T02:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/defect-in-787-elusive-as-burned-evidence-adds-obstacle.html
Clues to how the battery packs on
two  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 planes failed are proving difficult to
unearth, leaving uncertain when regulators will clear the model
to fly again.  Boeing said yesterday it won’t deliver more 787s until the
U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  instructs it on how to
prove the Dreamliner’s flammable lithium-ion batteries are safe.
Halting handovers of Boeing’s most advanced model adds to
fallout from the Jan. 16 FAA grounding order, which was followed
by regulators worldwide, affecting about 50 planes.  Authorities won’t lift the order until they are “1,000
percent sure” the planes are safe, U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, whose agency oversees the FAA, said in
Washington yesterday.  “These things take time,” LaHood when asked about the
grounding by reporters at a U.S. mayors’ conference. “We just
have to be patient here.”  LaHood pronounced the 787 safe in a press conference Jan.
11 announcing a review of its safety by the FAA. He said he had
no reservations flying on one.  That changed after the latest battery-related incident this
week, he said. “Last week it was safe,” he said.  The FAA and its counterparts abroad acted after an
emergency landing by an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  plane on a
domestic flight in Japan on Jan. 15 because of a battery-fault
warning. They were already investigating a battery fire on a
Japan Airlines Co. 787 on Jan. 7 in  Boston  that took 40 minutes
to put out.  Probe Continues  Lithium-ion batteries can burn at high temperatures and
spew molten metal like a roman candle, according to  testing 
performed by the FAA. Because these batteries contain their own
oxygen source, fires can be challenging to extinguish.  “That is very, very difficult,” Dan Doughty, retired
manager of battery research and development at Sandia National
Laboratories in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , said of the forensic
investigation of battery fires. “The evidence gets destroyed.”  Investigators are looking into whether the battery packs in
both cases could have come from the same batch, which could
signal a common flaw caused the failures, according to two
people familiar with the incidents. The people weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Such a pattern, if confirmed, may show the flaws were
confined to a small number of 787s, rather than a systemic fault
with the plane’s engineering, design or manufacturing.  Charring, Fumes  The FAA and Boeing, working alongside accident
investigation agencies in the U.S. and  Japan , are trying to
determine what prompted charring and the release of fumes from
the battery packs, said a person familiar with the deliberations
who wasn’t authorized to speak about them.  Boeing has tried to persuade the FAA to end the groundings
by proposing a variety of inspections and having pilots monitor
electronic signals from the batteries prevent fires, the person
said. The FAA has been reluctant to approve those steps without
a clear idea of what caused the defects and how they can be
prevented, the person said.  The FAA gave Boeing permission to use lithium batteries,
under a so-called special condition now being reviewed, in 2007,
three years after it banned the shipment of non-rechargeable
 lithium batteries  on passenger planes because of the fire
danger.  The 787 uses five times as much electricity as the 767,
enough to power 400 homes. To jump-start a so-called auxiliary
power unit that’s used on the ground and as a backup in case all
the plane’s generators failed, Boeing decided on a lithium-ion
battery because it holds more energy and can be quickly
recharged, Mike Sinnett, the 787 project engineer, said in a
briefing last week.  Destroying Evidence  In a worst-case scenario in which the batteries burn, they
are designed to do so in a way that doesn’t threaten the
aircraft, Sinnett said. If the jet is airborne, smoke is
supposed to be vented out of the compartment so it doesn’t reach
the cabin, he said, and the plane’s ability to stay aloft
wouldn’t be harmed even if all of the battery cells ignite.  Doughty, who worked at Sandia for 27 years and now is
president of  Battery Safety Consulting Inc.  in Albuquerque, said
the intensity of lithium-battery fires can often destroy the
evidence of what triggered them.  If a battery cell catches fire due to a circuitry error
that allows it to be overcharged, for example, the heat may
damage or destroy the electronic equipment that caused the
failure, he said.  One factor that may help authorities is the advanced
electronics of the 787, Doughty said.  Black Box  The plane has  computer networks  aboard and stores vast
amounts of data about how its systems operate, according to FAA
documents. Like other commercial aircraft, it has a data
recorder that monitors each flight. The so-called “black box”
recorders from the Japan Airlines 787 in Boston were taken to
the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board’s lab in
Washington, the agency said in a  release .  “That, in principle, should be a big help,” he said.  A U.S. probe into a lithium-ion battery fire on a  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid car, took seven
months to complete.  After a crash test of the Volt conducted by the U.S.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, coolant leaked
into a damaged battery-pack circuit board, causing a fire, the
report released in January 2012 found. GM in response
strengthened protections for the battery packs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  