-- Deutsche Bank Will Continue Investing in Farm Commodities
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-19T14:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/deutsche-bank-will-continue-to-provide-agriculture-investments.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will continue to
provide agricultural-investment products after  Germany ’s largest
bank concluded that they’re not the cause of rising prices for
farm commodities.  “There was no evidence that speculation was responsible
for price developments,”  Juergen Fitschen , the company’s co-
chief executive officer, said at a press conference in Berlin
today. “It can contribute to volatility under certain
conditions but there are also other reasons for volatility.”  World  food prices  as tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization have more than doubled in the past
decade. The U.S. State Department estimates surging food prices
triggered more than 60 riots worldwide from 2007 to 2009.  Berlin-based Foodwatch said in October that Deutsche Bank
and other financial companies were partly responsible for famine
in some of the poorest countries as agricultural speculation
raised food prices. That prompted former CEO  Josef Ackermann  to
say Deutsche Bank would examine its agricultural-commodity
business to ensure it didn’t contribute to worsening hunger or
poverty.  “In our board of executives we took a decision, we will
continue to sell these funds in the future,” Fitschen, 64,
said. “We can reconcile it with the principle of
sustainability.”  Nestle Comments  Fitschen said he agreed with comments by  Nestle SA (NESN)  Chairman
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe that higher prices are caused by factors
other than speculation. Both executives participated in the
Global Forum for Food and Agriculture in the German capital.  Speculation cannot be ignored as something that worsens
hunger, according to Baerbel Dieckmann, the chairwoman of
Deutsche Welthungerhilfe e.V., a German charity.  “Speculation clearly contributed through price  volatility 
to intensifying hunger situations, particularly in crisis
situations,” Dieckmann said at the press conference in response
to Fitschen’s comments. “Speculation is not without problems
for the 850 million people who live in poverty in the world, who
go hungry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Berlin at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  