-- Mexican Peso Slides on Carstens Hint at Interest-Rate Reduction
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-01-19T00:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/mexican-peso-slides-on-carstens-hint-at-interest-rate-reduction.html
Mexico ’s peso fell the most in four
weeks after central bankers signaled that a further slowdown in
inflation could prompt them to lower interest rates.  The currency dropped 0.6 percent to 12.6621 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. It’s the peso’s biggest decline since
Dec. 21. Yields on peso bonds due in 2022 fell 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 5.2 percent. They dropped 20 basis
points this week.  The central bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
left the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent for the 32nd
consecutive meeting, as forecast by all 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. In a statement accompanying the decision, policy
makers said that if a “downward trend in general and  core
inflation ” is confirmed, “a reduction in the one-day interbank
interest rate may be advisable.”  “Everyone expected a less dovish statement,”  Ramon Cordova , a currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza
Garcia, Mexico, said in a phone interview. “It should show
itself temporarily in a weaker peso.”  Annual inflation last month slowed to 3.57 percent, within
the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent for
the first time since May. Inflation will end this year at 3.79
percent, according to the median estimate in a survey by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit released on Jan. 7.  The peso’s decline will likely be short-lived as the
prospect of higher  capital gains  from lower rates lures more
foreign investors to Mexico’s fixed-income market, according to
 Eduardo Suarez , a Latin American currency strategist at Bank of
Nova Scotia.  ‘Suggests Upside’  “Although the knee-jerk reaction is likely to be Mexico
peso negative, the second impact should be supportive as it
suggests upside for Mexican bonds,” Suarez said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Foreign investment in the $144 billion market for fixed-
rate peso bonds, known as Mbonos, grew to 54.9 percent on Jan.
8, the highest proportion since February 2000, central bank data
show. Foreign  hedge funds , pension funds and mutual funds
tracked by EPFR Global poured a record $8.78 billion into the
country’s debt last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  