-- IMF Says Egypt Updating Economy Plan to Secure Loan
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-01-19T00:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/imf-says-egypt-updating-economy-plan-to-secure-loan.html
Egypt  will include the latest
economic developments and political feasibility in its economic
plan to secure a $4.8 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund , a fund official said.  Egypt says the loan will help boost investor confidence and
encourage other lenders and donors. After agreeing to an
economic plan in November with the IMF to get the loan, Egypt
asked for a delay last month after President Mohamed Mursi
suspended tax increases amid political tensions. The IMF is
awaiting the revision of the program before sending a team to
Cairo.  “One part is to see, go back and revisit those measures
that they had put on hold, which they need to reinstate” and
“to look at what is their assessment of the impact of these
measures now on revenues,”  Masood Ahmed , director of the IMF
 Middle East  and Central Asia Department, told reporters in
 Washington  yesterday.  The government is also trying “to ensure that the measures
that they’re putting forward are both adequate to respond to the
economic and financial challenges and are consistent and
compatible with their political imperatives.”  Technical Team  Once that is advanced, the IMF will send the technical team
to Egypt, Ahmed said, adding he hopes that will be in the coming
weeks. The fund is also waiting to assess the gap in Egypt’s
finances and the details of how that will be filled by other
institutions.  “You don’t want to move forward with a program that is
only partly financed,” he said.  Asked about the Egyptian pound, which weakened to a record
after the nation’s third dollar auction this week, Ahmed said
the IMF supports the government’s attempts to strengthen their
international reserves and to have a well-functioning foreign-
exchange market.  “It’s part of that process that they’ve put in place these
auctions and in a way the price is reflecting the supply and
demand but the important thing is to keep focus on the objective
which they have set out,” he said.  Separately, he said the fund is in negotiations with
Tunisian authorities for a loan that would provide the country
with a cushion in case the economic situation was to worsen.  An IMF team is also expected to travel to  Iran  in the first
half of the year to update its assessment of the country’s
economy and expects to see a larger economic contraction and
faster inflation than previously estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  