-- Liverpool Routs Norwich in Premier League; Man. City Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-19T20:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/liverpool-routs-norwich-in-premier-league-manchester-city-wins.html
Liverpool routed Norwich 5-0 in
English soccer’s Premier League, while Manchester City beat
Fulham 2-0 to close in on first-place Manchester United.  Luis Suarez got his 16th league goal as Liverpool scored
five against Norwich for the second time this season. David Silva netted both goals as Manchester City moved within four
points of its cross-town league leader.  Reading came from behind to win 2-1 at Newcastle, Swansea
beat Stoke 3-1, Sunderland defeated Wigan 3-2, West Ham drew 1-1
with Queens Park Rangers and West Bromwich Albion tied 2-2 with
Aston Villa.  Liverpool followed up a 5-2 win at Norwich in September. It
was the Reds’ third win in four matches, while the Canaries
extended their winless league run to six games.  Liverpool took a 2-0 lead into halftime on goals from
Jordan Henderson and Suarez, who scored hat-tricks in his
previous two games against Norwich.  Daniel Sturridge and Steven Gerrard scored seven minutes
apart in the second half to make it 4-0 and an own goal from
Ryan Bennett closed the scoring in the 74th minute.  Silva scored once in each half at the Etihad Stadium to
give Manchester City its fourth straight win. The Spaniard gave
the defending champion the lead after just 90 seconds by firing
in the rebound after Fulham goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer could only
knock Edin Dzeko’s shot away.  Silva clinched the win in the 69th minute by chipping a
shot over Schwarzer and just missed a third moments later when
he shot wide after getting behind the defense.  City has 51 points to keep the pressure on Manchester
United, which plays at Tottenham tomorrow.  Reading Rebound  Adam Le Fondre came off the bench to score twice in the
second half as Reading won at Newcastle. Yohan Cabaye scored in
the first half for Newcastle before Le Fondre struck in the 71st
and 77th minutes. It was Reading’s second straight comeback win
after scoring three times in the final eight minutes last
weekend to beat West Brom 3-2.  Steven Fletcher scored twice as Sunderland won at Wigan,
while two goals from Jonathan de Guzman helped Swansea defeat
Stoke. Joe Cole’s 68th-minute goal earned West Ham the home draw
with last-place QPR. Loic Remy scored for QPR in his first game
after joining the  London  club from Marseille three days ago.  Chris Brunt and Peter Odemwingie scored after halftime to
give West Brom the home draw. Christian Benteke and Gabriel Agbonlahor in the first half scored for Villa, which is one
point ahead of the three relegation places at the bottom of the
standings.  Chelsea hosts Arsenal in tomorrow’s other game and Everton
visits Southampton in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 