-- Netanyahu Sinking Volatility as Polls Show Win: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-19T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/netanyahu-sinking-volatility-as-polls-show-win-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks are posting the
smallest price swings in a month on speculation Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu will win re-election this week and maintain
the government’s policies to boost competition and spur growth.  Ten-day  volatility  on the benchmark TA-25 stock Index fell
to 9.98 on Jan. 17, the lowest level since Dec. 13, as price
swings for the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
Israeli companies traded in New York retreated to the lowest
since November 2010. The gauge gained 0.8 percent last week to
86.54 as  Nova Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI)  and  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) 
jumped 10 percent or more.  The last Israeli election polls allowed by law before
voting on Jan. 22 show Netanyahu, 63, garnering enough support
to form a new government coalition, according to a survey
published on Jan. 18 in the Yediot Ahronot daily. The TA-25
Index has rallied 67 percent during the term of the premier’s
government, which spurred competition in the telecommunications
industry, initiated steps to break the nation’s biggest
monopolies and reduced the unemployment rate.  “It is quite clear who’s going to be the next prime
minister, meaning uncertainty is not really a factor,” Daniel Rapoport, head of equity and derivatives at Bank Leumi Le- Israel 
Ltd., said by phone from Tel Aviv on Jan. 17. “Netanyahu is
pro-business, he’s considered the proper market person and a
true capitalist.”  Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu parliamentary list, which he
formed by combining his Likud party with former Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu faction, will win 32 seats in
Israel’s 120-seat Knesset, Yediot said. Likud-Beitenu will
garner 35 seats in a survey in the Maariv daily.  Economic Concentration  Netanyahu’s government has forced telecommunications
providers to cut fees and has encouraged new players to the
market in order to increase competition for the biggest
providers,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and Partner Communications Co.
The two companies were the  worst performers  in the Bloomberg
Israel-US gauge in 2012.  The Communications Ministry said on Jan. 10 that it’s
planning a “wholesale” fixed-line market and a fibre-to-the-
home network that will compete with existing operators.  The prime minister set up a committee to look into the high
level of concentration in the economy after the Bank of Israel
said in its 2009 annual report that some 20 families control 25
percent of the listed companies and 50 percent of the total
market share in the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  The council recommended last year that companies limit
their pyramid structure to no more than three public layers and
reduce cross-holdings in financial and industrial businesses.  ‘Same Policies’  “The same policies that were managed until now will
continue with the next government,” Rapoport said.  Unemployment in Israel fell to 6.7 percent in November from
6.9 percent the previous month, according the the Bureau of
Statistics. The Bank of Israel forecasts  gross domestic product 
growth of 3.8 percent in 2013.  While the  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  surged during Netanyahu’s term, the
benchmark index trails the 89 percent gain of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 75 percent advance by the MSCI World
Index during the same period. Volumes on the TA-25 fell 41
percent below the 30-day average on Jan. 17, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Netanyahu, who has served twice as Israel’s premier, cited
his inability to get partners to agree on spending cuts for 2013
as a reason for calling early elections on Oct. 9.  “In forming a coalition, there’s negotiations that have to
take place, and the more parties you have to pull into it, the
trickier it’s going to be,” Alastair Newton, a senior political
analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London , said by phone on
Jan. 18.  Nova, Nice  Israel has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to more startup companies per capita than the U.S.  Caesar Stone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE)  jumped 4.2 percent $18.16, the
highest close on record, on Jan. 18. The Israeli producer of
quartz-based countertops was raised to outperform from neutral
at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Nova Measuring Instruments Ltd. added 4.9 percent to $8.83,
capping a 12 percent rally for the week. Shares in Tel Aviv rose
5.2 percent to 31.26 shekels, or $8.38, in the five days to Jan.
17. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
contract chipmaker, forecast on Jan. 17 record capital spending
in 2013 and first-quarter sales surpassing analysts’ estimates
on strong demand.  Nice Systems added 10 percent to $38.11 in the week, the
biggest gain in 15 months, on speculation it would acquire
competitor  Verint Systems Inc. (VRNT)  The two companies make technology
designed to monitor call-in centers as well as video networks
that observe public spaces. Shares in Tel Aviv added 4.7 percent
to 137 shekels, or $36.74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  