-- Notre Dame’s Te’o Denies Participation in Dead Girlfriend Hoax
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-19T05:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/notre-dame-s-te-o-denies-participation-in-dead-girlfriend-hoax.html
Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te’o
denied that he was part of a hoax involving a fake girlfriend
who died of leukemia during the college football season, ESPN
reported.  “I wasn’t faking it,” Te’o said, according to ESPN. “I
wasn’t part of this.”  Te’o also denied that he fabricated the story about the
ailing woman in an effort to gain an edge over his competition
for the Heisman Trophy. He was runner-up to Texas A&M
quarterback Johnny Manziel.  “When (people) hear the facts, they’ll know,” said Te’o,
according to ESPN. “They’ll know that there is no way that I
could be part of this.”  Te’o spoke last night with ESPN in a recorded off-camera
interview at the IMG Training Academy in Bradenton, Fla., where
he is preparing for the National Football League draft.  Te’o was the victim of “what appears to be a hoax in which
someone using the fictitious name Lennay Kekua apparently
ingratiated herself with Manti and then conspired with others to
lead him to believe she had tragically died of leukemia,” Notre
Dame said in a Jan. 16 statement.  No Records  Deadspin.com  reported that it could find no record of Kekua.
There was no record of her death with the Social Security
Administration, and no obituary or funeral announcement, the
website said. Stanford University, which she was supposed to
have attended, has no record of her registration, it said.  “This is incredibly embarrassing to talk about but, over
an extended period of time, I developed an emotional
relationship with a woman I met online,” Te’o said in a
statement three days ago. “To realize that I was the victim of
what was apparently someone’s sick joke and constant lies was,
and is, painful and humiliating.”  Notre Dame hired an investigative firm after also finding
no evidence the woman was real, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick
said.  “Nothing about what I have learned has shaken my faith in
Manti Te’o one iota,” Swarbrick said last night during a news
conference.  Kekua supposedly died in September, the same week as Te’o’s
grandmother.  BCS Defeat  The Fighting Irish went undefeated during the season until
the Bowl Championship Series title game on Jan. 7, which they
lost 42-14 to  Alabama .  Te’o received the Nagurski Award as college football’s best
defensive player and the Butkus Award as the nation’s top
linebacker. Having graduated, he’s now preparing for the
National Football League draft.  “Fortunately, I have many wonderful things in my life and
I’m looking forward to putting this painful experience behind me
as I focus on preparing for the NFL draft,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  