-- London’s Heathrow Plans to Scrap 260 Sunday Flights
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-19T15:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/london-s-heathrow-says-100-flights-canceled-on-snow-disruption.html
London ’s Heathrow airport, the
busiest in Europe, said it plans to cancel 260 flights Sunday as
more snow was predicted for the U.K.  Tomorrow’s reduction of 20 percent of flights follows
today’s 100 cancellations and was a joint decision by Heathrow,
the airlines and traffic control due to concern about added snow
and low visibility, Heathrow Ltd. said in a statement. The
company said both of Heathrow’s runways were operating normally
today after snow yesterday forced the cancellation of 395
flights as it alternated between the two to allow for plowing.  British Airways, a unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said about 30 of its flights were canceled
today “mainly due to a knock-on disruption,” according to Euan Fordyce, a spokesman for the airline. The flights affected are
domestic and short-haul journeys to  Europe , BA said.  Heathrow said it was giving priority to long-haul flights.
A further 2 centimeters to 6 centimeters (2.4 inches) of snow
may fall in the U.K.tomorrow, according to the British Met
Office, though it reduced its warning level to “yellow” from
“orange” as the risk moves to ice from snow.  British Airways said aircraft and flight and cabin crew are
“out of position” after snow disruption and getting them back
in place is causing some cancellations.  Gatwick Unaffected  Gatwick  airport, London’s second busiest hub, said it was
unaffected after a handful of disruptions yesterday, though it
urged travelers to check their flights as parts of Europe are
still affected by snow. Stansted said it was also “operating as
normal” while  Luton , headquarters of low-cost carrier  Easyjet
Plc (EZJ) , said it was planning for possible minor delays to allow for
snow clearing and de-icing of planes.  London City, in the east of the capital, said it was open
as usual though some flights may be affected by yesterday’s
disruption.  Snowfalls yesterday led to hundreds of flight cancellations
in Germany and  Austria , curtailing service by carriers including
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at  