-- HP’s Bradley Says Windows 8 Had Slower Than Expected Start
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/hp-s-todd-bradley-says-windows-8-had-slower-than-expected-start.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Executive Vice
President  Todd Bradley  said sales of the latest version of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s flagship Windows operating system had a
disappointing debut.  As the largest personal-computer maker, Hewlett-Packard has
insight into purchases of devices that run Windows 8, which went
on sale Oct. 26.  Analysts are already predicting lackluster holiday-season
sales for Windows-based machines. Microsoft and its hardware
partners are relying on the new operating system, which can also
be used on touchscreen devices, to reinvigorate demand for PCs
as consumers and businesses spend more time and money on
smartphones and tablets.  “It was a slower start than many people expected,”
Bradley said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television.
“We see continued momentum and continued growth” this month,
he said.  Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
last month that the operating system is off to a “rough
start.” Windows 8 won’t affect Dell’s results for two quarters
because customers aren’t rushing to upgrade to the new system,
Dell Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said Nov. 15, when
the company reported third-quarter results.  U.S. retail sales of PCs running Windows have been weak,
with revenue declining 21 percent in the four weeks after the
operating system’s release, compared with the same period a year
earlier,  according  to NPD Group Inc.  Brent Thill , an analyst at
UBS AG, cut his estimate for Microsoft Surface tablet sales in
half, to 1 million units in the fiscal second quarter, citing
“gloomy sentiment” after the holiday shopping season.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said in November that
it has sold 40 million software licenses since Windows 8 became
available. Some of that tally includes versions shipped to
corporate customers with multiyear contracts, making it
difficult to gauge consumer demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  