-- Pollution in Beijing Soars for Second Weekend as Smog Returns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-19T08:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/pollution-in-beijing-soars-for-second-weekend-as-smog-returns.html
Pollution in Beijing soared for a
second weekend as smog started to cover most of the city from
late yesterday, prompting the government to warn residents to
reduce outdoor activities and urge companies to curb emissions.  The city’s meteorological bureau  issued  yellow alerts for
fog and haze while children and the elderly were advised stay
indoors as the air became “heavily polluted,” according to
Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center
classifications. Readings of PM2.5, fine airborne particulates
that pose the largest health risks, rose as high as 400
micrograms per cubic meter in some parts of the city, compared
with  World Health Organization  guidelines of no more than 25.  Bad air quality and pollution is prompting more Chinese to
travel abroad for the weeklong Chinese Lunar New Year holiday
which starts Feb. 9, state-run  China  National Radio said today.  Snow is forecast to fall in Beijing today and tomorrow
which should improve the air quality, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today, citing the local weather bureau.  Beijing ordered government vehicles off the city’s roads on
Jan. 13 as part of an emergency response plan to ease pollution
that engulfed the capital and left hospitals inundated with
patients complaining of heart and respiratory ailments. It also
told dozens of factories to temporarily halt production and
construction companies to suspend work.  Official measurements of PM2.5 rose as high as 993
micrograms per cubic meter on Jan. 12. At 4 p.m. local-time
today, the PM2.5 reading was 125 while the  Air Quality  Index was
at 164, a level the government describes as “lightly
polluted.”  ‘Beijing Cough’  The  U.S. Embassy  in Beijing, which uses a monitor in its
compound in the east of the capital, showed a PM2.5 reading of
71 at 4 p.m., down from 371 at 10 a.m. Its Air Quality Index
reading was 154, down from 415.  Long-term exposure to fine particulates raises the risk of
cardiovascular and respiratory diseases as well as  lung cancer ,
according to the WHO. The official English-language China Daily
newspaper said Jan. 14 that Beijing was becoming better known
for “Beijing Cough” than it was for Peking Duck or Peking
Opera.  China, which the World Bank estimates has 16 of the world’s
20 most-polluted cities, is the largest emitter of  greenhouse
gases . The burning of coal is the main source of pollution,
accounting for 19 percent, while vehicle emissions contribute 6
percent, according to a study by Greenpeace and Peking
University’s School of  Public Health  published Dec. 18.  Li Keqiang , set to become China’s next premier, called for
the nation’s citizens to be patient as authorities work to
reduce pollution. Li, whose comments were broadcast on state
radio on Jan. 15, spoke after state media criticized the
government’s handling of pollution and the environment.  The Ministry of Environmental Protection issued a  circular 
on Jan. 14 calling on local governments to step up prevention
and control of air pollution, ensure emergency response plans
are implemented when needed and safeguard public health.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  