-- Rahul Gandhi Named No. 2 in India’s Congress as Party Woos Youth
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2013-01-19T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/rahul-gandhi-named-no-2-in-india-s-congress-as-party-woos-youth.html
Rahul Gandhi , scion of the
preeminent family in Indian politics, was appointed to the
number two role in the governing Congress party as it seeks to
appeal to younger voters ahead of an election next year.  Gandhi, 42, was named vice-president at a three-day party
strategy meeting in the Rajasthan city of Jaipur, Congress
spokesman Janardan Dwivedi said yesterday. A decision on who
would lead the party into the federal ballot scheduled for May
2014 would be made at a later date, he said. Sonia Gandhi,
Rahul’s mother, continues as party president.  Since being elected to parliament more than eight years
ago, Rahul Gandhi has declined requests to join Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government and kept a low profile, giving few
major speeches. With his official elevation in the party, that
will now have to change as Indians demand to know his views on
crucial issues and with the opposition expected to target his
leadership.  “He’s now going to be responsible and accountable for the
successes and failures of the party,” former election analyst
and now politician Yogendra Yadav said in live comments on the
CNN-IBN television channel.  India  will now see if he has “the
political judgment and the political stamina” to succeed, Yadav
said.  The announcement of Gandhi’s new role sparked celebrations
and fireworks in Jaipur, especially from members of the Congress
youth wing, which Gandhi has headed for several years. Around
half of India’s 1.2 billion people are under 25 years of age.  Singh’s Woes  Gandhi had earlier been named a member of a six-member
panel that will formulate and implement alliances, the party
manifesto and publicity ahead of the 2014 poll.  A spokesman for the main opposition party, the  Bharatiya
Janata Party , mocked Congress for its incremental promotion of
Gandhi. “It’s an eyewash to distract the nation,” said Rajiv Pratap Rudy. Gandhi “must now make his opinions clear.”  Singh, India’s 80-year-old prime minister, will look to
Gandhi to help resurrect the government’s fortunes after being
dogged for almost two years by corruption allegations, a
faltering economy and plunging popularity. Flunking a major
leadership test, Congress was routed into fourth place in May
elections in Uttar Pradesh state after Rahul Gandhi took charge
of the party’s campaign.  Gandhi’s family have dominated Congress and Indian politics
since freedom from British rule in 1947.  Jawaharlal Nehru ,
Gandhi’s great-grandfather and independence movement hero,
became the country’s first prime minister. He was followed by
his daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son,  Rajiv Gandhi , Rahul’s
father. Both were assassinated, Indira while still in office,
bringing comparisons with the Kennedy family.  ‘Fading Legacy’  When he has spoken, Gandhi has focused on issues facing
India’s poor and how to make economic growth more inclusive,
throwing his weight behind a bill to raise compensation for
farmers’ land when it’s acquired for industry or roads. Even
with Gandhi’s backing, the proposals became mired in ministerial
debate.  Singh in September began his biggest policy push in a
decade, opening the retail and aviation industries to foreign
investment, raising diesel prices and cutting tax on Indian
companies borrowing abroad in a bid to revive a stalled agenda.
He followed that up in October with proposals to allow greater
overseas holdings in the pensions and insurance industries, and
an overhaul of his cabinet.  Author and Times of India columnist Santosh Desai said last
year at the release of a new book on Rahul Gandhi that the
presence of a member of the dynasty at the top of the Congress
provided a degree of certainty to a broad-based party whose
constituents often have little else in common.  Still, “It’s a fading legacy that holds the party together
by necessity,” Desai said.  Sonia Gandhi  declined the opportunity to be prime minister
in 2004 after leading Congress to election victory. Citing
expected opposition attacks over her Italian ancestry, she
instead opted to install Singh as premier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  