-- Treasuries Gain for Second Week Amid Debt-Ceiling Stalemate
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/treasuries-gain-for-second-week-amid-debt-ceiling-stalemate.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
second week for the first time since November as the absence of
progress toward resolving the impasse on raising the U.S. debt
ceiling sustained demand for the safest securities.  The benchmark securities advanced yesterday for the fifth
time in six days as the Federal Reserve purchased $8.797 billion
of U.S. government securities in five operations as part of its
effort to restore growth in the world’s largest economy. House
Republicans are weighing a short-term extension of the
government’s borrowing authority to spur President  Barack Obama 
into negotiations on spending cuts. The Treasury will sell $15
billion of 10-year inflation-protected securities next week.  “We’re dealing with a gradual refocus of attention toward
the debt ceiling,” said Scott Sherman, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the central bank. “At
the same time, let’s not forget the Fed is in the market buying
$85 billion a month of mortgages and Treasuries.”  The 10-year note  yield  fell this week three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.84 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader pricing. The 1.625 percent security due in
November 2022 gained 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to
98 1/32.  The 30-year bond yield fell two basis points to 3.03
percent.  The Treasuries market will be closed Monday in observation
of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  Sentiment Wanes  U.S. government debt remained higher yesterday as the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  consumer sentiment  index
dropped to 71.3 in January, the lowest since December 2011, from
a five-month low of 72.9 the prior month. Analysts forecast the
measure of U.S.  consumer confidence  would advance to 75 this
month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The consumer-price index was unchanged in December, rising
1.8 percent year-over-year and matching the median estimate of
83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It followed a 0.3 percent
drop the prior month, according to Labor Department data
released Jan. 16. Costs rose 1.7 percent in 2012, the third-
smallest annual gain in the past decade and down from a 3
percent increase in 2011.  The bond market is forecasting an inflation rate of 2.5
percent during the next 10 years, as measured by the  gap between
yields  on 10-year government notes and similar maturity Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities. The difference is the most since
October, and compares with an average of 2 percent since 2008.  ‘Control Inflation’  “There’s always the suspicion the Fed will not be able to
control inflation,” which has grown as policy makers have
expanded their asset purchases, said Marcus Huie, a fixed-income
strategist at primary dealer Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The yield on  inflation-indexed  10-year Treasuries reached
negative 0.77 percent on Jan. 15, the lowest this year, and
ended the week at negative 0.75 percent. Yields on inflation-
indexed U.S. debt are negative for all maturities through 2029.  TIPS holders receive an adjustment to the principal value
of their securities equal to the change in the consumer price
index, in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s smaller
than what’s paid to a holder of conventional debt.  The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, reached
negative 0.77 percent on Jan. 16, the most costly since Jan. 1.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Debt Ceiling  Treasuries remained supported as House Republicans
discussed the short-term extension of the debt limit during
private meetings Jan. 17 at a golf resort outside Williamsburg,
Virginia. The lawmakers are seeking a strategy to meet a series
of deadlines that Congress will face in the next 90 days.  They include the need to raise the country’s $16.4 trillion
debt ceiling next month. The  limit  has been periodically raised
since its creation in 1917. Congress increased the debt ceiling
to reflect the cost of World War II, and lowered the level after
the war ended.  Since 1960, Congress has raised or revised the limit 79
times, including 49 times under Republican presidents, according
to the Treasury Department, noting the U.S. has never defaulted
on its obligations.  Congress will also confront in March the $110 billion in
automatic spending cuts, half from defense, that were put off in
the Jan. 1 tax deal. On March 27, a short-term measure that
funds government agencies will also lapse, creating another
potential fight.  FOMC Meets  “They still want to fight it out,” said David Ader, head
of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “A series of temporary measures may
continue. This is going to continue for a while and it will keep
us in a range -- 1.8 to 1.9 percent.”  The Federal Open Market Committee has pushed its benchmark
target for short-term interest rates almost to zero and expanded
Fed  assets  to a record $2.97 trillion to fuel growth and reduce
7.8 percent unemployment. Policy makers debating whether to
continue stimulus this year will next meet Jan. 29-30.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in  10-year note futures  in the week
ending Jan. 15, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will
rise, outnumbered short positions by 27,298 contracts, falling
by 17,508 contracts, or 39 percent, from a week earlier, the
Washington-based commission said.  Large speculators decreased their net-short bets on 30-year
bonds, with speculative short positions, or bets prices will
fall, outnumbering long positions by 5,373 contracts. Net-short
positions fell by 2,076 contracts, or 28 percent, from a week
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  