-- Sabic Fourth-Quarter Net Increases 11%, Missing Estimates
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 2013-01-19T09:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/sabic-fourth-quarter-profit-increases-11-3-missing-estimates.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s largest petrochemicals maker by market value, said
fourth-quarter profit rose 11 percent as sales grew and it
raised prices on some products.  Net income  advanced to 5.83 billion riyals ($1.55 billion)
from 5.24 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based
company known as Sabic said in a  statement  to the Saudi stock
market today. That was less than the 6.4 billion-riyal average
estimate of nine analysts compiled by  Bloomberg News .  The gain in profit “was mainly because of higher prices in
the fourth quarter,” Ahmed Shams El Din, Cairo-based director
of equity research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mail.
EFG-Hermes had forecast profit of 6.4 billion riyals.  Sabic declined 0.3 percent to 93.5 riyals as of 11:30 a.m.
in Riyadh. The shares have advanced 3.9 percent this year,
compared with a 3.6 percent increase in the benchmark Tadawul
All Share Index.  The quarterly profit increase was Sabic’s first in 2012.
Full-year net income for the maker of fertilizers, plastics and
steel declined 16 percent to 24.7 billion riyals, highlighting
the company’s struggle amid slowing economies in  Europe  and a
resurgent U.S. chemical industry.  Slowing Economies  Europe’s economic woes also reduced demand for Sabic. The
 World Bank  cut its 2013 global growth forecast this month to 2.4
percent from 3 percent. It projected a second year of
contraction in the euro region.  Sabic said the decline in annual profit was because of
“higher cost of sales and lower sales prices for certain
products despite higher sales and production volumes and
reduction in financial charges.”  Income from operations for the fourth quarter increased 7.5
percent from a year earlier to 10.2 billion riyals. It had
earnings per share of 8.24 riyals in 2012, compared with 9.75
riyals the previous year.  Petrochemical and plastic products represented 75 percent
of the kingdom’s non-oil exports in November, according to data
from the Central Department of Statistics and Information in
Riyadh. Asia was the top destination for non-oil exports at 40
percent, followed by the  Middle East  at 29 percent.  Subsidiaries also suffered from shutdowns.  Saudi Kayan
Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  fell the most in six months on Jan. 13 after
quarterly results for the affiliate of Sabic missed estimates
for the eighth consecutive time.  Saudi Kayan’s fourth-quarter loss widened to 195 million
riyals from 191 million riyals in the year-earlier period. That
missed estimates for losses of 50.3 million riyals at NCB
Capital and 28 million riyals at Securities & Investment Co.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., (SAFCO)  known as Safco, is 43 percent
owned by Sabic and  Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB)  is 51
percent owned. Both also reported a decline in quarterly
earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  