-- U.S. Wine Auctions Match Hong Kong as China Demand Falls
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/u-s-wine-auctions-match-hong-kong-as-china-demand-falls.html
The U.S. matched  Hong Kong  in wine
auction sales by the five largest houses in the final three
months of last year after outstripping it in the second quarter,
in a sign of weakened Chinese demand for top Bordeaux in 2012.  Sales in the U.S., excluding internet events, totaled $46.5
million in the quarter to Dec. 31, compared with $46.0 million
in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from Acker
Merrall & Condit, Christie’s International,  Sotheby’s (BID) , Zachys
and Hart Davis Hart Wine Co. Second-quarter wine sales amounted
to $37.0 million in the U.S. and $31.2 million in Hong Kong.  Chinese appetite for Bordeaux has slowed over the past year
as Asian buyers have become unwilling to pay ever-higher auction
records for top wines such as Chateau Lafite-Rothschild. That’s
been reflected in the Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 Index, which declined
9.7 percent last year after a 17 percent drop in 2011. The index
comprises 10 vintages each of Lafite, Chateau Mouton-Rothschild,
 Chateau Latour , Chateau Margaux and Chateau Haut-Brion.  Hong Kong maintained its lead in the first and third
quarters, partly reflecting large January sales in the territory
in the run-up to Chinese New Year and a similarly intensive
schedule of auctions in September.  U.S. auctions were focused in  New York , while also
featuring sales in Chicago and  California . Most European sales
took place in London.  Following is a table of wine sales totals for the leading
regions, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from the five
auction houses. The figures exclude internet-only sales and
major charity events.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Guy Collins in  London  on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  