-- U.S., U.K. Say They Have No Plans to Send Troops to North Africa
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-01-19T17:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-19/u-s-u-k-say-they-have-no-plans-to-send-troops-to-north-africa.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
and British counterpart Philip Hammond said they have no plans
to send soldiers to North Africa following the Algerian hostage
crisis, though pledged to continue battling al-Qaeda.  “We’re not planning to have troops on the ground in that
area,” Panetta said at a joint briefing with Hammond in London
today. “As we face this enemy we’ve to adapt the best efforts
to be able to ensure we do this effectively. That involves
working with the countries in the region to work with us to
develop the capability in identifying where they’re located.”  They were speaking after  Algeria ’s special forces attacked
a natural gas plant where al-Qaeda-linked militants held foreign
captives. Eleven terrorists and seven hostages were killed in
the raid, and the defense secretaries said they are seeking
clarification from Algerian authorities.  The Islamic militants who struck the gas plant on Jan. 16
called themselves “Signatories by Blood.” They had demanded
that  France  end its military intervention in neighboring  Mali ,
which began on Jan. 11.  Hammond said Britain has “no plans” to send troops to
Mali and was providing support to France. He added that the best
way to prevent the spread of al-Qaeda was to provide “practical
support” to local governments and regional military forces.  “Anywhere in the world, where there’s ungoverned spaces
whether it’s Somalia, Yemen,  Afghanistan , the Sahel, al-Qaeda
will see that space as an opportunity to regroup and to mount
attacks on our interests,” Hammond said. “We must be vigilant,
firstly in preventing ungoverned spaces from arising, and where
they do, shutting them down.”  Panetta echoed Hammond, saying that “if we continue to
pressure al-Qaeda, we can keep them on the run. The one thing we
cannot do is be complacent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  