-- Ally Said Near Sale of Non-U.S. Assets to GM for $4 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/ally-said-near-sale-of-non-u-s-assets-to-gm-for-4-billion.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the lender
majority-owned by the U.S., is in advanced talks to sell some
international auto-finance businesses to General Motors Co. for
$4 billion, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  GM (GM) ’s bid includes Ally’s 40 percent stake in an auto-
lending joint venture in  China , as well as operations in  Europe 
and Latin America, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the discussions are private. The China business
wasn’t part of the package of non-U.S. assets that Ally said in
May it was seeking to shed.  While GM is the leading candidate to acquire the Ally
operations, other potential buyers remain in talks, the people
said. The parties may reach a deal as soon as next week, they
said. Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter said in a
Nov. 2 conference call that the company expected to make an
announcement on the asset sales this month.  “We continue to be focused on maximizing shareholder value
and finding the best solutions for the remaining international
operations,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally,
said in a phone interview.  Greg Martin, a spokesman for Detroit-based GM, declined to
comment.  CEO Carpenter is selling assets as he seeks to repay
taxpayers for a U.S. $17.2 billion rescue during the credit
crisis. He is narrowing the focus of the firm, formerly known as
GMAC Inc., to auto lending and U.S. banking.  Reuters previously reported the potential sale price and
GM’s lead position in the talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Green in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  