-- Manchester Utd. Rallies Past Aston Villa 3-2 in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-10T20:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/manchester-utd-rallies-past-aston-villa-3-2-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United overcame a two-
goal deficit to beat Aston Villa 3-2 and increase its lead in
English soccer’s Premier League.  Javier Hernandez  came off the bench at halftime to score
twice as United moved four points ahead of Chelsea, which plays
Liverpool tomorrow, at the top of the standings.  “It doesn’t matter who scored the goals,” Hernandez told
 Sky Sports . “The most important thing is we are top of the
league.”  Mark Schwarzer ’s penalty kick save in stoppage time
preserved Fulham’s 3-3 tie at Arsenal. Everton beat Sunderland
2-1, Stoke defeated Queens Park Rangers 1-0, and West Brom won
2-1 at Wigan. Southampton and Swansea tied 1-1, while Reading
and Norwich were scoreless.  Hernandez had his hand in all three goals as United
extended its streak to 17 straight away games at Villa Park
without a loss. Andreas Weimann gave Villa the lead in first-
half stoppage time and made it 2-0 five minutes after the break.  Hernandez, who came on for Ashley Young, first scored in
the 58th minute, then fired a shot that deflected off Ron Vlaar
for an own-goal five minutes later to tie the score.  United’s  Robin Van Persie  twice hit the crossbar with shots
in the 72nd minute. Hernandez then won the game with three
minutes remaining when he headed in  Van Persie ’s free kick.  At the Emirates Stadium in London, Fulham overcame a two-
goal deficit to take a 3-2 lead before Olivier Giroud scored
Arsenal. The Gunners had a chance to win after Sascha Riether
was called for a handball in the closing seconds, but Schwarzer
dived to his left to stop Mikel Arteta’s penalty kick.  2-0 Lead  Giroud and  Lukas Podolski  gave Arsenal a 2-0 lead after 23
minutes. Dimitar Berbatov and Alex Kacaniklic answered for
Fulham before halftime. Berbatov then scored with a penalty kick
in the 67th minute and Giroud tied the game with a header two
minutes later.  It was the second time this week Arsenal blew a two-goal
lead this week after a 2-2 tie at Schalke in the Champions
League on Nov. 6.  Marouane Fellaini and Nikica Jelavic scored in a three-
minute span in the second half as Everton beat Sunderland, which
got a goal from  Adam Johnson . The victory keeps the Toffees in
fourth place above West Brom on goal difference.  A score from  James Morrison  and an own-goal from Gary Caldwell gave West Brom its first away win, 2-1, at Wigan.
 Charlie Adam ’s goal gave Stoke the victory over winless QPR,
which dropped below Southampton into last place.  Nathan Dyer scored in the 73rd minute to earn Swansea the
tie at Southampton. Reading remains winless along with QPR after
its scoreless home draw with Norwich.  Tottenham is at Manchester City and Newcastle hosts West
Ham in tomorrow’s other games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 