-- Banco Popular Selling Stock at Discount to Cover Deficit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-12T10:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/banco-popular-to-sell-shares-at-discount-to-plug-capital-gap-1-.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  plans to
sell as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) of discounted
shares as the Spanish lender bids to close a capital shortfall.  Popular will issue new shares at 0.585 euros each,
excluding the value of subscription rights, Chief Financial
Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto told shareholders in  Madrid  on
Nov. 10. Existing shareholders can pay 0.401 euros, a discount
of 32 percent, and will receive three new shares for each one
they own, he said. The bank’s shares closed at 1.118 euros on
Nov. 9 and 1.701 euros on Sept. 28, the last trading day before
the sale was announced.  “It’s very difficult to say if this is a good price,”
said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $400 million at
Abaco Financials Fund in  London . “But what you can say is the
price is good compared to other Spanish banks.”  Popular said on Oct. 1 it would  sell shares  and suspend its
dividend as the lender seeks to avoid tapping state aid to cover
a 3.22 billion-euro capital deficit revealed in  stress tests 
that accompanied a European bailout for Spain’s banking system.  “It’s a brave step by them because they are raising actual
equity,” said Benjie Creelan-Sandford, a banking analyst at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in London, who rates Popular underperform.
“In the context of deleveraging and funding costs, it will be
tough to grow revenue in absolute terms.”  Shares Rebound  Popular shares jumped as much as 12 percent in Madrid
trading today before paring gains to trade at 1.18 euros at
11.20 a.m., a gain of 5.9 percent. Shares of Popular, the only
publicly traded bank with a capital shortfall that hasn’t been
nationalized, have declined 66 percent this year.  “The discount maybe makes it comfortable for the retail
investors to take part,” said Juan Pablo Lopez, an analyst at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, in a phone interview, adding he
was surprised by the extent of today’s rally.  The 15 underwriting banks include Deutsche Bank AG,  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , UBS AG, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which will act as global
coordinators, Chairman Angel Ron said. They have guaranteed 2.08
billion euros of the sale, with the remainder covered by pledges
to buy stock from existing shareholders, he said.  Deutsche Bank underwrote 400 million euros and Santander
300 million euros, with the other global coordinators taking 230
million euros each, Gonzalez-Robatto said in an interview after
the shareholder meeting. Commissions were about 2 percent plus a
1 percent success fee, he said.  Keeping Independence  Ron faced questions from 16 shareholders, some of whom
criticized management for making failed bets on real estate and
leading the bank into a situation where it was forced to raise
capital to stave off state aid. Joaquin Molina, a shareholder,
told the meeting that the “tsunami” that had engulfed the
Spanish economy had also swamped the bank and he trusted it
could “reach the beach.”  Shareholders at the Nov. 10 meeting approved the capital
increase.  “We are aware this means asking for an effort from the
shareholder, to our current shareholders, to you,” Ron said,
adding that raising capital in the midst of a “huge crisis”
was a testament to the bank’s strength. “The capital increase
will of course maintain our independence as an entity and give
us maximum flexibility to generate value.”  Popular stepped up purchases of its own stock before the
meeting, buying shares at 1.20 euros to 1.35 euros each,
according to a filing with regulators dated Nov. 2. The bank
held almost 4 percent of its stock at that date compared with
2.14 percent on Sept. 21.  Stress Test  Popular is accompanying its pitch for shareholder funds
with a new business plan that speeds up recognition of loan
losses to produce a 2.3 billion-euro loss this year. The bank is
targeting earnings of 1.4 billion euros by 2014, using a
predicted operating profit of 7.2 billion euros over the next
three years to absorb losses.  The suspension of  dividend  payments announced last month
will be “transitory” and the bank will maintain a payout ratio
of 50 percent, Ron said. Asked about whether the bank had
received takeover approaches, he said the best way to preserve
shareholder value was through the planned capital increase that
will allow Popular to stay independent.  Ron said the stress-test process had penalized the bank
because its business model focused on small Spanish businesses.  “Accepting the results of this hypothetical exercise does
not mean that we share them,” said Ron, who also highlighted
the “torrent” of regulation imposing new capital burdens and
provisioning costs on lenders.  Biggest Shareholders  The lender said Oct. 23 that investors holding a combined
23 percent of its stock had committed to backing the share sale.
The bank said its core  shareholder group  represented on its
board, which includes  Allianz SE , the Portuguese investor
Americo Amorim and the Barrie de la Maza Foundation, would own
about 23 percent of Popular after the sale, compared with 31
percent now, after contributing 421 million euros.  The Bank of Spain said Oct. 31 that it believed Popular was
among lenders able to meet capital requirements.  Spain’s stock market regulator will probably approve the
share prospectus on Nov. 12 and Popular’s shares will start
trading ex-rights two days later, Gonzalez-Robatto said. The new
shares will begin trading on Dec. 6  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  