-- BBC’s Entwistle Says Newsnight Sex-Abuse Report Was Wrong
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-11-10T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/bbc-s-entwistle-says-newsnight-sex-abuse-report-was-wrong.html
A British Broadcasting Corp. report
that led to the former treasurer and deputy chairman of the U.K.
Conservative Party under  Margaret Thatcher  being improperly
accused of child abuse was “fundamentally wrong,” BBC Director
General George Entwistle said.  Entwistle spoke after Alistair McAlpine issued a statement
yesterday denying Internet rumors that emerged in relation to a
report on the BBC’s Newsnight program in which a victim of abuse
at a Wales children’s home alleged involvement by a senior Tory
party figure. The BBC, which didn’t identify the politician,
yesterday apologized “unreservedly” for airing the report and
temporarily halted all Newsnight investigations.  The report was “unacceptable” and staff involved in the
program may face disciplinary action, Entwistle told BBC Radio
today.  “We should not have put out a film that was so
fundamentally wrong,” he said. “What happened here is
completely unacceptable. I have taken clear and decisive action
to start to find out what happened and put things right.”  McAlpine, who held the Tory treasurer post from 1975 to
1990, issued his statement three days after Home Secretary
Theresa May announced plans to examine whether allegations of
sexual abuse at the Bryn Estyn children’s home in Wrexham in the
1970s and 1980s were properly handled.  “Ill- or uninformed commentators have been using blogs and
other Internet media outlets to accuse me,” McAlpine said in an
e-mailed statement. He said he “must publicly tackle these
slurs and set the record straight.”  Defamation Claims  McAlpine said he was reserving the right to take legal
action against “those who have defamed me in the recent past or
who may do so in the future.”  Steve Messham, a Bryn Estyn abuse victim, said in an
interview with Newsnight last week a senior Tory party figure
was involved. He then said yesterday that he was mistaken about
the identity of his abuser and apologized, the  BBC  reported.  According to the broadcaster, Messham said police showed
him a picture of his abuser in the early 1990s and incorrectly
identified the man as McAlpine.  “After seeing a picture in the past hour of the individual
concerned,” Messham said, it was clear it wasn’t “the person I
identified by photograph presented to me by the police in the
early 1990s, who told me the man in the photograph was Lord
McAlpine.”  Alleged Abuse  A report into the alleged north Wales abuse, for which 650
people were questioned, was published in 2000 by Ronald Waterhouse, a retired judge, after a three-year inquiry. Messham
said that inquiry didn’t uncover all the crimes at the home.  Waterhouse’s findings will now be investigated by Judge
Julia Wendy Macur. Keith Bristow, the director general of the
National Crime Agency, will also review how police handled the
original abuse complaints and investigate any new allegations.  “I do not suggest that Mr. Messham is malicious in making
the allegations of sexual abuse about me,” McAlpine said. “If
he does think I am the man who abused him all those years ago I
can only suggest that he is mistaken.”  McAlpine said he’d only been to Wrexham once in his life
and hadn’t gone to the children’s home.  The BBC Trust, which governs the broadcaster, said today
Entwistle has been asked to investigate the Newsnight report,
describing it as a “deeply troubling episode.”  “The Trust notes the executive’s apology and would like to
offer its own apology,” it said in a statement on its website.
“The Trust has impressed upon the director general the need to
get to the bottom of this as a matter of the utmost urgency and
will expect an explanation as quickly as possible so that we can
ensure that appropriate action is being taken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Harrison  in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  