-- Berton Hochfeld Charged With Securities Fraud and Wire Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-10T01:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/berton-hochfeld-charged-with-securities-fraud-and-wire-fraud-1-.html
Berton Hochfeld, manager of Hochfeld
Capital Management LLC, was charged with  securities fraud  and
 wire fraud  for allegedly stealing more than $1 million from
investors.  Hochfeld, 66, of Stamford, Connecticut, was arrested at his
home there this morning, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in a statement. He faces as long as 40 years in prison if
convicted of both of the crimes he’s charged with.  “Berton Hochfeld and others like him who allegedly use
their businesses to lure and deceive investors and then steal
their money will not be tolerated by this office,” Bharara
said.  Hochfeld’s business, which had a Park Avenue office in  New
York , functioned as general partner of the Heppelwhite Fund from
which he allegedly took investor money for his own use from
April 2011 to October of this year, according to a criminal
complaint unsealed today.  A private placement memorandum for the fund promised it
would not make loans or purchase debt obligations issued by
Hochfeld Capital Management or its principals, according to the
complaint.  The fund’s value was falsely inflated in monthly statements
Hochfeld provided to its investors to conceal his withdrawals,
U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Special Agent  Michael
Howard  said in the sworn complaint.  Hochfeld made an initial appearance today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Andrew Peck in New York, Bharara said.  “Mr. Hochfeld looks forward to resolving the matter
promptly,” his attorney, Roland Riopelle, said in a telephone
interview. He declined to comment further.  The case is U.S. v. Hochfeld, 12-mj-2897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  