-- Canada Dollar Falls Most in Three Weeks on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/canada-dollar-falls-most-in-three-weeks-on-global-growth-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped the most in
three weeks against its U.S. counterpart as concern  Europe  and
the U.S. will fail to contain their fiscal crises damped
appetite for higher-risk assets.  The Canadian currency touched a three-month low, trading
below parity yesterday for a second day, amid bets Europe’s
economic outlook is worsening. Investors sought refuge in the
greenback this week on concern Greek bailout funds will be
delayed and bets that U.S. lawmakers will push the economy into
recession in a budget-deficit showdown called the fiscal cliff.  “The move this week has been very much a safe-haven bid,”
 Eric Lascelles , chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Global Asset Management, said in a phone interview from Toronto.
“Markets have felt gloomy this week. It’s a function of the
changing focus onto the fiscal cliff and equally recognizing
that as much as Europe has made massive strides in the past six
to nine months, lately there has been a bit of complacency.”  Canada’s currency, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, declined 0.6 percent to C$1.0016
per U.S. dollar this week in Toronto, the biggest drop since the
five days ended Oct. 19. It reached C$1.0033 yesterday, the
weakest since Aug. 3. One Canadian dollar buys 99.84 U.S. cents.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  Net Longs  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
74,762 on Nov. 6, compared with 78,771 a week earlier.  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
 10-year benchmark  note down six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.71 percent. It touched 1.68 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since Aug. 3. The price of the 2.75 percent note
due in June 2022 increased 49 cents to C$109.09.  The loonie fell this week as risk appetite ebbed after a
European Union official said euro-area finance ministers won’t
decide to release 31.5 billion euros ($40.1 billion) of aid for
 Greece  that has been frozen since June when they meet in
Brussels on Nov. 12. They are waiting for a final report on
Greece’s efforts to meet conditions before taking action, the
official said on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Investors also sought safety as the re-election of
President  Barack Obama  and a split Congress this week spurred
concern lawmakers will be unable to compromise on the budget of
Canada’s biggest trade partner.  Deficit Showdown  The U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in mandated spending cuts and
tax increases over a decade starting Jan. 1 if Congress can’t
agree to reduce the deficit, which totaled $1.09 trillion in
fiscal 2012. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the  U.S.
economy  would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year if
Congress fails to prevent the measures from kicking in.  Fitch Ratings  said the U.S. economy will probably contract
if Congress fails to act. Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said
in an interview in Istanbul on Nov. 8 it would be “a wholly
avoidable, unnecessary recession.”  Stocks slid, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling
2.4 percent, the biggest weekly decline since June.  Canadian  manufacturing -sales growth slowed in September to
0.3 percent, from 1.5 percent a month earlier, economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast before  Statistics Canada  reports the
data on Nov. 15.  Trade Deficit  The nation’s trade  deficit  unexpectedly narrowed in
September, data from the statistics agency showed on Nov. 8, as
rising oil prices buffered a weakening export outlook for the
world’s 11th-largest economy. Canada, which sits on the world’s
third-largest pool of oil reserves, had an C$826 million ($829
million) deficit, down from a revised C$1.52 billion gap in
August, the data showed. Crude is the nation’s biggest export.  Crude-oil futures reached a four-month high on Sept. 14 of
$100.42 a barrel in  New York . They traded yesterday at $86.07.  The loonie has climbed 1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has dropped 1.2 percent, and
the yen has slid 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  