-- Canadian Rate Rise ‘Less Imminent,’ Carney Tells National Post
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-10T22:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/canadian-rate-rise-less-imminent-carney-tells-national-post.html
Interest rate increases by the  Bank
of Canada  aren’t imminent, though will probably still take place
in the future, Governor  Mark Carney  said.  “Over time, rates are likely to increase somewhat, but
over time, so a less imminent timing relative to our
expectation,” Carney said in an interview published today in
the National Post newspaper. “Certainly, that timetable and
that expectation is the function of a variety of global and
domestic factors.”  The Bank of Canada kept its benchmark overnight rate where
it’s been for more than two years, at 1 percent, on Oct. 23, in
part because Canada’s economy has been restrained by weak global
demand. The bank cited “lower than expected”  core inflation  in
its  Monetary Policy Report .  The central bank could alter its end-of-2014 target for
achieving its goal of 2 percent inflation in Canada and use
monetary policy to address “financial vulnerabilities,” Carney
said. “The most prominent one, obviously in Canada, is
 household debt .”  The nation’s consumer price index, a cost of living
indicator used by the central bank, rose 1.2 percent in
September from a year ago,  Statistics Canada  said on Oct. 19.  About 20 percent of recent consumption has been financed
through debt, Carney told a Senate banking committee in Ottawa
on Oct. 31.  The central bank is monitoring the effect of measures by
the Canadian government and national regulators to limit
mortgage lending, Carney was quoted as saying, in the interview.  The Bank of Canada will probably raise its overnight rate
to 1.25 percent in the third quarter of 2013, according to the
median of 23 forecasts from economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 