-- China Investment in U.S. Is No Trojan Horse, Minister Chen Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-10T08:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/china-investment-in-u-s-is-no-trojan-horse-minister-chen-says.html
China ’s Commerce Minister rejected
U.S. concerns that Chinese investments in the U.S. were a
potential Trojan horse and urged the administration of President
 Barack Obama  to keep politics and economic issues apart.  “This notion smacks a little of Cold War mentality,”  Chen Deming  told reporters at a briefing in Beijing during the
Communist Party’s 18th National Congress. “If you regard me as
a potential Trojan horse, how will I view you? It’s not in
America’s interests to think this way.”  The U.S. House of Representatives Intelligence Committee
last month advised American businesses to avoid buying from
China’s two largest phone-equipment makers, saying their ties to
the Chinese government meant they couldn’t be trusted. The
dominance of state-owned companies in the Asian nation’s foreign
direct investment could harm U.S. economic and national security
interests, a congressional advisory panel on China relations
warned in a report this month.  Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. provide opportunities
for Chinese intelligence services to tamper with U.S.
telecommunications networks for spying, according to the
committee report released Oct. 8. The two companies denied links
to espionage at a hearing in September, telling lawmakers they
weren’t controlled by the Chinese government.  “The U.S. raised the security issue of Huawei and ZTE to
the level where they are asking whether the companies have
Communist Party cells and what their relations are with the
party,” Chen said today. “Personally I think this has gone too
far.”  If China’s parliament and government started asking the
same questions to U.S. companies in China and what relations
they have with the Democratic and Republican parties “there
would be chaos,” Chen said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  