-- China Exports Exceed Estimates in Sign of Global Pickup
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/china-october-export-growth-beats-estimates-imports-trail.html
China ’s  exports  rose at the fastest
pace in five months in October, adding to signs of a rebound in
the world’s second-biggest economy after industrial output and
retail sales exceeded forecasts.  Overseas shipments increased 11.6 percent from a year
earlier, the Beijing-based customs administration said in a
statement yesterday. That compared with the 10 percent estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and 9.9 percent in
September. Imports rose 2.4 percent, the same pace as the
previous month. The trade surplus widened to $32 billion, the
biggest in almost four years.  China’s transition to a new generation of Communist Party
leaders, which began in Beijing last week, may be smoothed by
the reversal of a slowdown that started in last year’s first
quarter. The September-October pickup in export growth shows the
economy is starting to stabilize, Commerce Minister Chen Deming
said yesterday at a briefing in Beijing.  “We are still cautious, but the robust export growth
around 10 percent for two consecutive months might truly point
to a real rebound,” said Lu Ting, chief Greater China economist
at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong. The “elevated” trade
surplus may mean the central bank will be reluctant to cut
lenders’ reserve requirements, Lu said while maintaining his
forecast for “at most” one 0.5 percentage-point reduction by
year-end.  Expansion Target  Industrial production, fixed-asset investment and retail
sales accelerated in October, government reports showed on Nov.
9, signaling that economic growth will exceed Premier Wen Jiabao’s 7.5 percent target for his last year in office. China
is confident it will achieve expansion this year of at least 7.5
percent, Zhang Ping, head of the National Development and Reform
Commission, said at a separate briefing yesterday during the
congress.  At the same time, the trade outlook is grim for the coming
months and will be difficult next year, Chen said. Zhang said
China needs to prepare for prolonged challenges including the
debt turmoil in some countries and sluggish global growth while
solving domestic issues such as overcapacity.  Export gains have picked up from a 1 percent pace in July
and 2.7 percent in August.  China’s October import growth trailed the median economist
estimate of 3.4 percent in a Bloomberg survey and compared with
a 28.7 percent increase in October 2011. Inbound shipments in
August recorded the first non-holiday drop since 2009. October’s
trade surplus compared with the $27.3 billion median forecast
and a $27.7 billion excess in September.  Commodity Prices  Falling global commodity prices are contributing to the
slowdown in import growth, Chen said. Iron ore imports in the
first 10 months rose 8.9 percent in volume while average prices
slumped 20.8 percent, the customs report showed. Copper imports
by China, the world’s largest user, declined to the lowest level
in 15 months, according to the data.  Yesterday’s trade figures add to signs global demand is
recovering after overseas shipments from South Korea and
 Malaysia  unexpectedly rose and  Indonesia ’s dropped less than
estimated.  The  yuan ’s gains against the dollar over the past three
months may damp export growth. The currency has strengthened
about 2.4 percent since July 25 after a 1.6 percent decline
since the start of the year. The government has restrained
increases for two weeks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 0.4 percent on
Nov. 9, taking the week’s loss to about 1 percent, as investors
turned their attention to the U.S. budget debate and the
European Commission cut its growth forecast for the region. In
China, the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell for the fifth
straight day, taking its loss for the week to 2.3 percent.  Growth Momentum  The trade figures, and the improvement in domestic
indicators “continue to support our view that China’s growth
momentum has picked up,” Li-Gang Liu and Hao Zhou, China
economists at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
in a note yesterday.  Foreign trade expanded at a slower pace than last year in
the first 10 months of the year, according to yesterday’s
customs report, putting at risk the government’s 2012 target of
10 percent growth. Exports through October rose 7.8 percent
while imports gained 4.6 percent, leaving a trade surplus of
$180.2 billion.  Achieving the full-year target will be very difficult, Chen
said yesterday.  Even so, China’s position as the world’s biggest exporter
is encouraging investment from logistics companies. FedEx Corp.,
the world’s largest air-freight carrier, said last month it
plans to build a $100 million-plus express-shipment facility in
 Shanghai  to cope with rising exports from the nation. The
company said the city’s Pudong airport will probably become the
world’s busiest for cargo by 2015.  Debt Turmoil  Europe ’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis is crimping
exports to the bloc, China’s biggest market last year. Sales to
the 27-nation European Union fell for a fifth month in October
compared with a year earlier and dropped 5.8 percent in the
first 10 months of the year, after rising 16.3 percent in the
same period of 2011.  Exports to the U.S., the biggest buyer of Chinese goods
this year, rose 9.5 percent in the January-October period,
compared with 14.6 percent a year earlier, customs bureau data
show.  “This year, exports are weak but they haven’t collapsed
like before,” Andy Rothman, China macro strategist for CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets in Shanghai, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Nov. 8. “Right now it’s a very small negative
drag” on the economy.  The lack of “mass layoffs” similar to those during the
2008 global financial crisis explains “why we haven’t seen a
big stimulus,” Rothman said.  The European Commission last week cut its 2013 growth
estimate for the 17 nations that share the euro currency to 0.1
percent from a May forecast of 1 percent and lowered its
projection for  Germany  to 0.8 percent from 1.7 percent.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing,
Ailing Tan in  Singapore ,  Alfred Cang  in Shanghai and Fion Li in
Hong Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  