-- Del Potro Tops Federer to Reach ATP World Tour Semifinal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-10T22:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/del-potro-books-place-in-atp-semifinals-with-win-against-federer.html
Roger Federer won Wimbledon, while
Andy Murray took the gold at the Olympics. They’ll meet for a
third time in  London  this season in tomorrow’s semifinals of the
ATP World Tour Finals.  Top-ranked Novak Djokovic and Juan Martin Del Potro will
play the other semifinal after the matchups was set by Spain’s
David Ferrer beating Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1
in the last round-robin match of the season-ending tournament.  “Right now I think he’s playing great tennis,” Federer,
the defending champion, said in a news conference about Murray.
“Obviously the last six months have been amazing for him. I
expect him to be extremely tough in the semis.”  The event splits the top eight singles players and doubles
pairs into groups of four. The top two in each group advance to
the single-elimination semifinals, with the title match schedule
for Nov. 12.  Second-ranked Federer, the winner of Group B, has lost 10
of 18 career meetings with U.S. Open champion Murray. The Swiss
beat the third-ranked Scot at Wimbledon in July, while Murray
won a month later in the Olympic gold-medal match.  Del Potro , the sixth-seed from  Argentina , claimed his spot
in the semifinals today by beating Federer 7-6 (7-3), 4-6, 6-3.
Federer had already qualified for the last four after winning
his first two group matches earlier in the week.  “I’m so happy to beat Roger once again, I know he’s a
favorite here but the crowd respected me also,” Del Potro said
in a court-side interview.  It was Del Potro’s second win in as many weeks over Federer
after beating the 17-time Grand Slam champion in his hometown
in  Basel , Switzerland, on Oct. 28.  Long Rallies  Federer and Del Potro exchanged long baseline rallies in
the first set as each held serve to set up a tiebreaker. Del
Potro raced to a 6-1 lead and Federer saved two set points,
before missing a return.  Federer responded with a break at the start of the second,
and then forced a decider by serving out the set. Del Potro
regained the initiative in the third by taking a 2-0 lead. A
wayward forehand by Federer, his 42nd unforced error, handed Del
Potro his first match point. He raised his arms after Federer
missed a volley.  “I was a little lucky towards the end of the match,” Del
Potro said. “Always when you beat these kinds of players you
need luck on your side, but I played well. I took the break-
point chances in the last set and then I served really well in
the last game. I was very nervous but I closed out the match.”  Serbia ’s Djokovic won Group A yesterday after sweeping all
three of his matches. He has a 6-2 career record against Del
Potro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  