-- DNA Testing at Arrest Gets U.S. Supreme Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/dna-testing-at-arrest-gets-u-s-supreme-court-review.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will decide
whether states can routinely collect DNA samples when people are
arrested for a serious crime, in a case that may limit  privacy
rights  and give police a powerful investigative tool.  The justices yesterday said they will hear  Maryland ’s bid
to revive Alonzo Jay King Jr.’s conviction for a 2003 rape. The
state’s highest court threw out the conviction. It said
authorities violated King’s constitutional rights when they
arrested him on unrelated assault charges in 2009 and took a
cheek swab that provided DNA evidence connecting him to the
rape.  At least 26 states and the federal government obtain DNA
samples from newly arrested people. Advocates say the practice
has helped police investigate thousands of crimes and prevented
countless others from taking place.  A state “can solve crimes faster, it can identify suspects
with greater accuracy, and it can reduce the risk of setting a
dangerous criminal free due to its failure to identify him as
such,” Maryland Attorney General Douglas Gansler argued in the
state’s appeal. Maryland collects DNA evidence from anyone
arrested for crimes of violence or burglary.  The court yesterday also agreed to hear a challenge to a
central prong of the Voting Rights Act, the landmark 1965 civil
rights statute.  The Maryland Court of Appeals, voting 5-2, said DNA samples
“contain a massive amount of deeply personal information.” The
state court said the Constitution’s  Fourth Amendment , which bars
unreasonable searches, protects people who haven’t been
convicted from having to provide DNA evidence.  Expectation of Privacy  “Although arrestees do not have all the expectations of
privacy enjoyed by the general public, the presumption of
innocence bestows on them greater protections than convicted
felons, parolees or probationers,” the Maryland court majority
said.  King’s lawyers urged the Supreme Court not to take up the
case, arguing that the nine justices would benefit from letting
more judges consider the issue first. The lower courts that have
taken up the question are divided.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  blocked the Maryland court
ruling in July, letting the state continue collecting DNA
samples.  “Crimes for which DNA evidence is implicated tend to be
serious, and serious crimes cause serious injuries,” Roberts
wrote. “That Maryland may not employ a duly-enacted statute to
help prevent these injuries constitutes irreparable harm.”  National Database  Roberts said the Maryland decision would have nationwide
ramifications because the state’s system is linked to a national
DNA database maintained by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  In April the Supreme Court upheld the use of strip searches
of newly arrested people. The court divided 5-4, voting along
ideological lines.  Maryland contends that DNA swabs are little different from
fingerprinting, a procedure that has been a routine part of
police booking for decades. The state argues that it uses DNA
samples only for identification purposes and doesn’t analyze the
genetic coding that determines a person’s biological traits.  The court will hear arguments in February or March and rule
by the end of June in the case, Maryland v. King, 12-207.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  