-- England Routs Fiji in International Rugby Match; Wales Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-10T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/england-routs-fiji-in-international-rugby-match-wales-loses.html
Charlie Sharples scored two tries to
help  England  rout Fiji 54-12 in the opening game of its autumn
international rugby schedule.  Manu Tuilagi also touched down twice as England outscored
Fiji seven tries to two at Twickenham in London.  Argentina upset Wales 26-12, France beat Australia 33-6,
 South Africa  beat Ireland 16-12 and Italy defeated Tonga 28-23
in today’s other games.  The autumn series of matches in Europe will affect the
seedings for the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The International Rugby
Board rankings as of Dec. 3 will be used to band the 12
automatic qualifiers in the 20-team tournament in England, with
the first four placed at the top of the four five-team groups.  Ugo Monye and  Tom Johnson  touched down for England, which
also got a penalty try, and  Toby Flood  kicked 17 points. Nikola
Matawalu and Seko Kalu scored tries for Fiji, which trailed 25-0
at halftime.  In Cardiff, Juan Jose Imhoff and Gonazlo Camacho scored the
only tries as Argentina rallied in the second half to beat
Wales. Nicolas Sanchez kicked 13 points for the visitors, who
outscored Wales 20-3 after the break.  Frederik Michalak kicked 15 points to France past Australia
in Paris. Louis Picamoles and Wesley Fofana touched down for
France, while  Mike Harris  booted a pair of penalties for
Australia.  Ruan Pienaar scored the game’s only try and Pat Lambie
kicked 11 points as South Africa rallied from a 12-3 halftime
deficit to beat Ireland in Dublin.  Jonathan Sexton  kicked four
penalties for the Irish.  Lorenzo Cittadini and Leonardo Ghiraldini touched down to
lead Italy past Tonga in Rome. Kristopher Burton kicked three
penalty goals for the host, while Alisona Taumalolo and Fettu
Vainikolo scored tries for Tonga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  