-- Euro Loses Most in 4 Months Against Yen on Fiscal Cliff, Greece
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/euro-loses-most-in-4-months-against-yen-on-fiscal-cliff-greece.html
The euro slid the most in in four
months versus the yen on concern a U.S. budget showdown known as
the fiscal cliff will push the world’s biggest economy into
recession and Greece will struggle for more rescue funds.  Japan ’s currency rose against all of its 16 most-traded
peers as investors sought haven amid a worsening global economic
outlook. The euro fell for a third week versus the dollar, the
longest losing streak since July, before Greece’s parliament
votes on a budget tomorrow. The 17-nation euro economy shrank
for a second quarter, data next week are forecast to show. New
Zealand’s dollar tumbled after the nation’s jobless rate jumped.  “There’s definitely been a reluctance to take on risk
until we see clearer signs that a resolution to the fiscal cliff
is in sight,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The decision to hold off on a Greek decision was a
negative as well.”  The euro tumbled 2.1 percent to 101.05 yen in New York
trading in its biggest weekly loss since July 6. It touched
100.43 yen yesterday, the weakest level since Oct. 11. The
shared currency dropped 0.9 percent to $1.2714 and reached
$1.2690, the lowest since Sept. 7. The yen rallied 1.2 percent
to 79.49 per dollar in its first weekly gain since Oct. 12.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets the euro will decline
against the U.S. dollar, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. The difference in the number of wagers by hedge
funds and other large speculators on a decline in the euro
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
67,141 on Nov. 6, compared with 58,204 a week earlier.  Speculators increased wagers the  yen  will fall versus the
greenback to 40,414, the most since May 11, from 37,020 a week
earlier, the figures showed.  The dollar gained against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts amid concern President  Barack Obama  will struggle
to convince Congress to avert automatic budget cuts and tax
increases scheduled to take place at the end of the year. The
dollar strengthens as investors buy U.S. Treasuries, a
traditional refuge.  Obama won a second term this week, while Republicans
maintained control of the House of Representatives and Democrats
held on to a majority in the Senate.  Mandated Cuts  The U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in mandated spending
reductions and tax boosts over a decade starting Jan. 1 if
Congress can’t agree to reduce the deficit, which totaled $1.09
trillion in fiscal 2012. The Congressional Budget Office has
said the U.S. economy would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next
year if Congress fails to prevent the measures from kicking in.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.5 percent to 81.026, rising for a
third week. It rose above its 200-day  moving average  of 80.671
on Nov. 5, the first move across the average since Sept. 7.  The dollar was the strongest net-purchased currency this
week, according to Bank of New York Mellon client data.  “The last time we got close to the debt ceiling and we had
the credit-ratings downgrade, around that period we saw the
markets struggle and the dollar do very well,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in
New York, said on Nov. 5 in an interview on Bloomberg
Televison’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen.  Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit
rating on Aug. 5, 2011, after months of political brinkmanship
that pushed the nation to the deadline for an agreement to lift
the debt ceiling.  Mexico, Canada  Mexico ’s peso and  Canada ’s dollar fell on bets the dispute
will damage the economy of their biggest trade partner. The peso
slid 1.2 percent to 13.2003 to the greenback. The Canadian
currency lost 0.6 percent to C$1.0016 per U.S. dollar.  The euro fell against most of its major peers as Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras eked out a slim majority vote
Nov. 8 for a bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts needed to
win an installment of rescue funds. The next hurdle comes when
the parliament votes tomorrow on the 2013 budget.  The votes are required by Nov. 12 for  Greece , where
 Europe ’s debt crisis began three years ago, to get a 31.5
billion-euro ($40 billion) aid payment and avert a financial
collapse that might drive the country from the euro.  EU Delay  European Union finance ministers will delay for “weeks”
the decision on Greece’s next payment, an EU official said Nov.
8 on condition of anonymity because deliberations are private.  The currency bloc’s gross domestic product  contracted  0.1
percent in the third quarter, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before data due Nov. 15. The economy shrank 0.2 percent
from April through June after stagnating in the first quarter.  The euro dropped 6 percent over the past year, the biggest
loser among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 0.9 percent, and
the yen weakened 1.5 percent. The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed
the kiwi, climbed 5.5 percent in the best performance.  The kiwi dropped this week to the lowest level versus the
U.S. dollar since Oct. 24 after New Zealand’s unemployment rate
surged to a 13-year high of 7.3 percent in the third quarter.
The currency slid 1.4 percent to 81.40 U.S. cents and touched
81.24 cents.  The yen reached its strongest level against the greenback
yesterday since Oct. 18, 79.08. U.S. two-year note yields fell
to 0.26 percent,  shrinking  the excess yield investors receive
for purchasing U.S. securities versus Japanese government bonds
to 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, the least since
Oct. 15. That damped the appeal of dollar-denominated debt
versus yen-based securities as investors sought haven assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  