-- Gilt CEO Said to Lead Search for His Replacement Ahead of IPO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-11-10T00:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/gilt-ceo-said-to-lead-search-for-his-replacement-ahead-of-ipo.html
Gilt Groupe Inc., the website
specializing in quick sales of high-end clothing, is searching
for a successor for Chief Executive Officer Kevin Ryan who can
help the company prepare for an initial public offering,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Ryan is leading the search, which is focused on external
candidates and will be completed in the first quarter, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Gilt also seeks to sell Jetsetter, its travel division,
which generates $10 million to $15 million in annual net sales,
this person said.  Gilt, valued at $1 billion in a funding round last year,
plans to file for an IPO some time starting in the fourth
quarter of 2013 and ending a year later, this person said. Gilt
began with a focus on luxury-good sales lasting about 36 hours
and has expanded into regular-priced items and markets such as
food and travel, moves that risked brand dilution. Ryan kicked
off the search for a new CEO on concern that he spread himself
too thin, said the person, who has knowledge of his thinking.  Gilt has interviewed six candidates, and is focused on
people with experience in Internet commerce. Gilt has about
1,000 employees.  The company eliminated jobs at Gilt City, its local deals
site, earlier this year, and is closing a men’s fashion
business, Park & Bond.  Ryan will stay on as chairman and devote about half his
time to Gilt, while giving attention to his other startups,
including Business Insider and 10gen Inc. The search was
previously reported by the Wall Street Journal.  Lance Lin, a spokesman for New York-based Gilt, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  