-- Gaza Rockets Hit Israel; Syrian Shell Draws Warning Shots
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-11-11T19:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/israel-kills-5-in-gaza-after-missile-attack-on-soldiers.html
Israel’s south was pummeled with
rocket fire from Gaza today, while a Syrian mortar shell that
hit the country’s northern reaches drew Israeli warning shots
fired into Syrian territory.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  addressed the rising
tensions on both fronts at the weekly Cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem, saying Israel is prepared to meet security threats.  “The world needs to understand that Israel will not sit
idly by in the face of attempts to attack us. We are prepared to
intensify the response,” Netanyahu said in reference to the
Gaza violence, according to an e-mailed statement from his
office. “At the same time, we are closely monitoring what is
happening on our border with Syria and there we are also ready
for any development.”  A mortar shell shot from Syria struck an army post on the
Israeli-controlled side of the Golan Heights, with no injuries
or damage reported, the army said in an e-mailed statement. In
response, Israeli soldiers fired artillery warning shots toward
 Syria , and Israel filed a complaint with the  United Nations , the
army said.  Anti-Tank Missile  The latest violence in the south was ignited when
Palestinian militants fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli
patrol along the Gaza Strip border fence yesterday, wounding
four soldiers, one seriously, the army said in an e-mailed
statement. The Israeli military responded with tank shelling and
several air strikes into Gaza, including a direct hit on one
rocket-launching squad, killing six and wounding more than 30,
according to Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for the Hamas-run Health
Ministry in Gaza.  “If we are forced to re-enter Gaza in order to strike
Hamas and restore security to Israeli residents, we won’t
hesitate,” Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in  Tel Aviv 
of the Gaza violence.  At least 65 rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israel
in the past two days, damaging a number of buildings and
injuring three people lightly, said  Micky Rosenfeld , a police
spokesman.  “There’s no evidence linking the incidents in the south
with that at the north, although both highlight Israel’s
vulnerability to be hit simultaneously on two fronts in two
unrelated conflicts,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
science professor at Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.
“Responding to the Syrian incident is difficult, because Israel
is caught in a crossfire and doesn’t want to be seen helping
either the Syrian regime or the rebels.”  Syria Front  Israel’s Syria front has been largely quiet since it
repelled an attempt by Syrian forces to reclaim the  Golan
Heights  area it lost to Israel in the 1967 war. Last week, three
Syrian tanks entered the Golan demilitarized zone, and a Syrian
mortar shell landed on Israeli-controlled territory as fighting
intensifies between forces loyal to Bashar al-Assad and rebel
forces seeking to oust him.  The Gaza border has been the site of several violent
incidents in the past week. The Islamic Hamas movement seized
control of Gaza from Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in 2007, ending a partnership government a
year after winning parliamentary elections. The group refuses to
recognize Israel or any prior deals signed with it and is
considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union.  Armed Militant Group  The Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, the armed wing of the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said in a statement it
took responsibility for the attack on the Israeli patrol. The
group is one of several Palestinian militant groups in Gaza that
operate independently of Hamas.  Israel  says it holds Hamas
responsible for all attacks from Gaza.  Israel discovered an explosives-filled tunnel built
underneath the Gaza border into its territory, the army said on
Nov. 8.  Two Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire near the
border this past week, including a teenage boy, according to
Gaza officials. Six have been killed in Gaza by Israeli fire in
the past 24 hours, official said.  “The fact that these outbreaks of violence in Gaza are
becoming more frequent and severe is cause for concern,” said
Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya. “However, the Israeli government would prefer
to avoid launching any kind of major ground operation in Gaza,
especially as the political changes in  Egypt  would make it more
complicated.”  Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood government, which was voted into
power earlier this year, has close ties with Hamas and
negotiated a temporary cease-fire on rocket attacks from Gaza
after an outburst of violence last month.  Israel conducted a three-week military operation in Gaza to
stop rocket attacks that concluded in January 2009. The Hamas
Ministry of Health in Gaza said 1,450 Palestinians were killed
during that operation, while Israel puts the number at 1,166.
The army said 13 Israelis died in the violence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  