-- New York Runners Get Second Chance in Philadelphia Marathon
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/new-york-runners-get-second-chance-in-philadelphia-marathon.html
Nearly 1,500  New York  runners whose
race was canceled when Hurricane Sandy devastated the route have
been given a second chance with entries into the Philadelphia
Marathon.  All 1,454 runners who registered with a lottery were
accepted for the Philadelphia contest Nov. 18 at 7 a.m. EST,
said marathon spokesman Randy Giancaterino in an e-mail. The
lottery had 3,000 spaces for the 47,000 runners who had
verification that they were entered in the New York City
Marathon on Nov. 4.  “All of the runners who registered ultimately were selected
for our race,” Giancaterino said.  Before the invitation to New York runners, the Philadelphia
Marathon was sold-out at 30,000 runners in three races. With the
addition of the new entrants, the 26.2-mile (42.2-kilometer)
full marathon has 16,000 participants.  “In the wake of  Hurricane Sandy  and the many challenges
created by it, we are honored to welcome New York City marathon
participants to Philadelphia,” said Mayor Michael Nutter in a
statement.  Relief Efforts  Half of the $200 registration fee for the New York runners
will be donated to the Hurricane Relief Fund for the American
Red Cross, while the remaining funds cover additional
Philadelphia Marathon supplies and resources to accommodate the
extra marathoners.  The New York race competitors were invited to enter a
lottery on Nov. 7-8 to compete in the Philadelphia event.  “We are grateful to the Philadelphia Marathon and Mayor
Nutter for their generosity in inviting runners who were
affected by the cancellation of the ING NYC marathon,” said
Mary Wittenberg, chief executive officer of New York Road
Runners, producer of the New York City Marathon.  The Philadelphia race sold out Oct. 1 with the largest
field of runners in its history, said Melanie Johnson, executive
director of the marathon.  “We are sympathetic to those who were unable to
participate in the NYC Marathon,” Johnson said in a statement.
“It was a careful decision that took into account many factors
such as the capacity of the course to accommodate the increased
field of competitors, maintaining the quality of experience, and
the turn-around time to secure additional supplies and
resources.”  The New York City Marathon was canceled after criticism
that staging the race so soon after Hurricane Sandy would drain
resources and be an affront to residents damaged by floods.  “We would not want a cloud to hang over the race or its
participants, and so we have decided to cancel it,” Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  and the New York Road Runners said in a Nov. 2
statement. “We cannot allow a controversy over an athletic
event -- even one as meaningful as this -- to distract attention
away from all the critically important work being done to
recover from the storm.” The mayor is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  About 47,000 participants were registered for the race,
including about 20,000 from overseas, according to NYRR
spokesman Richard Finn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  