-- No. 1 Indiana Tops Bryant; Wet Courts Cancel Games on Carriers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-10T06:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/no-1-indiana-tops-bryant-wet-courts-cancel-games-on-carriers.html
Top-ranked  Indiana  University
started its college basketball season with a 97-54 rout of
Bryant University.  Cody Zeller had 18 points and 10 rebounds and Christian
Watford scored 15 points and grabbed a career-high 15 rebounds
for the Hoosiers, who are ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press
Writers’ Poll for the first time in 33 years.  “One of the things is they had a huge size advantage and
they have the best player in the country, I think he was 8 of 10
tonight,” Bryant coach Tim O’Shea said of Zeller. “Our two big
guys, they both fouled out. So it was very difficult guarding
him. We’re not going to play against another Cody Zeller the
rest of the year.”  The Hoosiers started the season without two freshmen after
Peter Jurkin and Hanner Mosquera-Perea were each suspended nine
games for receiving impermissible benefits before enrolling at
the school.  Indiana had a 48-28 halftime lead over the Bulldogs as the
Hoosiers won their 28th straight season opener at home last
night at Assembly Hall in Bloomington, Indiana.  “We’ve got to defend and rebound to be successful this
year, and I thought we did fairly well throughout the game
tonight,” Zeller told reporters. “But there were a few plays
where we didn’t do that and we’ll go back to work on it
tomorrow.”  Carrier Games Off  Alex Francis had 15 points and eight rebounds and Frankie
Dobbs added 12 points for the Bulldogs of Smithfield, Rhode
Island.  Elsewhere, it was No. 3 Kentucky 72, Maryland 69; No. 5
Michigan 100, Slippery Rock 62; No. 6 North Carolina State 97,
Miami (Ohio) 59; No. 7 Kansas 74, Southeast Missouri 55; No. 8
Duke 74, Georgia State 55;  Wet courts on the decks of aircraft carriers forced the
cancellation of two games involving Top 10 schools.  The Carrier Classic game between No. 4 Ohio State and
Marquette was called before it started aboard the USS Yorktown
in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina.  The game between No. 10  Florida  and Georgetown was called
at halftime because the court was too wet aboard the USS Bataan
in Jacksonville, Florida. Florida was ahead 27-23 at the half in
the Navy-Marine Corps Classic.  The game on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS
Midway between ninth-ranked Syracuse and No. 20 San Diego State
was postponed two days and moved to tomorrow to avoid forecasts
of rain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  