-- Obama Prevails in Florida After 4-Day Delay in Vote Count
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-11-10T18:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/obama-prevails-in-florida-after-4-day-delay-in-vote-count.html
President  Barack Obama  defeated
Republican  Mitt Romney  in Florida four days after winning a
second term, according to the  Associated Press , a delayed result
that renewed questions about the state’s election process.  The victory in Florida boosted Obama’s electoral vote count
to 332, compared with Romney’s 206. A total of 270 was needed to
win the White House.  With 100 percent of Florida’ precincts reporting, Obama had
50.0 percent of the vote to Romney’s 49.1 percent, according to
the Associated Press. A total of 73,868 votes separated the
candidates, according to the state’s election division website.  The biggest prize among states viewed as competitive by
both campaigns, Florida’s 29 electoral votes were the last to be
decided in this year’s election. By winning other closely
contested states -- including  Ohio , Nevada and Wisconsin --
Obama assured himself of a second term even without Florida.  Florida was the final state to finish counting ballots in
2000, when it took weeks to tally Republican  George W. Bush ’s
537-vote margin. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld that vote in a
challenge waged by the Democratic candidate, former Vice
President  Al Gore .  This year, election officials said a lengthy ballot caused
by 11 constitutional amendments and a record 2.4 million
absentee ballots cast slowed the counting. Palm Beach County was
the last to turn in absentee results.  Two-Hour Wait  In Miami-Dade County, some voting places remained open as
Romney started his concession speech in Boston at 12:55 a.m.  New
York  time on Nov. 7, said Carolina Lopez, a spokeswoman for the
county elections office. The ballot was a record 10 pages long
and the last Miami voter was one at about midnight, five hours
after polls were supposed to close, she said.  Voters in Miami,  Fort Lauderdale ,  Fort Myers  and  Orlando 
areas waited in line for almost two hours after polls closed,
said Ken Detzner, Florida’s secretary of state.  Long lines also delayed counting in  Virginia  and other
states and raised questions about the efficiency of voting in
the country. Obama cited the waits that voters faced in his
victory speech in Chicago.  “I want to thank every American who participated in this
election, whether you voted for the very first time or waited in
line for a very long time,” Obama said. “By the way, we have
to fix that.”  Early Voting  Detzner said the state should expand where counties can
locate early polling places, which state law limits to county
election offices, public libraries and city halls.  “The number one issue that we need to resolve is more
locations for early voting,” Detzner said in an interview on
CNN on Nov. 9.  Florida Democratic Party Chairman Rod Smith blamed long
lines on a law signed by Republican Governor  Rick Scott  cutting
from 14 to 8 the number of days early voting polls could open
this year.  Scott defended the law. Almost 4.8 million Floridians cast
absentee ballots or went to early polling locations, up from 4.5
million four years ago, according to the Florida State
Department.  “We did the right thing,” Scott told reporters in
Orlando, Florida on Nov. 8.  Florida has been decided by less than three percentage
points in four of the past six White House contests, including
this year. Obama won the state in 2008 by 2.8 percentage points.
The last Democratic candidate to win Florida twice was President
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  in 1944.  Swing Voters  Both Obama and Romney visited the state in the final days
of the campaign, targeting swing voters in the Central  Florida 
suburbs around Orlando and Tampa.  The state’s 10 TV markets aired more than 203,000
presidential TV ads leading up to the general election,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG. Only Ohio saw
more.  Florida’s unemployment rate in September was 8.7 percent,
above the national figure of 7.9 percent in October and the
state’s same as when Obama took office in 2009. Since then,
unemployment peaked in Florida at 11.4 percent in February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  