-- Lockheed’s Next Chief Leads Women Gaining in Defense Jobs
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-11-10T03:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/lockheed-s-next-chief-leads-women-gaining-in-defense-jobs.html
Marillyn Hewson, the next chief
executive officer of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , has spent 29 years
at the company working her way to the top of the mostly male
world of defense contractors.  Lockheed said yesterday that Hewson, 58, will become its
CEO in January. Christopher E. Kubasik, who was supposed to get
the job, resigned after the company discovered he had a
“lengthy, close and personal relationship” with a subordinate,
the company said.  Hewson will become head of the world’s largest defense
contractor as women are breaking into leadership of an industry
that has drawn its executives primarily from the male ranks of
aerospace technologists and engineers. Phebe Novakovic will
become CEO of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  in January, and Linda Hudson already holds the post at  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s U.S.
subsidiary.  “Marillyn is an exceptional leader with impeccable
credentials and deep knowledge of our business, customers,
shareholders and employees,” Robert Stevens, Lockheed’s
chairman and current CEO, said yesterday in a statement.  Hewson, who joined the company in 1983 as a senior
industrial engineer, has held positions including executive vice
president of global sustainment for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics
and president of Lockheed Martin Logistics Services.  Stevens said he will remain through 2013 as executive
chairman of the Bethesda, Maryland-based company, working with
Hewson to “facilitate a smooth CEO transition.”  ‘Temporary Distraction’  Hewson will lead a company with 123,000 employees and  sales
last year  of $46.5 billion as it faces an era of defense
spending cutbacks.  “During my 29 years at this company, we’ve experienced
numerous changes in our leadership,” Hewson said on a
conference call with reporters. “We’ve had a resilient
workforce and a strong strategy, and we will move forward beyond
this temporary distraction together.”  Hewson has handled tough transitions before. In 2009, as
president of Lockheed Martin Systems Integration, she eliminated
almost a quarter of her workforce of 4,000 in Owego,  New York  in
response to the cancellation of the company’s contract to
develop and build the next presidential helicopter program.
Lockheed’s 2005 contract to build the next helicopter, known as
the VH-71 and originally valued at about $6 billion, was
canceled by the Navy after costs doubled to $13 billion. The
increases were driven partly by changing specifications for the
aircraft.  “It’s easy to be a leader when everything is going
great,” Hewson said that year in a speech at Binghamton
University in Binghamton, New York. “The challenge is how you
act when things go wrong.”  Hewson, who was born in Junction City,  Kansas , said she
learned the need for leadership skills at an early age.  Family Moves  “My dad died when I was nine, leaving my mother with five
young children,” she said in the Binghamton University speech.
“My mom taught us self-reliance and to take responsibility for
our own personal success. She encouraged us never to set limits
for ourselves on what we thought we could achieve.”  The married mother of two sons said she has served in 18
different leadership positions. “I moved my very supportive
family eight times for Lockheed Martin,” she said in May, when
she accepted the Woman of the Year Award for a non-military
leader from the USO, the service organization that supports the
military.  “I was fortunate to have leaders who recognized my
potential, the ability for me to do more and move me up the
ranks of Lockheed Martin,” Hewson said.  She also gave advice to women who must balance the
pressures of work and family obligations.  “I’m not sure we all know exactly what this word ‘balance’
means, but it often comes up for women because we do have many
roles that we serve,” Hewson said. “From my view, balance is
about making sure that your family or significant others are in
communication with you on what your opportunities are and making
choices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  