-- Naguib Sawiris Said to Offer to Buy Stake in Telecom Italia
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-11-11T15:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/sawiris-bid-eu5-billion-for-telecom-italia-stake-corriere-says.html
Billionaire Naguib Sawiris, founder
of Egypt’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , offered to purchase a
stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , according to a person with direct
knowledge of the bid.  The offer is for a minority holding, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
Sawiris has “declined to comment about rumors circulating in
the media,” Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding SAE
spokeswoman Manal Abdel-Hamid said by phone from Cairo today.
Telecom Italia officials didn’t return calls or e-mails.  Telecom Italia’s management board discussed a bid from
Sawiris at a meeting on Nov. 8,  Corriere  della Sera reported
Nov. 10. The offer is for as much as 5 billion euros ($6.4
billion), though the amount the businessman plans to invest
wasn’t discussed by management, according to the newspaper.  Buying a stake in  Italy ’s biggest phone company would see
Sawiris increasing his investments in the industry a year after
he sold Italian mobile operator Wind Telecom SpA. For Telecom
Italia, which is considering a plan to spin off its fixed-line
access network, fresh funds may help reduce the burden of debt
which has limited the company’s ability to grow.  Telecom Italia on Nov. 9 reported a 13 percent decline in
net income to 681 million euros from 786 million euros a year
earlier. The company is suffering as competition and the
region’s sovereign debt crisis crimp sales and margins.  Shares Drop  The shares  gained  2 cents, or 3.7 percent, to close at 69
cents in Milan trading Nov. 9. The stock has dropped 17 percent
this year, valuing the Milan-based company at 13 billion euros.
The shares traded at a 15-year low of 61 cents on July 24.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Mediobanca SpA
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA together own about 22 percent of Milan-
based Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  Sawiris offered “slightly” more than 1 billion euros for
Telefonica SA’s stake in Telco, an offer that was rebuffed by
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported
on Oct. 16.  Sawiris last year merged Italy’s Wind with  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
This year, he added gold to his investments after agreeing to
buy Canada’s  La Mancha Resources Inc. (LMA)  The Sawiris family also
has interests in construction, fertilizer, cement, real estate
and hotel development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 