-- Schwarzer’s Save Earns Fulham a Premier League Draw With Arsenal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-10T17:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/schwarzer-s-save-earns-fulham-a-premier-league-draw-with-arsenal.html
Mark Schwarzer saved a penalty kick
in stoppage time to preserve Fulham’s 3-3 tie with Arsenal in
English soccer’s Premier League.  Schwarzer stopped Mikel Arteta’s penalty attempt on the
final kick of the game at the Emirates Stadium in  London . Fulham
overcame a two-goal deficit to take a 3-2 lead before Olivier
Giroud scored for Arsenal.  Everton beat Sunderland 2-1, Stoke defeated Queens Park
Rangers 1-0, West Brom won 2-1 at Wigan, Southampton and Swansea
tied 1-1, while Reading and Norwich were goalless. First-place
 Manchester United (MANU)  is at Aston Villa in today’s late match.  Arsenal blew its second two-goal lead in four days and
still had a chance to win after Sascha Riether was called for a
handball in the closing seconds. Schwarzer then dived to his
left to knock away Arteta’s spot kick.  Goals from Giroud and Lukas Podolski gave Arsenal a 2-0
lead after 23 minutes. Dimitar Berbatov and Alex Kacanikilic
then pulled Fulham even before halftime.  Berbatov put the visitors in front with a penalty in the
67th minute after Arteta took down Bryan Ruiz and Giroud tied
the game with a header two minutes later.  Arsenal also lost a two-goal lead in drawing 2-2 at Schalke
in the Champions League on Nov. 6.  Marouane Fellaini and Nikica Jelavic scored in a three-
minute span of the second half as Everton beat Sunderland, which
got a goal from Adam Johnson. The victory keeps the Toffees in
fourth place above West Brom on goal difference.  A score from James Morrison and an own goal from Gary Caldwell gave West Brom its first away win, 2-1 at Wigan.
Charlie Adam’s goal gave Stoke the victory over winless QPR,
which dropped below Southampton into last place.  Nathan Dyer scored in the 73rd minute to earn Swansea the
tie at Southampton. Reading remains winless along with QPR after
its goalless home draw with Norwich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  
 celser@bloomberg.net . 