-- Spain Prime Minister to Halt Evictions Following Suicide
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-10T12:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/spain-prime-minister-to-halt-evictions-following-suicide.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
will temporarily halt evictions of the most vulnerable families
as the government devises measures to help people stay in their
homes after a woman killed herself in Baracaldo.  The Spanish people are experiencing “terrible things and
inhumane situations,” the premier said at an election rally in
Lerida, Catalonia last night. The government “will defend the
most vulnerable families affected by the evictions and act with
seriousness, sensitivity and great humanity,” he said.  Amaya Egana Chopitea, 53, threw herself from the window of
her apartment when representatives of Spanish bank La Caixa
arrived with locksmiths to evict her yesterday morning, El Mundo
reported. Egana and her husband’s mortgage debt of 164,000 euros
($208,640) rose to 213,000 euros because of charges and interest
payments, while their home had been auctioned for 190,000 euros,
the newspaper said.  Rajoy is searching for a formula that can help families
that have fallen behind on mortgage payments without increasing
the strain on lenders trying to clean up about 180 billion euros
of bad real estate assets, the legacy of a 10-year building
boom.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  today offered shareholders the
chance to buy new stock at a 32 percent discount as it tries to
plug a 3.2 billion-euro capital deficit.  Record Unemployment  The banking sector’s problems are already complicating
Rajoy’s efforts to narrow  Spain ’s budget deficit and get the
economy moving again. Unemployment reached a record 26 percent
in September and the European Commission last week said Rajoy is
set to miss his budget goals for the next three years.  The premier yesterday said he wants to agree on a plan with
the opposition Socialist Party that will encourage banks to
renegotiate loans and find ways for families to stay in their
homes, according to the e-mailed text of his remarks.  “It’s a difficult issue but I hope that soon we will be
able to give the Spanish people some good news,” he said.  Egana, a former city councilor, worked as a human resources
director for the public bus company in the northern region of
Vizcaya and her husband, Jose Manuel Asensio, had recently found
work after a period of unemployment, El Mundo said. Asensio
didn’t know the family was due to be evicted, the newspaper
said.  A spokesman for  La Caixa , who asked not to be identified in
line with company policy, declined to comment on the eviction.  A man in the southern city of Granada killed himself last
month as he faced the loss of his home, according to press
reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  