-- Syria Violence Kills 50 as Regime Urges Japan to Cancel Meeting
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-11-10T16:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/syria-violence-kills-50-as-regime-urges-japan-to-cancel-meeting.html
More than 50 people died in violence
across  Syria  today, an activist group said, as the government
urged  Japan  to cancel a meeting to discuss further sanctions
against President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  Twenty-three civilians were killed by Assad’s troops in
raids on areas including the capital, Damascus, its suburbs and
the cities of Homs and Hama, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement. More than 29
soldiers died in explosions and clashes with rebels seeking to
topple Assad, the group said. The official Syrian Arab News
Agency said the blasts were three car bombings by “terrorists”
in the city of Daraa that killed seven people.  Syria urged Japan to scrap the meeting in  Tokyo  late this
month at which international delegates will consider proposals
to strengthen sanctions, according to SANA, which said the
government in Damascus cited worsening living conditions for
Syrians in its appeal. No date has been set for the meeting of
officials from about 60 nations in the Friends of Syria group,
Agence France-Presse said.  Assad vowed not to flee Syria and said the cost of any
Western military operation in Syria would be “more than the
whole world can afford,” in an interview with Russian state
broadcaster RT in Damascus that was aired yesterday. More than
35,000 people have died since the uprising began in March 2011,
the Observatory group said.  Thousands Flee  Fighting between troops and rebels for control of the town
of Ras al-Ayn sparked a surge in the number of Syrians fleeing
into neighboring countries, the Associated Press cited United
Nations officials as saying yesterday. About 9,000 refugees
crossed into  Turkey , with Jordan and Lebanon each taking another
1,000 Syrians in the previous 24 hours, the officials said,
according to AP.  The main opposition bloc, the Syrian National Council,
elected dissident George Sabra, a Christian who had been
imprisoned by the regime, as its leader at a meeting yesterday
in Doha, AP reported. Rival opposition groups are in talks in
the Qatari capital to create a more unified organization that
can defeat Assad, AP said.  Jordan has increased its support for the Syrian opposition,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified rebels and
an Arab official. Jordanian military trucks have been used to
deliver light weapons, paid for by Saudi Arabia and Qatar, to
the border for shipment into Syria by anti-Assad fighters, the
Journal cited the people as saying. Jordan denied involvement in
arms shipments into Syria, the newspaper said.  Assad and most of his top officials come from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam. The majority of Syria’s
population and many leaders of the uprising are Sunni Muslims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  