-- Syria Clashes Kill 90; Regime Tells Japan to Cancel Meeting
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-11-10T23:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/syria-violence-kills-90-as-regime-tells-japan-to-cancel-meeting.html
At least 90 people were killed in
 Syria  yesterday while President Bashar al-Assad’s regime told
Japan to cancel its plan to meet with other nations about
further sanctions against his country.  Syrian troops loyal to Assad killed 90 people yesterday
including 43 in or around Damascus, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement. Other
raids took place in the cities of Homs and Hama, the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mail.  More than 29 soldiers died in explosions and clashes with
rebels seeking to topple Assad, the Observatory said in an e-
mail. The official Syrian Arab News Agency said three car
bombings by “terrorists” in the city of Daraa killed seven
people.  Syria demanded that  Japan  scrap the meeting in  Tokyo  late
this month at which international delegates will consider
proposals to strengthen sanctions, according to SANA, which
reported the government in Damascus has cited worsening living
conditions for Syrians in its appeal. No date has been set for
the meeting of officials from about 60 nations in the Friends of
Syria group,  Agence France-Presse  said.  Assad vowed not to flee Syria and said the cost of any
Western military operation in Syria would be “more than the
whole world can afford,” in an interview with Russian state
broadcaster RT in Damascus that was aired Nov. 9. More than
35,000 people have died since the uprising began in March 2011,
the Observatory for  Human Rights  group said.  Thousands Flee  Fighting between troops and rebels for control of the town
of Ras al-Ayn sparked a surge in the number of Syrians fleeing
into neighboring countries, the  Associated Press  reported Nov.
9, citing United Nations officials. About 9,000 refugees crossed
into  Turkey , with Jordan and Lebanon each taking another 1,000
Syrians in the previous 24 hours, the officials said, according
to AP.  Kurdish rebels in the Syrian province of Hassaka have
captured two towns after government troops left, the Observatory
group said in an e-mail.  The rebels’ Free Syrian army captured the border town of
Asfar al-Najjar in Hassaka province after heavy fighting against
the government forces, Al Jazeera television reported, citing
activists.  The main opposition bloc, the Syrian National Council,
elected dissident George Sabra, a Christian who had been
imprisoned by the regime, as its leader at a meeting Nov. 9 in
Doha, AP reported. Rival opposition groups are in talks in the
Qatari capital to create a more unified organization that can
defeat Assad, AP said.  Sabra yesterday resisted efforts to unite all Assad’s
opponents under one umbrella, saying “nobody should be subsumed
under anybody” in his inaugural news conference, the  New York 
Times reported.  Assad and most of his top officials come from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam. The majority of Syria’s
population and many leaders of the uprising are  Sunni Muslims .  Jordan has increased its support for the Syrian opposition,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified rebels and
an Arab official. Jordanian military trucks have been used to
deliver light weapons, paid for by  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, to
the border for shipment into Syria by anti-Assad fighters, the
Journal cited the people as saying. Jordan denied involvement in
arms shipments into Syria, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ; Carter Dougherty in Washington at +1-
   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: ADD ANN?
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  