-- U.S. Closes Child Sexual Assault Probe of Syracuse Coach Fine
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-10T05:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/u-s-closes-child-sexual-assault-probe-of-syracuse-coach-fine.html
The child sexual assault probe of
former Syracuse University assistant men’s basketball coach
 Bernie Fine  was closed after it was determined there was
insufficient evidence to file charges, U.S. Attorney Richard
Hartunian said.  Fine, 66, was fired Nov. 27, 2011, in his 36th season at
Syracuse, the longest tenure by any assistant college basketball
coach in Division I. He had been placed on paid administrative
leave Nov. 18 after Syracuse City Police re-opened a case the
school closed in 2005 following a four-month probe.  “We have concluded that the investigation has not
developed sufficient credible evidence of the commission of a
prosecutable offense to merit either federal charges or a
referral to a district attorney’s office for state
prosecution,” Hartunian said in a statement on his office’s
website. “As a result, we are closing our investigation.”  Initially accused by two former Syracuse team ball boys,
Fine was fired after a third accuser came forward and ESPN
played what it said was a 2002 recording of a telephone
conversation that appeared to be Fine’s wife acknowledging her
husband’s behavior.  “The nature and seriousness of these allegations, which
involved conduct typically committed in private with individuals
who are reluctant to come forward, warranted a thorough federal
investigation,” Hartunian said.  Fine’s lawyers, Karl Sleight, Donald Martin and David
Botsford, said their client wants his case to be a lesson.  “The damage inflicted upon Bernie and his family is simply
immeasurable,” the lawyers said, according to the  Associated
Press . “Bernie hopes and prays that the lesson learned and
remembered is that a rush to judgment has irreversible
consequences.”  The Syracuse case followed charges leveled against former
Penn State University defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky for
sexually assaulting eight young boys during a 15-year period.
Sandusky, 68, was convicted in June on 45 counts of sexually
abusing boys and was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years in
prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  