-- U.S. Stocks Have Worst Week Since June After Obama Win
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-11-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-10/u-s-stocks-have-worst-week-since-june-after-obama-win.html
U.S. stocks  had their biggest weekly
decline since June as President  Barack Obama ’s re-election set
up a budget showdown with the Republican-controlled House of
Representatives.  All  10 groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
during the week. Utilities and phone companies fell the most
amid concern the dividend tax may rise.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
led financial shares down 3.1 percent and coal companies
including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  slid on bets Obama’s re-election
will mean more regulation. Hospitals such as  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) 
rallied while insurers fell on speculation Obama will preserve
the health-care overhaul he championed.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  dropped 2.4 percent to 1,379.85 for the week.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 277.77 points, or 2.1
percent, to 12,815.39. While both gauges capped their worst week
since June 1, they’re still up 9.7 percent and 4.9 percent,
respectively, for the year.  “A win by the president and some senator races has raised
the potential for more regulation and higher tax rates,” John Fox, who helps manage $1.5 billion at Fenimore Asset Management
Inc. in Cobleskill, New York, said in a phone interview. “We
live in an era of computerized trade where once you get the
momentum in one direction, it kind of continues on.”  The Dow dropped 3.3 percent over two days after the
election as concern intensified that a split Congress will delay
a resolution over the so-called fiscal cliff. The performance
was the second-worst post-Election Day selloff on record,
following the 9.7 percent plunge in the two days after Obama won
his first term in 2008 at the height of the credit crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks rebounded on the last day of the week as confidence
among U.S. consumers climbed to a five-year high in November.  Fiscal Cliff  The fiscal cliff refers to about $607 billion of tax
increases and federal spending cuts set to kick in automatically
in January. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the U.S.
economy would slow by as much as 0.5 percent next year if
Congress fails to keep the increases from taking effect.  “The election is a reminder we have this not small issue
that the fairly dysfunctional political system has not yet dealt
with,” Pat Dorsey, who helps manage $700 million at Sanibel
Captiva Investment Advisers in Chicago, said by phone.  Signs that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening helped
exacerbate the slide in equities. Euro-area finance ministers
may not make a decision on unlocking funds for Greece until late
November as they await a report on the country’s compliance with
bailout terms, a European Union official said. The European
Commission cut its growth forecasts for the euro area.  Dividend Stocks  Utilities in the S&P 500 tumbled 4.6 percent while phone
stocks sank 3.6 percent amid concern the dividend tax may
increase. The two groups’  dividend yield  averaged 4.2 and 4.8
percent, respectively, higher than any other industries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S. utility owner, slipped
4.6 percent to $61.96 while  AT&T Inc. (T) , the country’s biggest
telephone company, lost 4 percent to $33.54.  Financial companies in the S&P 500 fell 3.1 percent amid
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will stay
on to continue his low interest-rate policy that has weighed
down banks’ profitability. The industry may face more
restrictions as Congress prepares its first revisions to the
Dodd-Frank Act enacted in response to the 2008 financial crisis.  Bank of America slipped 4.3 percent to $9.43.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  declined 4.2 percent to $40.62.  Environmental Regulations  Coal producers slumped amid concern Obama will continue
with a series of environmental regulations that would curb the
production and use of the fuel. Peabody Energy, the largest U.S.
coal miner by sales, dropped 7 percent to $26.17.  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR) , the second-biggest, tumbled 12 percent to $8.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , a thin-film solar manufacturer, jumped
8.9 percent to $24.55 on optimism Obama will continue to favor
clean-energy companies.  HCA, the largest for-profit hospital company, climbed 6.4
percent to $32.62 and  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  advanced 4.7
percent to $26.21 on prospects for millions of newly insured
patients being added to their admission rolls.  Medical insurers fell as the industry faces profit limits
and new taxes to help pay for the coverage expansion.
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  slipped 5.6 percent to $52.90 and
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  erased 8.2 percent to $56.16.  Apple Slumps  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  declined 5.2 percent to $547.06 for a seventh
straight weekly loss, the longest retreat since 2008. Shares of
the world’s most valuable company have tumbled 22 percent from a
record high on Sept. 19 as the company faces more competition
and struggles to make enough iPhones to meet demand.  More than 70  S&P 500  companies reported  quarterly results 
during the week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among
the 452 companies that announced so far, 71 percent exceeded
analysts’ estimates on earnings while 60 percent missed on
revenue.  “The surprise is in the lack of sales growth,” Terry L. Morris, who helps oversee about $2.5 billion at Wyomissing,
Pennsylvania-based National Penn Investors Trust Co., said in a
Nov. 8 phone interview. Companies “have been beating on
earnings because of cost cutting. That can’t go on forever,” he
said.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  fell 5.6 percent to $47.06. The world’s
largest entertainment company reported fiscal fourth-quarter
sales that missed analysts’ estimates amid an ad-sales decline
at the ABC network and weakening trends at cable-sports
powerhouse ESPN.  ‘Overly Aggressive’  Express Scripts Holding Co. plunged 14 percent to $53.35.
The largest U.S. pharmacy benefits manager said analysts’ profit
estimates for 2013 were “overly aggressive.” A “weak business
climate and the unemployment outlook” may lead to a loss of
members, depressed drug utilization and “increased client
demands and expectations,” Express Scripts said in a statement.  J.C. Penney Co. sank 13 percent to $20.64. The fourth-
largest U.S. department-store company reported a third-quarter
loss that was wider than analysts estimated as Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson  struggles to overhaul the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  