-- 
‘Tired’ Carbon Traders Giving Up Bets That May Double in Value, Orbeo Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-05T15:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/-tired-carbon-traders-giving-up-bets-that-may-double-in-value-orbeo-says.html
Traders are giving up bets that
United Nations carbon offsets will be an increasingly valuable
option because they worry about more rule changes in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade market, analysts including Orbeo said.  Factories and power stations in the European Union market
handed in a record 137 million metric tons of UN offsets for the
2010 year, according to  data published May 2  by the European
Commission, the Brussels-based regulator. UN offsets were 3.30
euros ($4.91) cheaper that EU allowances on April 29, according
to data from the BlueNext exchange in Paris. So emitters using
the offset option saved 452 million euros.  Had they waited and used them to comply in 2012 instead,
the discount would probably have risen to 6 euros a ton, or 822
million euros, said  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst for
Orbeo, the carbon venture of Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA.  “Some emitters are tired of running the regulatory risk
and prefer using offsets now,” Fages said yesterday by e-mail.
“They are willing to lose option value because they distrust
the regulator.”  The commission last year proposed banning credits starting
in 2013 from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23, a
greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, to curb “exorbitant” returns. The UN has
approved projects tied to 3.5 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of
such credits since 2005, about half the total in the UN
emissions market.  That proposed ban heightened emitters’ “sensitivity” to
future potential bans and prompted them to use more offsets this
year,  Mark Lewis  and Isabelle Curien, Paris-based analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG, said May 2.  Top of Range  The use of offsets was at the high end of analysts’
estimates, which ranged from 80 million to 140 million tons,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. In 2009, emitters
used 81 million tons of UN offsets for EU compliance. Emitters
must match their verified CO2 output with allowances and credits
by April 30 the following year.  EU carbon permits for December fell as much as 1.5 percent
to 16.85 euros a ton today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. UN Certified Emission Reduction credits fell as much as
1.5 percent to 12.89 euros.  The discount of UN credits will probably average 8 euros a
ton in 2012, driven by the proposed ban on some offsets and
rising EU-allowance prices, said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for
 Barclays Capital .  EU power utilities may have used UN credits to comply with
environmental laws instead of selling them, which would have
depressed prices in the process, he said May 3 in a research
note. Lower prices would cut the value of utilities’ holdings of
expected credits because accounting rules require them to mark
the value to market, he said.  Primary-Market Discount  Utilities may be using their credits because they bought
them directly from projects in developing nations, where prices
can be 3 euros a ton or more cheaper than in the secondary
market, Sikorski said today. That means their implied discount
already is much higher than the spread of 3 euros to 4 euros on
the secondary market, he said by phone from  London .  The commission is finalizing rules  this year for the EU
carbon program through 2020. It indicated in 2008 that factories
and power stations can import about 1.7 billion tons of offset
credits in the 13 years through 2020, or 131 million a year.
That’s fewer than handed in for 2010.  “Using up import allowance is exercising a free option and
doing that today means sacrificing time value,” Sikorski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  