-- 
ABC Said to Discuss $20 Million Advance to Couric for Show

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-05T23:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/abc-said-to-discuss-20-million-advance-to-couric-zucker-for-talk-show.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC is in talks to
advance Katie Couric $20 million to create an afternoon talk
show and leave CBS, said two people with knowledge of the offer.  Couric will step down as  CBS news  anchor on June 5 and has
been discussing a syndicated show with outlets including her
current network.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , which ended talks with Couric, has
the right to match any offer until she leaves, said three people
who aren’t authorized to speak publicly. ABC won’t make a formal
offer to Couric while she’s still under contract.  ABC’s backing would allow Couric to create a syndicated
show starting in September 2012, two people said. She would
produce it with former NBC Universal Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Zucker , who would be executive producer, they said. Prior
to the talk show’s debut, Couric would work on special news
projects for ABC and may appear on other news programs.  The $20 million would be an advance against future
syndication revenue for the show, and would give Zucker and
Couric startup funds to hire staff, the people said.  “Katie has not made a decision about her future,” said
Matthew Hiltzik, Couric’s public relations representative. Kevin Brockman, an ABC spokesman, declined to comment, as did Sonya
McNair, a spokeswoman for CBS News.  The $20 million figure was reported earlier by the website
TMZ.com.  Couric, the former “Today” show host, receives $13
million to $15 million a year under a five-year deal with CBS
that started in 2006, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  ‘60 Minutes’  CBS, based in  New York , named “60 Minutes” correspondent
Scott Pelley to succeed Couric. It remains possible that CBS,
which has ended talks for a syndicated show with Couric, may
offer her a similar deal to the one on the table with ABC,
according to the people.  “CBS Evening News With Scott Pelley” begins June 6, CBS
News Chairman Jeff Fager and President David Rhodes said on May
3.  Couric, 54, who has been CBS’s anchor for five years, told
People magazine on April 26 that she would leave her post as
anchor.  Ratings at “CBS Evening News” declined during Couric’s
tenure, falling to an all-time low in total viewers with an
average of 4.89 million during the week of Aug. 24, 2010,
according to TVNewser.  CBS, controlled by  Sumner Redstone , fell 51 cents to $26.70
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 40 percent this year. Disney, based in
 Burbank ,  California , climbed 7 cents to $42.69 and has risen 14
percent year-to-date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  