-- 
Lafarge First-Quarter Profit Falls on Energy Costs, Egypt

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-05-05T07:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lafarge-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-energy-costs-egypt-1-.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement
maker, reported an unexpected drop in first-quarter earnings as
falling prices, rising energy costs and political turmoil in
Egypt offset growth in demand elsewhere.  Current operating profit fell 5 percent to 224 million
euros ($333 million) from 236 million euros a year earlier, the
Paris-based company said in a statement today. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg had forecast 250 million euros. Sales rose 9
percent.  “Cost inflation was strong in the first quarter and the
situation in Egypt, which is now normalized, has weighed on
profit,” Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont said on a
conference call. He predicted increased earnings in 2011 as the
company raises prices, and scaled back his forecast for cement-
volume growth in Lafarge’s markets by 1 percentage point because
of Egypt.  Standard & Poor’s cut Lafarge’s credit rating by one level
to non-investment grade in March, increasing pressure for asset
sales and cost cuts this year. Lafont sought unsuccessfully to
avert the downgrade with a 50 percent dividend reduction,
disposals and cost savings to reduce debt by at least 2 billion
euros this year.  Competitors’ Earnings  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
yesterday reported a 17 percent drop in first-quarter earnings
as raw-material costs climbed and governments postponed
infrastructure projects. On April 29,  Mexico ’s Cemex SAB, the
largest cement maker in the Americas, reported a loss for a
sixth straight quarter on declining sales in the U.S.
HeidelbergCement AG said today that its net loss in the quarter
narrowed.  Lafarge fell as much as 2 percent to 44.76 euros and was
down 1.4 percent as of 9:20 a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has
declined 4.1 percent this year.  The company today forecast that cement demand in its
markets will grow by 2 percent to 5 percent in 2011, led by
emerging markets and a recovery in developed economies. Lafarge
predicted in February that volume would grow by 3 percent to
6 percent.  The revised forecast is due to the political turmoil in
 Egypt , where production and sales were halted for “several
days,” and which have returned to normal, Lafont said. The
events in Egypt, where the group took in 4 percent of revenue
and about 10 percent of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 2010, trimmed Lafarge’s
earnings by about 30 million euros in the first quarter.  Price Increases  The cement maker’s first-quarter sales rose to 3.56 billion
euros. Like-for-like sales increased 4 percent and current
operating income dropped 12 percent. Pricing is expected to
“move higher” this year against a backdrop of higher cost
inflation, the company said.  “An increase in volumes is a key prerequisite to an
increase in results and margins, and first-quarter results
confirm that this trend is placing us in a position to obtain
better results in 2011,” Lafont said. Price increases “will
have a greater impact” in coming quarters, he said.  The first-quarter net loss was 29 million euros, compared
with a 64 million-euro profit a year earlier, when the company
booked a capital gain on an asset sale. Net debt was 14.2
billion euros, a declined of 2 percent from a year earlier, and
up from 14 billion euros at the end of 2010.  “I’m extremely confident in the group’s ability to reach
and exceed its debt reduction target” by at least 2 billion
euros in 2011, the CEO said. The company is working on
“several” divestment projects, Lafont said, while declining to
comment on a potential sale of the gypsum business or a listing
of assets in  Brazil .  Lafarge plans to sell at least 750 million euros of assets
this year. It also plans to cut costs by 200 million euros and
reduce investment by 400 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 