-- 
AIG, Banks Accused in Lawsuit of Lying to U.S. Over Bailout

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T16:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/aig-accused-of-lying-about-cdos-in-civil-lawsuit-over-bailout.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
engaged in widespread fraud in connection with its U.S. bailout
and should be forced to repay “treble damages” to taxpayers,
two people said in a civil lawsuit in California.  AIG, four banks and 100 unnamed “John Doe” defendants
repeatedly lied to the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and the
U.S. Treasury in connection with an $85 billion loan rescuing
the insurer in 2008, according to a complaint filed in September
and unsealed April 28 in San Diego federal court.  “Each time AIG was caught engaging in fraud it promised to
reform its ways,” the complaint alleges, citing financial
reporting failures at the company in the years before the
bailout. “Each time, AIG reverted to its unlawful and
fraudulent way of doing business.”  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is attempting
to resolve legal disputes as the Treasury prepares to sell its
92 percent stake in the New York-based company. AIG, once the
world’s largest insurer, has settled lawsuits with investors and
former CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg since the 2008 rescue.  The lenders,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Societe Generale,
allegedly lied about how AIG’s bailout money was used, according
to the complaint. The suit was filed by Derek and Nancy Casady,
who say they uncovered evidence through an examination of data
using “established investigative methods used by certified
fraud examiners.”  The lawsuit was reported by the New York Times earlier
today. The newspaper described the Casadys as veteran political
activists who live  La Jolla ,  California .  ‘Devoid of Merit’  AIG said in a statement that the Casadys only had standing
to sue because the Department of Justice declined to intervene
in the action or pursue its own lawsuit.  “This was a sensible decision since the claims are devoid
of merit,” New York-based AIG said in the e-mailed statement.
“We would have hoped that the individuals’ counsel, whose
previous California state court case against AIG was dismissed
at the pleading stage for failure to state a claim, would not
have brought another case in federal court relying on many of
the same allegations made in the first, discredited case.”  Goldman Sachs spokeswoman Sophie Bullock,  Societe Generale (GLE) 
spokeswoman Laetitia Maurel and Deutsche Bank spokesman
Christian Streckert declined to comment. A call to Merrill
Lynch’s London press office wasn’t immediately returned.  The companies are referred to in the complaint as “the
five major players” in the market for over-the-counter
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, used to repackage
individual loans and resell them on a secondary market. Insuring
such securities with AIG-issued credit default swaps was AIG’s
“most ambitious fraudulent conduct,” according to the
complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  