-- 
AIG Profit Falls 85% to $269 Million on Japan, New Zealand Disaster Claims

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-06T00:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/aig-profit-declines-85-to-269-million-on-japan-earthquake-bailout-costs.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, said first-quarter
profit slumped 85 percent on costs tied to repaying its rescue
and claims from the earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand.  Net income dropped to $269 million from $1.78 billion a
year earlier, the New York-based insurer said yesterday in a
regulatory filing.  Shareholders’ equity , a measure of assets
minus liabilities, fell 0.3 percent to $85 billion from $85.3
billion on Dec. 31.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, is relying on
AIG’s property-casualty unit to deliver a greater portion of
profit after the insurer struck deals to divest more than $50
billion in assets since its 2008 bailout. As part of its plan to
repay taxpayers, AIG sold the non-U.S. life insurance businesses
that previously had cushioned losses from natural disasters such
as earthquakes and hurricanes.  “This is not the old AIG,” said  Cliff Gallant , an analyst
at KBW Inc., before the announcement. “It’s much more of a
property-casualty company, and when you have these types of
events, particularly with their large international market,
you’re going to have quarters like this.” He rates the shares
“underperform.”  Results included a pretax charge of $3.3 billion tied to
repaying a Federal Reserve credit line. The U.S. Treasury
Department converted its preferred stake into 92 percent of the
company’s common stock in January. The Treasury plans to sell
its holding in public offerings.  AIG booked a $1.9 billion gain tied to the sale of two
Japan life units and income of $905 million tied to divestitures
of American Life Insurance Co. and AIA Group Ltd.  Stock Slump  The insurer fell 36 percent this year on the New York Stock
Exchange, the biggest drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
AIG dropped 50 cents to $30.29 at 7:39 p.m. in extended trading
yesterday.  Catastrophe costs at the Chartis property-casualty unit
rose to $1.73 billion from $501 million a year earlier, led by
$1.3 billion in losses from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in Japan. A temblor in  New Zealand  added $207 million of costs.
The insurer also had costs from U.S. winter storms and flooding
in  Australia .  Chartis accounted for 49 percent of AIG’s revenue last
year, compared with 46 percent in 2009. The share is poised to
expand, as about one-fifth of last year’s revenue came from
businesses that AIG has struck deals to divest.  The operating loss for Chartis, which sells coverage of
commercial property, corporate boards and airplanes, was
$463 million, compared with a profit of $879 million a year
earlier. The company spent $1.19 per every premium dollar on
claims and expenses, compared with $1.03 a year earlier.  ‘Challenging Year’  Sales at Chartis rose to $9.17 billion from $7.64 billion a
year earlier based on increases from an investment in  Japan . The
rest of 2011 will be a “challenging year” for Chartis, AIG
said in a statement. The company expects “a weak growth
environment in most developed economies.”  Policy sales will climb an average of about 6 percent a
year from 2010 through 2015 if AIG meets the “long-term
aspirational goals” outlined in the filing as it seeks to
replace government funds with private capital. The company also
seeks a return of equity of at least 10 percent in 2015 compared
with a “normalized” return of 6.2 percent last year.  Benmosche had assigned Peter Hancock to lead Chartis,
replacing Kristian Moor who was denied his full bonus because of
what the company called “underachievement of certain financial
metrics” in a March regulatory filing. Hancock, who had
overseen risk and investments for Benmosche, agreed last month
to pay  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. $1.65 billion to
assume most of AIG’s asbestos liabilities.  Life Insurance  Hancock is seeking to assure investors “that those
asbestos problems are not an issue for them,” said Gallant.  The U.S. life insurance and retirement services division’s
adjusted pretax operating profit rose to $1.14 billion from
$1.12 billion a year earlier.  AIG completed the sale of two Japan-based life insurance
subsidiaries to Prudential Financial Inc. in February for $4.8
billion, including debt. About $2 billion of the proceeds were
used to bolster reserves at Chartis, after AIG determined the
unit needed to put aside $4.2 billion to help cover claims on
policies sold in prior years.  While AIG was profitable in the quarter, the per-share
result was a loss of 35 cents reflecting costs deemed to be
dividends to preferred shareholders under generally accepted
accounting principles.  Investment income rose 7.1 percent from a year earlier to
$5.57 billion as alternative assets, including private-equity
and hedge-fund holdings, generated  $665 million  compared with
$377 million a year earlier.  LBO, Hedge Funds  Buyout funds earned $445 million and hedge funds gained
$220 million. AIG had $19.4 billion in so-called partnership
assets as of March 31, compared with  $18.8 billion  on Dec. 31.  AIG said it is working to boost returns by $500 million to
$700 million before tax by investing the cash pile of about $14
billion that Benmosche previously intended to use to buy back
mortgage bonds turned over in its bailout, according to
yesterday’s regulatory filing. The company expects to get an
average yield of 4 percent to 5 percent on the new investments.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  rebuffed AIG’s $15.7
billion bid to buy back the mortgage securities, part of a pool
called Maiden Lane II, and began auctioning them in blocks.  Bond Returns  The New York Fed’s decision was “disappointing,”
Benmosche said in the statement. “We have quickly reallocated
to other investments some of the funds we put aside to purchase
Maiden Lane II assets.”  Unrealized gains on bonds available for sale rose to $8.73
billion from $7.63 billion three months earlier, led by
improvements in mortgage- and asset-backed securities. The
figures, reflecting market fluctuations that aren’t counted
toward earnings, are monitored by investors and rating firms as
a gauge of financial strength. Gains on AIG’s municipal bond
holdings narrowed to $1.16 billion from $1.32 billion at the end
of last year.  “Because of the budget deficits that most states and many
municipalities are continuing to incur in the current economic
environment, the risks associated with this portfolio have
increased,” AIG said in a February regulatory filing.  AIG’s plane-leasing business, International Lease Finance
Corp., posted a $117 million profit, compared with a $56 million
loss in the year-earlier period as impairment losses narrowed.
AIG’s mortgage insurer, United Guaranty Corp., reported
operating income of $13 million, down from $73 million a year
earlier.  European Swaps  The insurer’s maximum risk on a book of swaps sold to
European banks narrowed to $35.1 billion as of March 31,
compared with  $38.1 billion  as of Dec. 31. AIG’s rescue spared
European banks from raising as much as $16 billion in capital in
late 2008, the Congressional Oversight Panel said in June.  AIG benefited from a gain in the value of mortgage-linked
assets turned over to Fed investment vehicles as part of the
bailout. AIG valued its share in the funds at $8.6 billion as of
March 31, compared with $7.6 billion at the end of the fourth
quarter. AIG was rescued in 2008 in a bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  