-- 
Taiwan Dollar Gains on Speculation Exporters Converting Income

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-05T08:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/taiwan-dollar-gains-on-speculation-exporters-converting-income.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose for a third day
on speculation exporters converted some of their overseas
earnings to guard against further appreciation in the currency
as growth in overseas shipments accelerates.  A government report on April 20 showed orders for Taiwan
goods over the next six months were almost three times what
economists expected in a Bloomberg survey. Official data on
actual shipments for April are due May 9. Consumer prices rose
1.34 percent in April from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said toward the end of trading. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 1.4 percent gain.  “Possibly, exporters will be selling,” said Suan Teck Kin,
an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“Inflation isn’t such an issue for Taiwan. The central bank
will probably not be too keen to see the  Taiwan dollar 
appreciating too much.”  The currency climbed 0.1 percent to NT$28.632 against its
U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local time close, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. It was trading 0.4 percent stronger one minute
before the end of the session. The Taiwan dollar reached
NT$28.508 on May 3, the strongest level since October 1997.  A government report will show exports rose 17.5 percent in
April from a year earlier, after a 16.7 percent increase the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before next week’s data.  Government bonds  were little changed. The yield on Taiwan’s
1 percent bond due January 2016 was 1.095 percent, compared with
1.092 percent yesterday, according to Gretai Securities Market,
the island’s biggest exchange for bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 