-- 
Al-Qaeda’s Leader Lost Because He Was Wrong: Brendan Greeley

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-05T04:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/al-qaeda-s-leader-lost-because-he-was-wrong-commentary-by-brendan-greeley.html
The  United States  has no purpose. That
is perhaps its greatest achievement. America’s founding document,
its Declaration of Independence, allows that a state exists only
to secure life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  That’s it. There’s a curious lack of ambition in those
words. The United States was not founded for the greater glory
of anything, or as the necessary outcome of history, but for the
freedom to collect figurines, to join a clogging troupe, to take
a road trip.  Yet these words, which carry no ideology whatsoever, are
the ones that keep winning. This is the lesson of the past 10
years, and one Osama bin Laden, a man animated by a grandiose
vision of restoring a 7th century Muslim empire, never grasped.
The most successful organizing principle the world has ever
known is a simple guarantee that we can buy and do things that
have no point greater than the satisfaction of our own happiness.  The world did not feel so simple as we brushed the ash off
our clothes and filed across the  East River  into a new century.
In 2001, bin Laden appeared to be a force, a rider at the head
of a storm of death. We feared him as a leader, read opinion
polls from the Middle East, and marveled at the size of his
following. But did those numbers reflect approval of his ideas,
or of his performance?  On Twitter on May 2 a Bahraini named Mubarak Mattar, in a
translation from the Arabic by Global Voices, wrote, “With all
our differences with al-Qaeda, we are proud of the death of a
Muslim man who was able to shake the world at a time all the
Arab armies united couldn’t do that.  “You are the only one who said ‘No’ in an era where the
Arabs said ‘Yes’,” he wrote.  Nihilist  In a spectacular, bloody way, Osama  bin Laden  said, simply,
“no.” This is not the philosophy of a new prophet in a clash
of civilizations; it’s the word of a nihilist. We feared the
compelling power of his ideology, but what actually resonated
was his raised fist. That’s why it gives him too much to call
him a monster. Remember him as a thug and murderer, but also as
a self-obsessed diva with a gift for timing and spectacle. Bin
Laden was a trust-funder who took up performance art.  Again, this is easier to understand when we are not numb
with rage. You don’t have to be an Arabist to see that “no” is
not an idea that can outlive its youth. It’s not a governing
principle, nor is it an economic strategy that could deal with
jobless rates that have averaged about 12 percent in the oil-
free states of the Maghreb and the Mashreq. It’s a pose.  Radicalized  It’s through this lens that bin Laden and his al-Qaeda
followers make the most sense. Four of the men who formed the
core of the Sept. 11 plot sat and watched videos of bin Laden
speeches together before they ever met the man. All four became
radicalized in Hamburg; contact with the West created them, as
it had created many Muslim radicals -- Sayyid Qutb, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed -- who came before.  Hamburg is a cruel city for the lost. It feels no shame for
its sex kinos. It offers the worst combination of liberties,
those of an international port and a six-university town. And it
was not until Hamburg, among the students and the East European
prostitutes, that four young men from Egypt, Yemen, Lebanon, and
the  United Arab Emirates  grew out their beards and became
unfamiliar to their families back home.  Was bin Laden a religious figure to these men watching
videos in the apartment they shared near the harbor? Or was he a
rock star, in an idiom they could accept? The young want fame,
glory, and meaning, and few professions offer these in greater
abundance than rock god or terrorist.  Mall Attacks  In October 2001, a folk myth flourished in  New York  that
 suicide bombers  had planned attacks in malls around the city.
What we didn’t understand then is that a mall strike isn’t worth
dying for. Ultimately, terrorists aren’t into tactics, or
politics, or the poor and oppressed. They’re into glory. And for
those watching on TV, the single-minded pursuit of glory can
grow tedious.  Whether we’re safe now or not, there’s no question that bin
Laden changed us. The prospect of another attack, this time with
nuclear or biological weapons, has profoundly altered  U.S.
foreign policy  and the very nature of American democracy. We
didn’t know why they hated us -- or even who they were -- but we
were sure they did hate us. That pervasive, inchoate fear opened
us to decisions we wouldn’t have imagined before. A war of
choice. Torture.  And like any self-respecting artist who works in manure,
 Osama bin Laden  knew how to push our buttons.  John Kerry , 2004’s
tepid Democratic challenger, believed that a video message from
bin Laden -- well-timed for the closing cycle of the election --
sank his campaign. Bin Laden created two wars, stretched the
Treasury’s financial resources well before the 2008-09 financial
crisis, and launched a brand-new Cabinet-level department.  America’s Image  But what did he ever do for the Middle East? Since 2003,
the Pew Research Center has been tracking public opinion in
eight  Muslim countries . In the U.S., coverage of the yearly
releases of this data has tended to focus on America’s image in
the world, and the answer has not been encouraging. The U.S.
favorability rating either hovered or dropped. (And lest we
think President  George W. Bush  was the problem, the Obama bounce
happened only in  Indonesia .)  In 2005, the Center for Strategic Studies in Amman
published a study of public opinion in the Mashreq --  Jordan ,
 Syria , Lebanon,  Egypt , and the Palestinian territories. In broad
strokes, the data agreed with Pew’s; those countries held
negative views of the West in general and of the U.S. in
particular.  Desirable Destination  But the U.S. emerged as a desirable destination for work-
related training, immigration, and working abroad, and the study
dismissed the idea that Arabs interpreted tension with the West
as a clash of culture or religion. The study concluded, in so
many words, that they don’t hate us. (It did point out that they
hate what we do.)  So maybe the question -- why do they hate us -- was the
wrong one. Since Pew began its surveys, every country polled has
thought less of bin Laden, almost every year. In 2006, the year
after al-Qaeda visited hotels in Amman, killing nearly 60,
including about 30 wedding guests, bin Laden’s support dropped
in Jordan from 60 percent to just below 25 percent.  By 2011, he had sunk from 46 percent to below 20 percent in
 Pakistan ; in the Palestinian territories, from 72 percent to 34
percent. By the time he died, the emptiness of bin Laden’s idea
had revealed itself. The U.S. wasn’t winning the fight to sway
public opinion in the Middle East, but Osama was definitely
losing it.  More Videotapes  He changed the world, once, then all he had to offer was
more Kalashnikov videotapes. As they got to spend some time with
him, Muslims discovered they didn’t like him very much. They
were looking for something else, something that didn’t show up
in the polling data.  It showed up this spring. “All those people on the
street,” says an activist who asked that we withhold her name
and location for fear of government reprisal, “they don’t want
democracy, they want to live, to live with dignity. They want
something tangible, not an idea.” Mohamed Bouazizi, the
Tunisian who set himself on fire after repeated run-ins with
local authorities, wanted to support his family with a fruit
stand.  Bouazizi’s dream lacked the grandeur of a caliphate. He
asked no one to die but himself. “In Egypt,” says the activist,
“the tangible dream is to walk on the street without being
harassed by a policeman. In Bahrain, it’s to live your life
without being discriminated against. In  Tunisia , the dream was
to work.”  She dismisses even the news of bin Laden’s death. “It
doesn’t mean anything,” she says, “because he’s been dead and
gone and disappeared for years.”  Soviet Union   History swings on hinges of brass, not gold. In 1989,
miners in the Soviet Union went on strike. They weren’t asking
for better pay or safer mines or, God forbid, democracy. They
wanted soap, a basic consumer good, one their government could
no longer consistently provide. “All will be well,” offered
the East German government to its citizens. Yes, countered a
joke popular in the country in the 1980s, but nothing gets
better.  We humans follow base and pedestrian needs. We need
narratives for our lives and we look to the speech­makers, the
prisoners of conscience, to write them for us. These narratives
render our desires into abstract phrases. Freedom. Self-
determination. Democracy. All of which are means to an end.  For us humans, the end is almost always just a house and
some quiet to raise our daughters. Some friends and a measure of
something fermented. Someone to love. Enough soap to rinse off
the coal dust. A fruit stand.  Youth Unemployment  A 2010 International Monetary Fund report on economies in
the Middle East and North Africa separated out the region’s oil
importers: Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon,  Morocco , Syria, and Tunisia.
These countries all have total unemployment and youth
unemployment far above global averages. To change any of this,
writes the IMF, together they will need to create some 18.5
million full-time jobs by 2020.  The report blames bloated public sectors, restrictive
regulation, and education that fails to match training to jobs;
it reads as if it had been written to validate Mohamed
Bouazizi’s despair. Bin Laden had no answer for it. That doomed
him long before the Navy SEALs arrived at his compound.  What I’d like to be able to say to myself, 10 years younger,
is that Osama bin Laden will lose because nobody actually wants
to live in a cave. Even bin Laden didn’t want to live in a cave.
As Bloomberg News reported, in Abbottabad he sent runners out
for equal amounts of Coke and Pepsi, for Nestlé milk and the
good-quality shampoos. The societies that make these things do
not turn up their noses at the consumer and his whims, the needs
that lack any justification larger than the personal.  There’s been much discussion, since the evening his death
was announced, of the appropriate way to celebrate the end of
Osama bin Laden. You might consider embracing what defeated him.
Do something private and ridiculous, something that answers to
no creed. Pursue happiness.  (Brendan Greeley’s column will appear in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s May 9 issue. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  