-- 
Bin Laden Guided Al-Qaeda From Lair as Plot Against Americans Is Uncovered

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-06T14:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/al-qaeda-plotted-an-attack-on-u-s-trains-in-2010-homeland-security-says.html
Osama bin Laden  helped to guide the
tactics, strategy and operations of al-Qaeda while holed up in
his compound in  Pakistan , according to an initial analysis of
material seized during the attack that killed him, a U.S.
official said.  The review of the materials also uncovered a handwritten
note showing that the terrorist group in February 2010 was
considering attacks on American railroads, a second U.S.
official said.  The comments of the first U.S. official contradict previous
U.S. views of the al-Qaeda leader as more of an ideological and
symbolic figure. For years, intelligence officials have said
that bin Laden, isolated by U.S. efforts to track him down, had
ceded operational responsibilities to al-Qaeda’s No. 2, Ayman al-Zawahiri.  The New York Times reported  bin Laden ’s hands-on
involvement yesterday.  Al-Qaeda also confirmed bin Laden’s death and threatened to
retaliate against the U.S.  “We will continue to hunt the Americans and their
operatives inside and outside their country,” the group said in
a statement dated May 3 and posted on websites that have carried
confirmed jihadist statements in the past. “Soon by God’s help,
their happiness will be turned to grief and their tears will be
mixed with their blood,” the statement said.  Disrupting Railways  The plot to disrupt the railways was to mark the 10th
anniversary of al-Qaeda’s Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S., a
third U.S. official said. On that date, al-Qaeda terrorists
hijacked four passenger jets -- flying two of them into the
World Trade Center in  New York , destroying the  twin towers , and
sending a third into the  Pentagon , just across the Potomac River
from  Washington . A fourth plane crashed in a field in
 Pennsylvania  as passengers fought with the hijackers. Almost
3,000 people were killed in the attacks.  The U.S.  Department of Homeland Security  issued an alert to
local law enforcement officials yesterday that said the agency
had uncovered the information about the railway attacks. The
notice said the federal agency had no intelligence that there
was “any further planning” conducted since February of last
year.  The information was obtained from material taken by Navy
SEALs in the raid on the compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, that
killed bin Laden, a fourth U.S. official said. U.S. commandos
seized computer drives and other material from the compound
where bin Laden had been staying.  No Imminent Threat  The four U.S. officials, lacking authorization to speak
publicly, requested anonymity.  The U.S. has found nothing indicating any imminent threat,
according to the Department of  Homeland Security .  The information suggests that al-Qaeda leaders didn’t go
beyond the idea stage in formulating the rail plot, said the
first U.S. official.  As of February 2010, al-Qaeda was considering tampering
with an unspecified U.S. rail track so that a train would fall
off the track at a valley or a bridge, the  Associated Press 
said, citing a Homeland Security intelligence warning sent to
law enforcement officials yesterday. The warning was marked for
“official use only,” the AP reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  