-- 
Malaysia Raises Key Interest Rate to 3%, Boosts Reserve Ratio on Inflation

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-05-05T10:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/malaysia-raises-interest-rate-for-first-time-in-a-year-to-stifle-inflation.html
Malaysia raised  interest rates  for the
first time this year and asked banks to set aside more cash as
reserves for a second time, joining India in stepping up the
fight against inflation amid surging oil and food prices.  Bank Negara Malaysia  increased its benchmark overnight
policy rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, it said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur today. The decision was predicted by
seven out of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the
rest expecting no change. The statutory reserve requirement
level will rise to 3 percent from 2 percent effective May 16.  Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, the first to raise rates in Asia
last year as the region led a recovery from the global recession,
is resuming increases after pausing since July as inflation
accelerated to a 23-month high.  India  boosted borrowing costs
this week for the ninth time since mid-March of 2010 as rising
prices force nations to tighten monetary policy at the risk of
slowing growth.  “A 25 basis-point hike is manageable,” Kit Wei Zheng, a
Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said by telephone
ahead of today’s rate decision. “What’s the marginal benefit of
waiting? If Malaysia was in a recession or could foresee one,
you would welcome negative interest rates to stimulate growth.
But this isn’t the case here.”  Currencies Gain  Most Asian currencies have climbed over the past year,
partly because of foreign capital inflows seeking higher yields.
Malaysia’s ringgit has jumped 7.8 percent, advancing beyond 3
per  U.S. dollar  for the first time in more than 13 years on
April 25.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy may expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, easing from a decade-high of 7.2 percent
in 2010, according to the central bank.  “Global commodity and energy prices are projected to
remain elevated during the year, with inflation in major trading
partners also expected to rise further,” the central bank said
in today’s statement. “There are also some signs that domestic
demand factors could exert upward pressure on prices in the
second half of the year.”  Malaysia increased borrowing costs three times last year
from a record low. At the last policy decision in March, the
central bank ordered lenders to set aside more cash as reserves
instead of raising rates. It expects inflation to accelerate to
a range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year from 1.7 percent
in 2010.  Destabilization Risk  Today’s decision to further raise the statutory reserve
requirement is a “pre-emptive” measure to manage a
“significant” build-up of liquidity, the central bank said.  “They can’t afford to let the inflows of money that we’ve
seen destabilize the economy,” Manokaran Mottain, an economist
at AmResearch Sdn., said in a telephone interview ahead of the
announcement. “I expect they will normalize the statutory
reserve requirement back towards the 4 percent level.”  Asia  faces a “serious setback” from surging oil and food
prices that threaten to push millions into extreme poverty, the
 Asian Development Bank  said last week. The region’s growth may
be reduced by as much as 1.5 percentage points should the pace
of gains in oil and food prices seen so far this year persist
for the rest of 2011, it said.  Oil Surges  Crude  oil prices  have surged more than 16 percent this year
as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa threatens supplies.
World food prices may rebound after declining in March from a
record level, the  United Nations  said last month.  The annual pace of economic growth in Asian nations
including  China ,  South Korea ,  Singapore ,  Taiwan  and  Vietnam 
slowed in the first quarter compared with the equivalent pace in
the three months through December. Growth has still been
sufficient to propel the cost of living higher and bolster the
case for tighter monetary policy.  The People’s Bank of China, which raised rates for a fourth
time in six months in April, said May 3 controlling price
increases was its main goal, even after a manufacturing survey
indicated that economic expansion may slow. The  Philippines  
increased its benchmark rate for a second time this year today.  “With the economy firmly on a steady growth path, the
monetary policy committee decided to adjust the degree of
monetary accommodation,” Malaysia’s central bank said today.
“The stance of monetary policy remains supportive of growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  