-- 
Almost-Perfect-Game Book Keeps Umpire Joyce From Arizona Diamondback Games

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-05T19:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/almost-perfect-game-book-keeps-umpire-joyce-from-arizona-diamondback-games.html
Umpire Jim Joyce won’t work any
Arizona Diamondbacks games this season because he and the team’s
 Armando Galarraga  wrote a book about the pitcher’s almost-
perfect game last season.  Galarraga lost the perfect game on June 2, 2010, when
Joyce, as the first-base umpire, blew a call on what video
replays showed should have been the final out. Joyce
acknowledged after the game that he made a mistake and
apologized to Galarraga, who would have become the 21st pitcher
in  Major League Baseball  history to retire all 27 batters he
faced in order.  The two collaborated with Daniel Paisner to write
“Nobody’s Perfect: Two Men, One Call, and a Game for Baseball
History” (Atlantic Monthly Press, 246 pages, $24), which will
be released June 2, the one-year anniversary of the blown call.
Because the book project is a potential conflict of interest,
Joyce won’t be an umpire in any game involving Galarraga or the
Diamondbacks, according to Brian Lam, general counsel for the
World Umpires Association, the umpires’ union.  “ Jim Joyce , the  World Umpires Association  and Major League
Baseball all agree that for appearances sake, Jim should not be
working any games involving Armando Galarraga or his team this
season,” Lam said in a telephone interview.  Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney declined to comment.  Baseball’s umpiring schedule is determined at the start of
the season and Lam said there were two Diamondbacks’ games that
Joyce would have worked. He was assigned to other games,
according to Lam.  Jodie Hockensmith, a spokeswoman for Atlantic Monthly
Press, the book’s publisher, said in a telephone interview that
she didn’t have any information on any advance Joyce, Galarraga
and Paisner received.  Umpire’s Donation  Joyce will donate all proceeds from book sales to UmpsCare,
a non-profit group established by umpires to provide financial
and emotional support for needy youth and families, the
publisher said in a news release.  There’s precedent for an umpire not working in certain
major-league games. Jim Wolf doesn’t work behind home plate
anytime his older brother Randy Wolf of the Milwaukee Brewers
pitches.  Galarraga joined  Arizona  in the offseason after spending
the previous three seasons with the  Detroit Tigers . The 29-year-
old right-hander has a 3-2 record with a 5.46 earned run average
in five starts this season.  Joyce, 55, has been a major-league umpire since 1987 and
has worked games in both the American and National leagues since
2000. He was rated the game’s best umpire in an ESPN poll of 100
major-league players last year that was taken after the mistaken
call.  Final ‘Out’  Galarraga retired 26 straight batters before Jason Donald
of the  Cleveland Indians  hit a ground ball with two outs in the
ninth inning. Tigers first baseman  Miguel Cabrera  fielded it and
tossed it to Galarraga, who had the ball in his glove and his
foot on the bag ahead of the runner.  Galarraga started to raise his hands in celebration when
Joyce ruled Donald safe.  “I just cost that kid a perfect game,” a tearful Joyce
told reporters. When asked about Joyce’s call after the game,
Galarraga said, “Nobody’s perfect.”  The book details the life stories of Galarraga and Joyce
while offering their insights into the game that linked their
names. It also details reaction from other players, managers,
fans and sportswriters, and the support Galarraga and Joyce
received from family, friends and strangers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  