-- 
America Movil Sees ‘Strong’ User Growth Squeezing Margins

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/america-movil-sees-very-strong-customer-growth-squeezing-profit-margins.html
America Movil  SAB’s finance chief
forecast “very strong” subscriber growth the rest of this year
at levels similar to the first quarter, which beat analysts’
estimates for new users and hurt profit margins.  The biggest wireless carrier in the Americas added 5.87
million mobile-phone users last quarter, topping the 5.1 million
estimate of five analysts polled by Bloomberg. Handset discounts
and marketing costs for those new users put pressure on the
Ebitda -- or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- margin. The profit measure dropped to 39.8
percent from 42.4 percent a year earlier.  “We don’t manage for Ebitda; we manage for growth,” Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno, 54, said in a phone
interview today. “It doesn’t matter to us when the Ebitda
margin falls as a consequence of an increase in clients.”  America Movil, based in  Mexico  City and controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , isn’t yet revising its forecast of as
many as 15 million new subscribers this year, he said.  “Let’s talk after the second quarter,” said Garcia
Moreno. The period is normally strong for America Movil because
most of  Latin America  celebrates Mother’s Day in May, the
second-biggest shopping period after Christmas, he said.  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
raised his estimate for 2011 subscriber growth to 24.8 million
from 20.5 million this week.  “They’ve pretty much always viewed it as a market-share
land grab,” said King, who is based in Baltimore and advises
holding on to the shares. “They still see a lot of opportunity
there, and rightfully so. They’ve been executing on that front
very well.”  Acquisition and Expansion  America Movil acquired fixed-line phone, Internet and cable
and satellite TV networks last year with the $23 billion
takeover of sister company Telmex Internacional SAB.  Stronger subscriber growth inevitably affects profit
margins because of the costs to attract new users, Garcia Moreno
said. America Movil has an internal measure of profitability
called core Ebitda, which leaves out the costs of acquiring
subscribers to measure operating profits. That measure improved
last quarter compared with a year earlier in all but two
countries,  Brazil  and the U.S., Garcia Moreno said.  “All of the South American bloc has very big economic
growth,” he said. “It’s the only region that’s growing on all
fronts, even fixed-line telephone. It has very strong growth in
television, broadband, and mobile.”  Supreme Court  America Movil rose 5 centavos to 30.71 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped 13
percent this year in Mexico City trading as the company
encountered a series of legal setbacks in its home country and
biggest market.  The company won’t feel much impact from a Mexico Supreme
Court decision on fees it charges other carriers because the
tariffs represent less than 1 percent of sales, Garcia Moreno
said.  The company will still be able to challenge government
decisions to reduce the fees America Movil can charge to connect
calls, he said. The  Supreme Court  ruled this week that the
company must charge the lower fees set by the government while
it appeals them.  America Movil has 71 percent of wireless subscribers in
Mexico, who generate about 24 percent of its overall sales.  “What I see is concern among investors that the rules of
the game aren’t sufficiently clear,” said Garcia Moreno. “The
Supreme Court decision isn’t something that invalidates your
right to seek a revision of the tariffs.”  Mexico’s antitrust commission assessed a $1 billion fine
last month against America Movil for anticompetitive practices,
a case the company is appealing. The phone industry regulator
has also sided with three rivals this year in disputes over
fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  