-- 
Ferguson’s United Understudies Repay His Trust to Set Up Barcelona Rematch

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-05T00:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/manchester-united-understudies-set-up-barcelona-rematch-for-european-title.html
Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  said he “wrestled” with a decision to omit several
first-choice players from the second Champions League soccer
semifinal with Schalke. He needn’t have worried.  United set up a meeting with Barcelona in the May 28 final
at Wembley Stadium in  London  by winning 4-1 at Old Trafford last
night to advance 6-1 over the two games. Anderson scored twice
following goals from Antonio Valencia and Darron Gibson.  Wayne Rooney ,  Rio Ferdinand  and Nemanja Vidic were among
eight players rested from the team that started the 1-0 loss to
Arsenal four days ago, which left United three points ahead of
Chelsea atop the Premier League ahead of their May 8 matchup at
Old Trafford. Ferguson said he couldn’t have made the changes
had the first-leg lead over Schalke been slimmer than two goals.  “You have to trust the players sometimes,” Ferguson told
reporters after the match. “It wasn’t an easy decision to make.
I wrestled with it for a few days but the Arsenal result forced
the situation.”  Schalke, which had ousted last year’s winner Inter Milan to
reach its first Champions League semifinal, never threatened to
make Ferguson regret his choices.  Gibson, a midfielder who’s been criticized by some United
fans, was the dominant figure in the early stages of the game.
The Irishman regularly broke up Schalke’s attacks before the
visitor could get to a defense shorn of its regular starters.  Gibson Goal  Gibson set up the opening goal after gaining possession
near the halfway line. His pass freed Valencia to shoot past
 Manuel Neuer  after 26 minutes and Gibson added the second five
minutes later when German national team goalkeeper Neuer allowed
his drive to go past him.  Jose Manuel Jurado cut the deficit in the 35th minute by
slamming a shot past Edwin van der Sar, though that failed to
unsettle the home team. Goals from Anderson in the 72nd and 76th
minutes emphasized the superiority of United’s second string.  “If you look at a comparison of the second 11, the quality
of the players certainly stands out,” Schalke coach Ralf
Rangnick told reporters. “Most Bundesliga teams would like to
have that level of quality in their first team.”  Manchester United has now qualified for the final of
 Europe ’s elite club competition three times in the past four
seasons. The Red Devils’ last appearance ended in defeat when
Barcelona matched their tally of three European Cup titles with
a 2-0 victory in the 2009 final in  Rome .  Redemption Chance     “The problem with Rome is that we didn’t turn up and
produce the football we knew we were capable of,” midfielder
 Ryan Giggs , who has played on two of United’s three European
Cup-winning teams. “Hopefully in the final we can prove what a
good team we are.”  Barcelona, which is going for its third straight Spanish
league title, features FIFA World Player of the Year Lionel Messi, who has a Champions League-leading 11 goals this season,
as well as six starters from the Spain team that won the  World
Cup  last year.  Though his team wouldn’t ever underestimate an opponent
laden with such talented players, it won’t be scared either,
Ferguson said.  “We are playing a fantastic team but we can’t be
frightened out of our skins because of that,” he said. “Our
job is to find a solution to playing against them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Old Trafford at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 