-- 
Arca to Sell Peso Bonds to Pay Merger Costs of $200 Million

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-05T21:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/arca-to-sell-peso-bonds-to-pay-for-200-million-merger-costs.html
Embotelladoras Arca SAB, Mexico’s
second-largest Coca-Cola bottler, plans to sell as much as 5
billion pesos ($429 million) of bonds in part to pay for costs
related to its merger with Grupo Continental SAB.  The bond sale will occur in August, said Ulises Fernandez,
Arca’s director of  investor relations , in a telephone interview
yesterday in Monterrey, Mexico. The company needs to wait for
the completion of the all-share transaction, scheduled for next
month, and payment of a post-merger dividend in July, he said.  “We’ve already made the decision to issue in the Mexican
market,” Fernandez said. “At this moment, with the depth of
the market and the spreads, the Mexican market is more
attractive.”  Arca sold 2.5 billion pesos of 10-year fixed-rate pesos
bonds with a coupon of 7.74 percent in November. Fernandez said
the company also took note of a peso-bond sale by Coca-Cola
Femsa SAB, which issued 2.5 billion pesos of floating-rate notes
at 13 basis points over the 28-day benchmark interbank rate.  The merger will generate about $200 million in costs such as
lawyers’ fees, facilities shutdowns and workforce reductions,
Fernandez said.  Meeting Dates  Arca, based in Monterrey, will hold a shareholders meeting
May 20 to vote on the transaction. Arca expects the merger to
occur June 1, and a shareholders meeting for the new company
will be announced for later that month, Fernandez said.  A special dividend of 13.6 pesos a share in cash or stock
likely will be paid July 15, he said.  The company had 4.2 billion pesos of cash at the end of
March, which is enough to cover the dividend for investors who
don’t accept the option of payment in shares, Fernandez said.  Arca rose 99 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to 71.76 pesos in
 Mexico  City trading at 4:10 p.m. New York time. Grupo
Continental gained 85 centavos, or 2 percent, to 43.88 pesos.  Arca and Grupo Continental, Mexico’s third-largest Coca-
Cola bottler, said in January that they would join to form a new
company called Arca Continental.  The transaction calls for Arca to issue 468.75 million new
shares and exchange 0.625 of each of those for a share of
Tampico, Mexico-based Grupo Continental. The new shares would be
valued at $2.84 billion based on Arca’s closing price yesterday.  Arca will ask the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission
to increase its shelf registration for peso-bond sales to
8.5 billion pesos, from the 3.5 billion pesos it now has
registered, Fernandez said.  The company may decide to sell more bonds in the local
market later this year to raise money to pay 1 billion of pesos
bonds that mature in June 2012, a month before Mexican voters
elect a new president.  “Next year is an election year,” Fernandez said. “We’re
thinking that it won’t be a good year to issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  