-- 
Harry Macklowe Said to Buy Park Avenue Apartment Building for $250 Million

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-05-05T21:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/harry-macklowe-said-to-buy-park-avenue-apartment-building-for-250-million.html
Developer Harry Macklowe, whose
company lost control of seven  New York  skyscrapers in the credit
crisis, agreed to buy an Upper East Side rental building for
about $250 million, two people with knowledge of the deal said.  Macklowe is under contract to purchase 737 Park Ave, a 103-
unit apartment property near 71st Street, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the transaction isn’t public. The
building has been owned by the same family for 65 years.  “This is one of the nicest unconverted apartment buildings
on Park Avenue,” said Howard Michaels, chairman of the Carlton
Group, a New York-based real estate investment bank that advised
Macklowe. “It’s a beautiful property and Harry Macklowe is one
of the top residential specialists in  Manhattan .”  The property, built in 1940, was family-owned by the Katz
737 Corporation, according to a Feb. 23 statement by brokerage
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  announcing the building was up for sale.  Jones Lang brokers including Jon Caplan, Scott Latham,
Richard Baxter and Yoron Cohen represented the sellers,
according to the statement. Caplan declined to comment on behalf
of the team. A woman who answered the phone at Macklowe’s office
said the company wouldn’t comment.  The transaction was reported earlier today by Crain’s New
York Business.  Macklowe, 73, was forced to relinquish control of seven
Manhattan office towers in 2008 after he was unable to refinance
$7 billion of short-term debt used to buy the properties. The
credit crisis forced his company, Macklowe Properties Inc., to
sell its  crown jewel : New York’s General Motors Building at the
southeast corner of Central Park.  The company sold the three apartment buildings in its
portfolio last year to Chicago-based  Equity Residential (EQR) , the
real estate investment trust founded by billionaire  Sam Zell .  Macklowe Properties filed an application with the New York
City Department of Buildings in March to start construction of a
building at a Park Avenue site that was formerly home to the
Drake Hotel. Macklowe controls the site with Los Angeles-based
CIM Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  