-- 
Arsenal’s Vermaelen May Start at Stoke, Express Reports: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-05-05T10:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/arsenal-s-vermaelen-may-start-at-stoke-express-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Vermaelen’s Return  Thomas Vermaelen may return for Arsenal at Stoke this
weekend, making his first start for the team since August, the
Express said.  The Belgian defender played in the first three games of the
season, and then was out with an Achilles heel injury. He played
90 minutes in a reserve match last week, the newspaper said.  Milan Target  AC Milan is willing to pay 18 million pounds ($29.7
million) to bring Chelsea midfielder Michael Essien to  Italy ,
 the Daily Mirror said .  The Ghana national team member has three years on his
contract with the London club, but Milan may tempt Chelsea by
offering players along with cash, the newspaper said.  Newcastle Effort  Newcastle is trying to beat competition from Liverpool and
Tottenham to sign Ipswich’s Connor Wickham,  the Daily Mail said .  Coach Alan Pardew worked with the teenager at Reading, and
will promise the striker regular Premier League soccer, the
newspaper said. He’s valued at about 10 million pounds, and
Newcastle still has the 35 million pounds left from selling Andy Carroll to Liverpool, the newspaper said.  West Ham Replacements  West Ham may replace manager  Avram Grant  even if the club
stays in the Premier League, and has drawn up a list of
replacements including Blackpool’s Ian Holloway and Queens Park
Rangers’ Neil Warnock,  the Guardian said.   Paul Lambert, Malky Mackay,  Chris Hughton , Slaven Bilic and
 Martin O’Neill  will also be considered, the newspaper said.  Gunner Jones?  Blackburn defender Phil Jones, who is being pursued by
 Manchester United , Liverpool and Tottenham, may hold out for
Arsenal, saying the Gunners play the “prettiest football in the
Premier League,”  the Independent said.   Arsenal have been monitoring the 19-year-old and his
teammate Steven N’Zonzi, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 