-- 
Asia Inflation Fight Spreads as Philippines, Malaysia Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-05-06T07:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/asia-inflation-fight-spreads-on-philippines-malaysia-rate-moves.html
The Philippines and  Malaysia  joined
India and Vietnam in raising  interest rates  this week as nations
in a region that led the global economic recovery intensified
their fight against inflation.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  yesterday increased the rate it
pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent from 4.25
percent in its second move this year, while Bank Negara Malaysia
lifted the benchmark overnight policy rate for the first time in
2011, boosting it by a quarter point to 3 percent.  Surging food and oil costs are escalating the danger of
inflation in  Asia , prompting policy makers to accelerate
monetary tightening even at the risk of slowing growth. India on
May 3 doubled the magnitude of rate increases and the  State Bank 
of  Vietnam  raised its repurchase rate the following day for the
fifth time in 2011.  “The bigger picture is that inflation still remains quite
an issue around the region,” said Wellian Wiranto, an economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Singapore. “Inflation risk still trumps
growth risk as you can see from the central bank thinking.”  Philippine three-year bond yields rose by the most in
almost three months today and Malaysia’s benchmark 10-year bonds
dropped for a fourth day. The peso fell to a one-week low, and
the ringgit declined for a fourth day.  ‘Serious Setback’  Asia faces a “serious setback” from surging inflation
that threatens to push millions into extreme poverty, the  Asian
Development Bank  said last week.  Inflation in the  Philippines  accelerated to a 12-month high
of 4.5 percent in April, a report showed yesterday. The central
bank targets average inflation of 3 percent to 5 percent this
year and in 2012.  Malaysian central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, the first
to raise rates in Asia last year, resumed increases after
pausing since July as inflation quickened to a 23-month high.
Zeti also boosted the statutory reserve requirement level to 3
percent from 2 percent effective May 16.  The decision to further raise the statutory reserve
requirement is a “pre-emptive” measure to manage a
“significant” build-up of liquidity, the central bank said.  Interest rates will still be supportive of growth, Zeti
said today. Malaysia’s inflation may accelerate to a range of
2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2010,
according to the central bank. The economy may expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, easing from a decade-high of 7.2 percent
in 2010, the bank forecasts.  Price Pressures  “Global commodity and energy prices are projected to
remain elevated during the year, with inflation in major trading
partners also expected to rise further,” the Malaysian central
bank said in a statement yesterday. “There are also some signs
that domestic demand factors could exert upward pressure on
prices in the second half of the year.”  In the Philippines,  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC) , the nation’s
largest restaurant operator, has said profit growth in the first
half of 2011 may slow as raw-material and operating costs rise.  The Philippine central bank signaled it’s willing to do
more to contain price pressures, with Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  saying oil above the central bank’s estimate of $110
per barrel continues to pose risks.  Bangko Sentral will move in a gradual fashion as it digests
the impact of the interest-rate increases, Assistant Governor
Cyd Amador said in Hanoi today.  Australia ’s central bank said today higher interest rates
will likely be needed “at some point” to contain inflation
that’s predicted to accelerate this year faster than previously
forecast.  Oil Climbs  Crude  oil prices  have surged more than 28 percent in the
past year as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
threatens supplies.  World food prices may rebound after declining in March from
a record level, the  United Nations  said last month.  The People’s Bank of  China , which raised rates for a fourth
time in six months in April, said May 3 controlling price
increases was its main goal, even after a manufacturing survey
indicated that economic expansion may slow.  India ’s central bank increased its repurchase rate by half
a percentage point to 7.25 percent this week after eight
quarter-point moves since mid-March 2010, as it forecast
inflation would stay at an “elevated level” until September.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said the  Reserve Bank  of India
aims to curb consumer demand, and cut the central bank’s growth
forecast to “around 8 percent” for the year ending March 31
from 8.6 percent in the previous 12 months.  Vietnam raised its repurchase rate to 14 percent, doubling
the benchmark from November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  