-- 
LastPass Says Hackers May Have Stolen Passwords for 1.25 Million Customers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-05T17:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lastpass-says-hackers-may-have-stolen-passwords-for-1-25-million-customers.html
LastPass , a company that offers to
safeguard and simplify managing subscribers’ online passwords,
said hackers may have broken into its database and stolen
information on as many as 1.25 million accounts.  The  company’s service  allows customers to use one password
with enhanced security features to access multiple password-
protected accounts for online banking, Internet shopping, and
other secure sites. The Vienna, Virginia-based company posted a
message on its website late yesterday alerting customers to the
breach in its security.  Jeremy Conway, a researcher for the Portsmouth,  New
Hampshire , based cyber-security company NitroSecurity Inc., said
the intrusion risks giving the hackers access to millions of
different bank accounts, e-commerce sites and sensitive
corporate networks.  “This could be the nastiest password hack in history,”
Conway said. “They’ve disclosed just enough so that customers
can make all sorts of wild assumptions about how big the problem
may be.”  The scope of the losses will depend on how successful the
intruders have been at penetrating the company’s network.  The attack on LastPass follows a series of break-ins that
have left companies informing customers sensitive data may have
been lost. Early last month, millions of customer e-mail
addresses were stolen from the computers of Alliance Data System
Corp.’s Epsilon Data Management LLC, a Dallas-based provider of
marketing services.  Cyber Intruder  Two weeks later, Sony Corp. reported that a cyber intruder
stole personal information belonging to 77 million customers of
its PlayStation Network. Ceridian Corp. and Lookout Services
Inc., in settlements announced yesterday, resolved federal
claims that they failed to properly secure the data of 65,000
employees stolen from their  computer networks  in 2009.  Joe Siegrist, chief executive officer of Marvasol Inc.,
which does business as LastPass, said in an e-mail message today
that he’s urging customers “not to panic” and noted several
measures the company is taking to limit the risk. The company is
asking customers to re-set their master passwords, Siegrist
said.  Companies like LastPass have grown in popularity in the
face of growing internet-based fraud from software that steals
passwords stored on individual computers.  “I’ve told people to go use LastPass,” Conway said. “The
company will have to take several specific measures following
this incident before I’ll feel like I can do that again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  