-- 
Maurel & Prom Surges on Plan for Nigerian Oil Unit Listing

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-05T14:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/maurel-prom-surges-on-plan-for-nigerian-oil-unit-listing.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA, a
French oil explorer, surged after announcing a plan to spin off
a Nigerian unit that acquired production licenses from Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  The distribution to Maurel stockholders of shares in the
Nigerian business and a separate listing will “better bring out
the value” of the assets, the Paris-based company said in a
statement. The value of the unit is “not fully reflected in the
group stock price.”  Maurel rose as much as 6.5 percent and was trading 50 cents
higher at 14.56 euros at 4:16 p.m. in Paris. The stock has
jumped 38 percent since the start of the year.  Maurel, which is 24 percent owned by Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Francois Henin, last year bought a 45 percent stake
in Seplat Petroleum Development Co. in  Nigeria  for $193 million.
Seplat acquired production licenses with a capacity of 50,000
barrels of oil a day from Shell.  “The potential listing of the Nigerian unit is a very
strong catalyst,” Bertrand Hodee, analyst at Kepler Research
who has a “buy” rating on the stock, wrote in a research note
today. Maurel is being “groomed for sale,” according to Hodee.  A board meeting no later than May 24 will decide how to
attribute shares in the Nigerian business as a special dividend,
Maurel said in the statement today.  The company last month reported 2010 losses widened and
pledged to raise output from Gabon, Nigeria and  Colombia . The
explorer, which started in 1813 as a trading company between
Bordeaux and French colonies in West Africa, has struggled to
raise oil production since selling Congolese fields to Eni SpA
in 2007.  Henin told reporters last month he has failed to attract a
reasonable offer for the company, which has also tried to list
in  London . The  oil company  enlisted Citigroup Inc. and BNP
Paribas about a year ago to search for partners for exploration
permits held by the company, he said.  In its full-year earnings report, output was pegged at
14,618 barrels a day from Gabon and 3,570 barrels a day from
Nigerian fields. The company will change strategy to spend less
on exploration and more on developing reserves and raising
output, Henin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  