-- 
Mauritius Annual Inflation Rate Declines for First Month in Seven to 7%

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-05-05T12:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mauritius-annual-inflation-rate-declines-for-first-month-in-seven-to-7-.html
Mauritius’s inflation rate fell to 7
percent in April, the first decline in seven months, the
country’s statistics agency said, as a stronger rupee against
the dollar helped contain prices of imported goods.  Inflation slowed from 7.2 percent a month earlier, the Port
Louis-based Central Statistics Office said in a statement on its
website today. Prices in the Indian Ocean island nation rose 0.2
percent in the month, and the headline average inflation rate
increased to 4.4 percent from 4 percent, it said.  The central bank will probably raise  interest rates  further
this year after inflation accelerated during the past six
months, Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said in an interview on
April 30. The Bank of Mauritius increased the key rate by half a
percentage point to 5.25 percent on March 28. The inflation rate
rose from 2.5 percent in September to the highest in 28 months
in March.  “The weakening of the dollar versus the rupee is positive,
as import costs have dropped, resulting in lower retail
prices,” Eric Ng, an economist and director of advisory firm
PluriConseil Ltd., said by phone from Port Louis.  The rupee strengthened 4.4 percent against the dollar in
April, and has gained 13 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg data. The currency is at an “unprecedented level of
stability,” Bheenick said in the April 30 interview.  The decline in the inflation rate is minimal and the
country remains vulnerable to fuel price shocks, Ng said. “The
government’s intervention in form of subsidies is
overstretched,” he said.  The Treasury cut taxes on gasoline and diesel as of March
30 to ease pressure on inflation, while the Ministry of Commerce
and importers agreed on a basket of foodstuff to be sold at
reduced prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  