-- 
Australian Construction Index Falls to Lowest in Over Two Years

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-05T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/australian-construction-index-falls-to-lowest-in-over-two-years.html
Australia ’s building industry
contracted for an 11th month in April as higher borrowing costs
weighed on construction, a private survey showed.  The construction performance index dropped 1.5 points to
37.9 last month, the lowest level since March 2009, according to
a survey by the Australian Industry Group and the Housing
Industry Association released in Sydney today. A reading below
50 indicates the industry is shrinking.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens this week
held the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent after
boosting borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010 to contain inflation. A report yesterday showed
Australian retail sales declined in March for the first time in
five months, as households save more and spend less, prompting
some economists to cut their forecasts for first-quarter growth.  “The continued very weak conditions across the
construction sector highlight the patchiness in broad sections
of the Australian economy and their vulnerability to increases
in interest rates and budgetary changes that would further pull
the rug from under private sector demand,” Peter Burn, director
of public policy at the Australian Industry Group, said in a
statement.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  is scheduled to detail on May 10 the
programs to be trimmed as the government seeks to return the
nation’s budget to surplus.  “Ongoing business and household caution remains an
impediment to sustained recovery both in the residential
construction sectors and in commercial construction,” Burn
said.  A gauge of housing dropped 2.3 points to 38.4 and new
orders fell 1.6 points to 37.8, the report showed. Engineering
work climbed 1.1 points to 39.6 and commercial work rose 5.2
points to 38.4, it showed. The measure of apartment building
rose 0.7 point to 31.1 in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  