-- 
Australian Dollar Strengthens on Rate Outlook, Possible BOJ Intervention

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-05-06T14:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/australian-new-zealand-dollars-gain-versus-yen-on-intervention-concerns.html
Australia ’s dollar rose the most since
September after the  Reserve Bank  increased inflation forecasts
and said higher  interest rates  may be needed “at some point.”  “The statement reads a bit hawkish relative to what the
market had priced in, and the RBA’s confidence could also
provide a boost to risk appetite,” said  Todd Elmer , head of
Group of 10 currency strategy for Asia ex- Japan  at Citigroup
Inc. in  Singapore . “It’s a clear Aussie positive.”  The Aussie also snapped a six-day decline against the yen
on speculation Japanese policy makers will act to weaken their
currency after it rose against all its major counterparts this
week. New Zealand’s dollar gained as traders bet its slump over
the past four days was excessive. The South Pacific currencies
also rallied as the U.S. payrolls report showed employers added
more jobs in April than economists forecast, boosting demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Australia’s dollar rose 1.9 percent to $1.0784 at 10:46
a.m. in  New York , from $1.0579 yesterday. The currency gained as
much as 2.1 percent, the most on an intraday basis since Sept 1.
The Aussie climbed 2.6 percent to 86.91 yen. New Zealand’s
dollar gained 1.6 percent to 79.65 U.S. cents and appreciated
2.3 percent to 64.27 yen.  The RBA raised its forecast for consumer-price gains this
year to 3.25 percent from a previous prediction of 3 percent in
its quarterly monetary-policy statement released today in
Sydney. The central bank kept its growth forecast unchanged from
February at 4.25 percent.  ‘Further Tightening’  The outlook “suggests that further tightening of monetary
policy is likely to be required at some point for inflation to
remain consistent” with a goal of 2 to 3 percent in the medium
term, the central bank said.  U.S. payrolls increased by 244,000 workers in April, the
biggest gain since May 2010, the Labor Department reported
today. The jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9 percent in the
first increase since November.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in  New Zealand , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan.  Australia’s central bank will increase its cash target by
38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, over the next 12
months, up from a forecast of 29 basis points yesterday,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Investors should buy the Australian dollar against the euro
after European Central Bank policy makers curbed yesterday
expectations for an interest-rate increase next month,
Citigroup’s Elmer said.  From the RBA “there’s really not much concern on the
 exchange rate ,” Elmer said. “They are simply stating that it
will help to control inflation, which suggests they’re not going
to oppose further appreciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  