-- 
Swan Says Australia’s Budget Makes ‘Substantial’ Savings

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-08T03:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/australia-prepares-to-tighten-fiscal-policy-in-hit-to-consumers.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
there will be “substantial” savings in the coming budget after
revenue was crimped by a record exchange rate, the nation’s
costliest natural disasters and  Japan ’s earthquake.  Swan, who delivers his budget to Parliament on May 10, said
the deficit in the government’s finances will widen in the
fiscal year ending June 30 before higher mining revenues and a
improving economy help bring about a surplus in 2012-13. The
Australian dollar’s 18 percent gain in the past year has also
hurt export revenue, he noted. The currency touched $1.1012 on
May 3, the highest level since it began trading freely in 1983.  “We’ve got very strict disciplines in place, we’ve also
got difficult decisions because there are very substantial
revenue write-downs coming through from the natural disasters as
well as the lingering effects of the global financial
recession,” Swan told Nine Network television today. “There
are very substantial savings in this budget.”  The government, which steered  Australia  through the global
financial crisis, is trying to emphasize its economic management
skills as its popularity declines over plans to impose a tax on
mining companies’ profits and charge polluters in order to
reduce greenhouse emissions.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration has revealed
the budget will toughen welfare payments to get people back into
the workforce and cut 1,000 jobs in the civilian defense
industry in the next three years. It also aims to stop high-
income earners receiving a subsidy for having private health
insurance.  Revenue Fall  Flooding across Australia, Tropical Cyclone Yasi that hit
Queensland state, bushfires, the gain in the local dollar
against the U.S. currency and slower  consumer spending  have
caused revenue to fall by A$6.5 billion ($7 billion) since a
November budget forecast. Japan’s strongest-ever earthquake in
March will reduce commodity exports by A$2 billion, Swan has
said.  Credit-rating companies, a  Reserve Bank  of Australia board
member, economists and analysts have said the government could
delay the surplus without harming the economy.  “We are determined to bring our budget back to surplus in
2012-13 and the way we are going about that to provide room for
important initiatives is to make savings elsewhere in the
budget,” Swan said. “Growth this year is down substantially,
because of the impact of the natural disasters, Cyclone Yasi and
of course international uncertainty that flows from Japan.”  Resources Boom  Australia, the world’s biggest coal and iron ore exporter,
is entering its 20th year of economic growth as companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group expand to meet
surging Asian demand. The central bank increased its benchmark
lending rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to November
last year.  “There is short-term softness in the economy caused by
natural disasters and international uncertainty but there’s
medium-term strength,” Swan said. “What we must do in the
years ahead is not compound any of the inflationary and capacity
pressures.”  The budget will include assistance for low-income earners
faced with higher living costs, cut taxes and give vehicle
incentives to small businesses, Swan said in a weekly economic
note received today. It will also provide A$308.8 million to
help pensioners, regional and low-income households switch to
digital television as analog transmission is turned off, he said.  Interest Rates   The central bank on May 6 said it will likely need to raise
interest rates “at some point” as inflation accelerates. It
increased its forecast for consumer-price growth for 2011 to
3.25 percent from a previous estimate of 3 percent. The bank has
an annual inflation target of between 2 percent and 3 percent.  Swan in November forecast a A$41.5 billion deficit for this
fiscal year, followed by a A$12.3 billion shortfall next year
and a A$3.1 billion surplus in 2012-13.  The budget implications from the emissions trading system
won’t be known until the project, which is scheduled to begin in
July 2012, is completed, Swan said. The plan also needs to be
approved by Parliament.  “Labor will never deliver a surplus,” opposition Liberal-
National treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television. “On budget night, when they
claim to deliver a surplus in 2013, there will be a gaping hole
and that hole will be the carbon tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  