-- 
Australia’s Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop, Driving Down Currency, Yields

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-05T03:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/australia-s-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop-driving-down-currency-yields.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell in March for the first time in five months, weakening the
currency and shares of some of the nation’s biggest stores.  Sales declined 0.5 percent from a month earlier, when they
increased a revised 0.8 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 21
economists was for a 0.5 percent gain, and none saw a drop.  The report led some economists to cut their forecasts for
first-quarter growth.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens has paused raising  interest rates  for the past five
meetings to help Queensland state recover from damage to
properties, mines and crops from floods and a cyclone.  “Consumers are pretty cautious as they face higher
 mortgage rates  and living costs,” said Su-Lin Ong, senior
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “There is a lot of
uncertainty over households.”  Ong said she will probably change her forecast to a
contraction in gross domestic product in the first quarter, from
a previous prediction of a slight expansion. The RBA earlier
this week said GDP “likely” shrank in the January-March period
because of the natural disasters.  Economists at Westpac Banking Corp. today said the decline
in first-quarter GDP may be larger than their current forecast
for a 1 percent drop.  Currency Slides  The currency slid to $1.0697 at 1:08 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0769 just before the data. The two-year government bond yield
declined to 4.925 percent from 4.966 percent prior to the
release.  Spending at department stores fell 3 percent, and consumers
spent 0.4 percent less at food retailers, today’s report showed.
They spent 0.1 percent more on clothing and footwear, which was
the only category that showed a gain, it showed.  Shares of  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , the country’s largest
department-store chain, slumped as much as 1.6 percent to
A$3.11, the lowest intraday price since April 11.  David Jones
Ltd. (DJS) , the second-biggest department store operator, fell as much
as 1.8 percent to A$4.44.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s biggest
retailer, dropped as much as 0.5 percent to A$26.72.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, were unchanged
in the three months through March 31 from the previous quarter,
the report showed. Economists had forecast a 0.6 percent gain.  Queensland Damage  Retail sales in Queensland fell 2.9 percent in March,
today’s report showed, after climbing 3.2 percent the month
before.  In a  statement  after its May 3 policy decision, the RBA
said it left rates unchanged as households continue to show
caution in spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of savings.  At the same time, a mining investment boom to meet demand
from  China  helped Australia record its biggest annual increase
in jobs on record last year and employers added more workers in
March than forecast, lowering the jobless rate to 4.9 percent.  A separate report today showed Australian home-building
approvals rose the most since October, a sign demand for housing
may increase as the economy approaches full employment.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments advanced 9.1 percent from February, when they
fell a revised 5.3 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The median forecast was for a 5 percent increase
in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  It was the first gain in building approvals this year after
the natural disasters in Queensland disrupted the market.  Falling Permits  Building approvals fell 18.1 percent from a year earlier,
the report showed. That compares with economists’ forecast for a
25.2 percent drop year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.8 percent to 8,016
in March from the previous month, the report said. Approvals for
apartments and renovations advanced 26.1 percent to 5,147.  Stevens increased rates by 175 basis points from October
2009 to November last year to 4.75 percent, moves that helped
the Australian dollar gain more than 18 percent in the past
year. It this week touched the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983.  “The rapid fire rate hikes over the latter part of last
year should bear the brunt of the blame for the lack of activity
in both the housing sector and  consumer spending ,” Savanth Sebastian, an economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in
Sydney, wrote in a report after the release. “And this weakness
was further compounded by the vagaries of the weather -- which
will remain a concern over the next couple of months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  