-- 
Havas Media, Corporate Talk of Kenya Accord; Havas Plans Africa Expansion

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-05T13:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/havas-media-corporate-talk-of-kenya-accord-havas-plans-africa-expansion.html
Havas SA (HAV) , a French advertising agency,
opened its first office in English-speaking  Africa  in Kenya,
moving ahead with its plan to increase the company’s presence on
the continent fivefold over the next two years.  Havas controls 60 percent of  Havas Media Kenya  and its
local partner, Corporate Talk Group, owns the rest, Jorge
Irizar, Chief Executive Officer of Havas Media International,
said in an interview in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, today.  Havas may announce a similar partnership with a Nigerian
company in 10 to 15 days, he said, declining to name it, while
its Gabon office may open in May. In the last two years, Havas
began operating in the French-speaking West African nations of
Cameroon,  Ivory Coast ,  Burkina Faso  and  Senegal .  Havas plans to set up in 20 African nations by 2013. French
billionaire  Vincent Bollore , who controls the company,
“believes in Africa,” Irizar said.  Havas Media Kenya is seeking a bigger cut of the country’s
advertising market, now dominated by Scangroup Ltd., East
Africa’s biggest marketing company by sales, which commands as
much as four-fifths of the business, Irizar said. The goal is to
gain market share of at least 10 percent in a few years, from
Corporate Talk Group’s current 2 percent to 3 percent portion.  Digital Media  “We are facing a very challenging situation where one
company controls 80 percent of the market,” Irizar said. “We
believe we can break the monopoly.”  Havas Media  Kenya  will pursue projects in digital media,
using both Internet and mobile phones, advertising, public
relations and social networking, aiming for its earnings to
break even this year and move into profit the next, he said.  Havas, which operates in more than 100 countries, brings
international advertising and media-buying experience and the
capability to invest, while Corporate Talk Group’s strength is
its local working knowledge, Irizar said. He declined to comment
on how much spending Havas will commit to its Kenyan unit.  “In English-speaking African countries we decided not to
go from scratch because the markets are more mature and much
more complicated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  