-- 
Bank of America Raised Wager in Italy, Spain by $888 Million Last Quarter

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-05T21:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bank-of-america-raised-wager-on-italy-spain-by-888-million-last-quarter.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, increased its wagers in Italy and Spain
by $888 million in the three months ended March 31.  Non-sovereign exposure to Italy climbed by $582 million,
and the figure increased by $306 million in Spain, according to
a regulatory filing today from the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based company.  U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of
America are evaluating their investments in Europe after
government deficits led to bailouts of nations including Greece
and Portugal. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
last month the potential rewards of investing in Europe outweigh
the risk of losing about $3 billion if the countries default.  “Certain European countries, including  Greece , Ireland,
Italy, Portugal and Spain, are currently experiencing varying
degrees of financial stress,” Bank of America said today in its
quarterly filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. “Italy and Spain are currently experiencing the
least financial stress among these countries.”  Bank of America’s non-sovereign exposure to Italy climbed
to $5.85 billion as of March 31 from $5.27 billion three months
earlier. The figure in Spain jumped to $5.46 billion.  “We continue to support our clients in these countries
while also carefully managing risk,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mail. “The vast majority
of our exposure in these countries is client-driven. In
addition, our exposure in these countries needs to be viewed in
the context of a $1 trillion loan portfolio, and when you do
that it’s clear that the exposure is quite small.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  