-- 
Barclays Must Return $2.1 Billion, Lehman Brokerage Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-05T18:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/barclays-must-return-2-1-billion-to-trustee-liquidating-lehman-brokerage.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American business, must return
$2.1 billion in margin assets to the trustee liquidating the
remnants of the brokerage, the trustee said.  Trustee James Giddens raised his demand for margin assets
from $1.8 billion on April 28, as he and Barclays step up their
dispute over about $3.5 billion in assets after a judge’s ruling
failed to specify how much Barclays was entitled to take in
September 2008. He wants interest at 9 percent on the
$2.1 billion.  At the same time, Giddens agreed to pay Barclays
$869 million in damages plus 9 percent interest for failing to
deliver trading assets after the purchase. The so-called
clearance box assets were held to clear trades.  Barclays shares fell as much as 3.1 percent in London
trading and closed at 276.3 pence, off 7.5 pence, or
2.6 percent.  The judge “should clarify” his February order, spelling
out Barclays’ right to margin and other assets, the London-based
bank said in a court filing yesterday. Part of its claim is to
$1.5 billion in non-cash margin, which it says it was entitled
to take in the deal.  Barclays wants compensation for assuming some $6 billion in
short derivative positions that it had to cover when it took on
part of Lehman’s trading business. The amount sought by Barclays
for covering the short positions “could be defined to be as
much as $6 billion, but at a minimum is $1 billion,” Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, told Bloomberg on April 29.
Short positions are closed out by purchasing the securities
previously sold.  Barclays Claims  “Barclays is making claims that would derail and undermine
the progress to date and result in unjustifiable delays in the
recovery of assets for LBI’s public customers,” said William Maguire, the trustee’s lawyer, in an e-mail today.  LBI is  Lehman Brothers Inc ., the remnants of the brokerage.  O’Looney declined to comment on Maguire’s statement.  The filings by Barclays and the Lehman brokerage come ahead
of a court conference scheduled for next week by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck. The judge had directed Barclays and Giddens to
interpret the ruling he made in February granting the London-
based bank some assets and denying it some others, including
cash.  Three-Way Fight  The ruling followed a trial last year that involved a
three-way fight, with lawyer  David Boies  representing the U.K.’s
third-biggest bank. Barclays said it was owed $3 billion on the
brokerage deal, and the trustee demanded about $7 billion from
Barclays. The Lehman parent sought an alleged $11 billion
“windfall” it said Barclays made on the purchase.  Peck denied Lehman’s claim and reduced the trustee’s right
to assets.  Lehman wrote a letter to the judge on April 29, saying it
was claiming $500 million from Barclays for allegedly failing to
pay all of the bonuses the U.K. bank agreed to when it bought
the defunct investment firm’s business. Barclays has said it
paid all the promised bonuses and other compensation.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 