-- 
Barclays Jumps UBS in Currency Survey; Deutsche Bank First

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T14:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/barclays-jumps-ubs-in-currency-survey-deutsche-bank-biggest.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  leapfrogged  UBS AG (UBSN)  as the
second-biggest foreign-exchange trader in an annual survey by
Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, pushing the Swiss bank out
of the top two places for the first time since 2001.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  ranked first for the seventh straight
year, Euromoney said in an e-mailed statement. The Frankfurt-
based lender held onto its position even as its market share
dropped by the most of any bank in the survey’s top 20.  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell two places to seventh, while
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , ranked sixth, had the biggest increase in
market share as it rose one step.  “We are focused on our goal of becoming the number one
bank in FX globally,” said Nick Howard, head of foreign-
exchange and emerging-market distribution at London-based
Barclays. “The rise to number two in the poll provides
confirmation that our strategy is working.”  Foreign-exchange trading rose last year, with the value of
transactions handled by CLS Bank, the New York-based operator of
the largest currency-settlement system, jumping 22 percent to an
average $4.1 trillion a day. Currency markets climbed to record
highs for average daily trading volume in the U.K. and  North
America , according to central bank reports.  ‘Efficiency and Innovation’  Barclays’ market share slipped 0.3 percentage point to 10.8
percent. That still left it above Zurich-based UBS, whose
portion fell 0.7 percentage point to 10.6 percent, according to
Euromoney. Deutsche Bank’s market share fell to 15.6 percent
from 18.1 percent, while the volume traded by the banks in
places four through 10 rose to 40.3 percent of the market from
36.7 percent.  “With an increased focus on both the cost of, and return
on capital, foreign exchange is seen as an attractive
business,” said  Jim O’Neill , co-head of Barclays’ Risk
Solutions Group. “Competition does of course breed efficiency
and innovation.”  The information for the poll is derived from a survey of
end users in the foreign-exchange market, and is based on 13,039
responses, representing $177.6 trillion of turnover, according
to Euromoney.  Market Share  “People and technology are at the heart of our success,”
said Zar Amrolia, London-based global head of foreign exchange
at Deutsche Bank, who said he joined the company in 1995, when
it was ranked 22nd in the foreign-exchange industry. “Is the
competition tougher than ever before? Yes. We are making record
investments, which I expect will further revolutionize our
electronic business in 2011.”  Deutsche Bank will invest in new systems to focus on
services for end-investors and corporate clients, Amrolia said.
Deutsche Bank believes it was the first bank to have begun
electronic onshore trading of the Chinese yuan, he said,
referring to making a market within  China  for China’s currency.  “Market share is not our only goal but it does complement
other benchmarks such as profitability per head and return on
equity,” he said.  HSBC rose up the rankings after volumes increased, while
the bank also encouraged more of its customers to participate in
the survey this year, said Conor Ogle, head of marketing,
communications and strategy at HSBC’s foreign-exchange unit in
London. “We have been doing more business both on the cash and
the derivatives side, but we can’t blindly chase market share as
we’ve also got a commitment to focus on profitability.”  HSBC’s share increased to 6.3 percent from 4.6 percent,
Euromoney said.  Electronic Trading  “UBS remains confident that key investments already made
will deliver results throughout 2011 to further improve client
satisfaction and regain market share next year,” the bank said
in an e-mailed statement. “UBS has consistently succeeded in
being a top three foreign-exchange bank, and this year we are
particularly pleased to have regained the number one position in
foreign-exchange swaps,” it said.  Electronic trading volumes increased 25 percent from the
previous year, according to the Euromoney survey, to account for
56 percent of all foreign-exchange business.  “To be a leader in the foreign-exchange markets today, you
must have a strong electronic trading platform,” said Barclays’
Howard.  Following is a table of Euromoney’s rankings for foreign-
exchange market share (all products).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  