-- 
BDO USA Settles Bankest Suit With Former Client Banco Espirito Santo

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bdo-usa-settles-bankest-suit-with-former-client-banco-espirito-santo.html
BDO USA, the accounting firm formerly
known as BDO Seidman LLP, agreed to settle a lawsuit that
accused it of failing to detect a fraud in a joint venture of
former client  Banco Espirito Santo SA. (BES)   BDO won reversal of a $521.7 million jury verdict in the
case last year when a Florida appeals court ordered a new trial.
The terms of the settlement are confidential, Jerry Walsh, a BDO
spokesman, said.  “BDO USA LLP has entered into confidential settlement
agreements with Banco Espirito Santo and Barry Mukamal, the
bankruptcy trustee of E.S. Bankest LC, pursuant to which the
lawsuits against BDO have been resolved,” Walsh said in an e-
mailed statement.  Banco Espirito Santo, based in Lisbon, sued in 2004
claiming it suffered losses when New York-based BDO certified as
real accounts receivable at E.S. Bankest that were fake.  In 1998, the bank formed E.S. Bankest, which bought
receivables and collected the debt, as a joint venture with
Bankest Capital. E.S. Bankest officials faked millions of
dollars in receivables, and four executives were later convicted
of crimes. Banco Espirito Santo sold its interest in 2002 for
$10 million.  Florida ’s Third District Court of Appeal in Miami ruled in
June that a 2007 jury award in the case should be reversed
because a decision to split a trial in three parts possibly
prejudiced jurors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge A. Jay Cristol in Miami, who is
overseeing E.S. Bankest’s bankruptcy case, ordered the
settlement papers sealed and will hold a private hearing in
chambers about the accord on May 19.  The case is Banco Espirito Santo International Ltd. v. BDO
Seidman LLP, 04-14009-CA-01, 11th Judicial Circuit of Florida
(Miami-Dade County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  