-- 
Beating Facebook Easier Than Avoiding Web Bubble: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-05T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/beating-facebook-easier-than-avoiding-web-bubble-william-pesek.html
Mark Zuckerberg  shouldn’t lose too
much sleep about China’s Facebook beating him to  Wall Street .  Renren Inc. is the first social-networking website to go
public in the U.S., raising $743 million with which founder
Joseph Chen can tap China’s 1.3 billion people. China is a
market Facebook Inc. has yet to friend and the U.S. equity
market is a place Zuckerberg has yet to tread.  Here’s the thing, though. Renren investors are paying a
huge premium for future spoils -- the belief that China will
grow 10 percent indefinitely. To do that, the country will have
to upgrade its economic software.  This vital bit of reengineering isn’t unfolding on schedule
and China’s undervalued currency is partly to blame. It stifles
incentives for the Zuckerberg and Chen wannabes out there,
imperiling the nation’s outlook.  It sounds counterintuitive that the anchor of China’s
success in raising  living standards  over the last three decades
now is holding it back. As China enters the age of an Internet
it obsessively censors, the yuan has lulled officials who must
move the economy away from manufacturing that relies on cheap
labor. The longer the currency is artificially weak, the more
difficulty China will have nurturing the innovation vital to its
future.  A recent report by  Barry Eichengreen  at  University of
California , Berkeley, shows why and, perhaps appropriately, it’s
gone viral in cyberspace. His prediction that China will run
into trouble around 2015 is inspiring lively debates from the
blogosphere to the conference halls of Hanoi, where policy
makers are gathered for the  Asian Development Bank ’s annual
meeting.  Hitting Wall  The study -- co-written with Donghyun Park of ADB and
Kwanho Shin of Korea University -- argues that China will hit a
wall when per-capita income approaches $17,000. That could be in
the next three or four years at current growth rates.  This so-called middle-income trap tripped up one-time
growth stars  Malaysia , the  Philippines  and plenty of other
 developing countries . Were China to fall into it, investors
betting on Renren would be in for a brutal reality check.  At its $14 initial price, Renren is valued at 72 times last
year’s sales, compared with 25 times for Facebook based on the
value of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s investment in the U.S.
company. Renren’s premium is a no-brainer: China’s economy may
grow three times faster than the U.S. and about two-thirds of
the population isn’t online.  Great Expectations  What isn’t a no-brainer is how China will deliver on those
expectations. Officials know what they need to do: Stop relying
on exports for growth and go up-market. The export- and
investment-led model that last year enabled  China’s economy  to
surpass  Japan  as the world’s second-largest has run its course.
Not only is it holding back wage growth, but it’s also bumping
up a against a feeble world economy. The U.S.,  Europe  and Japan
are limping along.  Hence the urgency to rebalance things. China needs to build
a service-based economy that boosts productivity and empowers
entrepreneurs to create good-paying jobs. That would lead to a
far more sober allocation of the nation’s wealth, much of which
is pumped into government-favored champions. Such investments
tend to return far less than those of innovators building new,
globally competitive businesses.  It’s an economic software issue. While China’s hardware is
first world -- airports, roads, bridges and dams -- it has yet
to cultivate cutting-edge industries based on ideas and
knowledge, not factory floors and low-cost labor.  Middle-Income Trap  An undervalued currency skews incentives and priorities. It
exacerbates imbalances -- like credit bubbles -- that make
 China ’s financial system vulnerable. In their  study ,
Eichengreen, Park and Shin looked at international data since
1957. They conclude that an undervalued exchange rate,
maintained for significant periods of time, increases the odds
of economies falling into the middle-income trap.  This is an Asia-wide risk, says Rajat Nag, managing
director at ADB. He points out that there are two routes the
region could travel. One will propel 3 billion people toward
affluent, Europe-like levels by 2050. The other would see growth
stagnating in many key economies, including China and  India , and
not making the transition to broad-based prosperity.  China’s challenge is emblematic of what governments must do
to realize the first scenario. Policy makers must modernize
governance systems and remake institutions to ensure
transparency and accountability, and that rules and regulations
are enforced. Creating a thriving and innovative private sector
also is important.  Until now, economists have tended to fret that the weak
yuan fans China’s inflation and undermines nations as disparate
as the U.S. and  Indonesia . Today, the concern should be about
how it’s reducing the urgency to replace the sources of growth
and wealth creation with something more promising and enduring.  If China succeeds here, investors piling into Renren will
be a happy bunch. If the yuan gets in the way, China will merely
be the source of the world’s next great Internet bubble and
crash. It’s a surefire way to get unfriended by investors the
world over.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  