-- 
Beiersdorf Rises in Frankfurt Trading as Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-05-05T08:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/beiersdorf-rises-in-frankfurt-trading-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German maker of
Tesa adhesives and Nivea skin creams, rose in Frankfurt trading
as gains on exchange rates and the sale of securities helped
first-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The shares rose as much as 2.2 percent, the biggest
increase since April 20 in intraday terms. They were up 2
percent to 44.79 euros at 9:38 a.m. local time, the second
biggest increase in  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index.  Net income rose to 123 million euros ($183 million), or 54
cents a share, from 120 million euros, or 53 cents, a year
earlier, the Hamburg-based company said today in a  statement .
The average estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg was
for profit of 88.6 million euros.  “The big surprise was in earnings per share growth due to
non-operating items, as Beiersdorf finally saw some positive
returns from its 2 billion-euro cash balance,”  Andrew Wood , a
New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a
report to investors.  Profit was boosted by exchange rate gains and the sale of
some securities, Beiersdorf said. The company’s financial
result, the difference between earnings before interest and
taxes and pretax profit, was 15 million euros after a 4 million
loss a year earlier. Sales rose 1.7 percent to 1.41 billion
euros.  Beiersdorf is reducing the number of beauty-care products
it sells to focus on skin care. The manufacturer is planning on
reorganization costs of about 270 million euros in the two years
through 2012 related to advertisement spending and lowering the
value of the C-BONS hair-care business in  China  that it acquired
in 2007.  ‘Restructuring Story’  “Beiersdorf will remain a restructuring story for a long
time, and especially the dominating consumer sector will be
burdened by the actions,” Heiko Feber, an analyst at Bankhaus
Lampe in Dusseldorf with a “hold” recommendation on the stock,
said before the figures were released.  Earnings before interest and taxes at the consumer unit,
which generated 86 percent of group revenue last year, fell 17
percent to 133 million euros as sales were almost unchanged.
Beiersdorf has said it plans to scale back the 500 Nivea
products it offers in  Europe  by 19 percent.  Operating profit as a proportion of sales at the consumer
division will decline in 2011 from last year’s 11.3 percent
margin, Beiersdorf said, repeating a forecast made in December.
Revenue at the unit will remain at the 2010 figure of 5.32
billion euros, Beiersdorf reiterated.  Nivea, a brand name that Germans often use as a synonym for
skin cream, celebrates its 100th anniversary this year, an
occasion Beiersdorf will use for additional advertising
campaigns worth a “high double-digit” million-euro amount.  Operating profit at Tesa rose 16 percent to 29 million
euros as manufacturing customers, the division’s biggest market,
bought more industrial adhesive tape.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  