-- 
Bernanke Spurs Rally in Higher-Yielding Local Law Bonds: Argentina Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-05-05T22:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bernanke-spurs-rally-in-higher-yielding-local-law-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
is making investors more comfortable buying Argentina’s dollar
bonds sold under local law after indicating U.S. interest rates
are likely to remain near zero.  Investors demand an extra eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to hold the dollar bonds due in 2015 and known
as Bodens, rather than notes covered by U.S. courts and maturing
in 2017, down from 183 in June. The gap narrowed to the smallest
on record last week and yields on the Bodens have fallen 103
basis points since March 1 to 8.51 percent.  U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay low “for an
extended period,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said on
April 27.  Argentina ’s local-law debt is becoming more attractive
as U.S. policy makers sparked a rally in higher-yielding,
emerging-market dollar debt, said Jeremy Brewin, who helps
manage about $3 billion of emerging-market assets, including
Bodens, at Aviva Investors in London.  “It immediately means that we’ve got liquidity at
relatively cheap levels for a long period of time,” Brewin said
by phone. The result is “risk on, the expectation of liquidity
staying in place for a while and hunt for yield,” he said.  Investors consider local-law debt, which affords them legal
options in Argentine courts in case of a dispute or default,
riskier than global bonds covered by U.S. tribunals, said
 Siobhan Morden , head of strategy for  Latin America  at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Defaulted Debt  The 2017 bond was issued in June as part of President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s restructuring of $12.2 billion
in defaulted debt tied to the country’s 2001 financial crisis.
Yields on those notes have fallen 29 basis points since March 1
to 8.43 percent, while U.S. Treasuries due in five years fell 22
basis points to 1.878 percent over the same period.  The yield gap between the 2017 debt covered by U.S. law and
the 2015 bonds shrank to seven basis points on April 29 after
Bernanke said April 27 the central bank would maintain record
monetary stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in
June.  Argentina has about $5.82 billion in the 2015 bonds
outstanding compared with about $950 million in the global 2017
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The differential is shrinking because “there’s no
financial or economic sense” in investors moving to the global
2017 bonds at this point,  Henry Stipp , who helps manage about
$2.3 billion in emerging-market, fixed-income securities at
London-based Threadneedle Asset Management, said by phone.  ‘ Risk Aversion ’  “When risk aversion is much higher you usually demand a
premium for these risk factors and New York versus Argentina law
is one of those risk factors,” Morden said by telephone.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 12 basis points
today to 597, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company break its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries increased two basis points to
566 at 5:39 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
index.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.1 cent today to
17 cents, according to Bloomberg data.  The peso fell 0.1 percent today to 4.0815 per  U.S. dollar .  Declining Returns  A decline in the Argentine peso, which has fallen 2.5
percent this year, is also pushing Argentine investors to dollar
bonds governed by Argentine law rather than peso-denominated
debt, said  Paul McNamara , an emerging-market  fund manager  at GAM
Investment Management Ltd. in  London .  Peso-denominated debt returned 2.7 percent this year
through yesterday, while local currency bonds in Latin America
have returned an average of 4.2 percent, according to the
JPMorgan’s GBI-EM indexes.  Argentina’s economy is benefiting from a 37 percent rally
in commodity prices since June 2 when the global 2017 debt was
issued. The central bank said the economy will grow at least 6.5
percent this year, up from the 4.3 percent forecast in the
government’s 2011 budget.  The U.S. economy’s expansion will quicken to 3.4 percent
during the fourth quarter of this year, after growing at a 1.8
percent annual rate from January through March, according to the
median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The engine of this strength across risky assets is the
general view of a U.S. economic recovery,” Morden said. “Our
view is that the U.S. recovery is still on track and that should
continue to support risk appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 