-- 
Bernanke Says Regulators Must Avoid Rules That Are ‘Burdensome’ to Banks

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-05T18:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bernanke-says-regulators-must-avoid-rules-that-are-burdensome-to-banks.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the government must avoid imposing burdensome
rules on financial companies as it carries out the biggest
regulatory overhaul in seven decades.  “No one’s interests are served by the imposition of
ineffective or burdensome rules that lead to excessive increases
in costs or unnecessary restrictions in the supply of credit,”
Bernanke said today in a speech in  Chicago . “Regulators must
aim to avoid stifling reasonable risk-taking and innovation in
financial markets, as these factors play an important role in
fostering broader productivity gains, economic growth, and  job
creation .”  Bernanke and Fed officials are trying to balance the need
to reduce the risk of repeating the 2007-2008 financial crisis
with the aim of reviving the  U.S. economy  after the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The central bank, under
last year’s Dodd-Frank Act, was given the job of overseeing the
biggest financial companies.  “While a great deal has been accomplished since the act
was passed less than a year ago, much work remains to better
understand sources of systemic risk, to develop improved
monitoring tools, and to evaluate and implement policy
instruments to reduce macroprudential risks,” Bernanke said to
the Chicago Fed’s annual banking conference.  Bair Speech  Addressing the same conference today, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair said that the Fed and FDIC
must be willing to force systemically important firms to create
“credible and actionable” living wills to protect against the
kind of tumult that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The FDIC and the Fed must be willing to insist on
organizational changes that better align business lines and
legal entities well before a crisis occurs,” Bair said.  Bair expressed concerns that many systemically important
financial institutions have thousands of subsidiaries and
maintain activities that cross many different organizational
structures and regulatory jurisdictions.  “This can make it very difficult to implement an orderly
resolution of one part of the company without triggering a
costly collapse of the entire company,” she said.  ‘Macro’ Approach  Bernanke, 57, spent most of his speech discussing the
approach by the Fed and other regulators to carrying out the
Dodd-Frank Act. He has backed a so-called macroprudential
approach to supervision that looks at patterns and risks across
different companies and markets and not just at how individual
firms are performing.  The Fed chief didn’t discuss the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy. Speaking on April 27 at his first regular press
conference, Bernanke signaled that the central bank will
maintain its record stimulus after June and indicated that the
need to contain inflation means further easing is unlikely.  The 18-month contraction that ended in June 2009 was the
longest since the 43-month slump during the Great Depression,
according to the  National Bureau of Economic Research .  U.S. banks have mounted a campaign against one Fed
regulation under Dodd-Frank to cap “swipe” fees on  debit
cards . Bernanke said in March that the Fed would miss an April
deadline for the rule, telling lawmakers the issues raised in
more than 11,000 comment letters are “complex and difficult.”  Derivatives Rules  Last week, the Treasury Department proposed exempting
foreign-exchange swaps and forwards from most of the derivatives
rules required under the Dodd-Frank Act, saying the market
already meets many of the law’s objectives.  A coalition of 20 firms, including Deutsche Bank AG, Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. and UBS AG, asked Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to grant an exemption in a November letter.  Responding to questions after the speech, Bernanke said so-
called “stress tests” of banks will be a “common event”
after the initial Fed-led project in 2009 helped stabilize the
financial system.  The central bank hasn’t decided yet how much information to
release from future tests and is trying to balance the banks’
privacy with openness, he said. The data probably won’t be as
detailed as in 2009, Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Chicago at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  