-- 
Bharti Profit Falls on Rising Network, Advertising Costs

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-05T10:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bharti-airtel-profit-falls-worse-than-estimated-31-shares-fall-in-mumbai.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, posted a worse-than-estimated 31 percent
drop in fourth-quarter profit after higher network costs and
advertising expenses eroded margins.  Net income in the three months ended in March was 14
billion rupees ($314 million), New Delhi-based Bharti said in a
statement today. That lagged behind the 16.3 billion rupees
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti, controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal, more than
doubled advertising spending after the introduction of third-
generation mobile-phone services and number portability lifted
competition in a country with 15 service providers. Slowing
growth in the world’s second-largest cellular market prompted
Bharti to expand overseas with its purchase of the African
assets of  Kuwait ’s Mobile Telecommunications Co. last year.  “All the operators have been increasing their spending,
and that’s one thing that will keep margins under pressure for
now,” said Archit Singhal, an analyst at Jaypee Capital
Services Ltd. in Mumbai. He rates Bharti’s shares “neutral.”  The shares fell 3.2 percent, the biggest drop since Jan.
27, to 357.90 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in
Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 1.4
percent.  ‘Young Population’  Spending on sales and marketing more than doubled to 18.3
billion rupees in the quarter from 7.57 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said. Access and interconnection charges
jumped 85 percent to 21.4 billion rupees.  Sales rose 52 percent to 163 billion rupees after Bharti’s
acquisition in  Africa .  “In India, we have been focusing on building a robust 3G
network to meet the increasing data needs of a young
population,” Mittal said in the statement. In Africa, the
company is “rapidly expanding network coverage, improving
distribution width and increasing efficiency and productivity
standards.”  Average revenue per user, a key metric of performance in
the telecommunications industry, fell 12 percent in India to 194
rupees a month. In Africa, the figure was $7.20, the company
said without providing a comparative number.  Bharti started the roll-out of third-generation wireless
services in India this year that will allow it to boost revenue
if data use and smartphones catch on among users.  Tariff War  Mobile-phone service providers are betting on the faster
network to lure consumers to use more profitable services after
call rates in India fell to half-penny a minute.  Japan ’s NTT DoCoMo Inc. and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  set off a
tariff war when they entered India with lower rates to win
customers in a market that is forecast by researcher  Gartner
Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by the end of 2014. India had
812 million mobile-phone accounts in March, according to the
nation’s telecom regulator, lagging behind only  China .  Bharti had 162 million subscribers in India as of March 31,
according to the nation’s telecommunications industry regulator.  Debt exceeded cash and cash equivalents by 600 billion
rupees as of March 31, up from 12.8 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said in its quarterly report.  The company, part owned by Singapore Telecommunications
Ltd., plans to invest in expanding new businesses in  Nigeria ,
Gabon, Zambia, Malawi, Niger and  Uganda  after the company
completed its $10.7 billion cash and debt purchase of the
African assets of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications.  Bharti may invest $400 million in the Democratic Republic
of Congo in the next three years, Antoine Pamboro, the company’s
managing director in Congo, said Dec. 10. Bharti will invest 25
billion shillings ($300 million) in  Kenya  this year and start 3G
services in the East African nation this year, Airtel Kenya Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer Rene Meza said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  