-- 
Taxes, Scale of Spending Cuts Remain Hurdles to U.S. Debt Limit Increase

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-06T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/biden-opens-talks-with-congressional-leaders-on-how-to-cut-long-term-debt.html
A fight over taxes and the scale of
spending cuts remain the biggest obstacles to a deficit-cutting
plan that White House officials and congressional leaders say is
necessary for an agreement to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  House Republican leaders said yesterday they would place on
hold a plan to privatize Medicare health coverage for the
elderly because of political obstacles, and concentrate on
finding common ground with President  Barack Obama  on spending
cuts.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
told reporters in the Capitol that “the reality is this
president has excoriated” the Medicare proposal. House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said the party would be unable
to prevail on the idea in the current Congress, though he also
said everything remains on the table except tax increases.  After lawmakers met yesterday with Vice President  Joe Biden 
to discuss their differences over budget-cutting, Cantor said
“there are areas in which we can find some commonality” with
the Obama administration. He declined to give specifics about
the overlaps.  Many lawmakers are using a deadline to raise the U.S. debt
limit in the next few months as an opportunity to force major
changes in the federal budget. The Treasury Department said this
week lawmakers will need to raise the $14.3 trillion debt cap by
about Aug. 2.  Biden opened the talks by calling the negotiations with
lawmakers on reducing long-term government deficits “hard
business.”  ‘We Made Progress’  “We made progress,” Biden told reporters after the two-
hour session. Before it started, he said, “I’ve been in
Congress for 36 years and I’m always optimistic.” The next
meeting is scheduled for May 10, the vice president said.  Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma , a Republican member of
the Budget Committee who formerly led his party’s House campaign
arm, said political realities point to a smaller-scale deal than
Republicans have sought.  Republicans realize “there are some things we’d want that
Democrats simply are not going to consent to,” Cole said. “The
entitlement changes are longer-term changes, and they don’t need
to be built into this year’s budget to arrive at a deal.”  “We can still come to an agreement on the 2012 budget that
ratchets down spending, and hopefully that will set us up for
something that is much more sweeping post-presidential
election,” Cole said.  Gleeful Reaction  Democrats reacted gleefully to Republicans’ seeming retreat
on their Medicare plan, charging that it was a reaction to a
voter backlash against what Democrats characterized as a
politically lethal proposal. Democrats say Republicans are
trying to balance the budget on the backs of the poor and
elderly.  “The Republicans are slowly realizing their plan to
privatize Medicare is a political disaster, but until they
renounce their vote for it, they are still going to own it,”
Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat, said in a statement.  Obama last month outlined a proposal to cut $4 trillion
from deficits over 12 years. The House in April passed a
Republican plan to cut spending by more than $6 trillion over a
decade, privatize Medicare and turn the Medicaid health-care
plan for the poor into a block grant program.  Lawmakers in both parties used the meeting with Biden at
 Blair House  across the street from the White House as a chance
to spell out their starting positions in the budget debate, said
one participant, Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
 Maryland . “There’s an intent to keep at this,” he said.  Mandatory Cuts  Cantor told reporters the Republican position is the House-
passed budget, which calls for $715 billion in mandatory cuts
over 10 years outside of Medicare and Medicaid. Those include
cuts in farm subsidy payments and financial aid to graduate
students.  After the meeting, lawmakers sent legislative staff to look
for areas of overlap, including specific spending cuts, in
Republican and Democratic proposals that could form the basis of
an agreement, according to congressional aides who spoke on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
describe the discussions.  Officials outlined a tentative schedule of twice-weekly
meetings that would last through May, one congressional aide
said.  Biden said that, while the debt limit and the budget aren’t
“technically connected,” they are “politically connected.”  Cost Controls  Obama’s deficit-reduction plan would impose cost controls
on Medicare. House Republicans would replace the entitlement
program with one in which the government would provide subsidies
so people could buy coverage on the private insurance market.  Obama and the House Republicans also take separate paths on
taxes. Obama would eliminate Bush-era tax cuts for wealthy
families upon their expiration in 2012 and add $1 trillion in
taxes on high-income families over 12 years. House Republicans
would continue all the Bush tax cuts and avoid tax increases.  Cantor and Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the Senate’s second-
ranking Republican, were the two members of their party
participating in the talks with Biden.  Four Democrats attended: Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus  of  Montana , Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
Daniel Inouye of  Hawaii , House Assistant Democratic leader Jim Clyburn of  South Carolina  and  Van Hollen , the House Budget
Committee’s top-ranking Democrat.  Biden was joined at the meeting by Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner , White House budget director Jack Lew and  Gene Sperling , director of the National Economic Council.  Bond markets showed little concern over the U.S. deficit in
trading yesterday, as a plunge in commodities and stocks and a
rise in weekly jobless claims eased concern inflation is
accelerating. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes fell to
a six-week low. The 10-year note yield fell seven basis points
to 3.15 percent, after touching the lowest since March 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  