-- 
Bin Laden’s Last Hideout Doesn’t Look Like a Million Dollars

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bin-laden-1-million-fortress-lacks-luxuries-found-in-cheaper-area-homes.html
As U.S. officials tell it, Osama  bin Laden  was living in a $1 million mansion when he was killed this
week, undermining his image as an ascetic warrior holed up in a
cave near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.  “Here is bin Laden, who has been calling for these
attacks, living in this million-dollar-plus compound; living in
an area that is far removed from the front; hiding behind women
who were put in front of him as a shield,” said  John Brennan ,
the top White House counterterrorism adviser, in a May 2 news
conference. “I think it really just speaks to just how false
his narrative has been over the years.”  Yet the large compound in Abbottabad, outside of Islamabad,
has none of the luxuries that a million-dollar-plus price tag
brings to mind. A view of the three-story structure from outside
shows unpainted walls streaked with black mold that commonly
grows on bare concrete in Pakistani summers. Video of the
interior featured rooms with basic, inexpensive furniture. More
luxurious homes in Abbottabad are listed for less than $500,000.  Bin Laden chose to live in seclusion far from the tribal
border areas of Pakistan and  Afghanistan , prime staging ground
for al-Qaeda and the Taliban fighters. Abbottabad, nestled in a
valley about 38 miles as the crow flies from the capital of
Islamabad, is a different world, with its upscale homes for
retired military officers and a nearby golf course.  The house value, part of the initial narrative of the raid,
was cited separately in briefings by officials. In subsequent
days, the administration has stood by its house-value figure
while revising other details of the raid. Officials retracted an
early statement that bin Laden used one of his wives as a human
shield.  Comparables  The estimated value of $1 million cited by U.S. officials
was based on a comparison with other real estate prices in the
area, the size of the compound and the size of the buildings on
it, a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity said on
May 4. The official wasn’t authorized to comment by name and
affiliation.  The compound covers about 1.5 acres on a triangular lot.
The perimeter walls run a total of almost 800 feet around the
property and rise between 10 to 20 feet, dwarfing the neighbors
who walk past on the dirt roads outside.  The complex is roughly eight times larger than other homes
in the area, according to a senior administration official who
briefed reporters in a May 2 conference call. He described the
home as custom-built to hide someone of significance.  Clearly Different  “It clearly was different than any other house out
there,” Brennan said at a later briefing. “It had the
appearance of, you know, sort of a fortress.”  The purported million-dollar price tag aside, it was not
luxury living, even by Pakistani standards. For less than half
that amount, home buyers in the Abbottabad area can snap up
luxury residences complete with drawing rooms, gardens, TV
lounges, central air conditioning and multiple bedrooms with en-
suite bathrooms, according to listings posted on  Zameen , a
Pakistani real estate web site.  A 7,200-square-foot, two-story home with six bedrooms was
listed for $416,500, fully furnished. Another two-story home,
with eight bedrooms and 5,400 square feet, was listed for
$291,550. There were no homes in Abbottabad listed for over
$500,000 on the Zameen website.  Some of the properties listed this week were priced as low
as $60,000, although these were on lots as small as one-fortieth
the size of bin Laden’s compound.  Land Value  The four original plots of land that were joined to create
the bin Laden compound were purchased for $48,000 in 2004 and
2005, the  Associated Press  reported.  In Bilal Town, bin Laden’s neighborhood of new villas being
built amid plots of farmland on the northeastern edge of
Abbottabad, that land today would cost $200,000, said Muhammad
Sabir Abbassi, a real estate dealer in Abbottabad who spoke by
phone.  The property values show the relative affluence of
Abbottabad in a country where per capita income, adjusted for
purchasing power, was $2,400 in 2010, according to the  CIA World
Factbook . Nearly a quarter of the population lives below the
international poverty line of $1.25 a day, according to Unicef.  Much of the interior of bin Laden’s compound is empty space
that allowed the al-Qaeda leader’s guards a clear view of anyone
who might scale the perimeter walls and try to reach the main
house. Walls inside the compound create a 30-meter-long alleyway
that a vehicle would have to traverse from the exterior gate to
a second gate before reaching any of the buildings.  Satellite Dish  The three-story main house is surrounded by several single-
story buildings, one with a satellite dish on its roof. The
compound has four gas meters and four electricity meters, though
officials said it lacks phone and internet connections.  Bin Laden provided spacious homes with gardens for his
family when he could, though he disdained any reliance on
physical comforts or luxury, according to a 2009 book by his
first wife, Najwa, and his fourth son, Omar, written with
American author Jean Sasson.  Living in Khartoum,  Sudan , after he was exiled from his
native  Saudi Arabia  during the 1990s, bin Laden put his wives
and children into a group of comfortable three-story homes with
gardens in a guarded compound, they wrote.  After being expelled to Afghanistan, Omar wrote, bin Laden
kept his family in a series of rock huts “fit for nothing more
than sheltering livestock,” in the mountainous Tora Bora area
along the Pakistani border.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir in Abbottabad at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  