-- 
Bin Laden’s Legacy Is Boss Who Lost Control: Jonathan Randal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R a n d a l
-- 
2011-05-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bin-laden-s-legacy-is-boss-who-lost-control-commentary-by-jonathan-randal.html
The derring-do military operation that
killed  Osama bin Laden  brought cathartic closure to Americans,
who had longed for justice to be done for the 10 years since al-
Qaeda’s sensational attacks on the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001.  Still, triumphalism isn’t in order. Rather bin Laden’s
death provides a marker to judge what he and al-Qaeda
accomplished, as well as their limitations and the growing
confidence of the U.S. and its allies in dealing with the threat
of jihadi terrorism.  Now it’s time to step back, take a colder view of bin
Laden’s diminishing influence in operational terrorism and stake
out where our abiding national interests lie after an anxious
decade in many ways dominated by the repercussions of that
traumatic September day.  The U.S. can afford to do just that because of steady
progress in fighting terrorism and hard lessons learned about
repeating costly errors.  From his earliest policy statements in 1996, bin Laden
never hid his intention to suck the U.S. into an asymmetric
struggle with the Muslim world. His aim was to exhaust our
wealth, corrode our democratic institutions and undermine our
“soft power” influence abroad.  That single-handedly bin Laden initially proved so
successful remains all the more impressive since the emergence
of his brand new non-state global terrorism coincided with the
zenith of America the hyperpower in the early years of the post-
Cold War world.  Lasting Damage  By that yardstick bin Laden arguably inflicted more lasting
damage on the U.S. than the shattering physical and psychic
trauma he inflicted in al-Qaeda’s daring attacks on the  World
Trade Center  and the Pentagon.  Let’s face it. At the outset of the last decade did
Americans suppose that President  George W. Bush ’s now discarded
slogan -- the global war on terrorism -- would bog the U.S. down
in a seemingly unwinnable war in Afghanistan, justify invading
Iraq on specious pretexts which proved to have nothing to do
with Sept. 11 and aggravate a national debt so gigantic that the
once mighty dollar is being quietly devalued to help limit the
harm done by the exponential growth of red ink?  What we hopefully have learned is that successful
counterterrorism depends on the unflashy, steady accumulation of
information quietly shared by many nations’ intelligence
organizations and based on humdrum police work.  Respecting Rights  A corollary in the age of instant communications and the
24/7 news cycle should have taught us that in our own eyes and
those of the world we must be seen to be above suspicion when it
comes to respecting human rights. The excesses of  Abu Ghraib  and
Guantanamo played into the hands of al-Qaeda propaganda.  A professional lifetime covering Third World conflicts long
ago convinced me that torture, be it water-boarding or other
coercive methods favored by the  Bush administration , provide
little useful information while tarnishing our once proud
reputation for respecting the rule of law.  There are reasons to be optimistic. For instance, Alliance,
a dedicated but little known international intelligence clearing
house in Paris functioned without a hitch even with the
political strains between  France  and the U.S. caused by
outspoken French criticism of Bush’s invasion of Iraq in 2003.  If our progress often has been stumbling, consider al-
Qaeda’s fate. From 1996 to Sept. 11, bin Laden operated with
near total impunity in an anarchic  Afghanistan  nominally run by
Mullah Omar’s Taliban. The swift but incomplete American war
against the Taliban allowed bin Laden to escape into  Pakistan .  On the Run  But never again did the so-called al-Qaeda central command
exercise the same freedom of movement. Fugitives and major
clandestine operatives make it a rule never to sleep in the same
bed two nights in a row.  Bin Laden’s seemingly constant presence in his Abbottabad
hideout over the last five or six years confirmed what was long
suspected: he had to operate under the watchful eye of his
Pakistani protectors who at times sacrificed some of his key
operatives to keep the Americans happy.  In such an operational straightjacket, bin Laden lost his
ability to instigate worldwide terrorist operations. He was
reduced to claims of inspiring spinoffs of more or less like-
minded radical jihadis. They exercised less dedication to his
wishes than McDonald’s branches do toward the regulations of the
brand’s central ownership.  Criminal Enterprise  The anti-Shiite excesses in  Iraq  at the hands of al-Qaeda
in Mesopotamia between 2004 and 2006 caused bin Laden to
question its tactics. Al-Qaeda in the Sahara, made up of the
remnants of the once fearsome Islamist movement in  Algeria , is
as much a classical criminal organization as a jihadist
movement.  Let’s keep in mind that over the years most of al-Qaeda’s
victims were Muslims. That helps explain why jihadi radicalism
was so out of favor when the “Arab Spring” swept first through
 Tunisia  before its demands for democracy and an end to
dictatorial rule spread to  Egypt  and then, amid stiff
resistance, to Bahrain, Syria, Yemen and  Libya .  None of these spontaneous movements mentioned al-Qaeda.  If the U.S. and its European allies want to keep militant
jihadism marginalized, they should avoid repeating the kneejerk
support for strongman regimes, many of whom stayed in power by
invoking the threat of “us or Osama.”  We would be well advised to spend some of the billions of
dollars now earmarked for counterterrorism to shoring up these
fledgling democracies. The model should be the fortunes the West
so wisely invested in post-Soviet Eastern Europe.  (Jonathan Randal, a former Washington Post reporter, is
author of “Osama: The Making of a Terrorist.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Randal at  jonrandal2004@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  