-- 
Bin Laden Hideout Raises Pakistan Atomic Alarm, Examiner Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-05-05T09:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bin-laden-hideout-raises-pakistan-atomic-alarm-examiner-says.html
Osama Bin Laden’s hideout inside a
fortified house a mile from an elite Pakistani military academy
should raise the alarm over the South Asian country’s nuclear
weapons program, atomic investigator Olli Heinonen said.  The al-Qaeda leader’s discovery and subsequent killing
“revives uncertainties on the extent to which the government is
in full and effective control of the country,” Heinonen said
late yesterday in an e-mail from Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where
he is a senior fellow at a  Harvard University  research center
for international security. “There is very little assurance
that nuclear materials and facilities are fully under government
control.”  Heinonen, the International Atomic Energy Agency’s top
nuclear inspector until August 2010, led the United Nations
investigation into Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan’s sale
of atomic-weapon technology to  Iran ,  Libya  and  North Korea . He
continues tracking illicit nuclear trade and in March testified
before the  U.S. Congress  about nuclear proliferation risks.  Rather than opening up civilian reactors to full inspection
in exchange for increased technology assistance, Pakistan is
increasing output of nuclear-weapons material and will have the
fourth-biggest atomic weapons stockpile by 2020, Heinonen said.  In return for technology and security assurances,
“ Pakistan  would stop production of fissile material for
military purposes, commit to a moratorium on nuclear testing and
provide full disclosure of nuclear proliferation activities
involving Iran, Libya, North Korea and Syria,” Heinonen said.  Pakistan, which holds the IAEA’s rotating chairmanship, has
benefited from limited nuclear assistance without being asked to
provide assurances that the aid wasn’t going toward weapons. The
IAEA needs to step up efforts to monitor such help, Heinonen
told the  House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee  on
March 18.  Bin Laden met with Pakistani nuclear scientists and sought
nuclear material. The terrorist leader was killed May 1 during a
U.S. raid on his home in Abbottabad, an army headquarters town
50 kilometers (30 miles) from Pakistan’s capital, Islamabad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  