-- 
Blavatnik Said to Be Leading Bidder in $3 Billion Auction of Warner Music

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-05T05:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/blavatnik-is-said-to-emerge-as-leading-bidder-in-auction-of-warner-music.html
Warner Music  Group former director Len Blavatnik has emerged as the leading bidder for the New York-
based music company that put itself up for sale in January, said
three people with knowledge of the situation.  A sale to Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings for $3
billion or more would end a three-month auction whose finalists
include private-equity brothers Tom and Alec Gores and Sony/ATV Music Publishing.  Rival bidders may yet revise their offers and a sale to
Blavatnik is not certain, said two people. The board meets again
today, they said. Tom Gores, who runs  Beverly Hills , California-
based Platinum Equity LLC, is working with Alec Gores, whose Los
Angeles-based firm is Gores Group LLC.  Sony/ATV has made a joint bid with billionaire  Ronald
Perelman  and Guggenheim Partners LLC, people have said. Each of
the bids is about $3 billion or higher, they have said.  Michael Sitrick , an outside spokesman for Blavatnik,
declined to comment. A Warner Music spokesman declined to
comment.  A sale to Blavatnik would position Warner Music to make a
bid for EMI Group Ltd., the London-based music company that
lender Citigroup Inc. seized from its owner,  Guy Hands . By
combining the two companies, a new owner would be able to cut
costs.  Warner Music, home to artists including Cee Lo Green and
the Black Keys, has long-term debt of $1.94 billion, according
to Bloomberg data.  Warner Music added 5 cents to $7.42 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 32
percent this year.  The list of suitors narrowed last week when billionaire
investor  Ron Burkle  decided to walk away.  The Financial Times reported earlier that Blavatnik was the
lead bidder.  Eight of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman Jr. owns about 7 percent of the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  