-- 
BOE’s Bailey Says Margin Pressure on U.K. Banks Won’t Go Away

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T15:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/boe-s-bailey-says-margin-pressure-on-u-k-banks-won-t-go-away.html
U.K. lenders will continue to face
pressure on interest margins as they pay more to access funding,
according to  Bank of England  official Andrew Bailey.  “It is safe to predict that the pressure on interest
margins will not go away,” Bailey said in a speech today at the
Building Societies Association’s annual conference in
Birmingham, England. “We have seen a switch from pressure
driven by the asset side of the balance sheet before the crisis
broke” to the “liability side” of banks’ balance sheets.  Rising wholesale borrowing costs have pushed banks to
increase rates on mortgages and other loans, while competition
for deposits has led to higher interest on savings, Bailey said.
Still, there has been a “very encouraging strengthening” of
funding by lenders, which has allowed “substantial progress”
to be made in repaying emergency support provided by the Bank of
 England  and the government, he said.  “Competition for retail deposits is intense as banks and
building societies compete to attract more stable funding,”
Bailey said. “Competition for funding, and the impact on the
cost of funding, has fed through to spreads on lending to
households, where the spreads on new lending have increased
markedly relative to the spreads on loans outstanding.”  Bailey last month joined the  Financial Services Authority 
as the deputy head of the Prudential Business Unit, as well as
becoming director of the organization’s division overseeing U.K.
lenders. In 2013, he will become the deputy chief executive of
the Bank of England’s new Prudential Regulation Authority, which
is being created to prevent future financial crises.  Net interest margins are the difference between what banks
earn on loans and what they pay on deposits and funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  