-- 
Boehner Boxed In by Republican Anti-Tax Pledge: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-05-05T17:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/boehner-is-boxed-in-by-republican-party-s-anti-tax-pledge-jonathan-alter.html
Can the Republicans find sweet
harmony?  On the deficit debate, party frontman  John Boehner  is boxed
in.  “Why would you cut a deal before 2012?” asks one tax
hard-liner.  “It’s Paul’s idea,” House Speaker Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, told ABC News in an April 25 interview. “Other
people have other ideas.”  If you get the sense that John is distancing himself from
Paul, don’t blame Yoko. Boehner is worried that Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s plan to privatize Medicare -- which
passed the House with all but four Republican votes on April 15
-- isn’t playing so well at town hall meetings.  The speaker is in a box.  His party easily took the House last fall, but the Senate
and the presidency are still in Democrats’ hands. And just when
the big debate on the deficit is ripening, President  Barack Obama , fresh from his skillful dispatch of  Osama bin Laden , is a
Beatle again.  Despite pleas from Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and emissaries from  Wall Street , Republicans seem determined to
play chicken with Obama on the debt ceiling, which must be
raised by Aug. 2 or the U.S. will face default. They are
demanding that big chunks of the Ryan plan be adopted or, at a
minimum, that triggers be enacted that would impose huge
spending cuts down the road.  Of course, unless Republicans approve some revenue
increases, like getting hugely profitable  oil companies  off the
public dole, they won’t get agreement from the President.  His Own Party  But Boehner’s most immediate problem is his own party. The
source of his indigestion this time isn’t so much the Tea Party
freshmen as a 25-year-old document that he and almost everyone
else in the party has signed.  Sponsored by Grover G. Norquist’s Americans for  Tax Reform ,
the famous anti-tax pledge requires Republicans to oppose not
just garden variety tax increases but also the removal of any
tax subsidy or loophole unaccompanied by reductions in marginal
rates.  “I wrote the pledge this way intentionally,” Norquist
says, “so there could be no net tax increases.”  Now there is a nasty squabble under way between Norquist
and archconservative Senator Tom A. Coburn, an Oklahoma
Republican who wants to get rid of wasteful subsidies like those
for ethanol but is running up against the pledge he signed.  Norquist says Coburn “lied his way into office.”  Coburn says he owes his allegiance to the Constitution, not
to “a pledge from a special interest group.”  Gang of Six  Coburn is a member of the bipartisan Gang of Six that is
working hard in the Senate for a compromise, along the lines
offered by the Simpson-Bowles deficit commission, that includes
both entitlement cuts and an end to most tax code subsidies --
the kind that keep corporate lobbyists in business.  It’s a commendable effort. But any Gang of Six agreement is
dead on arrival in the Republican-controlled House.  “Why would you cut a deal between now and 2012 when you’re
going to get a Republican Senate?” Norquist asks.  With neither the Ryan plan nor any Gang of Six proposal
headed for passage, lawmakers are looking at alternatives. One
idea, backed by Senators Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat,
and  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, is to limit federal
spending to 20.6 percent of gross domestic product.  This is a classic example of hyper-political Washington
thinking by senators up for re-election: Get credit for doing
something without specifying what it is. If it passes,
McCaskill-Corker would amount to a Ryan plan by another name:
huge cuts to entitlement spending made with a hatchet, not a
scalpel.  Actual Behavior  At least Ryan gets specific. The problem is the specifics
have little relation to how people and companies actually
behave.  For instance, Republicans propose that in 10 years seniors
would go on exchanges -- shades of the reviled Obama health plan
--  and buy their health insurance in the private market. Let’s
see: Which insurance companies want to insure sick, elderly
people?  That’s why Medicare was invented. The premium support
Republicans would offer can’t come close to covering the cost of
that insurance. The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
estimated that under the Ryan plan, seniors would eventually pay
an average of about $6,500 more a year out of pocket.  Low Estimate  Other experts say that for seniors with medical histories -
-  most seniors -- this estimate is almost certainly low.  Ryan’s way around the issue is to make it a mañana problem.
“How many of you are 55 years of age or older?” he asked the
audience at a recent town meeting in Franklin,  Wisconsin . “This
budget does not affect your Medicare benefits.”  Pretty slick for a baby-faced policy wonk: Pander to
today’s seniors, who voted 58 percent Republican in 2010, in
part because of the GOP’s election ads arguing correctly that
Obama’s new health-care law would eventually cut $500 billion
from Medicare. Everyone younger gets the finger.  If this radical recipe actually restored the nation to
fiscal health, it might be worth it. But it doesn’t. Any reading
of the Ryan plan reveals that its real objective is to slash
spending, especially on programs for the poor, and cut taxes.
Deficit reduction runs a distant third.  The good news is that if you force Tea Party types to
choose, most think deficit reduction is more important than more
tax breaks for the wealthy. That gives Boehner something to work
with.  But expect an exceptionally bumpy ride between now and
July, as each side blames the other for driving the economy over
the cliff and into default.  The bottom line: With the Ryan plan and any Gang of Six
proposal dead in the water, Republicans must rally around
another deficit-cutting deal.  ( Jonathan Alter , author of “The Promise: President Obama,
Year One,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Jonathan Alter at
 alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  