-- 
Braga Beats Benfica, Will Meet Porto in All-Portuguese Europa League Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-05T23:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/braga-beats-benfica-will-meet-porto-in-all-portuguese-europa-league-final.html
Braga held on to defeat Benfica 1-0
and move into an all-Portuguese Europa League soccer final
against Porto.  Custodio scored last night to send Braga to its first
European final on away goals. With the two-game series tied at
2-2, Braga advanced because it scored at Benfica in a 2-1 loss.
Porto went through on a 7-4 total after losing 3-2 at Villarreal
as Radamel Falcao set a  competition record  for most goals.  “I’m no hero,” Custodio told UEFA’s website. “We all are
heroes. Those who played, those who stayed on the bench, those
who stayed in the stands, the fans. We will play to win the
final, it’s our ambition. We are true warriors.”  The May 18 final in Dublin will mark the eighth time teams
from the same country play for  Europe ’s second-tier club title.
The last occasion was four years ago, when Sevilla beat Spanish
rival Espanyol in a penalty shootout.  Custodio scored with a header in the 19th minute to give
Braga the advantage on the tie-breaking away-goals rule. Benfica
had its best chance of the half in the 40th minute as Javier Saviola hit the post.  Braga goalkeeper Artur dived to save against Oscar Cardozo
in the second half and Saviola failed to connect with the ball
when he was alone at the far post. Junior Paulao then cleared
Alan Kardec’s header off the line in the 88th minute with Artur
out of position.  “I’m happy for the squad,” Braga coach Domingos Paciencia
said. “They are great professionals and have reason to be
proud.”  Falcao’s Record  In  Spain , Giuseppe Rossi’s penalty with 10 minutes left
gave Villarreal the victory on the night over Porto, which held
a 5-1 advantage from the first leg.  Porto’s Falcao set a tournament single-season record by
scoring his 16th goal, breaking the mark set by  Bayern Munich ’s
Jurgen Klinsmann in 1995-96.  Cani opened the scoring after 17 minutes for Villarreal and
Hulk drew Porto even before halftime. Colombian striker Falcao
scored his record-setting goal in the 48th minute and Joan
Capdevilla tied it for Villarreal after 75 minutes.  Rossi then won the game in the 80th minute with a penalty
kick after Nicolas Otamendi brought down Ruben.  While Braga will be contesting its first European final,
the May 18 championship game will be Porto’s fifth. It lost to
Juventus in the 1984 Cup Winners’ Cup final before winning the
European Cup in 1987 and 2004, and the  UEFA  Cup in 2003.  Porto twice beat Braga this season on its way to winning
its 25th Portuguese league title.  “We resisted the initial Villarreal pressure and now we
are into the final with Braga, who eliminated great teams such
as Sevilla, Liverpool and Benfica,” Porto coach Andre Villas-
Boas told UEFA’s website. “It is a great challenge for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  