-- 
Brazilian Banks Beat Wall Street as Itau Shows Who Rules

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-05T22:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/brazil-banks-beating-wall-street-as-itau-shows-jpmorgan-who-rules-markets.html
Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , the largest steel producer
in the Americas, chose three Brazilian banks to manage a $3.5
billion share sale last month. U.S. firms  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which led previous deals for the company,
weren’t in the mix.  When Magazine Luiza SA, an electronics and furniture
retailer, held an initial public offering in April that raised
$586.7 million, it asked Banco Itau BBA SA, the investment-
banking unit of Brazil’s largest lender, to lead the deal.
Foreign banks weren’t invited.  “It’s a sign of the times,” Jean-Marc Etlin, vice
president for investment banking at Itau BBA, which also worked
on the Gerdau share sale, said April 19 in an interview in  Sao
Paulo . “Brazilian companies and entrepreneurs are learning that
they don’t need a foreign bank to help them with their financing
needs. Local banks have got what it takes to do even the most
sophisticated deal.”  Foreign firms pursuing investment-banking fees in Brazil,
where an emerging middle class and rising commodity prices are
propelling one of the world’s fastest-growing economies, face
stiff competition. Local players have a greater capacity to
finance deals, improved relationships with investors,
experienced executives and the ability to provide services once
offered only by large global banks.  ‘Entrenched Competitors’  The strength of Brazilian lenders in investment banking is
unusual for emerging markets, said Christopher Harland, head of
 Latin America  for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which has 300 people in Sao
Paulo, Brazil’s financial hub.  “You don’t find many markets where you have those kinds of
strong, well-capitalized, entrenched competitors,” said
Harland, who is based in  New York .  Brazil, which has experienced boom-and-bust cycles of
inflation, currency devaluations and interest-rate swings since
the end of military government in 1985, is surging again. Gross
domestic product expanded 7.5 percent last year, the most in two
decades, compared with 2.8 percent in the U.S. and 1.3 percent
in the U.K., according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Unemployment is at record lows and credit at all-time highs, as
inflation in April likely exceeded 6.5 percent, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini has said.  Lower Fees  Brazilian issuers sold a  record  290.7 billion reais ($180
billion) in stocks and fixed-income instruments in 2010,
compared with 107.2 billion reais the previous year, according
to investment-banking association Anbima. Last year’s offerings
included the $70 billion sale of shares in state-owned oil
company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the largest equity sale ever,
for which Itau acted as joint global coordinator. Brazil had 143
mergers and acquisitions totaling $84.8 billion in 2010, the
most since 2006, according to  Anbima .  Investment-banking fees are lower than in the U.S. --
typically 2.5 percent for equity offerings, said Andre Fernandes Berenguer, head of global banking and markets at Banco Santander
Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
biggest lender. Average fees for U.S. equity deals were 3.3
percent in 2010 and 3.4 percent so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Banks in Brazil also split the money
more ways because companies hire more firms to manage deals.  Still, investment-banking fees in Brazil were about $1
billion last year, according to two dealmakers who asked not to
be identified because they’re not authorized to speak publicly.  BTG, Itau  Investment banks based in Brazil, including Itau, Banco BTG
Pactual SA and Banco Bradesco BBI SA -- the firms that managed
the Gerdau share sale -- maintain a grip on equity and debt
offerings, even as foreign firms poach employees and ramp up
operations in Latin America.  BTG, the Sao Paulo-based investment bank owned by Brazilian
billionaire  Andre Esteves , who bought it back from  UBS AG (UBSN)  for
$2.5 billion in 2009, ranked No. 1 last year in advising on
mergers and acquisitions, up from seventh place in 2009,
according to Anbima. A spokeswoman for BTG said bank executives
declined to comment.  Itau BBA, a unit of Sao Paulo-based  Itau Unibanco Holding
SA (ITUB4) , was the top underwriter of equity and debt offers in the
first two months of the year, according to Anbima. It was first
in debt and second in equity offerings last year.  Itau’s shares rose 1.1 percent to 35.75 reais as of 5:09
p.m. in Sao Paulo, while the benchmark Bovespa index slid 0.3
percent to 63,407.01.  ‘Takes Experience’  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , ranked second in advisory work on
M&A deals announced last year, was more frequently among the top
five managers in equity sales and M&A over the past five years
than any foreign bank, according to Anbima. The Zurich-based
bank, which gained a foothold in Brazil in 1998 when it acquired
Banco de Investimentos Garantia, the biggest investment bank at
the time, led five of this year’s seven IPOs in Brazil,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Selling a well-known, traded Brazilian company like
Gerdau to global investors isn’t that difficult,” Jose Olympio Pereira, 48, head of investment banking at Credit Suisse’s
Brazilian unit, said in an April 15 interview in Sao Paulo. “It
takes experience and talent to sell new ideas to the market at a
price that investors and the company will be happy with.”  Gerdau said in a regulatory filing today it raised
approximately 5 billion reais from the share sale.  While Brazilian banks held the top five positions in debt
offerings last year and the first three spots in equity sales,
foreign firms made a stronger showing in M&A advisory, capturing
four of the top five slots, according to Anbima. JPMorgan was
No. 3, followed by Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Itau BBA fell to ninth place in M&A from fifth in 2009 and
second in 2008. Bradesco BBI, which was third in 2009, didn’t
make the top 10 last year.  ‘All Their Power’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose chief economist, Jim O’Neill, coined the term BRIC for emerging markets Brazil,
Russia, India and China, hasn’t made the top 10 in any category
since 2008, after a run as the top merger adviser in Brazil for
the three years through 2005, according to Anbima.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in New York, declined
to comment.  Goldman Sachs today named Alejandro Vollbrechthausen to
replace Valentino Carlotti as president of the Brazilian unit,
according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg.
Vollbrechthausen previously managed Goldman Sachs’s emerging-
market sales desk in New York, the memo said.  Cross-Border Deals  Claudio Berquo, 50, senior country officer for JPMorgan in
Brazil, said the New York-based lender wasn’t trying to compete
with Itau in all businesses. Instead it’s focusing on investment
banking, especially cross-border deals, and private wealth
management for high-net-worth Brazilians. The bank wants to be
“more local than the global banks and more global than the
local banks,” he said in an interview at JPMorgan’s
headquarters in New York last month.  “We don’t want to go head-to-head with Itau where they
have all their power,” Berquo said. “What JPMorgan is in the
U.S., they are in Brazil.”  JPMorgan , which has had a presence in Brazil for more than
40 years, has seen the size of its workforce there fluctuate
with the health of the economy. It doesn’t issue credit cards or
have retail branches, compared with Itau, which has about 3,000
in Brazil. JPMorgan has 630 employees in Brazil and plans to
expand to more than 1,000 by late 2013, said Berquo, who has
worked at JPMorgan since 1994.  Lan Airlines  The bank was the lead adviser to Chile’s  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  in
its $3.7 billion takeover of Brazil’s  Tam SA (TAMM4)  to create Latin
America’s largest, and the world’s 11th biggest, passenger
carrier. The deal, announced in August, is pending an antitrust
review in Chile. JPMorgan also advised Gerdau on its $1.6
billion deal in August to complete the purchase of Tampa,
Florida-based Gerdau Ameristeel Corp., the second-largest mini-
mill steel producer in North America.  Gerdau, based in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, bypassed JPMorgan
for its share sale in April because the Brazilian banks it
selected “had their abilities tested in other deals,” Chief
Financial Officer Osvaldo Burgos Schirmer said in an e-mail.  “The chosen banks have a strong presence in Brazil,
knowledge of the steel sector, market intelligence, presence in
the main financial centers of the world and a long relationship
with the company,” he said.  Foreign banks such as JPMorgan, Bank of America and Credit
Suisse see opportunity as more family-run businesses like Gerdau
search for investors and deals outside Brazil, bankers said.  Asian Clients  “One of the things we do well is cross-border deals,”
said Hans Lin, senior investment banker for Bank of America in
Brazil. “We have the power to connect the client in Brazil to a
target in Asia or the client in Asia to a target in Brazil.”  JPMorgan acquired a majority stake in  Rio de Janeiro  hedge
fund Gavea Investimentos Ltda for an undisclosed sum in October
to expand its asset-management division. The fund, run by former
Brazilian central banker Arminio Fraga, 53, manages about $6
billion for high-net-worth investors. Credit Suisse made a
similar acquisition in 2006, buying a controlling stake in
Brazilian asset manager Hedging-Griffo.  “Private banking is a great source of investment-banking
business,” JPMorgan’s Berquo said. “If you have a private-
banking relationship, there’s always an opportunity to offer
services selling the company or taking the company public.”  The real’s 47 percent appreciation against the dollar since
December 2008 and the rise in the volume of deals involving
Brazilian firms has made the country one of the most expensive
in the world to staff, bankers said.  ‘Lack of Talent’  “There’s a lack of talent in Brazil because everybody
wants to be in Brazil,” Berquo said. “Now it’s becoming the
new private-equity Mecca. Everybody is doing private equity in
Brazil. Blackstone is there, KKR is there, Carlyle is there,
plus the local players who’ve been there forever. So the
competition for people is tough.”  Citigroup in March hired Andre Kok from Itau BBA, where he
had worked for the past six years, to head corporate and
investment banking in Brazil. About 75 percent of the New York-
based lender’s senior investment bankers in Latin America are
new to the company or the job, said Eduardo Cruz, Citigroup’s
head of banking for Latin America.  “You have to hire senior talent in the region, and the
best places to have found some of that has been competitors,”
said Cruz, who was hired from Goldman Sachs in 2005.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley’s Harland said the firm is recruiting
students from local universities. Bank of America’s Lin said the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender is adding corporate
bankers, risk managers and administrative staff to accommodate a
new corporate bank in Brazil that will offer deposit accounts
and cash services to local companies.  Bradesco BBI, the investment-banking unit of Osasco,
Brazil-based  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , the country’s second-biggest
bank by market value, has been hiring from outside, an exception
to its policy of cultivating executives internally, said Renato Ejnisman, director of the division. The unit was created in late
2006, shortly before Ejnisman, who has a doctorate in physics
from the University of Rochester, joined Bradesco from Bank of
America, where he had worked for eight years.  “We want to expand our client base and improve
relationships with the advantage of the strong presence Bradesco
has among corporate clients in Brazil,” Ejnisman said. “We
don’t have the history that our global competitors have in the
investment-banking market, but we have equipped ourselves to
fight shoulder-to-shoulder for business in Brazil and abroad.”  Sompo Japan  Bradesco has the biggest team of bankers in Brazil to
distribute Brazilian assets globally and to identify demand from
foreign clients for deals involving Brazilian companies,
Ejnisman said. He cited the bank’s role advising Sompo Japan
Insurance Inc., the country’s second-largest non-life insurer,
when it  bought a 50 percent stake  in Brazilian insurance company
Maritima Seguros SA in 2009 for 328 million reais. Maritima
hired JPMorgan.  “When the deal was announced, everyone thought we were
working for Maritima,” Ejnisman said. “But it was the other
way around. The Japanese client hired us. This story that only
global banks can distribute Brazilian products or do cross-
border deals has definitely become a myth.”  One bank that considers itself both global and local is
Santander, which expanded in Latin America in the 1990s.  ABN Amro Unit  The Madrid-based bank bought regional lender Banco do
Estado de Sao Paulo SA, known as Banespa, for $4.8 billion in
2001, paying three times the price offered by the next-highest
bidder. Its 2007 purchase of ABN Amro Holding NV’s Brazil unit
for 11 billion euros ($16 billion) vaulted Santander into the
top three non-state-owned banks in Latin America’s biggest
economy, with 376 billion reais in assets, 54,000 employees and
2,395 branches as of December, according to data from Brazil’s
central bank.  “Santander is the most global Brazilian bank and the most
Brazilian of international banks,” Roberto Barbuti, 42, head of
the equities division at Banco Santander Brasil SA’s global
banking unit, said in an April 14 interview in Sao Paulo. “We
have a strong ability to lend to clients here in Brazil and
abroad, and that is an advantage we have over banks that have a
small presence outside of Brazil.”  Santander’s purchase of ABN Amro’s Brazilian unit led to
consolidation among rivals. In November 2008, Itau announced it
was buying Uniao de Bancos Brasileiros SA, or Unibanco, for
$12.5 billion to create Brazil’s biggest bank and the 12th
largest in the world by market value. The deal was in part
spurred by Santander, which had become a “new kind of player,”
Itau Chief Executive Officer Roberto Egydio Setubal said at a
press conference.  Petrobras Shares  Since then, Itau has won mandates to coordinate Brazil’s
biggest deals, such as last year’s Petrobras share offer and the
IPO of highway and ports operator EcoRodovias Infraestrutura
Logistica SA in March 2010.  While Itau has built a formidable investment bank,
Santander has an edge in some businesses, because of its larger
market valuation, and in certain markets, including Europe,
where it has more experience, Barbuti said.  “Any advantage is temporary,” he said. “You have to keep
working. It used to be more of an advantage a few years ago. Now
it’s shrinking.”  Etlin, 48, Itau BBA’s investment-banking vice president who
joined from UBS in 2005 after starting his career at JPMorgan a
decade earlier, doesn’t plan on easing the pressure.  “Working in investment banking in Brazil is like running a
marathon,” he said. “But at sprinting speed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  