-- 
Dedini Developing Machinery to Convert Sweet Sorghum to Ethanol

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-06T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/brazil-s-dedini-developing-equipment-to-process-sweet-sorghum-into-ethanol.html
Dedini SA Industrias de Base , a
Brazilian maker of ethanol-production machinery, is developing
systems that will process sweet sorghum into renewable fuel, as
an alternative to the widely used used sugar cane.  The company is in talks with eight developers about buying
a sorghum-processing mill it plans to build by 2013. It also
expects to sign by April a contract to add equipment to handle
the alternative feedstock at an existing cane mill, Jose Luiz
Oliverio, vice president of technology and development at
Piracicaba-based Dedini, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Sorghum can be harvested in the first three months of the
year, the rainy season when sugar-cane harvesting typically
shuts down, ethanol supplies wane and prices surge.  “There’s growing interest among cane mills to” process
“sweet sorghum,” Oliverio said. “All the big groups are
interested in doing this.” Refiners want to plant sorghum in
October and harvest it in the rainy months of February and
March.  Installing sorghum-processing machinery at a cane mill
would let it operate during the inter-harvest season. “The idea
is not to have parallel equipment, but changes you can make in a
few hours,” Oliverio said.  Dedini has been testing sorghum since 2008 as a source of
ethanol, he said. Yields are currently about a quarter of what
can be produced from cane, but will likely improve as
manufacturing equipment is fine-tuned.  Prices of anhydrous ethanol, which is mixed 25 percent with
gasoline in  Brazil , reached an all-time high of 2.73 reais
($1.68) a liter on April 20, according to Piracicaba-based
research institute Centro de Estudos Avancados em Economia
Aplicada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  