-- 
Brazil’s Cielo Rises to Eight-Month High on Profit

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-05-05T16:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/brazil-s-cielo-rises-to-eight-month-high-on-profit-correct-.html
(Corrects scope of move in first, second paragraphs.)  Cielo SA (CIEL3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest card-
payment processor by market value, rose to a eight-month high
after first-quarter earnings beat estimates, boosting the
industry’s growth prospects.  The stock jumped as much as 8.9 percent to 13.14 reais, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 18. Cielo rose 7.7 percent to
13 reais at 11:44 a.m. New York time.  Redecard SA (RDCD3) , its largest
rival, advanced the most in a week, rising as much as 5.6
percent to 23.82 reais.  Cielo reported net income of 424.7 million reais ($263
million), surpassing the estimate of all 10 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. The average forecast was for net income of 394
million reais. Cielo said it processed a total of 70.2 billion
reais of transactions in the quarter, 20 percent more than a year
earlier. The results spurred Credit Suisse Group AG to raise
its rating to “neutral” from “underperform.”  “While overall expectations pointed toward increasing
costs and expenses on a per transaction basis, Cielo was able to
post improved operating performance,” Marcelo Telles, a Sao
Paulo-based analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Better cost efficiency should enable Cielo to, at least
partially, offset the still very challenging environment.”  Cielo has surged 47 percent from a record low in February
on speculation card companies will start to prize profitability
over greater market share. Redecard has gained 33 percent in
that period.  The companies slumped last year after losing their
exclusive rights to handle payments for Visa Inc. and Mastercard
Inc., respectively. Shares have also suffered as smaller rivals
enter the market, such as the venture formed in December by
Citigroup Inc.’s Credicard unit and U.S. Bancorp’s Elavon unit.  Competition Easing  Cielo’s Chief Executive Officer Romulo de Mello Dias, on a
conference call with analysts today, said competition has been
easing since that month.  “We are encouraged by cost evolution and momentum in the
prepayment business at Cielo,” Saul Martinez, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , wrote in a note to clients
dated yesterday.  “The quarterly results reinforced our preference for Cielo
over Redecard,” wrote Martinez. “Costs and prepayments are a
headwind currently at Redecard.”  Redecard last week reported a 20 percent decline in
quarterly profit, in line with analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  