-- 
Bristol-Myers, Novartis Cancer Drugs Are Under U.K. Cost Review

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-05-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bristol-myers-novartis-cancer-drugs-are-under-u-k-cost-review.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sprycel and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tasigna are under review by the U.K. health-cost
regulator for the treatment of a rare blood cancer because the
benefits of the drugs may not justify their high prices.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
wasn’t able to recommend either medicine for patients whose
chronic myeloid leukemia doesn’t respond to the standard dose of
Novartis’s Glivec treatment, according to draft guidelines
published today. A higher dose of Glivec also failed to win the
agency’s backing for that group of patients.  The agency, known as NICE, advises the government-funded
National Health Service on which treatments are the most cost-
effective. Sprycel and Tasigna cost more than 30,000 pounds
($50,000) a year for each patient, NICE said in a statement.
Novartis has raised the price of Glivec, also sold as Gleevec,
to more than 40,000 pounds a year for the high dose, NICE said.  “When we recommend the use of a very expensive treatments,
we need to be confident that they bring sufficient additional
benefit to justify their cost,” NICE Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Dillon said in the statement. Evidence supporting the use
of Sprycel, Tasigna and high-dose Glivec in the hard-to-treat
form of the disease “is very weak,” he said.  Chronic myeloid leukemia  affects about 560 people in the
U.K. each year, according to NICE. The illness requires
treatment over a long period of time, making the cost to the
health system even greater, NICE said.  The guidelines are open for public comments. Until final
recommendations are issued, the  National Health Service  should
make decisions on treatment locally, and people already
receiving the drugs may continue with therapy, NICE said.  NICE is also reviewing the use of Sprycel and Tasigna by
chronic myeloid leukemia patients who can’t take Glivec, and the
use of Sprycel, Tasigna and the standard dose of Glivec as an
initial treatment for those with the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  