-- 
Brooklyn Enclave Helps New York Top Los Angeles as U.S. Diversity Capital

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/brooklyn-enclave-helps-new-york-top-los-angeles-as-u-s-diversity-capital.html
New York  wrested the title of ethnic-
diversity capital of the U.S. from  Los Angeles  over the past
decade, census figures show. That change may be best illustrated
in a single census tract in Brooklyn.  The section of Dyker Heights in southwest Brooklyn, long
dominated by Italian-Americans, had one of the biggest increases
in diversity of any census tract in the nation’s most-populous
city. The area of 1,133 people has seen an inflow of Asian
residents, a group that is helping to transform the profile of
New York, along with those of other major municipalities
throughout the U.S.  “Some of the residents here were so concerned about blacks
moving in, they didn’t even notice the influx of Asians,” said
Nick Venezia, 33, manager of Ben Bay Realty Co. in  Brooklyn .  What is happening in Dyker Heights and the rest of New York
reflects a nationwide trend that the 2010 figures being released
this year by the U.S. Census Bureau are underlining. A Brookings
Institution  study  of the data found that more than 50 percent of
U.S. cities are now composed of non-white majorities.  New York is the most diverse of all cities with more than
500,000 residents, according to a separate analysis of census
data by Bloomberg. In 2000, Los Angeles, the second-biggest city
by population, ranked highest in the diversity gauge.  “Almost half of Los Angeles’ population is Hispanic, but
in New York there’s no group that has that same monopoly,” said
 William Frey , a senior fellow and demographer at Brookings in
Washington. “New York has a history of being kind of an
assimilator of different groups.”  31.8% Jump  New York’s population grew 2.1 percent during the decade,
to 8,175,133, while Los Angeles increased by 2.6 percent to
3,792,621, census figures show. Both cities saw gains in Asians
and Hispanics and declines in whites and blacks.  New York’s Asian population jumped 31.8 percent and
accounts for 12.6 percent of city residents; whites declined by
2.8 percent and make up 33.3 percent of the city, and blacks
decreased by 5.1 percent to 22.8 percent. Hispanics grew by 8.1
percent and comprise 28.6 percent of the city’s population.  The diversity gauge illustrates the extent to which
neighborhoods are integrated by race and ethnicity, as opposed
to being concentrated in pockets across a city. It measures
the likelihood that two residents selected at random in the same
census tract will be of a different race or ethnicity. New
York climbed to 78.5 on the index in 2010, from 77.4 a decade
earlier. Los Angeles fell to 76.7, from 77.9 in 2000.  Microcosm of Change  Census tract 148 in Dyker Heights, a neighborhood of 42,419
people about two miles from the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge that
connects  Staten Island  and Brooklyn, is a microcosm of that
change. While the area is far from the city’s most diverse
section, the tract’s diversity gauge almost tripled from 9.4 in
from 2000 to 26.2 a decade later. It now has 1,042 whites, 83
Asians, five blacks and three multiracials. In 2000, it had
1,161 whites, 32 Asians, no blacks and five multiracials.  Census tract 148’s housing along its tree-lined streets
ranges from mansions near 11th Avenue in the blocks between 79th
and 86th Streets, which sell in the $1 million and $2 million
range, to the more common two-, three- and four-family homes
between 12th Avenue and 13th Avenue and 79th Street and 86th
Street.  The presence of Asians is most striking along 13th Avenue.
The commercial corridor’s Italian pork stores, barber shops,
bakeries and  salumeria  have been joined by storefronts with
yellow awnings signifying Asian-owned groceries, nail salons,
candy stores and Chinese takeout spots.  ‘Their Own Culture’  “For many who arrive here from  China , their first home is
a small apartment in a crowded neighborhood,” said resident
Paul Mak, who moved to the U.S. from  Hong Kong  33 years ago.  “When they are able to purchase a home, Dyker Heights
represents a neighborhood with schools which is near to all the
shops and Chinese supermarkets and people of their own
culture,” said Mak, president of the  Brooklyn Chinese-American
Association .  About half the home purchases in Dyker Heights since 2007
have been by Asians, Venezia said, mostly second- and third-
generation Chinese-American professionals. That drove him to
hire four more Chinese-speaking workers, who are among the 20
employees working in his office, he said.  At  Torregrossa funeral home , a building on 79th Street
decorated with European tapestries and furniture, Andrew
Torregrossa, 30, the third generation of the family in the
business, said he is contemplating a future in which the home
includes a chapel dedicated to Chinese funerals.  ‘We Have Adapted’  The company built a chapel at another funeral home it owns
in Brooklyn’s Flatbush neighborhood to serve the Haitian
community, he said. “We have adapted to tend to their needs,
and we will do the same thing here with the Asians,” he said.  “The most important color in New York is green,” said
 Kenneth T. Jackson , a Columbia University historian and editor-
in-chief of the Encyclopedia of  New York City .  The Chinese are moving into Dyker Heights for its schools,
said Harry Lam, who was hired by Four Seasons Realty in 2009
after its owner saw Chinese families moving into at least half
of the vacant housing in the neighborhood. The elementary and
junior high schools each have gifted-student programs and a
reputation for helping students get accepted at the city’s elite
magnet high schools, said Lam.  The new neighborhood residents aren’t new immigrants, said
Lam, 53.  “They’re professionals -- doctors, lawyers, accountants,
IT,” he said. “They may have grown up along 8th Avenue, which
is our little Chinatown, and their parents still live there, but
they want something a little bigger and better, maybe with a
yard.”  Highest Test Scores  Public School 229, which serves Dyker Heights, has “the
highest test scores in the district and among the very top in
the city,” according to  insideschools.org , which tracks the
school system. The student body is 45 percent white, 44 percent
Asian, 10 percent Hispanic and 1 percent black, according to the
website.  “I talk to the older realtors and they tell me that 10
years ago, they never took Chinese people to Dyker Heights,”
Lam said. “Now, it’s the Chinese who are moving in when the
current residents die.”  At the  Mona Lisa Pastry Shop  on 86th Street, Italians have
been buying freshly baked bread and cakes since 1963. These
days, owner Richard Canastra, 51, feels the squeeze of increased
wheat prices and a decreased customer base.  “I went from a busy place Monday through Friday to a
situation where I stand here and wonder, ‘Where are the
people?’” he said.  Canastra said he relies on weekend and holiday business,
when children who live in Staten Island,  New Jersey  or  Long
Island  visit their aging parents and want a taste of their
childhood treats.  “They come to me from what they remember,” he said.  “The generation now, the Italians who are the sons and
daughters of people in their 70s and 80s, they are moving,”
Joseph Gallo, 64, a retired financial consultant, said as he
waited to get a haircut from an Ecuadorean stylist at A & S
Barber Shop at 86th Street and 12th Avenue. “They move out and
the Asians move in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  