-- 
Brookfield First-Quarter FFO Climbs 14% on Income From Australian Towers

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-05T20:52:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/brookfield-first-quarter-ffo-climbs-14-on-income-from-australian-towers.html
Brookfield Office Properties, lower
Manhattan’s biggest office landlord, said first-quarter funds
from operations rose 14 percent as the Australian properties it
acquired last year contributed to income.  FFO attributable to common shareholders, which gauges a
property company’s ability to generate cash, increased to $141
million, or 28 cents a share, from $124 million, or 25 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected FFO of 27 cents, according to the
average of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Brookfield, which owns buildings in U.S. and Canadian
cities such as New York,  Boston ,  Washington  and Toronto,
diversified last year by buying 19 Australian properties, mainly
office towers in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. The company had
added earnings from that purchase and “record” leasing in the
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Richard Clark said.  “We witnessed accelerated recovery in our primary
markets,” Clark said in the statement.  The company’s net operating income from commercial
operations climbed 26 percent from a year earlier to $215.6
million, including $33.7 million from the Australian buildings,
according to a  supplemental  statement on Brookfield’s website.
Same-property net operating income increased 5.4 percent to
$159.2 million.  Total revenue jumped 27 percent to $380 million.  Office Company  The company last year said it would restructure itself as a
“pure-play” global office company, acquiring the Australian
buildings from its parent, Brookfield Asset Management Inc. of
Toronto, and merging its residential operation with another
Brookfield Asset unit.  Brookfield Office has completed the divestiture of its
housing unit, the company said today. A rights offering to
shareholders remains in progress.  Net operating income for the company’s U.S. properties rose
5.3 percent in the first quarter to $101.2 million. It climbed
14 percent to $64.7 million for its Canadian holdings.  Lower  Manhattan  Decline  For lower Manhattan properties, which account for about a
quarter of Brookfield’s net operating income, that number
declined almost 1 percent to $53.9 million. It may fall further
because of the expiration of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s lease at
1 New York Plaza downtown, Karine MacIndoe, an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets, said in a note to clients today.  Brookfield is facing a “giant” challenge from the 2013
expiration of Bank of America Corp.’s lease at the 8 million-
square-foot (743,000-square-meter)  World Financial Center  in
lower Manhattan, John Stewart, an analyst at Green Street
Advisors Inc., wrote in a May 3 report. The bank’s downtown
leases generate almost 10 percent of Brookfield’s net operating
income, he said. He has a “hold” rating on the stock.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
inherited the 4.6 million square feet of leases at the World
Financial Center with its purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009. Investor uncertainty over the status of the leases has
weighed on Brookfield’s shares, wrote Stewart.  “The market’s concern is justified, but Brookfield’s track
record suggests it should be up to the task,” he said.  Oppenheimer Lease  OppenheimerFunds Inc., an investment-management firm,
leased 235,342 square feet at 2 World Financial Center in
February, directly from Brookfield. OppenheimerFunds had
subleased that space from Bank of America, one of several
tenants that rent 1.9 million square feet from the bank.  The company also leased 173,000 square feet to Commerzbank
AG at 2 World Financial, it said in today’s statement.  Vacancy rates for Class A office space in lower Manhattan
fell to 10.7 percent last month, the lowest since June, Cassidy
Turley said on May 3. The area may have more demand after recent
lease agreements by Conde Nast Publications Inc. at 1 World
Trade Center, which is under construction, and law firm
WilmerHale at 7 World Trade Center, Stewart said.  Brookfield fell 9 cents to $19.39 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock is up 11 percent this
year, compared with a 9.5 percent increase in the Dow Jones U.S.
Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  