-- 
BT Group Says It Plans to Double Voice And Data Connections in Africa

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-05T14:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/bt-group-says-it-plans-to-double-voice-and-data-connections-in-africa.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest fixed-
line phone company, plans to double the number of data and voice
connections it has in  Africa  within five years, said Olivier Campenon, president of Europe, Middle East and Africa.  “A number of companies we work with say we need more
capacity in Africa,” Campenon said today in an interview in
Cape Town, where he is attending the World Economic Forum on
Africa. “I’m rather optimistic” about opportunities on the
continent of 1 billion people, as investment expands.  The London-based operator now has 3,000 connections in
Africa and uses South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya as the main hubs
to expand its business, Campenon said.  BT provides network and telecommunications services to
global companies operating in Africa, such as  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the
world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from coal, and  Anglo
American Plc (AGL) , which controls the world’s biggest platinum
producer. Growth in sub-Saharan Africa is forecast to accelerate
to 5.9 percent next year from 5.5 percent in 2011, the second-
fastest pace of any region in the world after Asia’s emerging
markets, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Regulation in many African countries is the biggest
challenge to expanding investment in telecommunications on the
continent, Campenon said.  “In order to further invest, we want financial stability
and regulatory stability,” he said. “That’s ongoing
discussions we have with all African countries.”  Campenon called on South African regulators to move faster
to open up the telecommunications industry to competitors.
Telkom  South Africa  Ltd., Africa’s biggest fixed-line phone
company, is 40 percent owned by the government.  “We want to ensure the market opens up to ensure any new
player has the same chances and position as anyone else,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Cape Town via at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 