-- 
Buy in ‘Sweet Spot’ of Treasuries, RBS’s William O’Donnell Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-05-05T20:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/buy-in-sweet-spot-of-treasuries-rbs-s-william-o-donnell-says-tom-keene.html
Treasuries maturing in 3 1/2 to 4 years
represent the “sweet spot” in the government bond market
because they offer relatively attractive yields and greater
protection than longer-maturity debt as yields fluctuate,
according to RBS Securities Inc.’s  William O’Donnell .  Central banks have been buying the bonds amid expectations
that the  Federal Reserve  will keep  interest rates  on hold for an
“extended” period, O’Donnell, 54, head of U.S. government bond
strategy at the unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a
television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  “The safest place for people to be, and actually this is
where we see a lot of central bank inflows, especially in recent
days, is in the 3 1/2-to-4-year sector of the curve,” said
O’Donnell, whose firm is one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Fed . “It’s sort of the sweet spot of
the Treasury curve, where you get slope and roll-down and carry.
It’s a safe place to be, getting a reasonable amount of yield
without taking on too much duration risk.”  Efforts by U.S. lawmakers to agree on a debt ceiling will
be the “primary focus” of Treasury holders in the next three
to six months, said O’Donnell, who expects a deal to be reached.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week the
U.S. will have three weeks more than previously seen before
hitting its borrowing limit, giving the White House and Congress
more time for a deal to raise the debt ceiling.  Geithner on Borrowing  The U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the
$14.29 trillion limit because of “stronger-than-expected tax
receipts” and by taking “extraordinary measures” such as
suspending the sale of bonds to finance state and local
infrastructure projects, Geithner said in a letter to
congressional leaders on May 2.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes have traded in a range of
3.14 percent to 3.77 percent this year as investors speculated
on the pace of the economic recovery and how soon the Fed would
begin to withdraw monetary stimulus.  The U.S. central bank aims to complete $600 billion of
Treasury purchases under the second round of quantitative easing
by the end of June.  Debt investors “see QE2 ending, they see the effects of
the payroll tax cuts waning as we go,” O’Donnell said. “As
they look forward they see less fiscal stimulus and more fiscal
austerity. People are starting to worry about the prospects for
second quarter and second half growth.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  