-- 
Cablevision First-Quarter Profit Trails Estimates on Video-Customer Losses

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/cablevision-first-quarter-profit-trails-estimates-on-video-customer-losses.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the New
York area cable-TV provider, reported profit that missed
analysts’ projections after video subscribers cut connections or
defected to rivals.  Excluding one-time costs, earnings were 36 cents per share,
trailing the 42-cent average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company lost 8,000 video customers, after a gain of 1,000 a
year ago, the Bethpage, New York-based company said today in a
statement. The result trailed a 5,000 loss predicted by  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  The company faces competition for customers in the New York
area from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and online video services
such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Cablevision’s loss of video
subscribers may indicate the company has gained almost all the
users it can in the saturated New York-area market, said Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore Partners in  New York .  “This does raise questions about how much unit growth
remains in the NY metro footprint,” Kraft said in a note to
investors. Kraft has an “underweight” rating on the shares and
doesn’t own any.  Cablevision fell $1.36, or 3.9 percent, to $33.91 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is
little changed this year.  Fox Dispute Effect  The company added a net total of 6,000 new households and
businesses that receive at least one of its video, voice and
broadband services in the first quarter.  Some video losses may have been a holdover effect from the
company’s dispute with News Corp’s Fox in October, which caused
viewers to miss  Major League Baseball ’s World Series games,
Chief Operating Officer Tom Rutledge said on a conference call.
Softness in the economy, especially in lower-income areas around
New York, has also led to user declines, Rutledge said.  Revenue rose 9.7 percent to $1.92 billion, in line with
analysts’ estimates. Net income increased to $104.1 million, or
36 cents, from $74.2 million, or 24 cents, a year ago.  Capital spending  fell 9.6 percent to $132.6 million, a
“shockingly low” number, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Technological advances including moving to a network
digital-video recording, which eliminates the need for set-top
box manufacturing and maintenance visits, has transformed
Cablevision’s business to one with “incredibly low capital
intensity,” said Moffett, who rates the stock “market
perform.”  Rainbow Results  The decline in capital expenditure will likely increase
free  cash flow  in future quarters, although investors may never
see returns if Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  decides not
to give it back to shareholders, Moffett said. The company
boosted its quarterly dividend by 20 percent to 15 cents a
share, a “relatively small” increase, Moffett said.  Cablevision’s  Rainbow  division, set to be spun off later
this quarter, posted revenue of $272.9 million, up 9.9 percent
from a year earlier. Operating income rose to $70.7 million,
from $61.6 million a year earlier.  It’s important for investors to see “positive trends”
from Rainbow, said  Richard Greenfield , a BTIG LLC analyst in New
York. The unit, which includes AMC, IFC and Sundance Channel,
will be renamed AMC Networks Inc. with the spinoff. Cablevision
confirmed it still expects to close the spinoff “mid-year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  