-- 
California Regulators Approve Amended PG&E Rate Increase

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-05-05T22:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/california-regulators-approve-amended-pg-e-rate-increase-1-.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
largest utility, won a $450 million rate increase for this year.  The  California Public Utilities Commission  voted 3-1 today
in favor of the increase, Terrie Prosper, an agency spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. PG&E got approval to boost rates by $180
million in 2012 and $185 million in 2013 to pay for the costs to
own and operate its electric and gas distribution system,
according to a  regulatory filing  by the company.  Commissioners earlier voted 2-2 on a proposed $454 million
rate increase for 2011. The commission was split over how much
to allow San Francisco-based PG&E to recover from prior
investments in analog meters. The meters are being replaced with
technology that can remotely read power use in an effort to help
pinpoint power failures, increase the accuracy of customer bills
and provide consumers with more information about energy use.  PG&E, which fell as much as 2 percent after the tie vote,
rose 36 cents to $45.91 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have declined 4 percent this year.  The company said yesterday it won’t increase its dividend
this year because of costs associated with its 2010 deadly
pipeline explosion near  San Francisco . The utility will spend as
much as $550 million for natural-gas pipeline inspections,
improvements and other safety related work resulting from the
September blast in San Bruno that killed eight people and
destroyed 38 homes.  In a separate release today, the company named Nick Stavropoulos as executive vice president, overseeing all of the
utility’s natural-gas business. Stavropoulos will lead PG&E’s
response to ongoing investigations of the San Bruno explosion,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 