-- 
Altria Should Face Ill Smoker’s Suit, California Court Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-05T21:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/california-top-court-says-smoker-can-sue-12-years-after-illness.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris  USA
Inc. should face claims by a smoker who sued the cigarette maker
for lung cancer years after becoming ill, the California Supreme
Court said.  Plaintiff Nikki Pooshs smoked from 1953 through 1987 and
was diagnosed with pulmonary disease in 1989 and periodontal
disease in 1990 or 1991. She knew that both illnesses were
caused by smoking and didn’t file a lawsuit until she was
diagnosed with lung cancer in 2003, according to the advisory
opinion. Philip Morris won a lower court ruling that Pooshs
waited too long to file the claims.  The California Supreme Court, based in San Francisco, ruled
today that the two earlier illnesses were “qualitatively
different” from cancer and didn’t trigger the statute of
limitations for suing for misrepresentation, concealment,
product liability and failure to warn.  The judges ruled after a federal appeals court in  San
Francisco  considering Pooshs’s case asked for an opinion on the
treatment of statute of limitations under California law.  “Although we are disappointed with the decision, the
California Supreme Court made it clear that it was not
addressing the merits of this case or any case,” Steve Callahan, an Altria spokesman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Technical Point’  “Rather, the decision addresses a narrow technical point
of law relating to the statute of limitations,” Callahan said.
“The decision would be relevant only in a very small fraction
of cases filed.”  The lawsuit now goes back to the federal appeals court. The
appellate judges are likely to overturn the lower court ruling
that threw out Pooshs’s claims, said Lloyd LeRoy, an attorney
who represented her. The case would then be sent back to
district court where Pooshs still has to prove her case.  “We think the court was right in deciding that a distinct
disease should trigger a new statute of limitation,” LeRoy said
in a telephone interview. “You don’t want people suing for  lung
cancer  the first time they have a cough, but neither should they
be barred from suing when they get cancer.”  The case is Pooshs v. Philip Morris USA Inc., S172023,
California Supreme Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  