-- 
Canada March Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-05T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/canada-march-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
March building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth $6.8
billion in March, a 17.2% increase from February and a
level not seen since June 2007. The gain was mostly the
result of advances in the residential and non-residential
sectors in Ontario.  After two consecutive monthly decreases, the value of
residential permits increased 33.9% to $4.0 billion in
March, the highest level since March 2010. Ontario posted
the largest increase in both single and multi-family
permits. In March, six other provinces also recorded gains
in the residential sector.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
edged down 0.4% to $2.8 billion, following a 72.7%
increase in February. Lower construction intentions for
industrial and commercial permits more than offset a
record high value for institutional permits.  The total value of permits increased in eight
provinces.  Alberta  recorded the largest drop in March as a
result of a decline in the non-residential sector, after a
significant increase in February.  Residential sector: Intentions up for both multi-family
and single-family dwellings  The value of permits for multi-family dwellings more
than doubled in March to $1.9 billion, following two
consecutive monthly decreases. The increase was mainly the
result of higher construction intentions in eight
provinces, led by Ontario, Quebec and Alberta.  Municipalities issued $2.1 billion worth of permits for
single-family dwellings in March, up 2.5% from February.
Higher construction intentions, particularly in Ontario
and Alberta, offset declines in other provinces.  Nationally, municipalities approved 17,141 new
dwellings in March, up 26.7% from February. The increase
came from multi-family dwellings, which rose 55.5% to
10,469 units. The number of single-family dwellings
declined 1.9% to 6,672 units.  Non-residential sector: Increase in the institutional
component  The value of permits in the institutional component
increased 83.1% in March after doubling in February.
Institutional intentions hit a record high of $1.3
billion, as a result of increases in all provinces and
territories. Ontario, which posted the largest gain,
reported higher construction intentions for educational
and medical buildings.  In the commercial component, the value of permits
decreased 1.7% to $1.2 billion in March following a 22.3%
increase in February. The largest drops were in Alberta
and  Quebec , the result of lower intentions for a wide
variety of commercial buildings, such as hotels, offices
and warehouses. However, commercial intentions rose in
half the provinces. The largest increases occurred in
office buildings in British Columbia and in the hotels and
restaurants category in Ontario.  Following a strong gain in February, municipalities
issued $309 million in permits for industrial buildings in
March, down 65.1%. The largest decrease was for utilities
and transportation buildings in Alberta and for
manufacturing plants in Ontario.  Strong intentions in Ontario  The value of building permits was up in eight
provinces. Ontario posted the largest advance following
two consecutive monthly declines. The increase in Ontario
came mostly from multi-family and institutional permits.  In British Columbia, the increase was mainly a result
of commercial and multi-family permits. In Quebec, the
combined increase in multi-family and industrial permits
more than offset a decline in commercial permits.  In contrast, Alberta recorded the largest decrease as a
result of lower intentions for industrial and commercial
components. The only other province to register a drop was
Newfoundland and Labrador, as a result of declines in
single-family dwellings and commercial buildings.  Permits up in most census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits increased in 22 of the 34
census metropolitan areas in March.  The largest increases occurred in Toronto,  Vancouver 
and  Montreal . In Toronto, the increase came mostly from
multi-family dwellings after a decline in February. Most
of the increase in Vancouver originated in the commercial
component. Montreal posted gains in all components, except
single-family dwellings.  In contrast, the largest declines occurred in Calgary,
Ottawa and Hamilton. The decline in Calgary came primarily
from industrial and commercial buildings while in Ottawa
and Hamilton, it came mostly from commercial and single-
family permits.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  