-- 
Ex-Olympian Carl Lewis Wins Appeals Ruling Over New Jersey Senate Ballot

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T21:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/carl-lewis-wins-ruling-getting-name-back-on-new-jersey-state-senate-ballot.html
Carl Lewis, the Olympic gold medalist
seeking a  New Jersey  Senate seat, won a federal appeals court
ruling that temporarily allows his name on the ballot for the
June 7 primary election.  Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, persuaded the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Philadelphia to stay an April 26 ruling by New
Jersey’s secretary of state that found him ineligible to run for
office because he didn’t meet a four-year residency requirement.  A federal district judge and a New Jersey appeals court had
upheld the decision by the secretary of state, Kim Guadagno, a
Republican who is also the lieutenant governor. Lewis is waiting
to learn whether the New Jersey Supreme Court will hear his
challenge to the state appellate court ruling.  “It is hereby ordered that the ballots at issue in this
appeal include the name of” Lewis, the appeals court ruled
today, ordering U.S. District Judge Noel Hillman to consider the
case further.  The decision lets his name appear on ballots for the Eighth
District, in the southern part of the state. Primary ballots
could be printed as early as tomorrow, attorneys for county
clerks in the district said yesterday.  “As the Lewis residency matter remains pending litigation,
we have no comment,” Lee Moore, a spokesman for New Jersey
Attorney General Paula Dow, said in an e-mailed statement.
Officials at the Department of State didn’t immediately return
phone calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Traditionally Republican  Lewis, who grew up in New Jersey before moving to Texas and
 California , wants to run in a district that has traditionally
elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego, a Republican,
was appointed to fill the vacancy left by Phil Haines, who was
tapped for a judgeship.  “Under the ruling, the voters, not a partisan elected
official, will decide who should be the state senator in the
eighth legislative district,” William M. Tambussi, an attorney
for Lewis, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Lewis can now
focus on the real issues facing the voters.”  Lewis, who won nine gold medals competing for the U.S. in
four Olympics as a sprinter and long jumper, argued that he
bought a house in New Jersey in 2005, which made him a state
resident. He got a New Jersey driver’s license in 2006 and
became a volunteer assistant track coach at Willingboro High
School, his alma mater, in May 2007.  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.  The state court case is Layton and Costa v. Lewis, A-4047-
10T1, Superior Court of New Jersey, Appellate Division
(Trenton). The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden), and the
appeal in Philadelphia is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-2109,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 