-- 
Carrefour Plans to Defer Property Unit Listing After Executive’s Departure

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-05T12:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/carrefour-proposes-to-defer-separate-listing-of-25-of-property-unit.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, delayed the proposed stock-market listing of
its property unit after shareholders led by Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC called for the company to reconsider the plan.  The proposal to sell 25 percent of the unit to investors
will be put aside while the retailer focuses on plans to improve
sales in its domestic market, Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
Carrefour said today. The company also said the head of its
French operations has left after little more than a year.  Knight Vinke questioned plans to list the property unit,
which the company announced in March alongside a proposal to
spin off 100 percent of its Dia hard-discount chain. The
activist investor, which owns more than 1 percent of Carrefour
shares, said today that it has spoken with shareholders owning
20 percent of the retailer’s stock, most of whom indicated they
would vote against the spinoff of the real-estate division.  Delaying the sale “was the right thing to do, but my
question is: why are they pulling it two months after they
proposed it?” said Chris Hogbin, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  London , who has a “market perform” rating on the
shares. “That’s a big hit to management’s credibility.”  Shares Drop  The property division will continue with a 2 billion-euro
($3 billion) portfolio of projects as it rolls out a new
superstore format, Carrefour said. Listing the unit, which it
valued at 10.4 billion euros, remains the company’s objective,
the retailer said. The proposed spinoff of Dia, slated for July,
is on track and “will allow Carrefour to concentrate fully on
accelerating the development of the Carrefour brand,” it said.  Carrefour shares fell as much as 98 cents, or 3.1 percent,
to 30.63 euros in Paris and traded at 30.72 euros as of 1 p.m.  Knight Vinke “is pleased that the board has chosen to
listen to its shareholders,” it said today in an e-mailed
statement. The investor released a letter sent to Carrefour on
April 11 in which it expressed concern about the spinoff.  Splitting off the property unit would make it tougher to
adopt an alternative strategy should a plan to transform the
retailer’s French business be unsuccessful, Knight Vinke said in
the letter. The investor expressed reservations about “very
significant loss of value due to an inefficient tax structure.”  Untenable Position  Carrefour said Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson will
take over operational management of the retailer’s activities in
 France  pending the appointment of a replacement for James McCann. The retailer didn’t give a reason for the departure of
the former Tesco Plc executive, who had joined last year.  “It’s never a good sign when someone leaves that
quickly,” Hogbin said. “It’s a little bit surprising that the
CEO feels that he needs to take over the business, i.e. that
there’s not a single internal candidate who can run it.”  McCann’s position became untenable after Carrefour’s French
business trailed Olofsson’s expectations, according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
matter is private. He is the second senior executive in a month
to leave Carrefour. Vicente Trius was replaced as an executive
director last month by Noel Prioux.  Carrefour is struggling to keep pace with French rivals
including  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , which has said it is
gaining market share. Carrefour said last month that first-
quarter sales rose 1.8 percent in France. Casino reported a 4.5
percent gain for the same period in the country.  Turnaround Plan  Carrefour is betting that a 1.5 billion-euro revamp of
superstores in western  Europe  under the Carrefour Planet banner
will boost sales and profit through 2015. Same-store sales at
its French superstores gained 0.2 percent in the first quarter.  Olofsson was appointed to the CEO role in 2008, following
speculation the company’s biggest shareholders grew frustrated
about slumping sales under his predecessor’s watch. Colony Blue
Investor, Groupe Arnault and Blue Capital, which own about 14
percent of Carrefour, support the management’s strategy, market
regulator the Autorite des Marches Financiers said in January.  Carrefour also repeated today its target to increase sales
and current operating income in 2011, which isn’t reassuring,
Hogbin said. “Most people expect way beyond that,” he said.  The retailer said it will present its plans for Dia and an
overview of Carrefour Property’s activities on May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 