-- 
Carrefour Chief Olofsson Given ‘Last Chance’ to Revive Retailer

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-05T22:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/carrefour-chief-olofsson-given-last-chance-to-revive-retailer.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  Chief Executive Officer
Lars Olofsson vowed to make the world’s second-largest retailer
“more agile” and revive French sales when he took charge in
2009. He may be running out of time to convince investors.  Olofsson took direct control of Carrefour’s French business
yesterday, replacing James McCann, who lasted little more than a
year in charge of the domestic unit. The CEO also delayed the
proposed stock-market listing of Paris-based Carrefour’s
property unit after shareholders led by Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC called for the company to reconsider the plan.  The 59-year-old executive joined Carrefour after a decade
in which sales barely rose in  France , its biggest market, as
management focused on expansion abroad and integrated an
acquisition. In September, he introduced a 1.5 billion-euro
($2.2 billion) plan to revamp Carrefour’s 500 superstores in
western  Europe , betting a new format with lower prices and more
own-label products will boost sales and profit through 2015.  The store revamp “is Carrefour’s last chance and the plan
cannot be allowed to fail under any circumstances,” Knight
Vinke said in an April 11 letter to Carrefour’s board published
yesterday, citing an institutional investor it had met with.  Carrefour shares fell 1.9 percent yesterday, almost wiping
out the gains for the year. The stock has risen 13 percent since
Olofsson took the helm in 2009 and trade at less than half their
value of a decade ago. Tesco Plc shares have more than doubled
over 10 years and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has gained 6.3 percent.  Store Revamp  Carrefour is reworking the superstore format and investing
in discounts and advertising to boost market share. Consumers
have been opting to buy groceries closer to home or go to for
department and specialty stores for apparel and beauty products.  While the revamped stores posted sales growth of at least
10 percent in their first few weeks, the boost seems to have
faded, according to Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Chris Hogbin,
based in  London .  Olofsson, who worked at Nestle SA for 32 years, will
supervise directly Carrefour’s executive team in France until a
replacement for McCann is appointed, the retailer said. The aim
is “to accelerate the improvement of Carrefour’s performance in
France and to continue implementing the transformation plan.”  McCann’s departure, 14 months after he joined the business,
“is a big disappointment, given his pivotal role in plans to
drive operational improvement in the core French business,”
said Hogbin.  Second Departure  He is the second senior executive to leave this year,
raising questions about the performances of the French business
and Carrefour Planet and the strength and commitment of
Carrefour’s executive team, Hogbin said. Vicente Trius was
replaced as an executive director last month.  “We want reassurance that the turnaround of French
hypermarkets is on track and gaining momentum, not losing
momentum,” said Dave McCarthy, an analyst at Evolution
Securities in London.  Carrefour is struggling to keep pace with French rivals
including  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , which has said it is
gaining market share. Carrefour said last month first-quarter
sales rose 1.8 percent in France. Casino reported a 4.5 percent
gain for the same period. Same-store sales at Carrefour’s French
superstores gained 0.2 percent in the first quarter.  Forecast Cut  Carrefour cut its 2010 profit forecast twice in the fourth
quarter, citing increased writedowns in Brazil and lower-than-
expected demand in Europe. Carrefour also repeated yesterday its
target to increase sales and current operating income in 2011,
which isn’t reassuring, as a more pronounced increase is
anticipated by analysts, Hogbin said.  “No one can argue that under his watch they’ve had things
go wrong in  Brazil  and each time he’s saying that’s the end of
it,” said McCarthy. “The problems may not have been Lars’s
fault, but he is the CEO.”  Knight Vinke questioned plans to list the property unit,
which the company announced in March alongside a proposal to
spin off 100 percent of its Dia hard-discount chain.  The activist investor, which owns about 1.5 percent of
Carrefour shares, said yesterday that it has spoken with
shareholders owning 20 percent of the retailer’s stock, most of
whom indicated they would vote against the spinoff of the real-
estate division.  Property Plan  The property division will continue with a 2 billion-euro
portfolio of projects as it rolls out a new superstore format,
Carrefour said. Listing the unit, which it valued at 10.4
billion euros, remains the company’s objective, the retailer
said. The proposed spinoff of Dia, slated for July, is on track.  Splitting off the property unit would make it tougher to
adopt an alternative strategy should a plan to transform the
retailer’s French business be unsuccessful, Knight Vinke said in
the letter. The investor expressed reservations about “very
significant loss of value due to an inefficient tax structure.”  Olofsson was appointed to the CEO role following
speculation the company’s biggest shareholders grew frustrated
about slumping sales under predecessor Jose Luis Duran’s watch.  “The problem itself has been years and years in the making
so the solution will be years and years in the creating,” said
Evolution’s McCarthy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 