-- 
CFR Raises $370 Million in Santiago’s First Trading Debut Since December

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T19:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/cfr-raises-370-million-in-santiago-s-first-trading-debut-since-december.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA surged in its
Santiago trading debut after the drug developer and distributor
raised $370 million for expansions in  Chile ’s first initial
public offering this year.  CFR sold 2.03 billion shares, including 1.7 billion new
shares, at 85 pesos each, or a total of 173 billion pesos.
Foreign investors, including  hedge funds , bought about half of
the shares, the company said in a statement. That’s the biggest
foreign participation in a Chilean IPO, said a Santiago exchange
official, who declined to be named citing company policy.  “Foreign investors are showing they trust the Chilean
capital markets as investors in CFR,” Chairman Alejandro Weinstein told reporters. “We’ve been a family-owned company
for almost 100 years. The future is to become a global
pharmaceuticals company with a focus on emerging markets.”  Chile had one IPO last year when fishing company Cia.
Pesquera Camanchaca SA raised $227 million in December. Chilean
companies may raise as much as $9.6 billion through next year
from IPOs and subsequent offerings, according to data from
Santiago-based brokerage IM Trust SA. Of at least 12 companies
to register or express interest in listing shares, IM Trust
estimates seven will do so this year. That would top the record
five IPOs in 2005, according to the Santiago exchange.  Shares Climb  CFR shares surged 13 percent to 96.36 pesos.  Demand for the shares in the IPO totaled 1.6 trillion
pesos, or nine times the amount on offer, according to a
statement posted on the regulator’s website.  Before the IPO, CFR was valued at $1.2 billion to $1.4
billion, or 83 pesos to 97 pesos a share, Manuel Bulnes, head of
Larrain Vial’s brokerage unit, which arranged the sale, said in
an April 3 interview.  CFR plans to invest about $500 million in the coming years
to grow its drug development and distribution business in
emerging markets of  Latin America ,  Asia  and  Europe .  “This deal attracted investors that normally don’t look at
this sector or region,” Juan Ignacio Langlois, managing
director of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Santiago, told reporters.
JPMorgan and Jefferies Group Inc. helped arrange the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  