-- 
China Coal Imports May Rise as Drought Saps Hydropower, UBS Says

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-05T03:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/china-coal-imports-may-rise-as-drought-saps-hydropower-ubs-says.html
China , which relies on coal to produce
more than 70 percent of its electricity, may increase imports of
the fuel by 1 million metric tons a week as drought conditions
cut hydropower output, according to UBS AG.  Hydropower capacity has fallen as much as 20 percent, UBS
analysts led by Sydney-based Tom Price said in a note dated
yesterday, citing industry reports. Electricity generated by
hydro dams accounts for about 15 percent of China’s overall
supply, according to UBS.  Rivers in eastern Jiangxi province are at their lowest
levels on record because of reduced rainfall, the official
Xinhua News Agency said last month, citing an unidentified
spokesman with the provincial drought-relief headquarters.
Additional imports of seaborne coal are needed for as long as
the drought persists or until supplies stabilize in the second
half, according to the report.  China’s coal supplies are “very tight” because of higher
energy consumption growth before the peak summer period, UBS
said. While production is expanding at a “robust” rate, the
increase may not be enough to fill the gap, according to UBS.  Imports of coal, including power-station and steel-making
varieties, averaged 10.8 million tons a month in the first
quarter, Bloomberg calculations based on data released by
Chinese customs show. Imports rose 31 percent last year to a
record 165 million tons.  The world’s biggest energy user may face power shortages of
30 gigawatts during the summer as supply lags behind demand, the
China Electricity Council said on April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in  Singapore  at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 