-- 
China ‘Great Firewall,’ Capital-CoCos, EU Carbon: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-05T12:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/china-s-great-firewall-capital-cocos-eu-carbon-compliance.html
China  has set up a new department to
supervise the Internet, as the government steps up efforts to
tighten control over the world’s largest online market.  The State Internet Information Office, created under the
cabinet, will oversee efforts to “strengthen management of
Internet content,” and is responsible for “day-to-day
regulation” of news and related services, the official Xinhua
News Agency  reported  yesterday, citing the State Council. The
new office will also monitor services including online games and
videos, Xinhua said.  China’s system of Internet surveillance, also known as the
“Great Firewall,” requires domestic operators including Baidu
Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  to self-censor content deemed
unacceptable to the government, and blocks overseas services
such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube. The new information office may be
a way for the government to “formalize” these controls,
according to Duncan Clark, chairman of industry consultants BDA
China.  It’s unclear how the new body will share work with various
industry regulators including the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, Ministry of Culture and the General
Administration of Press and Publication, Clark said.  China had 457 million Internet users at the end of last
year, according to the  China Internet Network Information
Center , a government-affiliated group that compiles industry
statistics. That’s more than the combined populations of the
U.S. and  Japan .  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Basel Committee May Let Banks Use CoCos in Capital Surcharge  Global regulators may allow too-big-to-fail banks to use
contingent convertible bonds to meet additional capital
requirements designed to save them from collapse in a crisis.  So-called CoCo bonds, which convert into a bank’s ordinary
shares if a specific trigger event occurs, are being considered
for the capital surcharge by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, said Lars Frisell, chief economist of the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority and a member of the Basel
committee. There is some skepticism from regulators who question
how well the instruments will work in practice, he said.  Regulators are exploring the use of CoCos to protect
taxpayers from having to foot the bill of future bank rescues.
Switzerland proposed that the country’s two largest banks, UBS
AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , could use CoCos to satisfy part
of a capital surcharge imposed at the national level.  The FSB brings together finance ministries, regulators and
central banks from the G-20 countries. The Basel committee
brings authorities from 27-countries including the U.K., U.S.
and China, to set regulatory standards for lenders.  CoCos automatically become equity when preset triggers are
breached, supplying a buffer against losses in a crisis.  Most members of the Basel committee are “healthily
skeptical” about CoCos, Frisell said, adding that he didn’t
think this would prevent them from forming part of the surcharge
plans.  For more, click here.  EU Carbon Emissions Permits Plan May ‘Kill Off’ Polish Companies  European Union regulations that will allocate free carbon-
dioxide permits to companies in the next phase of the world’s
biggest emissions trading system may “kill off” Polish coal-
dependent companies, an official said.  The methodology chosen by the  European Commission , the EU’s
regulatory arm, is illegal and discriminates against coal-based
energy production, said Zbigniew Kamienski, deputy director at
the economic development department of  Poland ’s Economy
Ministry. Poland may sue the commission over the plan, he said.  The commission last week adopted 52  carbon efficiency
benchmarks  for distributing a dwindling supply of free emissions
allowances to companies from 2013 to 2020.  The EU emissions trading system, which started in 2005, is
the cornerstone of the bloc’s policy to cut greenhouse gases
blamed for climate change. While the EU has given away the
majority of emissions permits since the program began, it will
sell the majority of them in the next phase, with free
allocations given to the most efficient installations.  Poland generates about 95 percent of its energy from coal.  For more, click here.  Egypt Reverses Decision to Lower Brokerages Cash Reserves  Egypt’s financial markets’ regulator decided to reverse a
temporary rule that lowered the cash-reserves requirements for
brokerages to 5 percent of their capital from 10 percent.  The measure will expire at the close of business on May 12,
the Cairo-based  Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority  said in
a statement on its website yesterday.  SEC Requests Comment on Increased Disclosure for Short Sellers  U.S. regulators asked for  public comment  on a plan to
require real-time reporting of bearish stock bets known as short
sales, a measure called for by the Dodd-Frank Act passed last
year.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering a
volunteer pilot program in which each short-sale trade would be
immediately reported on the so-called consolidated tape where
all equity transactions are recorded. The agency, which must
submit its findings to Congress by July 21, is also studying
real-time disclosure of short-sale positions either publicly or
to regulators, according to a statement yesterday.  The SEC opened the comment period with 23 questions on the
monitoring of short selling. It’s seeking comment “on both the
existing uses of short selling in securities markets and the
adequacy or inadequacy of currently available information
regarding short sales,” the regulator said.  The SEC’s report on short selling will be one of more than
20 studies required of the SEC by Dodd-Frank.  Compliance Action  ICE Clear Europe Will ‘Cooperate’ With EU CDS Probe, ICE Says  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  said its European derivatives
clearing arm ICE Clear Europe “intends to cooperate with” the
European Union’s antitrust probe into its arrangements with
banks for the clearing of credit-defaults swaps.  “It is too early in the proceedings to determine whether a
finding of infringement will be made or the likely range of
penalties, if any, if such finding is made” by the  European
Commission , it said in a U.S. regulatory filing yesterday.  U.K. Charges Three Former Directors Over Torex Retail Collapse  U.K. prosecutors charged three men in connection with the
collapse of Torex Retail Plc, including the firm’s former
chairman.  The men were charged with conspiracy to defraud, the
 Serious Fraud Office  said yesterday in a statement. Two of them
were also charged with false accounting.  The SFO said the investigations are continuing and a
further announcement will be made May 9.  Those charged were Robert Loosemore, Torex’s former
chairman, Mark Woodbridge, a former accountant at the company,
and Nigel Horn, who was the legal director, the SFO said.  Torex Retail’s shares were suspended from trading in  London 
in January 2007 after the SFO started its investigation. The
probe was followed by overhauls of the company’s management and
it went into administration later that year. Its assets were
bought by New York-based private equity group Cerberus Capital
Management for 204.4 million pounds ($338 million).  Lawyers for the men, Jo Rickards at DLA Piper LLP, Eve
Giles at  Kingsley Napley LLP  and Peter Binning at  Corker
Binning , didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Turkish Stocks Fall First Day in Five on Bank Regulator Warning  Turkish stocks snapped a four-day winning streak after a
regulator said it may take action against banks that break
limits on mortgage lending.  The  Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency  in Ankara has
the right to “relieve banks of their powers” should they not
adhere to rules such as providing mortgages of a maximum of 75
percent of the value of a property, chief regulator Tevfik
Bilgin said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Turkish bank lending increased an annual 35.7 percent in
the week to April 22, the same pace as the previous week. That’s
in spite of government efforts to curb loan growth by increasing
reserve requirements at lenders. The government and central bank
say lenders should cap loan growth at 25 percent this year.  For more, click here.  UBS Agrees to Pay $160.2 Million in U.S. Muni Bid-Rig Probe  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, agreed to pay $160.2
million to settle charges it rigged bids on at least 100 U.S.
municipal-bond transactions that generated “millions of dollars
in ill-gotten gains.”  UBS will pay $47.2 million to settle Securities and
Exchange Commission charges and $113 million to end cases
brought by other federal and state authorities, the SEC said
yesterday in  Washington . Some of the money will be returned to
municipalities, the SEC said.  The settlement agreements, which involved 25 states, are
part of criminal and civil investigations into a conspiracy by
financial firms and municipal advisers to overcharge state and
local governments for investment products. UBS’s activity
threatened the tax-exempt status of $16.5 billion of municipal
bonds, the SEC said.  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this matter with its
regulators,” the Zurich-based company said in a statement.
“The underlying transactions were entered into in a business
that no longer exists at UBS and involved employees who are no
longer with the firm.”  UBS said the settlement costs were accounted for in
previous quarters and won’t affect future results.  For more, click here.  BofA, Wells Fargo Mortgage Papers Challenged in  North Carolina   Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , lenders
already being probed for faulty home foreclosure practices, were
accused by a county official in North Carolina of using mortgage
documents that were possibly forgeries.  The signatures of the same names on more than 4,500
documents handled by  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  for real
estate valued at $624.8 million varied enough to raise doubts
about their validity, Jeff Thigpen, register of deeds in
Guilford County, North Carolina, told reporters yesterday in
Greensboro.  Most of the documents were certificates of satisfaction
filed on behalf of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, Bank of
America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and other
institutions showing the payoff of home mortgages, he said.  Jason Menke , a Wells Fargo spokesman, said the bank’s
practices regarding certificates of satisfaction are
“appropriate and pose no risk or harm to homeowners in the
Carolinas or anywhere else.”  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, said by e-mail that when the company learned of
improper signing practices at its subsidiary Docx in November
2009 the process was halted, clients notified and the unit
ultimately shut down.  “The signing procedures at Docx were not consistent with
LPS’s policies and practices nor were they approved of by LPS’s
senior management,” she said.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Mediaset Challenges EU Over $7.5 Million in Decoder Subsidies  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the company controlled by Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi, told the European Union’s highest
court that an EU order forcing it to repay Italy about 5 million
euros ($7.5 million) in subsidies for the purchase of digital-
broadcast decoders was unsubstantiated.  A lower EU court last year failed to assess whether the
European Commission had “sufficiently established” that
Mediaset benefited from the subsidies, a lawyer for the Milan-
based company said yesterday.  The Brussels-based European Commission, the executive
agency for the 27-nation EU, in January 2007 said the subsidies
amounted to more than 200 million euros for Italians who
purchased digital terrestrial decoders, while satellite
technology was excluded. Mediaset was among companies that
indirectly benefited from the aid, the commission said.  “By excluding one of the major players” from being able
to benefit from the subsidies, “Italy created an unnecessary
and excessive distortion of competition,” Bernd Martenczuk, a
lawyer for the commission, told the court.  The commission started probing the subsidies after
complaints from satellite-television operators, including Sky
Italia and Centro Europa 7.  The case is  C-403/10 P , Mediaset v. Commission.  HSBC Seeks Dismissal of $9 Billion Madoff Trustee Lawsuit  HSBC Holdings Plc asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit filed
by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, saying he
isn’t allowed by law to bring such suits on behalf of the
confidence man’s customers.  Trustee Irving H. Picard in December sued HSBC and a dozen
so-called feeder funds for $9 billion, accusing them of aiding
Madoff’s fraud and failing to take steps to protect investors. A
U.S. District Court judge temporarily took the case out of
bankruptcy court to decide whether Picard can bring common-law
claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on behalf of
customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The appeal is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-
cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Berenzweig Sees Rajaratnam Verdict Delayed by Two Weeks  Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at  Berenzweig Leonard ,
talked about the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Berenzweig, who spoke with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness,” also discussed a U.S. probe into
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  following a Senate referral that the
firm misled clients about mortgage-linked securities.  For the video, click here.  SEC Head Walter Says Muni Market Needs Congress to Act  Individual investors in municipal bonds are treated like
“second-class citizens” because of a lack of oversight, and
action by Congress may help, Securities and Exchange Commission
Commissioner Elisse Walter said.  Walter told the  National Federation of Municipal Analysts 
conference in Charleston, South Carolina, yesterday that the SEC
wants a law empowering it to set “basic disclosure standards.”
The agency has heard complaints from both individual and
institutional investors about the quality and timeliness of
information from issuers, she said.  The SEC has no desire to review muni bond deals before they
are sold in the $2.93 trillion market, she said. An amendment to
the 1934 Securities Exchange Act restricts the SEC and Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board from requiring issuers to file
offering documents, with the burden currently on underwriters.
The SEC reviews and approves rules made by the board, which is
an industry self-regulatory organization.  One of her greatest concerns, she said, is the “awful
state of affairs” because of the lack of insight into pricing
when a person sells bonds.  There should be a structure to improve “pretrade
transparency,” Walter said. It’s in the best interest of
municipal-bond sellers, she said.  Comings and Goings  SEC’s Schapiro Says Agency to Start Hiring, Bolster Technology  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is using a $74
million funding boost stemming from a congressional budget
compromise to hire derivatives specialists, SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  told lawmakers.  The money will partially address the agency’s “capacity
gap” by allowing hiring in its enforcement, inspections and
trading and markets units, Schapiro said yesterday in testimony
prepared for a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing on
fiscal year 2012 budgets for the SEC and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  The money will also be used to boost oversight of credit-
rating and catch up on Dodd-Frank Act requirements, Schapiro
said.  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler, who was also expected to
address the committee, said in prepared remarks that the money
could be used to hire additional employees to oversee an
estimated 300 futures brokers and swap dealers, 20
clearinghouses and as many as 40 so-called swap execution
facilities required by Dodd-Frank.  The two agencies -- which had been operating under their
fiscal 2010 budget limits during a congressional stalemate over
spending for the current fiscal year -- got additional funding
under a compromise plan approved last month.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 