-- 
Cisco Reins In Management System That Spurred Exodus at Top

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-05T21:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/cisco-departures-reflect-frustration-over-management-structure.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  overhauled a
management structure that investors and former employees say
slowed decisions, fueled market-share losses and led to an
exodus of senior executives.  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of computer-networking
equipment, said in a statement today it will reorganize the
sales, services and engineering operations to focus on five
areas aimed at spurring growth in network and Internet use.
Global field operations will be concentrated in three regions,
and Cisco will rein in its council-style management structure.  Chief Executive Officer John Chambers vowed in April to
make changes to help the company regain lost credibility after
earnings disappointed investors for four straight quarters.
Employees have grown impatient with the council-based structure,
put in place by Chambers in 2005, that was designed to spur
cooperation among units yet created a slow-moving bureaucracy.  “They’ve got a culture that frustrates talented people,”
said Robert Ackerman,  founder  of venture firm Allegis Capital,
which has sold three companies to Cisco. “They’ve got a lot of
talented people feeling like they’re beating their head against
the wall.”  Pressure on Chambers has mounted amid a stock dive and
market-share losses. In routers, which made up 16 percent of
Cisco’s sales last year, Cisco’s share dropped to 55 percent
last year from 66 percent in 2006, according to IDC, a market-
research firm in Framingham,  Massachusetts . Cisco also lost more
than 10 percentage points of share in network-security hardware.  Lack of Purpose  “Having a clear, concise purpose has gotten away from
them,” said Kim Caughey Forrest, an analyst at Pittsburgh-based
Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc. which manages about $1.1 billion
and recently sold Cisco shares. She said the management
structure had become “very confusing.”  Cisco, based in  San Jose ,  California , declined 34 percent
on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the past year, while 14 of its
closest peers, including Juniper Networks Inc. and Alcatel-
Lucent SA, gained. Cisco shares rose 1 cent to $17.48 at 1 p.m.
 New York  time.  “The stock patterns have definitely diverged,” said Erick Maronak, who oversees $2 billion in Victory Capital Management
Inc.’s large-cap growth fund. He owns shares of Cisco rivals
Juniper, F5 Networks Inc. and Riverbed Technology Inc.  Chambers set up the councils to support his push into more
than 30 new markets, including computer servers, consumer
videoconferencing gear and corporate social-networking software.
Unlike the traditional command-and-control management structure
Cisco used to have, a series of interlocking councils would have
the authority to tap resources from around the company without
having to wait for Chambers’s approval.  Decision-Making Slowdown  Yet by requiring employees to petition groups of people for
department budgets, the councils slowed decision making, said
former employees and other people familiar with the matter. It
left managers without full control of units, said the people,
who asked to remain anonymous because they aren’t authorized to
speak for the company.  Debra Chrapaty, former senior vice president of Cisco’s
collaboration software group, became Zynga Inc.’s chief
information officer last month. Other Cisco managers who have
departed since April include Dan Scheinman, the former mergers
and acquisitions chief, and Nawaf Bitar, a vice president in the
security division, who is now a senior vice president at  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR) , which competes with Cisco in networking gear.  The management exodus began after the council system was
put in place. Mike Volpi, then a senior vice president in charge
of Cisco’s router and service-provider groups, and Charles Giancarlo, Cisco’s development chief, departed in 2007. Both
were viewed by investors as potential successors to Chambers.  Executive Exits  Jayshree Ullal, head of the data-center business, left the
following year, while Tony Bates, a senior vice president who
ran Cisco’s largest unit, exited to become CEO of Skype
Technologies SA last year.  All four executives had become frustrated with the council
system, which prevented them from decisively running their parts
of the company, said the people, who are familiar with their
thinking.  As part of the changes today, the councils will be reduced
to three from nine. Each will be led by two executives, rather
than as many as five in the past, said Karen Tillman, a
spokeswoman for Cisco. Tillman declined to comment further,
referring to a memo sent by Chambers to employees on April 4.  “We have been slow to make decisions, we have had
surprises where we should not, and we have lost the
accountability that has been a hallmark of our ability to
execute consistently for our customers and our shareholders,”
Chambers wrote in the memo.  New Operations Chief  Chambers appointed Gary Moore to a newly created operations
chief position on Feb. 22. Cisco said on April 12 that it will
close the Flip video-camera business and cut 550 jobs.  Cisco today said today that Moore will continue as leader
of the services organization, in addition to his other duties.  Engineering will be co-led by senior vice presidents Pankaj Patel and Padmasree Warrior, with a dedicated unit for early-
phase businesses led by senior vice president Marthin De Beer.
Robert Lloyd, executive vice president, will continue to lead
worldwide field operations.  After restructuring, Cisco will have management councils
for its enterprise, service provider and emerging markets
businesses. Most changes will happen over the next 120 days,
with a new sales organization in place by the end of July.  “Having fewer committees tends to always make an
organization less bureaucratic, so it’s probably a good thing,”
said Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York. The overhaul announced today will likely help stem the
tide of executive departures, Shah said.  Now, Cisco should shed other businesses, such as the
Linksys home-router division, said Simon Leopold, an analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co.  “I’m not in the camp of people who say  John Chambers  needs
to go,” Leopold said. “But he definitely has a credibility
problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 