-- 
Clearwire Chief Makes Mark With Executive, Strategy Shakeup

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/clearwire-s-stanton-makes-mark-with-executive-strategy-shakeup.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s interim Chief
Executive Officer John Stanton, on the job less than two months,
has replaced top executives and nixed a potential asset sale as
he reforms the money-losing wireless broadband provider.  Clearwire, which yesterday reported its first-quarter net
loss doubled to $227 million from a year earlier, won’t consider
selling its spectrum assets in 2011, Stanton said.  While the company had considered offers for the airwaves,
their value was highlighted by the $39 billion that  AT&T Inc. (T) 
agreed March 20 to pay for T-Mobile USA Inc., Stanton said. The
company also has raised enough cash this year to get by without
the proceeds of a sale, he said.  “Spectrum continues to rise in value,” Stanton said in a
telephone interview. “We certainly don’t need to consider it in
2011. We’ll continue to look for sources of capital.”  Stanton, 55, has been in the industry for more than a
quarter of a century, working for wireless pioneer Craig McCaw
at McCaw Cellular Communications in the 1980s, eventually
switching to finance at telecommunications investment firm
Trilogy Equity Partners.  The company owns bands of spectrum that will mesh with
frequencies used internationally, potentially giving Clearwire
access to the most popular devices worldwide, Stanton said. The
extra airwaves, which carry wireless and voice signals between
phones, will also help ward off a network capacity crunch amid
increasing use of data-heavy applications, such as video.  Reshaped in 2008  Clearwire reshaped itself in 2008 into a company with 4G,
or faster fourth-generation technology, after a $3.2 billion
investment from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which now owns more than 50
percent of the company, along with cable and technology firms.
Sprint and the cable companies, which include  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and Bright House Networks LLC, are able
to resell Clearwire’s WiMax service under their own brand names.  Still, the Kirkland, Washington-based company has struggled
with liquidity issues and negative net income since it received
the consortium’s investments. In March, former Chief Executive
Officer Bill Morrow left, along with the company’s chief
commercial officer and chief information officer. The company
said this week that the head of the wholesale division,
Clearwire’s largest unit, would also depart in June.  Clearwire fell 29 cents to $4.83 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have declined 6.2
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  