-- 
Coalitions for Obama, Republicans Fragile as Voters Shed Political Labels

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-05T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/coalitions-for-obama-republicans-fragile-as-voters-shed-labels.html
With a growing proportion of Americans
eschewing party labels, President  Barack Obama  and his would-be
Republican rivals face challenges in assembling a winning
coalition in next year’s election, according to a study of
public attitudes.  The survey by the Washington-based Pew Research Center for
the People and the Press finds that more Americans call
themselves Democrats than Republicans, and that Obama holds a
10-percentage-point edge over a hypothetical Republican rival.
Still, Republicans are more unified in their views on key issues
and disapprove of the president far more ardently than Democrats
back him.  The results of the survey indicate that Obama’s winning
coalition of 2008 has frayed, while also showing that
Republicans face a tricky task in putting together a winning
bloc for their party.  There has been a rise in independents -- 37 percent, up
from 30 percent the last time Pew conducted a broad survey in
2005 -- and these individuals’ views defy easy categorization.  “People in the middle have some pretty strong and well-
defined sense of values, and they’re a challenge both to the
Democrats and to the Republicans,” said Andrew Kohut, the Pew
center’s president and director of the survey. “They have
conflicted attitudes.”  The average of Pew’s polls so far this year finds 32
percent identifying themselves as Democrats, while 25 percent
said they were Republicans.  ‘Typologies’  The study released yesterday breaks down the  U.S.
population  into eight so-called “typologies,” -- two
Republican groups, three Democratic groups and three in the
center.  The center groups include Republican-leaning
“libertarians” -- a mostly white, well-educated and affluent
group comprising 10 percent of registered voters -- who have
strongly anti-government views, opposing increased help for the
needy and environmental regulation and backing businesses. Yet
they hold relatively liberal views on social issues compared to
most Republicans, including being more accepting of
homosexuality and immigrants.  Democratic-leaning “post-moderns” -- another well-
educated and well-off group making up 14 percent of registered
voters -- are liberal on social issues and supportive of
environmental rules and other regulations, yet are less likely
than core Democrats to back more government help for the needy
or policies to achieve racial equality.  ‘Disaffecteds’  The third middle group is Republican-leaning
“disaffecteds” -- the most financially stressed group that
comprises 11 percent of registered voters. The study categorizes
them as religious and socially conservative voters who are
critical of both business and government. While aligning with
Republican orthodoxy in most ways, disaffecteds are more likely
than others to back more government help for the needy, and 61
percent support doing so even if it means the government goes
more deeply into debt.  A quarter of these disaffecteds voted for Obama in 2008,
while fewer than half that number backed Democrats in the 2010
midterm elections, the poll finds. Still, those gains for
Republicans could be fleeting.  Voting Question  “The question is, if the economy continues the way it is
and the Republicans are talking about cuts in Medicare or
changes in Medicare, it’s not clear what they will do,” Carroll Doherty, an associate director of the study, said of the
disaffecteds. “It’s not as if they will defect, it’s just that
they may stay home” and not vote, he said.  On the Democratic side, 65 percent of the post-moderns said
they voted for Obama in 2008, while 13 percent said they
supported his Republican challenger, Arizona Senator  John McCain . Voting by this group dropped off sharply in the 2010
midterm elections, and 43 said they backed Democrats while 17
percent said they supported Republicans.  Obama “has to energize the base, and the base not only
includes the core Democratic groups, but also the post-moderns
that have less of an eye and ear for politics, and aren’t
liberal through and through,” Kohut said.  The key issue dividing the parties is their attitudes about
government and its role, a shift from the 2005 study --conducted
during the  Iraq war  -- in which national security and views on
an assertive foreign policy were the dominant topics.  Size of Government  Large majorities of Republican-affiliated groups want to
shrink government, while solid majorities of Democrats hold the
opposite view. On the right, 96 percent of staunch
conservatives, 74 percent of Main Street Republicans, and 85
percent of libertarians said they wanted a smaller government,
while 74 percent of solid liberals, 53 percent of hard-pressed
Democrats, and 65 percent of new coalition Democrats said they
preferred bigger government.  The  study  is based on two surveys with a combined sample of
3,029 adults, conducted February 22-March 14, and a smaller
follow-up survey of 1,432 of the same respondents conducted
April 7-10. The error margin for the entire sample is plus-or-
minus 2.2 percentage points; for the call-back group it is 3.1
points.  Researchers found that within the  Republican Party  the old
divide between economic and social conservatives has largely
disappeared, giving way to a group of politically engaged
“staunch conservatives” that overwhelmingly agrees with the
anti-government Tea Party, regularly watches the Fox News cable
television channel and believes that Obama was born outside the
 United States . This group comprises 11 percent of the
electorate, according to the poll.  ‘Main Street’ Group  A second Republican group the survey calls “Main Street
Republicans” and that comprises 14 percent of registered voters
are socially and fiscally conservative, though more skeptical of
business and supportive of environmental regulation.  The Democratic groups identified were less unified. The
solid liberals, who make up 16 percent of registered voters, are
strongly in favor of government, socially and fiscally liberal,
and two-thirds say they disagree with the Tea Party.  A largely blue-collar group of “hard-pressed Democrats,”
comprising 15 percent of the electorate, is socially
conservative, skeptical of both business and government and
holds negative views about immigrants.  The third group, “new coalition Democrats,” consists
mostly of minorities who are highly religious, socially
conservative, pro-immigrant and financially stressed. It
comprises 9 percent of registered voters.  Support for Obama  Support for the president and his policies on the liberal
side of the political spectrum is no match for anti-Obama fervor
among those on the conservative flank, the study found. While 84
percent of staunch conservatives strongly disapproved of his job
performance, just 64 percent of solid liberals strongly
supported him.  Similarly, the two core Republican groups expressed
strongly negative views about the 2010 health-care law, while
even solid liberals offered only tepid support, with 43 percent
saying it will have a mostly positive impact on the nation’s
health care.  “The Republican groups, especially staunch conservatives,
have really been fired up, not only based on Obama personally,
but also with respect to their opposition to more activist
government,” Kohut said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  