-- 
Coffee, Sex, Blowing Nose May Increase Risk of a Stroke, Dutch Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-05T18:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/coffee-may-rupture-undiagnosed-brain-aneurysms-study-suggests.html
Drinking coffee may raise the risk of
deadly strokes by 11 percent in millions of people with brain
 aneurysms , according to a study linking spikes in blood pressure
to the rupture of the weakened blood vessels in the brain.  Researchers from  University Medical Center  in Utrecht, the
Netherlands, analyzed 250 patients who survived such a stroke
and identified eight risk factors tied to the event. They
included drinking a cup of coffee, which carried the highest
risk, having sex, physical exercise, nose blowing, straining to
defecate, drinking cola and being startled or angry.  About 2 percent to 3 percent of the general population has
aneurysms, and most don’t know it, said Monique H.M. Vlak, lead
author of the study published today in the journal Stroke. Those
who are diagnosed  get surgery  or other treatment to reduce the
risk of rupture. The findings apply to people who can’t get
treatment, such as those who are too old or are awaiting care,
she said in a telephone interview.  “The study generates a hypothesis of how these aneurysms
rupture,” Vlak, a neurologist at the medical center, said.
“These events cause a temporary increase in blood pressure. The
duration of the increased risk is about an hour.”  Drinking alcohol also put people at increased risk for the
rupture, which can cause bleeding at the base of the brain known
as a  subarachnoid hemorrhage , though the danger decreased
quickly, the study found.  The study may have some bias because it included only
people who had survived a rupture and took surveys three weeks
after the event, the researchers said. Still, it makes sense for
people who know they have aneurysms to take protective steps,
they said. Drinking less coffee and treating constipation may
reduce the risk of a hemorrhage, Vlak said.  Additional studies are needed to see if taking drugs to
lower  blood pressure  will reduce the risk of rupture, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  