-- 
Colombia Stocks: Ecopetrol, Rubiales Fall; Fabricato Rises

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-05T20:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/colombia-stocks-ecopetrol-rubiales-fall-fabricato-rises.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Bogota trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4 p.m.  New York  time.  The IGBC Index fell 2.2 percent to 13,767.12, the lowest in
more than eight months, as commodities plunged the most since
2009, led by oil and silver.  Oil companies  fell as crude tumbled below $100 a barrel in
New York in the biggest decline in two years as U.S. jobless
claims climbed, bolstering concern that economic growth and fuel
demand will drop.  “Today was horrible, one of those tough days,” said
Mauricio Restrepo del Toro, head of research at brokerage Bolsa
y Renta, “Oil’s drop had a big impact. Even Ecopetrol fell
despite its positive results.”  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  , Colombia’s largest oil company,
dropped 2.1 percent to 3,720 pesos, its biggest slide in nearly
two months. The state-run company said late yesterday surging
exports and record production fueled a 59 percent jump in first-
quarter profit.  Pacific Rubiales (PREC CB), which operates  Colombia ’s
largest oil field, fell for a fourth day, by 3.2 percent to
48,900 pesos, its lowest in more than seven months.  Canacol Energy Ltd. (CNE)  , the Calgary-based oil
company that operates fields in South America, dropped 3.9
percent to 2,210 pesos, its lowest in more than a week.  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  , Colombia’s largest lender, fell
2.7 percent to 27,240 pesos, the lowest in more than two months,
after chairman Carlos Yepes said in a conference call that
first-quarter net interest margins were lower-than-expected on
the strengthening of the peso. The bank’s first-quarter profit
of 350 billion pesos ($198 million), a 3 percent increase from a
year ago, were “weak results,” according to a report by
Interbolsa SA.  Textiles Fabricato Tejicondor SA (FABRI)  , Colombia’s
biggest textile maker, rose for a fourth day to the highest in
almost four years. The stock gained 0.4 percent to 48.5 pesos
after the White House said yesterday it’s ready to send a free
trade agreement with Colombia to Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  