-- 
Commodities Decline the Most in Two Years on Concern Global Growth Slowing

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-05-05T22:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/commodities-drop-most-in-7-weeks-on-speculation-economic-growth-is-slowing.html
Commodities dropped the most in more
than two years, paring this year’s gains to 8.2 percent, on
concern that economic growth will slow as central banks seek to
cool inflation by raising borrowing costs.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
6.5 percent to 683.83, the biggest decline since Jan. 7, 2009.
Silver, Brent crude oil and heating oil led the drop as the U.S.
Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts, rose 1.4
percent, the most since October. The Dollar Index has a negative
correlation of 0.88 to the S&P GSCI. A figure of 1 would mean
they move in lockstep.  The European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said today the bank will monitor inflation risks “very
closely,” suggesting it may wait until after June to raise
 interest rates  again. The ECB raised interest rates on April 7,
joining  China ,  India , Poland and  Sweden  in seeking to control
inflation. The cost of living in the U.S. rose at its fastest
pace since December 2009 in the year ended in March, the same
month when Chinese consumer prices rose by the most since 2008.  “This could be one of the most severe corrections that
we’ve seen over the last year,” Sean Corrigan, chief investment
strategist at Diapason Commodities Management SA, which has
about $9 billion invested in commodities, said by phone from
Lausanne,  Switzerland . “If things get really bad, we could
possibly retrace half of the rally of the past six to nine
months.”  Glencore Offering  The slump in raw materials comes as Glencore International
AG sells shares in an initial public offering which may value
the Baar, Switzerland-based commodity trader at about $61
billion. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in reports on April 11 and
April 15 told investors to be “underweight” commodities in the
next three to six months. The bank still expects commodities to
advance about 10 percent over the next 12 months.  The S&P GSCI Index has dropped 10 percent from a two-year
high on April 11. It rose 38 percent in the 12 months prior to
this week.  Crude oil fell as much as 10 percent to $98.25 a barrel in
 New York  trading, while Brent crude oil retreated as much as 10
percent to $109.02 a barrel in London. Gasoline declined 6.8
percent to settle at $3.0954 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and natural gas fell 6.9 percent to $4.261 per million
British thermal units.  “The market is clearly vulnerable,” Corrigan said, adding
that West Texas Intermediate crude may decline to $100, and
copper may drop to $8,000 a metric ton. “Gold would be the
least of your worries. It’s going to be the industrial cyclical
commodities, it’s going to be the coppers and the tins and the
crudes that get hit the worst.”  Copper Drops  Copper for delivery in three months fell 3.3 percent to
$8,820 on the  London  Metal Exchange. Aluminum, nickel, zinc, tin
and lead also retreated. Gold for immediate delivery declined
2.8 percent to $1,474.30 an ounce.  The euro dropped the most against the dollar in two weeks,
making commodities that are traded in the U.S. currency more
expensive in other monies.  “The common denominator for all the commodities selling
today is the strength of the dollar,” said Bayram Dincer, an
analyst at LGT Capital Management Ltd. in Pfaeffikon,
Switzerland.  The U.S. government may say tomorrow nonfarm payrolls
increased 185,000 in April after gaining 216,000 the previous
month, according to the median forecast of 84 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The number of claims for U.S.
unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose last week, the Labor
Department said today. China will report its  trade balance ,
inflation and industrial production numbers next week.  ‘People Are Concerned’  “People are concerned what the data are going to show in
the next seven days with regards to monetary policy,” said
Walter de Wet, head of commodities research at Standard Bank Plc
in London. “There is a lot of data coming out, and the
expectations are that it’s going to be fairly bearish. So there
is some risk off the table across commodities.”  Silver futures traded on the Comex exchange extended a
decline into a  bear market  to close at $36.24 an ounce after CME
Group Ltd. raised margin requirements by 84 percent in less than
two weeks. The metal may fall to $34 an ounce by the end of the
week,  Standard Bank ’s De Wet said.  In agricultural markets, cocoa for July delivery slid 4.9
percent to $3,055 a ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Wheat
declined 2.3 percent to $7.54 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade, while corn fell as much as 3.9 percent, and soybeans lost
as much as 3.1 percent.  Funds Bullish  Funds were still bullish on commodities at the end of
April, after the S&P GSCI Total Return Index beat bonds, stocks
and the dollar every month since December, the longest stretch
in at least 14 years. Managed-money funds held a net 1.49
million futures and options in 18 commodities by April 26, 57
percent more than a year earlier, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher commodity prices have yet to crimp demand because
inventories are tight, and getting out now would be
“premature,”  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodity research
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said by telephone on April 29.
Morgan Stanley, operator of the world’s largest brokerage, is
still “very long” crude and corn, and favors wheat and gold,
Allidina said.  “Things are down 5 percent all the time,”  Jim Rogers , the
chairman of Rogers Holdings, said by telephone earlier today.
“This is normal. I don’t know why prices come down. Whatever it
is, I don’t find it noticeable.”  After dropping as much as 6.9 percent on June 22, 2009, the
S&P GSCI index of commodities ended the month up 1.6 percent and
gained the next five out of six months.  -- With assistance from Yi Tian in New York and Chanyaporn
Chanjaroen in  Singapore . Editors: Millie Munshi, Daniel Enoch  To contact the reporter on this story;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 