-- 
Helicopter Carrying SEALs Downed by Vortex, Not Mechanical Flaw or Gunfire

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/commando-black-hawk-downed-by-air-vortex-not-mechanics-in-bin-laden-raid.html
A  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Black Hawk
helicopter carrying U.S. Navy SEALs to Osama Bin Laden’s hideout
was downed by an air vortex caused by unexpectedly warm air and
the effect of a high wall surrounding the compound, not
mechanical failure or gunfire, according to U.S. officials and a
lawmaker.  The Army pilot from the service’s most elite aviation unit
executed a hard but controlled landing -- clipping a corner wall
-- after the chopper lost lift. The 12 heavily armed SEALs
exited the aircraft unharmed.  Senior government officials  briefing  reporters by telephone
on May 1, the day bin Laden was killed, gave conflicting
accounts, first saying the chopper experienced a mechanical
“malfunction” and then backtracking without an explanation.  The initial administration explanation wasn’t accurate,
according to U.S. government officials, a lawmaker and
congressional staff briefed yesterday by Vice Admiral  William
McRaven , leader of the Joint Special Operations Command.  The command includes the Army’s 160th Special Operations
Aviation  Regiment , which piloted the SEALs of the Navy’s Special
Warfare Development Group to the house in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .
McRaven yesterday briefed the Senate and House armed services
and intelligence committees.  Rappelling Mission Ditched  The aviation  unit  is based at Fort Campbell,  Kentucky .
President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to visit the base on Friday
and see members of the 160th, said an Army official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss
the trip.  Twenty-five Navy SEALS were flown to the bin Laden home by
two Black Hawks, CIA Director Leon Panetta told the PBS “News
Hour” May 3.  The helicopter that crash-landed was supposed to hover over
the compound’s courtyard so that the SEALS would rappel, or
“fast rope,” to the ground, Panetta said.  According to two U.S. officials, who praised the skill of
the pilot, the chopper lost the lift necessary to hover because
it entered a “vortex” condition. At least two factors were at
play -- hotter than expected air temperature and the compound’s
18-foot-high walls, they said.  The wall blocked rotor blade downwash from moving down and
away as it normally would. This caused disturbed airflow to move
in a circular, upward and then downward path back through the
top of the rotor, causing insufficient lift for the aircraft.  Hard Landing   The pilot, realizing he had lost lift, landed quickly in a
maneuver practiced by pilots to deal with helicopter flight
conditions known as “settling with power,” one official said.  Another explained that if a helicopter hovers next to a
large enough building at just the right distance, moving air
created by the rotors won’t be able to exit freely. Instead, it
will hit the wall and have nowhere to go except back into the
rotor, robbing lift.  The pilot executed a “hard landing” as a result, House
Armed Services Committee ranking Democrat Representative  Adam
Smith  told reporters after a McRaven briefing.  Asked if there was a mechanical failure in the United
Technologies’ Sikorsky aircraft, Smith said, “I don’t believe
that is what happened.  ‘‘As was explained to me, with the temperature and the
setting, it came down faster than they anticipated so I don’t
believe there was some sort of mechanical failure. It’s just
those were tough conditions to land in,” Smith said.  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Representative
Howard McKeon of  California  reiterated in  Washington  yesterday
that “it was not a mechanical failure.”  Wreckage Destroyed  He also said he had “no sense from the military that they
had any concerns about” leaving wreckage of the modified Black
Hawk, said McKeon.  The commandos detonated an explosive to destroy the
helicopter, which the Army Times  reports  was a specially
configured stealth model Black Hawk.  Two 160th additional MH-47 special operations Chinook
helicopters provided back-up and assisted in flying out the
raiders.  Sikorsky Aircraft spokesman Paul Jackson said the company
hasn’t been contacted about any aspect of the raid.  Night Stalkers  Once known as the secret Task Force 160, the aviation
regiment was formed in 1981 and has participated in most major
U.S. military operations since the 1983 invasion of Grenada. Its
pilots are known as the “ Night Stalkers .”  Five of its personnel were lost and eight aircraft,
including two Black Hawks, were either destroyed or damaged
during the October 1993  battle in Mogadishu , Somalia.  The unit’s Black Hawks and the mission to rescue the air
crews were the basis of the  book  and movie “Black Hawk Down.”  The unit  flies  the Sikorsky MH-60 Black Hawk,  Boeing Co. (BA) 
MH-47E heavy assault chopper, and the Boeing A/H-6M Little Bird,
used to ferry Army Delta Force commandos during a raid in the
invasion of  Panama  to free a jailed American businessman, Kurt
Muse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  