-- 
Community Health Bid Is Doomed With $2 Billion Deficit for Tenet: Real M&A

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-05T15:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/community-health-bid-doomed-with-2-billion-deficit-for-tenet-real-m-a.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  may have
doomed a proposed takeover of  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  when its
third offer was still so low that it would need to be raised by
almost $2 billion to be on par with past hospital deals.  Community Health  boosted its unsolicited bid for Tenet on
May 2 to $7.25 a share in cash, or $7.3 billion including net
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That values
Dallas-based Tenet at 7.4 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the cheapest hospital acquisition
since 2003, the data show. To reach the median 9.3 times Ebitda
for takeovers in the industry greater than $500 million,
Community Health would have to pay $9.2 billion, the data show.  After Tenet attempted to thwart the deal by accusing the
Franklin, Tennessee-based company last month of overcharging the
U.S. Medicare program, Community Health raised the bid to its
“best and final offer” and set a May 9 deadline for “good-
faith” discussions -- four days ahead of the first hearing in
the case. While Tenet risks some of its 46 percent stock gain
since the original December bid by walking away, the company may
still draw interest from HCA Holdings Inc., the largest publicly
traded U.S. hospital company, according to Michael Wiederhorn,
an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.  “My opinion is that it will be dead,” said Keith Moore,
an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. The offer of “$7.25 is not going to be enough to
bring the Tenet board to the table and say they’re willing to
negotiate,” he said.  ‘Best and Final’  Tenet’s stock slid 9.5 percent to $6.27 through yesterday
since Community Health boosted its offer to $7.25 a share,
signaling traders don’t think the sweetened bid is enough to get
the deal done. The stock advanced 2.1 percent to $6.40 at 11:42
a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, while Community Health
climbed 2.3 percent to $30.26.  “We made our best and final offer based on the information
currently available to us and set the May 9 deadline to bring
this matter to a prompt conclusion in the best interests of all
concerned,” said Brooke Gordon, a spokeswoman for Community
Health.  Rick Black, a spokesman for Tenet, said that Tenet hasn’t
responded yet to the higher Community Health bid. He declined to
comment on speculation Tenet might be a good fit for HCA. Ed Fishbough, an HCA spokesman, declined to comment.  Tenet, with operations primarily in urban markets such as
Philadelphia and Miami, operates 49 acute-care hospitals and 84
outpatient centers, mostly located in the South, according to
the company’s  website .  29 States  Community Health’s affiliates own, operate or lease 130
hospitals in 29 states, serving non-urban and mid-sized markets,
according to its website. A union would create the largest
hospital company in the U.S. based on number of hospitals, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Community Health is now the second-
biggest after Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA.  Tenet had risen as much as 27 percent above Community
Health’s original offer of $6 a share in cash and stock as
traders bet on a higher price or competing bid. Even after
Community Health revised the proposal on April 18 to all cash,
the stock still traded as much as 16 percent above the bid.  Community Health’s most recent bid valued Tenet’s equity at
about $3.5 billion, or 3.2 times net income -- the lowest since
at least 1999 among hospital takeovers greater than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “At this point there’s an extremely low likelihood of
there being any kind of Tenet-Community deal,” said Abigail Hooper, a managing director at Havens Advisors LLC, a  New York- 
based merger arbitrage fund manager.  Relative Value  Including about $3.8 billion in net debt, the total value
of the deal is 7.4 times Ebitda of $987 million in the 12 months
before a bid was made. That’s the cheapest in the industry since
Afrox Healthcare Ltd. was purchased for $3.53 billion rand ($525
million), valuing the Johannesburg-based hospital operator at 5
times Ebitda, the data show. The deal was announced in November
2003 and completed in March 2005.  “The $7.25 bid is still too low given the multiples for
the industry,” said Art Henderson, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in Nashville.  Henderson said Tenet should be worth about $9.50 a share,
while  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut , said Tenet should trade at about $9.  ‘Blowing Up’  Community Health first submitted a bid on Nov. 12 to Tenet
Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter, 51, and the board. It was
made public Dec. 9 after Tenet rejected the offer on Dec. 6.
Tenet’s response has been “scathing” from the start, said
Graham McPhail, an equity analyst at Baltimore-based T. Rowe
Price Group Inc., which owns shares of Tenet and Community
Health.  “There is nothing in the track record of Tenet’s
management that would lead me to believe that they will be
reasonable enough to go to the table,” McPhail said. “Trevor
should be working to maximize  shareholder value , but from the
start he has only seemed intent on blowing up the offer.”  In a statement released after Community Health made the
unsolicited offer public on Dec. 9, the Tenet board said it
doubted Community Health could “integrate and operate a
business like Tenet” and called the bid an “opportunistic
proposal” that would “transfer the growth potential inherent
in Tenet to Community Health without adequately compensating
Tenet shareholders.”  ‘All Hands’  Tenet accused Community Health of overcharging Medicare at
least $280 million between 2006 and 2009 in a lawsuit on April
11. Tenet said the rival hospital company was using “liberal”
criteria to decide whether to admit a patient or treat the
person less expensively on an outpatient basis. The next hearing
is set for May 13.  Community Health disclosed April 15 that it had been
subpoenaed by the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services
in connection with an investigation into possible improper
billing of Medicare.  “Even though they won’t say it, they need all hands on
deck -- not to pursue Tenet at this point, but to pursue these
allegations,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in  New York .
“They want this Tenet situation to end.”  Justice Department   Tenet has its own history of government probes. The company
paid more than $900 million as part of a  2006 settlement  with
the Justice Department after the company was accused of
overbilling Medicare and other federal health programs. It also
paid a  $10 million fine  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in 2007 for accounting fraud claims, and in March
settled a class-action complaint over the firm’s management of
Memorial Medical Center in  New Orleans  during  Hurricane Katrina .  The company is now in play, and HCA may be a good fit, said
Scott Rostan, a former M&A banker at Merrill Lynch & Co. and
president of Training The Street, which trains new hires at
firms from Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to Blackstone
Group LP of New York. Oppenheimer’s New York-based Wiederhorn
said HCA, as well as private-equity firms, may pursue Tenet.  HCA, which posted Ebitda of $5.67 billion last year, could
boost earnings by as much as $800 million annually by acquiring
Tenet, CRT Capital’s Skolnick said.  The company has 164 hospitals and 106 surgery centers in 20
states in the U.S. and U.K., according to HCA’s  website . HCA
raised $4.4 billion in its initial public offering in March
after being taken private in 2006 for $33 billion by a private-
equity group including Bain Capital LLC of Boston and New York-
based KKR & Co.  ‘Perfect Sense’  “HCA strategically makes perfect sense,” Rostan said.
“You have a financial sponsor-backed HCA, but it would get the
benefit of a strategic acquisition with the overlapping
operations and potentials for cost savings.”  If Community Health isn’t successful in acquiring Tenet and
HCA doesn’t make an offer, Tenet’s stock may drop as much as 16
percent to $5.25, MKM’s Moore said. Tenet had fallen 9.9 percent
in the 12 months leading up to Community Health’s first offer.  Since then, Tenet has reported earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates for two quarters. It posted a $1.14 billion
profit last year, a six-fold increase from 2009.  Tenet “was definitely in a real trough when they came in
and no company likes to sell based on the price of their stock
during the trough,” Moore said. “What Tenet was counting on
was to get the fundamentals to turn around enough and the
financials to show enough progress that even the $7.25 bid
wouldn’t look attractive.”  Overall, there have been 8,428 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $834.7 billion, a 23 percent increase from
the $677.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at +1-212-617-2563 or  rgale5@bloomberg.net . 