-- 
Chief Executives in U.S. Forecast Gains in Sales, Employment, Survey Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/confidence-among-u-s-chief-executive-officers-improved-in-second-quarter.html
Confidence among U.S. chief executive
officers improved at the start of the second quarter as more
business leaders forecast pickups in demand, employment and
spending on equipment, a survey showed.  The  Young Presidents’ Organization  gauge of sentiment rose
to 64.1 in April, the highest since the survey began in the
second quarter of 2009, from 63.5 in January, according to the
Dallas-based group. A reading greater than 50 shows the
executives’ outlook was more positive than negative.  With an improving U.S. labor market and stronger  consumer
spending , chief executives in the world’s largest economy are
about as confident as their counterparts across the globe, where
the optimism level averaged 64.3, the nonprofit service
organization’s survey showed. The  International Monetary Fund 
projects 2011 growth of 2.8 percent in the U.S., compared with
4.4 percent globally.  “After lagging most other regions for the past two years,
the  United States  is now as optimistic as the world as a
whole,” Alan Zafran, a YPO member and managing partner at
Luminous Capital LLC in  Los Angeles , said in a statement. “They
clearly believe the worst of the recession is behind them.”  Sixty-seven percent of U.S. respondents said sales will
increase in the coming 12 months, while 4.1 percent project
weaker demand.  Hiring Plans  Hiring will pick up throughout the year at about 42 percent
of the businesses surveyed, and 3.7 expect to reduce employee
count, helping maintain six-straight months of U.S. payroll
growth. Companies hired more workers than forecast in March, a
Labor Department report showed last month.  The fixed investment index climbed to 62.8 in April, the
highest level since the group began keeping records. The
proportion of CEOs planning to boost  capital spending  was at 46
percent, according to the survey.  Executives in the  construction industry , in which 62
percent of respondents expect a better business and economic
climate in the next six months, contributed most to the improved
outlook. Fifty-six percent of those executives had positive
expectations in the prior survey.  The quarterly survey, conducted during the first two weeks
of April, received responses from 2,582 U.S. CEOs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski at   akowalski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  