-- 
Confidence in Dong Returns on Vietnam Moves, Viet Capital Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-05T09:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/confidence-in-dong-returns-on-vietnam-moves-viet-capital-says.html
Confidence in  Vietnam ’s dong “seems
to have returned” after policy makers launched a series of
measures to narrow the gap between the official and unofficial
exchange rates, Viet Capital Securities said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam capped foreign-currency deposit
rates at 3 percent for individuals and at 1 percent for non-
 credit institutions  last month. It also raised the amount of
dollar deposits lenders must set aside as cash by 2 percentage
points. Some small banks have been collecting as much as $15
million every day from customers wanting the dong, the
government said on its website on April 27.  “We have noticed domestic residents have recently shifted
holdings from foreign currency to the dong,” Marc Djandji, the
Ho Chi Minh City-based head of research at Viet Capital, wrote
in a note yesterday. “We saw liquidity improve within the
 interbank market  while most banks are now willing to sell
dollars to individuals within the trading band.”  The dong gained 0.2 percent to 20,610 per dollar as of 4:25
p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 1.8 percent last week.  The State Bank of Vietnam fixed the  reference rate  at
20,708, compared with 20,703 yesterday, its  website  showed. In
the so-called black market, the dong traded at 20,655 at the end
of April, a gain of 2.2 percent against the dollar from the end
of March, Djandji wrote in the report.  The central bank may buy “large amounts of dollar from the
market to build up its international reserves to more
comfortable levels” as the dong strengthens, Djandji wrote in
the report.  Vietnam’s foreign-exchange reserves declined to cover about
1.4 months of imports by the end of December from 1.8 months
three months earlier, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
report on April 28.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  