-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Falls as Fuel Costs Squeeze Household Budgets

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-05T20:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-falls-on-surging-gasoline-prices.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last week
to the lowest level in more than a month as rising fuel costs
squeezed American household budgets.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus
46.2 in the week ended May 1, the lowest level since the end of
March, from minus 45.1 the prior period. Another report showed
claims for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly surged last week,
raising the risk the improvement in the jobs market has stalled.  Stocks dropped and  Treasury securities  rose on concern that
rising expenses, including the highest gasoline prices in almost
three years, may prompt companies and households to cut back on
spending. The reports bolster the arguments of Federal Reserve
policy makers like Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  who’ve said job
growth is too slow to remove record monetary stimulus.  “There is a potential for storm clouds on the horizon,”
said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “If you can’t get gasoline
prices at the pump back down quickly, the economy is going to
have a hard time trying to deal with it. It’s taken a lot out of
consumer confidence.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent to
1,335.1 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to
prices, decreased to 3.16 percent from 3.22 percent late
yesterday.  More Claims  The number of applications for jobless benefits jumped by
43,000 to 474,000 in the week ended April 30, the most since
August, Labor Department figures showed today. A spring break
holiday in  New York , a new emergency benefits program in  Oregon 
and auto shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan  were the main
reasons for the surge, a Labor Department spokesman said as the
data were released to the press.  While the jump last week may be an anomaly, “one must not
forget that claims had drifted up even before today’s report,”
 Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in New
York, said in a report to clients. “We do not think that the
entire rise in claims over the last month can be explained by
special factors alone. It seems instead as if the improvement in
the labor market slowed a bit.”  Employers added 185,000 workers to payrolls in April after
a gain of 216,000 the prior month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Labor Department’s monthly jobs report tomorrow. The
 unemployment rate  probably held at 8.8 percent, the survey
showed.  Productivity Cools  Another Labor Department report today showed worker
productivity slowed in the first quarter and labor costs rose as
a growing economy prompted companies to boost employment. The
measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.6 percent
annual rate, after a 2.9 percent gain in the prior three months.
Expenses per employee climbed at a 1 percent rate after dropping
1 percent.  While payrolls have grown each month since October,
Bernanke said on April 27 that central bankers would like to see
more strength in the U.S. labor market, noting that a recovery
has been “quite slow.”  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
to reporters during the first-ever press conference following a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting. “We would like to make
sure that that is sustainable. The longer it goes on, the more
confident we are.”  A stalling in job gains would come at a time when expenses
are rising. The average price of regular gasoline at the pump
reached $3.99 a gallon yesterday, the highest since July 2008,
according to AAA, the country’s largest motoring group.  Young Adults, Singles  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed young adults
and single Americans were among the groups losing the most
confidence over the past two weeks.  “Surging gasoline prices and a difficult labor market are
likely to dampen demand and serve as an impediment to growth in
the second quarter,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Lower-income groups are caught in
the vise of rising fuel costs and elevated unemployment.”  The survey period for the Bloomberg gauge was prior to news
that the U.S. killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. President
 Barack Obama ’s approval rating surged after he said the FBI’s
most-wanted terrorist was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs.  Last week’s drop in the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
reflected deterioration in two of its three components. The
buying-climate index decreased to the second-lowest level since
January 2010, while Americans’ views of the economy also fell.
The gauge of personal finances held near the prior week’s
reading that was the lowest in two months.  Executive’s Concerns  Some company officials are concerned by rising fuel costs
and the labor market even as their earnings climb.  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-biggest bank-card network, this week
posted a first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
consumers stepped up spending.  “I still remain concerned about housing prices and
unemployment in the  United States , about food- and gas-price
inflation around the world,” Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga 
said in a conference call yesterday. “I remain cautiously
optimistic.”  There is little sign so far that less confidence is
translating into less spending. Same-store sales at retailers in
April surpassed analysts’ estimates, led by Limited Brands Inc.
and Macy’s Inc., a report today showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  