-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops on Surging Gasoline Prices

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-05T14:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-drops-on-surging-gasoline-prices.html

Press Release  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index Was Minus 46.2 in the
Period to May 1  New York -- U.S. consumer confidence dropped to a five-week low
as the highest gasoline prices in almost three years soured
Americans’ views of the buying climate.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus 46.2 in
the week ended May 1, the lowest level since the end of March,
from minus 45.1 the prior period. The buying climate gauge
slumped to its second-lowest level in 15 months.  Gasoline that on May 3 reached $3.98 a gallon, its highest since
July 2008, may prompt Americans to cut back on the spending that
makes up 70 percent of the economy. The report also showed young
adults and single Americans were among the groups losing the
most confidence over the past two weeks.  For full CCI results, see:  http://www.bloomberg.com/cci   “Surging gasoline prices and a difficult labor market are likely
to dampen demand and serve as an impediment to growth in the
second quarter,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. “Lower-income groups are caught in the
vise of rising fuel costs and elevated unemployment.”  The survey period for the Bloomberg gauge was prior to news that
the U.S. killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. President
 Barack Obama ’s approval rating surged after he said the FBI’s
most-wanted terrorist was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs.  A New York Times/CBS News poll taken May 2-3 showed 57 percent
of respondents said they approved of the president’s overall job
performance, up from 46 percent last month. The good feelings
failed to extend to the president’s handling of the economy,
where his approval rating fell to the lowest level since he took
office.  Another report today showed more Americans filed first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments last week, pushed up
by auto-plant shutdowns and other unusual events that normal
seasonal adjustments failed to take into account. Initial
jobless claims surged by 43,000 to 474,000 in the week ended
April 30, the most since August, according to Labor Department
data.  A spring break holiday at schools in the state of  New York 
prompted workers to file claims, which the seasonal adjustment
factors didn’t expect last week, a Labor Department official
said. In addition,  Oregon  began a new emergency benefits program
for the long-term unemployed that also pulled in some new
claimants, he said. Finally, auto-plant shutdowns due to parts
shortages caused by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  also
contributed to the increase, the official said.  Last week’s drop in the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
reflects deterioration in two of its three components. The
buying-climate index decreased to minus 56, the second-lowest
level since January 2010, from minus 51.8 the prior week. A
gauge of Americans’ views of the economy at minus 75.8 was down
from minus 74.3 the prior week.  The personal finances gauge was minus 6.9 last week, near the
prior week’s minus 9.2 reading that was the lowest in two
months.  Younger adults, those aged between 18 and 34, are the most
pessimistic. An index of confidence for that age group fell to
minus 51.3 last week, the lowest since October and down 21
points over the past two weeks. The measure for single Americans
has also dropped 20 points over the same period.  “These are dreadful ratings by any measure,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. “Gas has
soared by 29 percent this year alone, turning motoring into a
painful experience for millions of Americans.”  The comfort index was higher among Democrats than Republicans
for a third straight week, which has happened on just three
previous occasions -- in late 1996, April 2010 and at the start
of this year. The comfort gauge among Democrats was minus 36.6,
up from minus 40.5 four weeks ago. The index for Republicans was
minus 44.8 compared with minus 38.2 a month earlier.  Some company officials are concerned by rising fuel costs and
the labor market even as their earnings climb. MasterCard Inc.,
the world’s second-biggest bank-card network, this week posted a
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as consumers
stepped up spending.  “I still remain concerned about housing prices and unemployment
in the  United States , about food- and gas-price inflation around
the world,” Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  said in a
conference call yesterday. “I remain cautiously optimistic.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact for Bloomberg:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
