-- 
Continental AG Profit Hits Three-Year High on Auto Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-05T09:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/continental-ag-posts-highest-profit-in-three-years-on-car-demand.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest auto-parts maker, reported its highest quarterly profit
in more than three years on demand for tires and components.  Net income jumped 62 percent to 368 million euros ($547
million) from 228 million euros a year earlier, boosted by a 68
million-euro tax gain, the Hanover, Germany-based company said
today. Sales gained 23 percent to 7.3 billion euros.  “We expect the second quarter to be on a similar level as
the first and have no indication that the second half should be
weaker,” Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said today
in a phone interview. First-quarter earnings were the best since
the company purchased Siemens AG’s VDO automotive unit at the
end of 2007.  The recovery in global auto markets has helped Continental
improve its financial situation. The manufacturer received its
first credit-rating upgrade from Moody’s Investors Service in
six years last month after arranging a 6 billion-euro loan
package to cut borrowing costs. The company, which opened a tire
plant in  China  this year, aims to sell 30 percent of its auto
parts in  Asia  in coming years, up from 21 percent now.  Continental, which has climbed about 56 percent over the
past 12 months, fell as much as 3.7 percent to 63.77 euros and
was down 3.4 percent at 11:09 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the
company at 12.8 billion euros.  “There wasn’t anything incrementally positive after the
preliminary figures last week,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank, who recommends buying
the shares. “You often see some selling after the final
figures.”  Rebounding Auto Sales  The rebound in auto sales after the financial crisis is
fueling demand for more components from carmakers in Asia, the
U.S., Europe and  Latin America , Schaefer said. To satisfy higher
production rates, Continental may raise  capital spending , which
was targeted at 1.5 billion euros, by as much as 20 percent this
year, the CFO said, adding that the increased spending will be
spread across all business units and regions.  A condition for the higher outlays is that Continental
continues to reduce debt, he said. The company aims to generate
at least 500 million euros in free  cash flow  to reduce
borrowings to below 7 billion euros by the end of the year.  Continental has been working to reduce debt, which soared
because of the 2007 acquisition of VDO for 11.4 billion euros.
The component maker sold 1.1 billion euros in new shares last
year to help cut net debt at the end of 2010 to 7.3 billion
euros from 8.9 billion euros a year earlier.  Continental aims to lower the ratio of net debt to equity
to about 70 percent from the Dec. 31 figure of 118 percent as it
targets a return to an investment-grade rating by 2012. The goal
this year is to lower the gearing ratio to less than 100
percent, the company said last week.  “With the good start to the year, we have laid the
foundation to comfortably achieve our targets,” Chief Executive
Officer Elmar Degenhart said in a statement.  The manufacturer, which is also  Europe ’s second-biggest
tiremaker, is targeting an increase in 2011 sales of more than
10 percent. Continental also plans to maintain its operating-
profit margin this year at 9.7 percent of sales, even though
higher rubber prices will probably increase raw-material costs
by more than 700 million euros, the company said.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose 28 percent to 634
million euros in the first quarter, yielding a margin of 8.6
percent compared with 8.2 percent a year ago. Continental plans
to raise tire prices to offset higher costs, Schaefer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  