-- 
Copper May Drop as China Moves to Curb Inflation, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/copper-may-drop-as-china-moves-to-curb-inflation-survey-shows.html
Copper may fall on concern demand will
weaken as stockpiles increase and  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal, moves to curb inflation, a survey showed.  Seven of 14 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 50 percent, said prices will drop next week. Five
predicted a gain and two forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was down 5.5 percent for this week at
$8,812 a metric ton by 4:30 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange after reaching the lowest price since Dec. 8.  Copper inventories tracked by the LME are up 34 percent
from the 2010 low to the highest level since last June. Taming
inflation is its top priority, the People’s Bank of China, which
has raised  interest rates  four times since October to slow price
growth running above the government’s target, said this week.  “Given the glut of metal that needs to be absorbed and the
impact that Chinese tightening measures appear to be having on
sentiment and economic activity, copper’s short-term prospects
continue to look poor,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard
Bank Plc in London, said yesterday in a report.  Inflation in China rose an annual 5.4 percent in March,
exceeding the government’s 4 percent full-year target for a
third month.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of April 28.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
65 of the past 135 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 7 Bullish: 5 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 