-- 
Oil Drops Below $100 a Barrel on Concern Growth Will Slow, Gain in Dollar

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-05T20:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/crude-oil-futures-decline-a-fourth-day-on-signs-of-slower-economic-growth.html
Crude oil tumbled below $100 a barrel
as commodities dropped the most in two years on concern that
economic growth will slow and as the dollar strengthened against
the euro.  Oil fell 8.6 percent after the Labor Department said
applications for jobless benefits rose to the highest level
since August, a signal that fuel demand may drop. Silver led
declines in the Thomson Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index. The dollar
advanced after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said he wouldn’t raise  interest rates .  “We’ve got a bit of a blood bath going on now,” said
 Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron
Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “Once the ECB refused
to raise rates we saw the dollar take off and the drop in
commodities accelerate.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell $9.44 to $99.80 a barrel,
the lowest settlement on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  since
March 16. Futures have tumbled 12 percent over the past four
days and had the biggest one-day decline since April 20, 2009.
Prices are up 25 percent from a year ago.  Crude oil may drop as low as $98 a barrel after breaching
technical support to settle below its 30-day moving average for
the first time since February, according to technical analysis
from Again Capital LLC.  Futures declined from the settlement, falling as low as
$98.25 a barrel in after-hours electronic trading on the Nymex.
The exchange extended the trading limit for a one-day move in
crude to $20 from the usual $10 after the close of floor
trading. When the limit is reached, the exchange halts trading
beyond it for five minutes.  The dollar increased as much as 2.1 percent to $1.451 per
euro, the highest level since April 26. A drop in the greenback
makes commodities priced in the U.S. currency more attractive
for investors.  Euro ‘Pounded’  “The euro is getting pounded and that’s putting pressure
on all of the commodities,” said  Stephen Schork , president of
market consultants The Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “Markets fall faster than they rise.”  Economists forecast 410,000 U.S. jobless claims, according
to the median of 46 projections in a Bloomberg News survey. A
report tomorrow is anticipated to show employers in the world’s
largest economy hired 185,000 additional workers in April.  Factory orders in  Germany  unexpectedly dropped in March.
Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, fell 4
percent from February, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, according
to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Factory Orders  “The spike in weekly jobless claims here and the drop in
German factory orders today follow a series of weak economic
data points,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The
ECB is stepping back from tightening, which is ending the
commodity inflation trade. This is a significant recasting of
the environment.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
dropped 4.9 percent to 341.07, the lowest level since March 16.
All but one of the commodities were down, led by silver’s
losses. The CME Group Inc. raised margin requirements for the
precious metal by 84 percent in less than two weeks.  “We clearly had a combination of a commodity bubble and
security premium pushing prices higher,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The commodity bubble burst with the increase in
silver margins and the killing of  Osama bin Laden  has reduced
the security premium.”  Terrorist leader  bin Laden  was killed on May 1 during a
U.S. raid in  Pakistan . Bin Laden targeted oil facilities as a
way to damage the U.S. and European economies.  Political Unrest  Oil has climbed 9.2 percent in  New York  this year as unrest
toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Libya,
Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  Brent crude oil for June settlement plunged $10.39, or 8.6
percent, to $110.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Futures fell to $109.02, the lowest price since
March 16.  U.S. gasoline consumption dropped 2.2 percent to 8.94
million barrels a day last week, an Energy Department report
showed yesterday. Total fuel demand slipped 6.4 percent to 18.3
million barrels a day, the lowest level since November 2009.  “Today’s jobs numbers were poor, adding to the perception
that the economy is moving back into a period of malaise, which
would lead to a drop in energy demand,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Weak demand could
previously be blamed on lousy weather. Now we’re probably seeing
the impact of high prices and a weaker economy.”  Gasoline Tumbles  Gasoline for June delivery tumbled 22.71 cents, or 6.8
percent, to settle at $3.0954 a gallon in New York, the lowest
intraday price since March 30.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.3 cent to $3.985 a gallon yesterday, the most since
July 24, 2008, AAA said on its  website .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 1.05
million contracts as of 3:48 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
610,259 contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the average of the
past three months. Open interest was rose to a record 1.63
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 