-- 
Crude, Gasoline, Heating Oil Tumble on Economy: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-05-05T21:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/crude-gasoline-heating-oil-tumble-on-economy-oil-products.html
Crude oil , gasoline, and heating oil
fell at least 6.8 percent, with crude sinking below $100 as
commodities plunged the most since 2009. The declines came after
U.S. jobless claims climbed, adding to concern that growth will
slow, affecting fuel demand. Ethanol also declined.  The dollar advanced against the euro, reducing the appeal
of dollar-priced commodities, after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said inflation risks will be
watched “very closely,” signaling the ECB may wait until after
June to raise rates.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for June delivery tumbled $9.44, or 8.6 percent,
to $99.80 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
price has dropped 12 percent this week, falling all four days.
Crude gained 25 percent in the past year.  “We’ve got a bit of a bloodbath going on now,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover
Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “Once the ECB refused to raise
rates, we saw the dollar take off and the drop in commodities
accelerate.”  Gasoline  Gasoline for May delivery dropped 22.71 cents, or 6.8
percent, to $3.0954 a gallon on the Nymex, the lowest settlement
in five weeks. Gasoline has increased 39 percent in a year.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.3 cent to $3.985 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
website. That was the highest price since July 24, 2008. The
price has gone up every day since March 21.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for May delivery fell 25.61 cents, or 8.1
percent, to $2.8869 a gallon on the Nymex. Heating oil has
gained 32 percent in the past year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for June delivery declined 6.2 cents, or
2.3 percent, to $2.58 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Ethanol has increased 62 percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport  North Atlantic Refining is shutting a crude and isomax unit
for work at the Come By Chance refinery in Newfoundland, Gloria
Slade, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The maintenance at the
115,000-barrel-a-day plant, owned by Korea National Oil Corp.,
is expected to last eight weeks, she said.  Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest oil company, started a new
50,000-barrel-a-day coker project at its Port Arthur refinery in
 Texas  that will increase the refinery’s ability to process heavy
and sour crude oil, according to a company statement.  Holly Corp. (HOC)  expects to return the west crude unit at its
Tulsa, Oklahoma, refinery to service early next week, the
company said in a quarterly earnings release.  Frontier Oil Corp.’s Cheyenne refinery in  Wyoming  will
return to full rates this week after planned work during April,
a company executive said during a conference call.  BP Plc plans to restart a second crude unit and associated
downstream production units at its Texas City, Texas, refinery
within a few days, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at   dstets@bloomberg.net  