-- 
Czech Central Bank Leaves Key Rate on Hold on Benign Inflation

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-05T11:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/czech-central-bank-leaves-key-rate-on-hold-on-benign-inflation.html
The Czech central bank left the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for the 12th month as
falling consumption keeps inflation under its target.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, or CNB, kept the two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a half-point below the  European
Central Bank ’s main rate, at today, in line with the forecast of
13 out of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Four forecast a
quarter-point increase. Governor Miroslav Singer will comment on
the decision at a news conference at 2.30 p.m. in Prague.  “The main inflation risks aren’t created locally, but are
imported through high commodity prices, while domestic demand
factors remain significantly subdued,” CSOB Bank AS, the Czech
unit of KBC Groep NV, said in a note before the decision. “The
CNB doesn’t need to rush with raising interest rates, though the
time of record-low rates is coming closer to an end.”  Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to
contain inflation pressures caused by higher oil and food
prices. Czech policy makers have kept rates unchanged for a year
as inflation holds below the bank’s 2 percent target and an
economic recovery slows.  The ECB raised its main rate a quarter-point to 1.25
percent in April to stem price growth. Several countries in
eastern  Europe , including Hungary, Poland and  Russia , started
raising interest rates last year to slow inflation.  Koruna Gains  The Czech koruna has gained 3.4 percent to the euro this
year, the third-best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The koruna was unchanged at
24.176 to the euro as of 12:55 p.m. in Prague. Forward-rate
agreements locking in three-month interest rates in three
months, were at 1.44 percent, compared with the three-month
Prague Interbank Offered Rate, or PRIBOR, at 1.21 percent.  The central bank will also publish today an updated
economic outlook, which may bring a revision of its consumer-
price growth forecast. In February the bank saw the inflation
rate matching the 2 percent target in the first quarter of 2012
before rising to 2.1 percent in the following three months.  The February forecast also signaled rising interest rates
from the end of this year. A better economic outlook, higher  oil
prices  and the higher trajectory of ECB rates point to earlier
monetary tightening, said Ceska Sporitelna AS analyst Lubos Mokras.  Differing Views  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some board members advocating higher borrowing
costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  voted for a quarter-point increase at the
last meeting on March 24. Kamil Janacek, who didn’t attend the
last rate-setting meeting, said on April 6 he wanted to lift
rates at today’s session.  The economy and developments abroad are sending mixed
signals about inflation risks, which is increasing
“uncertainty” and clouding the interest-rate outlook, central
bank Governor Singer said in an interview on April 16.  Demand pressures are weaker than the central bank forecast
and offsetting upward inflation risks caused by higher commodity
costs, Singer said. He also said the next forecast may “stress
a little bit more inflationary risks than the previous one”
because of the commodity prices.  Czech inflation slowed to 1.7 percent in March from 1.8
percent in February, below the central bank’s target for a third
month. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 9.2 percent in March
from a 6-year high of 9.9 percent in February 2010 as
improvement on the job market traditionally lags behind a
revival in economic growth because businesses focus on
increasing productivity rather than hiring new employees.  Final consumption as part of gross domestic product dropped
0.7 percent in the fourth-quarter of 2010, the latest available
data, compared with a 0.4 percent increase in the previous three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  