-- 
Czech Central Bank Sees Earlier Rate Increase as ECB Borrowing Costs Rise

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-06T15:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/czech-central-bank-sees-earlier-rate-increase-as-ecb-borrowing-costs-rise.html
The Czech central bank moved forward
its forecast for the start of interest-rate increases after
borrowing costs in the neighboring euro area rose last month.  The Ceska Narodni Banka voted yesterday to keep the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a half-point below the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, rejecting a motion for a
quarter-point increase with a 5-2 vote. The bank forecast higher
market interest rates from the fourth quarter, compared with a
previous prediction for the first quarter of 2012.  Czech policy makers have kept rates unchanged for a year as
inflation holds below the bank’s 2 percent target. The ECB last
month raised its main rate for the first time in almost three
years, changing one of the variables in the economic models used
by central bankers in Prague.  “The forecast, or the way it reacts to changes in external
trends and to the expectations of changes in external trends,
has moved an increase in rates slightly forward,” Governor
Miroslav Singer told reporters after the rate decision.  The Czech koruna has gained 3.8 percent against the euro
this year, the third-best performance among the 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Forward-rate agreements
locking in three-month  interest rates  in three months, dropped
to 1.37 percent today, from 1.44 percent before the rate
decision. The three-month Prague interbank offered rate, or
Pribor, was at 1.21 percent.  Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to
contain inflation pressures caused by higher oil and food
prices. Several countries in eastern  Europe , including Hungary,
Poland and  Russia , started raising interest rates since last
year to slow inflation.  Trichet’s Signal  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled yesterday that
the bank will wait until after June to raise interest rates
again following a quarter-point increase in April. Policy makers
left the benchmark rate unchanged at 1.25 percent yesterday.  The Czech central bank expects higher rates to help keep
inflation at 2.2 percent in the second quarter of 2012 and at
2.1 percent in the following three months, according to the
forecast released yesterday.  Rates may rise as soon as the third quarter “if a stream
of positive data releases continues in coming months,” said
David Marek, chief economist at Patria Finance, a Prague-based
brokerage owned by  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)  “The timing can be influenced
by the ECB policy and the spread between Pribor and Euribor.”  The Czech central bank didn’t change its forecasts for
three-month Pribor, leaving them at 1.3 percent for 2011 and 2
percent for 2012.  Forecast Assumptions  The bank included assumptions of further policy tightening
in the euro-area in the forecast. It sees the three-month Euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, at 1.6 percent in 2011 and
at 2.6 percent in 2012, an increase from the previous forecasts
of 1.2 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively.  The yield on the December Euribor futures contract fell 17
basis points yesterday to 2.01 percent as investors curbed bets
on higher interest rates. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some board members advocating higher borrowing
costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  voted for a quarter-point increase at the
March 24 meeting. Kamil Janacek said April 6 he wanted to lift
rates in May. A detailed record of yesterday’s vote will be
published May 13.  External Pressures  The Czech economy isn’t generating inflation pressures as
consumer demand remains subdued, Singer said yesterday as the
bank cut its forecast for growth in gross domestic product to
1.5 percent for 2011 from 1.6 percent. The 2012 forecast was
reduced to 2.8 percent from 3 percent.  “The external environment is principally bringing pro-
inflationary pressures,” Singer said.  Inflation slowed to 1.7 percent in March from 1.8 percent
in February, below the central bank’s 2 percent target for a
third month.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 9.2 percent in March from
a six-year high of 9.9 percent in February 2010. Improvement in
the job market traditionally lags behind a revival in economic
growth because businesses focus on increasing productivity
rather than hiring new employees.  Anti-inflationary trends in Czech economy prevail over pro-
inflationary pressure from abroad, which may let policy makers
be more restrained with monetary tightening, said  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna, the Czech unit of Erste
Group Bank AG.  “The Czech National Bank currently doesn’t share the
urgency about rate decisions with the ECB, and it will stay so
for the rest of the year,” Lobotka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  