-- 
Death of Bin Laden Doesn’t Move Middle East: Isobel Coleman

-- B y   I s o b e l   C o l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T23:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/death-of-bin-laden-doesn-t-move-middle-east-commentary-by-isobel-coleman.html
In the U.S., Osama  bin Laden ’s killing
by Navy Seals has brought celebrations and feelings of victory
and justice. But the al-Qaeda leader’s demise likely holds more
media impact than real-life significance. While he remains an
important symbol to some, his global relevance diminished long
before his death.  In the Middle East, news of bin Laden’s end came mostly
with a whimper. The reaction has largely been ambivalence and
even indifference. Yes, there are groups mourning and honoring
him: Hamas’s prime minister, Ismail Haniya, condemned the
“assassination” and prayed bin Laden’s soul would rest in
peace, and an ex-Hezbollah chief, Sheikh Sobhi al-Tufayli, was
quoted as mourning the al-Qaeda leader’s demise. Others in the
region, as elsewhere, have questioned whether his death is real.  Overall, an understated sense of good riddance prevails.
Across the Middle East, students, shopkeepers and people on the
streets have been dismissive of the news. Bin Laden’s narrative
of grievance and victimization feels more remote than ever today
as Arabs seek to grab hold of their future.  Bin Laden’s vision, if it can be called that, was for
Muslims to achieve glory by restoring the Caliphate. He called
for a return to some mythical 7th century golden era that in
fact has very little appeal to the vast majority of Muslims. Yet
the spectacular destruction wrought on 9/11, combined with his
fiery anti-American hectoring, gave him a strong Q rating.  Image Versus Reality  He was great on television. The carefully cultivated images
of his Spartan existence in the mountains of Afghanistan and
 Pakistan , leading a successful insurgency against the Soviets
and then long defying the U.S., were seared into Arab and Muslim
minds. For a time, he became a 21st century Islamic Che Guevara,
with telegenic appeal trumping ideology.  Al-Qaeda’s mass killings of Muslims, however, exposed the
organization as the murderous nihilists they are. The November
2005 bombing of a wedding party in Amman, the numerous attacks
on Iraqis that left thousands dead, and indiscriminate al-Qaeda
violence throughout Pakistan and other countries turned many
against the movement.  The fact that bin Laden was found living in comfort rather
than in some mountain hideout further undermines his ascetic
image -- which peaked years ago, anyway. According to the Pew
Arab polls, confidence in bin Laden among Muslims decreased in
every country surveyed across the greater Middle East from 2003
to 2011. In several countries, majority approval in 2003 plunged
to the teens or single digits by 2011.  Source of Jihadism  No country surveyed had a positive net change over those
eight years. Even in the Palestinian territories, where approval
was highest, the total change was from 72 percent confidence in
2003 to 34 percent in 2011.  Of course, it was the Middle East’s (particularly  Saudi
Arabia ’s) many political and social discontents --
authoritarianism, lack of education, lack of job opportunities,
lack of freedom -- that helped produce jihadism and al-Qaeda in
the first place. Having rejected bin Laden’s message, young
people in the Arab world are seeking a new way forward.  Rather than advocating violence and pledging allegiance to
a medieval code of sharia, leaders of the Arab Spring have
called for democracy based on greater freedom, pluralism and
opportunity.  In Tunisia, Egypt and Yemen, women have been widely active
in protest movements -- certainly a far cry from bin Laden’s
vision of keeping them in silent purdah. In Egypt, Christians
and Muslims joined together in opposition to dictatorship,
flatly repudiating bin Laden’s Manichaean distinction between
the righteous and the infidels.  Al-Qaeda can continue to pose a security threat, but it was
never an alternative. Far from leading the Arab and Muslim
worlds toward a clash of civilizations, bin Laden will become a
footnote to the broader story of regional transformation.  (Isobel Coleman is a senior fellow and director of the
Civil Society, Markets and Democracy Initiative at the  Council
on Foreign Relations .)  To contact the writer of this column:
Isobel Coleman at  icoleman@cfr.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  