-- 
Deutsche Bank, MetLife, HSBC, Icahn, Rajaratnam, Mediaset in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-05T11:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/deutsche-bank-metlife-hsbc-rajaratnam-k1-in-court-news.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
agreed to pay $160.2 million to settle charges it rigged bids on
at least 100 U.S. municipal-bond transactions that generated
“millions of dollars in ill-gotten gains.”  UBS will pay $47.2 million to settle Securities and
Exchange Commission charges and $113 million to end cases
brought by other federal and state authorities, the SEC said
yesterday in  Washington . Some of the money will be returned to
municipalities, the SEC said.  The settlement agreements, which involved 25 states, are
part of criminal and civil investigations into a conspiracy by
financial firms and municipal advisers to overcharge state and
local governments for investment products. UBS’s activity
threatened the tax-exempt status of $16.5 billion of municipal
bonds, the SEC said.  “Our complaint against UBS reads like a ‘how-to’ primer
for bid-rigging and securities fraud,” Elaine Greenberg, chief
of the SEC’s Municipal Securities and Public Pensions Unit, said
in a statement. “They used secret arrangements and multiple
roles to win business and defraud municipalities through the
repeated use of illegal courtesy bids, last looks for favored
bidders, and money to bidding agents disguised as swap
payments.”  The bank is the second to settle charges in the
government’s more-than-four-year antitrust investigation into
bid rigging for investments states and cities make with proceeds
from the $400 billion of bonds they sell yearly. Last year,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to pay $137 million in restitution.  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this matter with its
regulators,” the Zurich-based company said in a statement.
“The underlying transactions were entered into in a business
that no longer exists at UBS and involved employees who are no
longer with the firm.”  Last year, former UBS banker Mark Zaino pleaded guilty to
fixing prices when brokering municipal-investment deals by
submitting intentionally losing bids at auctions run by Los
Angeles-broker CDR Financial Products. UBS allegedly entered
into separate trades with another bank that were used to funnel
kickbacks to CDR. Zaino agreed to cooperate in the
investigation.  The  Justice Department  also indicted the former co-head of
UBS’s municipal derivatives group and two colleagues.  For more, click here.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  Units Pay $44 Million to Settle False-Claims Suit  Merck KGaA units agreed to pay $44.3 million to settle
allegations the company submitted false claims to U.S. health-
care programs because doctors were paid to prescribe its
multiple sclerosis drug Rebif, the U.S. said.  The government accused Merck KGaA’s Serono Laboratories
Inc. and EMD Serono Inc. of making payments to health-care
providers for hundreds of meetings and programs at upscale
resorts where Rebif was promoted. The settlement was filed in a
whistle-blower lawsuit in federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland,
and made public yesterday.  Serono’s actions resulted in the submission of false claims
to programs including Medicare and Medicaid for the payment of
Rebif because the claims were tainted by kickbacks, the Justice
Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Serono denies the allegations and doesn’t admit any
liability, according to the settlement. Merck KGaA, based in
Darmstadt,  Germany , acquired Swiss drugmaker Serono SA in 2007
for $17.9 billion.  Under the agreement, the federal government will receive
$34.6 million while various states will split $9.7 million.  Timothy Amato, a former business director for Serono who
filed the whistle-blower case in 2005, will receive about $5.2
million, according to a copy of the settlement agreement.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Tim Amato v. Serano Laboratories
Inc., 05-cv-03457, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Greenbelt).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  AIG Accused of Lying About CDOs in Civil Lawsuit Over Bailout  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  engaged in widespread
fraud in connection with its U.S. bailout and should be forced
to repay “treble damages” to taxpayers, two people said in a
civil lawsuit in  California .  AIG, four banks and 100 unnamed “John Doe” defendants
repeatedly lied to the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and the
U.S. Treasury in connection with an $85 billion loan rescuing
the insurer in 2008, according to a complaint filed in September
and unsealed April 28 in San Diego federal court.  “Each time AIG was caught engaging in fraud it promised to
reform its ways,” the complaint alleges, citing financial
reporting failures at the company in the years before the
bailout. “Each time, AIG reverted to its unlawful and
fraudulent way of doing business.”  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is attempting
to resolve legal disputes as the Treasury prepares to sell its
92 percent stake in the New York-based company. AIG, once the
world’s largest insurer, has settled lawsuits with investors and
former CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg since the 2008 rescue.  The lenders, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE) ,
allegedly lied about how AIG’s bailout money was used, according
to the complaint. The suit was filed by Derek and Nancy Casady,
who say they uncovered evidence through an examination of data
using “established investigative methods used by certified
fraud examiners.”  A spokesman for AIG in  London  referred calls to the New
York press office. Christina Pretto, a New York-based AIG
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call before regular
business hours.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert and Societe
Generale spokeswoman Laetitia Maurel didn’t immediately return
calls for comment. Calls to Goldman Sachs’s and Merrill Lynch’s
London press offices weren’t immediately returned.  BofA, Wells Fargo Mortgage Papers Challenged in  North Carolina   Bank of America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , lenders
already being probed for faulty home foreclosure practices, were
accused by a county official in North Carolina of using mortgage
documents that were possibly forgeries.  The signatures of the same names on more than 4,500
documents handled by  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  for real
estate valued at $624.8 million varied enough to raise doubts
about their validity, Jeff Thigpen, register of deeds in
Guilford County, North Carolina, told reporters yesterday in
Greensboro.  Most of the documents were certificates of satisfaction
filed on behalf of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, Bank of
America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and other
institutions showing the payoff of home mortgages, he said.
Thigpen said defective documents may harm a person’s ability to
get a loan if there are doubts about the legitimacy of the
paperwork discharging a previous mortgage.  “Investigators need to look at all of this, including the
possibility of forgery,” Thigpen said in an interview. “I
don’t know if the people who signed the documents were
authorized to sign the documents or if they were who said they
said were. It is all very questionable.”  Thigpen’s allegations, covering paperwork from 2008 through
2010, follows complaints that banks relied on so-called
robosigners, who allegedly processed and signed foreclosure
documents without verifying the facts of the cases.  Jason Menke, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said the bank’s
practices regarding certificates of satisfaction are
“appropriate and pose no risk or harm to homeowners in the
Carolinas or anywhere else.”  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, said by e-mail that when the company learned of
improper signing practices at its subsidiary Docx in November
2009 the process was halted, clients notified and the unit
ultimately shut down.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Sued by L.A. for Evicting Low-Income Tenants  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by the city of  Los Angeles  for
allegedly failing to maintain foreclosed properties and
illegally evicting low-income tenants.  The bank has become “one of the major slumlords in the
city” by buying more than 2,200 properties through foreclosure
and letting vacant buildings fall into disrepair, Los Angeles
City Attorney Carmen Trutanich said yesterday at a press
conference. The bank also unlawfully evicted tenants in order to
sell buildings, he said.  “They hurt the most economically vulnerable people in the
city,” Trutanich said. “They failed to make necessary repairs
and tenants were condemned to live in substandard conditions.”  The lawsuit filed in California state court comes a day
after the U.S. Justice Department sued the German bank for more
than $1 billion, claiming it lied while arranging federal
insurance on faulty mortgages. Deutsche Bank’s MortgageIT unit
falsely certified that it was examining default risks while
qualifying loans for Federal Housing Administration insurance,
according to the government.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based bank,
said the complaint filed by the Los Angeles City Attorney is
“against the wrong party,” according to an e-mailed statement.
“Loan servicers, and not Deutsche Bank as trustee, are
contractually responsible for both the maintenance of foreclosed
properties and any actions taken with respect to tenants of
foreclosed properties.”  Calabro yesterday called the federal government’s lawsuit
“unreasonable and unfair” May 3 and said the company would
fight the litigation.  The case is People v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.,
BC460878, Superior Court of California (Los Angeles).  MetLife’s $1.8 Billion Award Challenged by United Concordia  A $1.8 billion dental-insurance contract awarded to a unit
of  MetLife Inc. (MET)  has been challenged in court by  United Concordia
Companies Inc. , a provider of health services to the U.S.
military.  United Concordia, a for-profit unit of Pittsburgh-based
Highmark Inc., has provided dental insurance for Tricare, the
military’s health system, since 1996. The agency  awarded  a
contract to Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., a unit of MetLife,
in January.  The company’s complaint, filed in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims in Washington May 3, is sealed. The company also filed a
motion asking Judge Eric Bruggink for a temporary restraining
order, which could keep MetLife from beginning work on the
contract.  United Concordia had protested the contract to the
Government Accountability Office, which adjudicates award
disputes. The GAO denied the company’s protest on April 27.  United Concordia had $1.78 billion in gross revenue and
more than 8 million members in 2010.  Leilyn Perri, a spokesman for Highmark, declined to comment
yesterday.  Austin Camacho, a Tricare spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit and said the agency was moving forward with the
yearlong transition to MetLife.  Karen Eldred, a spokeswoman for MetLife, didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  The case is United Concordia Companies Inc. v. U.S., 11-
cv-276, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HSBC Seeks Dismissal of $9 Billion Madoff Trustee Lawsuit  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit filed
by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, saying he
isn’t allowed by law to bring such suits on behalf of the
confidence man’s customers.  Trustee Irving H. Picard in December sued HSBC and a dozen
so-called feeder funds for $9 billion, accusing them of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. A U.S. District Court judge temporarily took the
case out of bankruptcy court to decide whether Picard can bring
common-law claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on
behalf of customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff
firm.  “The trustee has no standing to bring the common law
claims on behalf of BLMIS,” HSBC said May 3 in a U.S. District
Court filing in New York, referring to Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC. “The trustee has no standing to
bring the common law claims on behalf of all BLMIS customers.”  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, also is facing lawsuits from
feeder funds and their investors, who claim the bank failed to
fulfill custody and administrative duties to them.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for investors in the Ponzi scheme, alleged the bank was aware of
concerns that Madoff’s investment business was fraudulent and
didn’t take steps to protect investors.  “Had HSBC and the defendants reacted appropriately to such
warnings and other obvious badges of fraud outlined in the
complaint, the Madoff Ponzi scheme would have collapsed years,
billions of dollars and countless victims sooner,” Picard said
in a December statement.  The bank said it lost almost $1 billion of its own money
investing in feeder funds, “a fact that clearly undermines the
trustee’s claim that HSBC was on notice of Madoff’s fraud,” it
said in the filing. As Picard himself alleges that Madoff was
the “mastermind” of the fraud, established legal rules bar him
from suing HSBC “for alleged assistance of what in essence was
his own fraud,” it said.  The appeal is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-
cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Laser Spine Surgery Marketed on Google Sees Complaints  Bonnie Balch searched online for a back surgeon and found a
pitch she called irresistible: Laser Spine Institute LLC
promised to ease her pain and have her out the door in a few
hours, Bloomberg News’s David Armstrong reports.  Instead, her October 2008 surgery at the Tampa, Florida-
based center left Balch incontinent, with a dangerous spinal
fluid leak, she said. Still in pain, she was off work for almost
a year and needed a second surgery elsewhere to get relief.  “They should have told me they couldn’t help me,” said
Balch, 63, a Longmont, Colorado, flight attendant. “They are in
it to make money.” Her insurer paid Laser Spine $90,176 for the
operation, a follow-up procedure and some subsequent care.  Balch sued Laser Spine, alleging malpractice, in December
2009, one of 15 cases filed against the company in the past 18
months.  The lawsuits reflect growing complaints about a new area of
medicine: high-volume, doctor-owned spinal surgery centers that
market directly to patients on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search site and
others. For Laser Spine, the business model generated a 34.3
percent net profit margin from 2006 through 2009 -- eclipsing
even the Internet giant’s 24.8 percent for that period.  For more, click here.  Icahn Seeks Dismissal of Last Claim in Lions Gate Lawsuit  Billionaire  Carl Icahn  asked a federal judge to dismiss
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s last surviving claim against
him.  The movie studio accused Icahn of paying a special price
for Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban’s 5.4 percent stake in
Lions Gate, saying it wasn’t fair to other investors. By law, an
issuer can’t demand more money for shareholders, Icahn said in a
filing May 3 in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer should reconsider his
decision to let the accusation stand, “to prevent the manifest
injustice that would result from the parties and this court
expending substantial resources litigating toward an
unobtainable remedy,” Icahn said in the filing.  Baer in March dismissed Lions Gate’s claims that Icahn
tried to interfere with its plan to merge with Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc. New York State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter
Sherwood the same month threw out Icahn’s lawsuit accusing Lions
Gate’s board of conspiring with large shareholders to thwart his
hostile bid for the film studio.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. V. Icahn, 1:10-
cv-08169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam Jury Hears Wiretaps Again as New Member Joins Panel  Jurors in the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam
reheard recordings of wiretapped conversations played for them
last week after restarting deliberations following the
replacement of one member of the panel.  With an alternate seated on the panel after Juror 2 was
dismissed for medical reasons, U.S. District Judge Richard
Holwell in Manhattan yesterday told the eight women and four men
to begin weighing the charges anew. The panel later asked to
hear 12 wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone conversations, nine of
which had been played before for the jurors, who began the first
round of deliberations April 25.  The jury left yesterday afternoon and will resume
deliberations today.  One of the three new recordings captured a conversation in
which former McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar told Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam, 53, about “massive layoffs on
Monday,” which prosecutors said was a tip about job cuts at
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in October 2008.  “I love that they’re listening to these calls,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told the judge after the jurors left
the courtroom. “Some of these calls are fantastic for the
government.”  Holwell again refused a U.S. request to give transcripts of
the recordings to the jury. The prosecution said jurors may not
know precisely which recordings to ask for because they lack a
master list and transcripts.  Rajaratnam was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors, relying in part on wiretaps of the defendant’s
phone calls, said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about 15 stocks.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, was
tried on five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of securities
fraud. He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Glaxo May Settle 1,000 More Avandia Lawsuits, Attorney Says  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , after setting aside more than $6
billion to help settle lawsuits over medicines including its
Avandia diabetes drug, is poised to resolve 1,000 more cases, a
lawyer for patients said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, is in settlement talks
with lawyers for an estimated 1,000 former Avandia users who
sued the company in state courts in Pennsylvania, California and
Illinois, Dianne Nast, a plaintiffs’ attorney who serves on a
group helping to oversee cases consolidated in federal court in
Philadelphia, said in an interview yesterday.  “There are a total of about 5,300 state-court cases
pending” around the country, Nast told U.S. District Judge
Cynthia Rufe at a hearing in Philadelphia. “I expect a multiple
number of them probably will be resolved.” After the hearing,
Nast declined to comment on the amount of any settlements.  The company said in September it would stop promoting
Avandia worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be
withdrawn from the market in Europe and sales would be limited
in the U.S. because of studies linking the drug to increased
risks of heart attacks.  Glaxo officials have agreed to pay at least $700 million
over the last eight months to resolve about 12,000 suits
alleging the drugmaker failed to warn consumers that Avandia
could cause heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the
accords told Bloomberg News earlier.  Bernadette King, a U.S.-based Glaxo spokeswoman, declined
comment on the Avandia settlement talks.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  K1 Hedge Funds Weren’t Set Up as Ponzi Scheme, Kiener Says  K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener, accused of defrauding
investors of 345 million euros ($513 million), told a court his
funds weren’t set up from the beginning to operate as a Ponzi
scheme.  In the second part of his testimony at his fraud trial in
Wuerzburg, Germany, Kiener yesterday denied some of the charges.
Banks that gave him money, including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, had to approve his investment proposals and the
funds in which he invested, Kiener said.  “Barclays and BNP could have protested against the
investment had they really been interested in the investment
strategy,” Kiener said in the statement read by his lawyers.
“To the extent they didn’t ask questions about particular funds
I chose, I didn’t violate the investment agreements.”  Kiener was arrested in 2009 as part of an international
probe that included authorities in the U.S. and Germany.
Barclays and BNP Paribas lost a combined 223 million euros in
his scam, while private investors lost about 122 million euros,
prosecutors said. In his first statement at trial last month
Kiener confessed to using new investors’ money to make up for
losses in the wake of the financial crisis and to having
manipulated some account statements.  K1 Invest Ltd. and K1 Global Ltd. were the two main funds
he operated and which took the losses that prompted the trial.  Kiener also testified yesterday that he began forging
account statements for K1 Invest immediately after it was set
up. When he was shown by the court flaws in the numbering of
forged statements which could have alerted the recipients to the
fraud, Kiener said no one ever noticed or asked him about them.  Simon Eaton, a Barclays Capital spokesman, declined to
comment.  A BNP Paribas spokesman who refused to be identified citing
bank policy, declined to comment on Kiener’s assertions because
the case is ongoing.  Mediaset Challenges EU Over $7.5 Million in Decoder Subsidies  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the company controlled by Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi, told the European Union’s highest
court that an EU order forcing it to repay Italy about 5 million
euros ($7.5 million) in subsidies for the purchase of digital-
broadcast decoders was unsubstantiated.  A lower EU court last year failed to assess whether the
European Commission had “sufficiently established” that
Mediaset benefited from the subsidies, a lawyer for the Milan-
based company said yesterday.  The EU General Court erred when it ruled “that the
commission was right to find the existence of an economic
benefit by merely relying on abstract and totally unproven
allegations,” Mediaset lawyer Konstantinos Adamantopoulos told
a five-judge panel of the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg.  The Brussels-based European Commission, the executive
agency for the 27-nation EU, in January 2007 said the subsidies
amounted to more than 200 million euros for Italians who
purchased digital terrestrial decoders, while satellite
technology was excluded. Mediaset was among companies that
indirectly benefited from the aid, the commission said.  The lower EU court said last year that the measure had not
been “technologically neutral.”  The case is  C-403/10 P , Mediaset v. Commission.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  