-- 
Diageo, Pernod Sales Beat Estimates as Distillers Grow in Emerging Markets

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-05T08:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/diageo-posts-faster-than-estimated-revenue-growth-on-international-sales.html
Diageo Plc (DGE)  and  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , the
world’s two biggest distillers, reported revenue that beat
estimates as whisky and cognac purchases in emerging economies
offset tough conditions in mature markets including Spain.  Organic sales in the companies’ third quarter ended March
31, which exclude the effect of disposals and acquisitions, rose
7 percent at Diageo, the maker of Smirnoff vodka, and 5 percent
at Pernod-Ricard. That beat the median estimates of 3.3 percent
for Diageo and 2.5 percent for Pernod-Ricard, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The companies’ shares rose.  Liquor companies including London-based Diageo and Pernod
are looking to emerging markets to drive growth as  consumer
spending  slows because of difficult economic conditions across
 Europe . Both distillers reported gains in developing economies
that outpaced European sales, as waning  consumer confidence  and
declining sales in countries including Spain and Greece offset
improvements in Russia, the U.K. and Germany.  Overall growth was aided by consumers choosing more
expensive brands. It was also helped by a gradual improvement in
North American trading, the companies said, “albeit modestly,”
according to Diageo. The U.S., the world’s largest market for
spirits by value, saw a continuing “positive trend” in the
third quarter, with fewer price promotions on drinks, Pierre Pringuet, Paris-based Pernod’s chief executive officer, said
today in a telephone interview.  The company may be able to increase prices in the U.S. in
its next fiscal year, Pringuet said.  Remy Cointreau  “As expected, if Asia was the main driver of organic
growth for both companies, Europe remained a drag on both
companies’ results,”  Trevor Stirling , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note today.  Competitor  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  released figures on April 21
that showed organic sales growth declined in the same period,
according to analyst calculations, after selling less cognac in
countries including  China , as some purchases of the spirit as
gifts for Chinese New Year were booked in the previous quarter.  Pernod, the owner of Martell cognac, declined to say how
much the Chinese New Year affected its overall quarterly organic
sales. Pringuet reported that growth at its Asia/Rest of World
unit rose 10 percent in the period.  “After the crisis, premium brands and, even more, super-
premium brands are behaving better; that’s the trend,” Pringuet
said.  Diageo shares rose as much as 2.7 percent to 1,245 pence in
 London , and traded 0.9 percent higher at 1,223 pence as of 9:43
a.m. Pernod advanced as much as 2.2 percent to 68.46 euros, and
traded 1.6 percent higher at 68.06 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 