-- 
Diggle Starts New Volatility Hedge Fund Two Months After Shutting Artradis

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-05T02:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/diggle-starts-new-volatility-hedge-fund-two-months-after-shutting-artradis.html
Stephen Diggle, the Singapore-based
hedge fund manager who made $2.7 billion for investors as
markets see-sawed in 2007 and 2008, started a new hedge fund
that places wagers on price swings, two months after liquidating
Artradis Fund Management Pte’s volatility funds.  Diggle’s new alternative investments firm, Vulpes
Investment Management, started its long Asian volatility and
arbitrage fund, LAVA, on May 1, with $30.5 million, of which $30
million was the founding partners’ money, he said in an
interview yesterday.  Singapore-based Vulpes, Latin for fox, is “very positive”
after volatility prices hit four-year lows as global stocks
advanced to the highest since July 2008, Diggle said. The VIX
Index, a measure of market volatility known as Wall Street’s
“fear gauge,” is down by half from this year’s peak to the
lowest since June 2007.  “It’s a better time to do it now than it has been for some
time,” Diggle, 46, said. “We are much nearer the lows than we
are at the highs.”  The VIX, based on Standard & Poor’s 500 option prices,
reached a low of 9.3 in December 1993, and a record 80.86 in
November 2008 after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc. sent stocks plunging worldwide. It was at 14.62 last week,
versus 29.40 on March 16. Lower readings indicate more
confidence about the market’s prospects.  Withdrawing Stimulus  Uncertainty surrounding a shift in monetary policy could be
a “potential catalyst for volatility,” Diggle said. The
 Federal Reserve  is winding down its $600 billion bond-purchase
program known as quantitative easing.  “We’re in a period now where governments around the world
are trying to normalize liquidity conditions having spent two
years flooding the world with them,” Diggle said. “It’s been
an experiment that in some ways has been successful in terms of
reflating asset prices, but it’s an experiment still and we
don’t know what happens when you try and withdraw this sort of
liquidity.”  Artradis, founded by Diggle and Richard Magides in 2001,
closed down in March after giving investors in the firm’s AB2
Fund and Barracuda Fund their money the previous month. Once
Singapore’s biggest hedge-fund manager, its funds lost $700
million for investors as volatility declined in 2009 and 2010,
Diggle said. Artradis managed as much as $4.9 billion in 2008.  Uncorrelated Returns  Similar to the Artradis Barracuda Fund, LAVA seeks to
produce returns that aren’t correlated with the market by
trading instruments that thrive on volatility, such as options,
warrants, and convertible bonds. The funds use strategies such
as arbitraging, or profiting from disparities in the price of
similar securities that are simultaneously traded on more than
one market, and tend to work well when markets go down.  “This negative correlation is a very valuable proposition,
particularly in  Asia  where there aren’t that many ways of making
money when markets are weak,” said Diggle, who was previously
head of the Asian equity derivatives trading department of
Lehman Brothers.  Vulpes has come up with a “definitive risk budget” to
limit losses when volatility declines, Diggle said.  “In 2009 and 2010, our risk budget was too high; in an
adverse environment, we just bled too much money,” Diggle said.
“What we’re trying to do is tweak the process to try and
capture the good part of what we’re able to achieve but limit
the downside.”  Seed Capital  Vulpes appointed former Rabobank executive Bert Verdicchio
as its chief risk officer, “who has the authority to override
the fund managers, including myself,” Diggle said.  The firm, set up on April 1, manages about $175 million,
including the Russian Opportunities Fund and Testudo Fund that
it took over from Artradis, Diggle said.  Vulpes started with $200 million in seed capital from
Diggle and the other founding partners, and is opening its funds
to outside investors, he said. A family office and an endowment
fund have invested in LAVA, he said.  Testudo, a global diversified fund and the Latin word for
tortoise, was set up with Artradis’s partners’ money, Diggle
said. Testudo, which has invested in debt, commodities and
alternative funds, has returned about 20 percent since it
started in March 2008, he said.  The Russian Opportunities Fund has gained 75 percent since
it started in January 2007, outpacing the 5 percent advance in
the benchmark Russian stock index, Diggle said.  Diggle plans to move his funds focused on agricultural land
ownership and biotechnology this year to Vulpes from Singapore-
based GFIA Pte, which has been managing money for him, he said.
Vulpes will then open the funds to outside investors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  