-- 
DirecTV Profit Beats Estimates on Latin American Growth

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/directv-first-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-subscriber-gains.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after adding a record number of Latin
American subscribers.  Net income climbed 21 percent to $674 million, or 85 cents
a share, from $558 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier, the El
Segundo, California-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts predicted 71 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 13 percent, also beating projections.  DirecTV shares have doubled in the past two years as
investors have been attracted to rising revenue and subscriber
growth in  Latin America . Customers in the region increased by
427,000 last quarter, and the company boosted its sales and
earnings forecasts for the Latin American business.  “The Latin American numbers were very strong, stronger
than expected,” said Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore
Partners Inc. in  New York , who has an “overweight” rating on
the stock.  DirecTV slid 21 cents to $48.29 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading after rising as much as 2.4 percent
earlier in the session. Stock indexes declined after American
jobless claims unexpectedly rose and  consumer confidence  fell.  Sales increased to $6.32 billion from $5.61 billion,
beating the $6.22 billion analysts projected.  No Cable Competition  The company has taken advantage of cable-TV’s scarce
availability in Latin America to offer a product that is unique
in many areas of the region, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. DirecTV raised forecasts for growth
in full-year revenue and operating profit before depreciation
and amortization in the region to 30 percent from 20 percent.  DirecTV has exceeded analysts’ profit estimates for six
consecutive quarters as consumers show a willingness to pay for
premium video content. Across all markets, DirecTV added 611,000
customers. U.S. users increased by 184,000, higher than the
151,000 estimate of Hale Holden and Danish Agboatwala, debt
analysts at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  Aggressive pricing, especially from  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-Verse and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS, will lead to “modestly
higher” customer departures in the second half of 2011, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael White  said in a conference call.
Rising content costs will make it harder for lower-income
Americans to pay for television, which is “not in anyone’s
interest,” White said.  ‘NFL Sunday Ticket’  The company may increase its retention spending to mitigate
against customer defections for lower-priced offerings, Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Doyle said.  DirecTV could add more customers if an National Football
League lockout ends this quarter, according to Marci Ryvicker,
an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. The company, the exclusive
provider of “NFL Sunday Ticket,” could lose as much as $750
million in revenue if the season is canceled, analysts project.  DirecTV is “working on contingency plans” for the third
quarter, White said.  In case the NFL season is canceled, “we’ve got a strong
promotion that we’ve got set up,” White said. “If there’s no
season, it probably helps our P&L and hurts our  cash flow .”  The company bought back $1.41 billion in shares, part of a
$6 billion share repurchase program announced last quarter.  “The buyback pacing at $1.4 billion per quarter remains
strong and should be viewed favorably,” Jason Armstrong, an
analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co., said in a note to clients.  Merger-and-acquisition risk for DirecTV is “low,”
Barclays’s Holden and Agboatwala said in a note. The company
hasn’t announced a deal this year, compared with four company
purchases from Charlie Ergen’s  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and EchoStar
Corp. Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV producer, said
May 2 it gained 58,000 users last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  