-- 
Dodgers Owner McCourt Sends MLB Letters, Overseer Schieffer Visits Selig

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-05T16:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/dodgers-monitor-schieffer-meeting-with-commissioner-selig-mlb-officials.html
Los Angeles Dodgers  players could file
for free agency if the team can’t make payroll this month, Major
League Baseball players union spokesman Greg Bouris said today.  The Los Angeles Times reported two days ago that the
Dodgers don’t have enough cash to make payroll at the end of
May. Major League Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney declined to
comment today on whether MLB would step in and provide the
money.  Bouris said in an e-mail that the MLB Players Association
is “confident that payroll will be met.” If not, players would
be allowed to start the process toward free agency, he said.  “If a player filed a default notice, the club would have
10 days from the filing date to cure the default,” Bouris
wrote. “If they fail to cure the default, then the player can
seek free agency.”  MLB Commissioner Bud Selig appointed former Texas Rangers
President Tom Schieffer on April 25 to oversee finances and day-
to-day operations of the Dodgers because of what Selig said were
“deep concerns” about the club’s finances.  Schieffer is in  Milwaukee  today for a second day of
meetings with Selig and other MLB officials about the Dodgers.
Also at the meeting are John McHale Jr., baseball’s executive
vice president of administration, and Rob Manfred, baseball’s
executive vice president for labor relations and human
resources, Courtney said.  Attorneys for team owner  Frank McCourt  sent MLB letters
yesterday accusing Selig of “a conscious decision to put the
Dodgers in this state of distress.” The letters seek immediate
approval of a proposed 17-year TV contract with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports that Selig has put on hold until completion of a probe of
Dodgers finances.  ‘State of Distress’  “The commissioner’s continued delay and his conscious
decision to put the Dodgers in this state of distress and make
it a matter of public discussion is harming Mr. McCourt and the
Dodgers,” said one of the letters, which were reviewed by
Bloomberg News. “Mr. McCourt reiterates his request that the
commissioner immediately approve the Fox transaction.”  McCourt, who said at an April 27 news conference in  New
York  that he was weighing whether to sue MLB, said the proposed
deal with Fox was worth about $3 billion and that it would
include an immediate $300 million infusion for the Dodgers.  “The press is now discussing the Dodgers’ ability to make
its payroll at the end of May,” one of McCourt’s letters said.
“There would be no issue whatsoever about that issue -- or any
other issue involving the Dodgers’ financial strength and
viability -- had the commissioner timely acted on Mr. McCourt’s
request for approval of the Fox transaction or were he to
approve it now.”  Dodgers’ Payroll  The Dodgers’ player payroll is about $104 million this
season, ranking 12th among the 30 MLB teams,  USA Today  reported.
Dodgers spokesman Josh Rawitch said the team doesn’t release
payroll information.  McCourt offered in the letters “in conjunction with
approval of the Fox transaction, to have an independent
accounting firm come in and review the team’s finances and
report to the commissioner.”  The letters, from Robert A. Sacks of the law firm  Sullivan
& Cromwell , were addressed to Bradley I. Ruskin of the Proskauer
Rose LLP firm that is representing MLB.  Manfred said in response to McCourt’s letters that “any
financial problems faced by the Los Angeles Dodgers are the
result of decisions made by Mr. McCourt and his management team
over a period of years.”  ‘Dodgers’ Failure’  “The pace of the commissioner’s investigation has been
adversely impacted by the Dodgers’ failure to produce documents
in a timely manner and by the complexity of the financial
structures surrounding the club,” Manfred said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. “The commissioner intends to complete the
investigation promptly, but will not accept less than a thorough
investigation.”  The Dodgers, in turn, said they had created a virtual data
room that would include all documents requested by MLB.  “As of this morning, almost all of the documents and
information requested in the commissioner’s letter have been
deposited in the data room, and access to the room has been
given to  Major League Baseball ’s representatives,” the Dodgers
said in the e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  