-- 
Dodgers Trustee Schieffer Says He Has Veto Power Over  Major Player Moves

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-05T17:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/dodgers-trustee-schieffer-says-he-has-veto-power-over-major-player-moves.html
Tom Schieffer says he won’t get
involved in player decisions as the management monitor of the
 Los Angeles Dodgers  unless they would push the team’s payroll
far over budget.  Schieffer, 63, appointed by  Major League Baseball  to
oversee the Dodgers’ business and day-to-day operations, said he
will leave most player personnel moves to General Manager Ned Colletti.  A childhood fan of  Mickey Mantle  who grew up on minor-
league baseball with his newscaster-to-be brother and later
helped George W. Bush buy and run the  Texas  Rangers, Schieffer
said in an interview that he retained final approval or veto of
any big-money deal Colletti might bring in.  “If there’s a special circumstance, an obvious example
being if you’re $20 million out of budget, then I would be the
final stop on that,” Schieffer said this week by telephone from
his Dodger Stadium office. “I would be the one that would say,
‘Yes, it’s all right to do’ -- or not.”  The Dodgers’ player payroll this season is about $104
million, 12th among the 30 major-league teams,  USA Today 
reported. Dodgers spokesman Josh Rawitch said the team doesn’t
release payroll information.  Schieffer, Commissioner Bud Selig, Executive Vice
Presidents Rob Manfred and John McHale Jr., and other MLB
officials are meeting for the second day in a row in  Milwaukee 
to discuss the Dodgers’ situation.  Dodgers Finances  Selig appointed Schieffer on April 25 to take management
control of the Dodgers from owner Frank McCourt and address what
the commissioner called “my deep concerns regarding the
finances and operations of the” team.  The Los Angeles Times reported two days ago that the
Dodgers lack the cash to meet payroll at the end of May. The
newspaper said it based its report on information from two
people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Failure to make payroll could lead to the Dodgers’ players
filing for free agency, Greg Bouris, a spokesman for the MLB
players’ union, said today in an e-mail. MLB spokesman Pat Courtney declined to say whether MLB would provide the money.  McCourt said last month that the Dodgers were in compliance
with baseball’s rules and “are current on all their payments.”
He said any financial question was being caused by Selig’s
delaying approval of the team’s proposed $3 billion television
deal with News Corp.’s Fox Sports.  McCourt’s Letters  McCourt sent two letters to MLB yesterday seeking immediate
approval of the proposed 17-year deal and accusing Selig of a
“conscious decision to put the Dodgers in this state of
distress” by withholding approval until an investigation of
their finances is done. The letters were reviewed by Bloomberg
News.  “There would be no issue whatsoever about that issue -- or
any other issue involving the Dodgers’ financial strength and
viability -- had the commissioner timely acted on Mr. McCourt’s
request for approval of the Fox transaction, or were he to
approve it now,” McCourt’s letters to MLB said.  Manfred said in a statement yesterday that “any financial
problems faced by the Los Angeles Dodgers are the result of
decisions made by Mr. McCourt and his management team over a
period of years.”  Schieffer said in the interview that he told McCourt, club
staff members and players on his first day on the job April 29
that “we’re here to help and not to hurt.”  Players, Fans  Joined by  Joe Torre , a former manager of the Dodgers and
 New York Yankees  who now oversees MLB’s on-field operations,
Schieffer said he told the players to focus on the field and
“not worry about what’s going on in the front office.”  He said he wanted to restore fans’ faith in the franchise.  “Right now there’s an awful lot on the Dodgers on the
business page, and you want to get them back on the sports
page,” he said.  Schieffer said he met with McCourt several times during his
first days on the job, and that he attended Dodgers games on
each of his first five work days. He hasn’t met with Jamie McCourt, who says she owns half the team.  The McCourts were granted a divorce in October after almost
31 years of marriage. A Los Angeles judge last year invalidated
a postnuptial agreement that  Frank McCourt  said made him the
Dodgers’ sole owner, leaving the team’s ownership in limbo.  Baseball Upbringing  Schieffer grew up in Texas and accompanied his father to
games of the minor-league Fort Worth Cats. His father died when
Schieffer was 10, he said, and Tom and brother Bob Schieffer --
10 years older and now anchor of  CBS News ’s “Face the Nation”
-- bonded over baseball.  “It was a common ground that we shared,” Tom Schieffer
said. His favorite player was Mantle, the Yankees’ Hall of Fame
center fielder from  Oklahoma .  Schieffer served three terms in the Texas House of
Representatives before completing law school. He was an investor
with Bush in the group that bought the Rangers in 1989 and was
their president from 1991 to 1999. He served as U.S. Ambassador
to  Australia  from 2001 to 2005 and to  Japan  from 2005 to 2009.  Schieffer said he’s not sure how long he will be needed
with the Dodgers. At heart, he remains a baseball fan.  “I think it’s going to be difficult, but you’re talking
about going to baseball games,” he said of his latest
challenge. “In diplomacy, you can have six-party talks and at
the end of the day you don’t get to go to a baseball game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  