-- 
E.ON Says Germany’s Energy Debate Makes Forecast ‘Difficult’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-05T18:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/e-on-says-germany-s-energy-debate-makes-forecast-difficult-1-.html
E.ON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s largest utility,
said gauging earnings this year is difficult because of the
government’s debate over accelerating its exit from nuclear
power after the disaster in  Japan .  “The ongoing energy policy debate renders our current-year
forecast difficult,” Johannes Teyssen, E.ON’s chief executive
officer, said in a copy of a speech he will deliver today to
shareholders at their annual meeting in Essen, Germany.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has put an extension of
nuclear energy under review and ordered a three-month halt of
the country’s oldest reactors for checks after the partial
meltdown of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station stoked safety
concerns in  Europe ’s biggest economy. Two plants operated by
E.ON will be shut for the checks.  “For now, all statements must be based on the assumption
that our demonstrably safe nuclear power stations will be
allowed to return to service after the moratorium,” Teyssen
said. “If this was to change, it could have considerable
consequences.”  While E.ON can’t yet quantify those consequences, German
policy decisions could result in “a re-evaluation that would
encompass all our performance figures and targets,” he said.  Horizon Nuclear  E.ON shares rose by 0.4 percent to 22.90 euros by close of
trading in Frankfurt today. The stock has slipped 1.5 percent
this year, compared with a 5.9 percent increase for the
benchmark German DAX Index, of which it’s a member.  The company will consider its options for building U.K.
nuclear power plants with  RWE AG (RWE)  after a national regulator
releases a report on safety in September, Teyssen said. E.ON’s
smaller German competitor RWE said last month that it doesn’t
expect to take a decision on investing through the Horizon
Nuclear Power Ltd. joint venture with E.ON in the “short
term.”  The company expects adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to fall to 11.2 billion
euros to 11.9 billion euros ($17.6 billion) this year from 13.3
billion euros in 2010. Adjusted net income, which the utility
uses to calculate its dividend, will fall to 3.3 billion euros
to 4 billion euros from 4.9 billion euros last year, he said,
confirming E.ON’s forecast.  Reactor Halt  The halt of two reactors would cost E.ON about 250 million
euros, Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, a company spokesman, said May
3. “By itself, however, the absence of earnings from the three-
month shutdown of our reactors in Landshut and Nordenham would
not, from today’s perspective, alter our earnings forecast,”
Teyssen said.  Germany  also started an annual 2.3 billion-euro tax on the
country’s four nuclear power plant owners this year, which E.ON
has said will reduce earnings.  “In any case, we’ll do everything we can to ensure that if
lifetime extensions yield no positive effects there won’t be any
adverse tax effects,” Teyssen said.  E.ON is still planning to enter two markets to offset
slower growth in some of its existing markets, the CEO said,
declining to identify them. Teyssen also told shareholders that
he can’t specify which assets he plans to sell to raise funds
for international growth and debt reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  