-- 
EBay, Apple, Septwolves, Lime Wire: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-05T11:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ebay-lvmh-apple-septwolves-lime-wire-intellectual-property.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest online
marketplace,  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (LVMH)  and  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY)  are among companies and industry groups that agreed to
cooperate in fighting online sales of counterfeit products.  The companies, which also include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
Unilever,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company, signed a memorandum of
understanding yesterday, according to the European Commission.
Industry groups, such as the European Brands Association and the
Motion Picture Association are also part of the agreement.  “This is an example of what Europe stands for -- working
together to respect intellectual property rights, while at the
same time promoting e-commerce,” said Michel Barnier, the
European Union’s internal affairs commissioner in an e-mailed
statement. “Consumers, right holders, Internet platforms and
 Europe ’s economy all stand to benefit.”  The Brussels-based commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive
agency, has said it will present a plan this year to bolster its
fight against counterfeiting and piracy, which it says harms
consumers and funds organized crime. The plan will include
increasing resources for a European Counterfeiting and Piracy
Observatory and developing means to detect pirated goods.  LVMH Settles Canadian Trademark Suit With Honda Unit  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Louis Vuitton
Malletier unit has settled a trademark dispute with Honda Motor
Co.’s Honda  Canada  unit, the luxury goods maker said in a
statement yesterday.  The suit, filed in the federal court of Canada, was
occasioned by the use of images of Louis Vuitton luggage in
advertisements for Honda’s CrossTour Vehicle. According to the
statement, the ads ran in late 2009 and early 2010.  Co-defendant with Honda was  Grip Ltd. , the Toronto-based
advertising agency that created the ad.  Eric Pradon, senior vice president of Louis Vuitton said in
the statement that his company “never licenses our marks nor
grants other parties permission to use our marks to promote
their own products.”  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  Apple Applies for U.S. Trademark Registration for ‘Startup’  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the iPad maker presently embroiled in a
trademark dispute with Microsoft Corp. over attempts to register
“app store,” is seeking to register “startup” as a
trademark, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The Cupertino, California-based company’s application,
filed April 15, is for the use of the term with computer-related
retail store services, computer maintenance, computer classes
and seminars, and the design and development of computer
hardware and software.  In its application, Apple claims it has used the mark since
Oct. 21. According to the Patent Office trademark database,
there are no other pending applications or registered trademarks
using the word “startup” by itself.  “ Startup.com ” is a trademark registered for use of
providing online interactive information to entrepreneurs. That
mark is owned by a Massachusetts resident. An active website
aimed at those planning to start businesses can be found at that
Internet address.  Manhattan Council Member Seeks to Fine, Jail Buyers of Fakes  Margaret Chin , a member of  New York ’s City Council, is
proposing local legislation to help combat sale of counterfeit
goods, WCTV  reported .  Her bill, aimed at cutting demand, would impose a $1,000
fine and a year in jail for those who buy fake goods, according
to WCTV.  Underground sales of counterfeit items cost the city an
estimated $1 billion a year in lost sales tax revenue, WCTV
reported.  The city’s Canal Street is a “hotbed” for fake versions
of handbags designed by  PPR (PP) ’s Gucci Group NV,  Coach Inc. (COH) , and
Chanel SA, according to the television station.  Septwolves Ordered to Pay Infringement Compensation to Coach  Fujian Septwolves Industry Inc., a maker of apparel and
accessories, must pay Coach Inc. 200,000 Chinese yuan ($30,800)
for trademark infringement, the Beijing Morning Post  reported .  A Beijing court ordered the payment to compensate Coach for
Septwolves’ sale in  China  of shoes bearing a trademark similar
to Coach’s, according to the Beijing Morning Post.  Septwolves had argued that the allegedly infringing
products were sold only in specialty stores and had a
conspicuous Septwolves trademark attached, the newspaper
reported.  Milwaukee’s Discount Liquor Claims Its Name Infringed  Discount Liquor Inc. , a Milwaukee retailer of beer, wine
and spirits, has been sending out cease-and-desist letters to
competitors that use the phrase “discount liquor” in their
advertising and signage, Milwaukee’s Journal Sentinel newspaper
 reported .  The company, represented by Milwaukee’s  Maistelman &
Associates LLC , took action after customers began inquiring
about whether it was affiliated with several other stores in the
area, according to the newspaper.  One of the lawyers representing one of the unaffiliated
stores,  Joseph Kershek , of Greenfield, Wisconsin-based Kershek
Law Offices, told the newspaper that “discount” and “liquor”
are “just two generic words” not entitled to trademark
protection.  His client, Brooks-Falls Discount Liquor, won’t change its
name unless it’s told to do so by a jury, Kershek said and the
Journal Sentinel reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lime Wire, Founder Harmed Music Business, Industry Lawyer Says  Lime Wire LLC and founder  Mark Gorton  should pay the
highest range of damages for harming the recording industry by
allowing people to download songs for free, a lawyer for the
music labels told jurors in a trial.  “The harm that Lime Wire has caused is truly staggering,”
Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a jury of
eight women and one man in federal court in Manhattan yesterday
in opening remarks. “Mark Gorton used other people’s property
to make money for himself.”  Music labels owned by  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from Gorton
for copyright infringement. U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  ruled
last May that Lime Wire induced the infringement of recordings
by allowing its users to download and share thousands of songs
on the Internet through its peer-to-peer file-sharing software.
The court ordered Lime Wire to shut its music service last year.  Pomerantz told the jury the record industry’s revenue
declined 52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded,
to 2010.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Lundbeck Sees $200 Million a Year From  Japan  Lexapro Royalties  H. Lundbeck A/S, maker of the antidepressant Lexapro, said
it may get as much as $200 million from sales in Japan, to help
cushion declining revenue in the U.S. where the drug loses
patent protection next year.  Lundbeck, whose Japanese partners Mochida Pharmaceutical
Co. and  Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corp. (4508)  plan to field more than
2,000 sales representatives, expects royalty payments of
500 million Danish kroner ($100 million) to 1 billion kroner
annually, Chief Financial Officer Anders Goetzsche said
yesterday.  The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare last
month approved Lexapro’s sale, and the drug won’t face generic
competition in the country for at least eight years, when its
so-called data exclusivity expires. The Valby, Denmark-based
drugmaker is waiting for authorities to determine a price before
beginning marketing sometime before October.  Frank Andersen, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, said
yesterday he expects peak royalties of 615 million kroner, as
Lexapro takes 20 percent of Japan’s antidepressant market.  “Lundbeck’s market share has to come up from what I
expect” for royalties to reach 1 billion kroner, Silkeborg,
Denmark-based Andersen said in an e-mail response to questions.
“It’s possible but I will stick to my estimates.”  Japan’s anti-depressant market grew 11 percent last year to
135 billion yen ($1.67 billion) as use of medicines to treat
depression grew more widespread, according to Lundbeck, which
cited figures from IMS Health.  The drug accounted for 56 percent of total revenue, amid
efforts by Lundbeck to introduce new medications for other
diseases such as Alzheimer’s and lessen its dependence on
Lexapro sales.  Girl Scouts Will Seek Patent for Prize-Winning Invention  A troop of Girl Scouts from Ames, Iowa, won a $20,000 prize
awarded by a foundation established by  Segway  inventor  Dean
Kamen  to stimulate interest in science and technology.  The “Flying Monkeys,” a group of six 11- to 13-year-old
Girl Scouts, will be able to use the money toward patenting
their invention, a prosthetic device for a toddler born without
fingers. According to a  statement  from the Manchester, New
Hampshire-based FIRST Foundation, the invention makes it
possible for those with limb abnormalities to hold, grip,
stabilize or secure items such as a pencil.  The prototype device is presently being used by a child
from  Georgia , the foundation said. The  First Lego League , which
awarded the prize and sponsored the competition, is an alliance
between Kamen’s FIRST and Lego A/S.  The prize will be awarded at the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in June.  Leica Microsytems Accused of Infringing Slide-Staining Patents  Danaher Corp. (DHR) ’s Leica Microsystems unit was sued for patent
infringement by  Dako Denmark A/S , a maker of cancer diagnostic
equipment.  According to the complaint filed May 3 in federal court in
Delaware, Leica is accused of infringing patents 7,217,392 and
7,553,672, which cover technology related to staining microscope
slides. Leica’s Immunihistochemistry and In Situ Hybridization
stainer system products infringe, Dako claimed in its court
papers.  Leica doesn’t have permission or a license to use the
inventions covered by the patent, according to the complaint.
Dako says it is suffering “irreparable harm” from Leica’s
actions.  Dako, based in Glostrup, Denmark, asked the court to bar
further infringement of its patents, and for awards of money
damages. If the court doesn’t halt Leica’s use of the
technology, the Danish company asked the court for the remedy of
a royalty-bearing compulsory license.  Additionally, the company asked for awards of attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Leica didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Dako is represented by  Christine E. Lehman ,  Anthony C.
Tridico , and  P. Andrew Riley  of  Washington ’s  Finnegan Henderson
Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP  and  Richard I. Horwitz , and  David
E. Moore  of Wilmington’s  Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP .  The case is Dako Denmark A/S v. Leica Microsytems Inc.,
1:11-cv-00390-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  IP Moves  Wilson Sonsini Hires Medical-Device IP Expert James Haslin  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  hired James M. Haslin for
its IP practice, the  Palo Alto , California-based firm said in a
 statement .  Haslin, who previously practiced at the Atlanta firm now
known as Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP, does transactional
work related to medical devices, including patent acquisition.  He has represented clients whose technologies include
angioplasty, atherectomy, stent delivery, arthroscopy, suturing
devices, ultrasound imaging and therapy, gynecology devices,
minimally invasive surgical equipment, hearing aids, drug
delivery systems, orthodontics, orthopedics, and diagnostics.  Before he went into private practice, Haslin served as
general counsel for  San Jose , California-based  Align Technology
Inc. (ALGN) , maker of a method for treating misaligned teeth.  Haslin has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from the University of  California  at Santa Barbara and a law
degree from the  University of California , Berkeley School of
Law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 