-- 
Hedge Funds Climbed 1.4% in April to Highest Point in Almost Three Years

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-05-05T17:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/hedge-funds-increased-1-4-in-april-to-highest-level-in-almost-three-years.html
Hedge funds  climbed 1.4 percent in
April to the highest level in almost three years as stock
markets rallied amid rising earnings and the  Federal Reserve 
renewed its pledge to stimulate growth with low  interest rates .  The Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index rose to 127.99
from 126.21, reaching a mark not topped since June 2008 and
bringing this year’s gain to 3.7 percent. Funds betting on
global economic trends, long-short stock funds and multistrategy
funds advanced.  “The average investor is becoming more and more positive
on hedge funds,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of
Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that
advises hedge funds and investors.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of global stocks rallied 4.3 percent
in April, including dividends, as higher-than-estimated profits
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Morgan Stanley and 3M Co. lifted markets. Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month the U.S. central bank’s
pledge to keep interest rates low for an “extended period”
means he probably won’t raise borrowing costs “for a couple of
meetings.”  Macro funds, whose managers seek to profit from global
themes or trends, advanced 1.7 percent in April. Long-short
equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising and falling
stocks, returned 2 percent. Multistrategy hedge funds increased
1.2 percent.  The hedge-fund industry exceeded $2 trillion in assets for
the first time at the end of the first quarter, marking a
recovery from record investment losses and client withdrawals
during the financial crisis, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc. Funds added $102 billion of assets in the first three
months as  investment performance  accounted for $70 billion and
deposits from clients contributed $32 billion, the Chicago-based
firm said.  The main Bloomberg hedge-fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,772 funds, 1,356 of which have
reported returns for April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  