-- 
Mubarak Interior Minister Adli Given 12-Year Prison Term for Profiteering

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-05T16:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/egypt-s-former-interior-minister-jailed-for-12-years-for-money-laundering.html
Egypt ’s former interior minister,
Habib el-Adli, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for
profiteering and  money laundering , his lawyer said.  The court also ordered el-Adli to pay a fine of more than
13 million Egyptian pounds ($2.2 million), Essam el-Battawy said
by phone from Cairo today. He will appeal the decision, the
lawyer said.  The sentence is the first for a top official in the
government of former President  Hosni Mubarak  and is part of a
wider crackdown against corruption, targeting a number of former
officials and businessmen. El-Adli is also facing charges
related to the killing of protesters during the uprising that
led to the ouster of Mubarak in February. El-Adli has denied
both sets of charges against him.  “The sentence for profiteering is less important than a
sentence in the killing of martyrs and protesters,” Khaled El-
Sayed, a member of an alliance that helped organize the mass
protests that ended Mubarak’s 30-year reign, said today by phone
from Cairo. “The murder trial is very slow.”  If convicted of killing protestors, El-Adli could face the
death penalty, el-Battawy said. The rulings on former officials
would be “revolutionary sentences to appease the public,” he
said.  More than 846 people died in the uprising, an official
fact-finding committee said in a report released on April 19.  Demands  Prosecuting Mubarak and senior officials of his government
was a primary demand of protesters. Mubarak and his two sons
were ordered detained on April 13 as part of a corruption probe.
The three men were summoned for questioning about alleged
embezzlement of public funds and attacks on protesters during
the uprising, the prosecutor said on April 10.  Officials who have been detained since Mubarak’s ouster
include the former ministers of housing and oil, the speakers of
parliament’s two chambers and the former presidential chief of
staff.  Activists accused el-Adli of responsibility for human
rights abuses including torture, spying on opposition figures
and a violent crackdown on demonstrators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 