-- 
Tele Columbus Plans to Return to Growth as New Chief Verhelst Takes Helm

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-05T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/tele-columbus-plans-to-return-to-growth-as-new-chief-verhelst-takes-helm.html
Tele Columbus Group, the German cable
television provider owned by creditors after restructuring its
debts, aims to sell Internet and telephone services to retail
customers as it seeks a return to growth, Chief Executive
Officer Ronny Verhelst said.  “Tele Columbus has always been focused on business-to-
business relationships, providing TV to housing associations,”
Verhelst said in an interview at the ANGA cable conference in
Cologne. “That is still going to be the basis of the company,
but I will help it develop more of a business-to-consumer focus
when it comes to new services: digital TV, telephony and
Internet.”  In January,  Germany ’s fourth-largest cable TV provider
reached a deal to restructure debt and reduce obligations by
more than 400 million euros ($594 million). The company
defaulted on loans in 2009 and is now controlled by creditors.  Verhelst took over as CEO on April 1. He was previously
head of Belgian cable operator  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) ’s mobile
operations.  “Obviously what my shareholders are expecting is a return
on their investment,” Verhelst said. “When you can show that
this company has the potential to grow, anything is possible,”
Verhelst said, when asked if he’s preparing Tele Columbus to be
bought by one of Germany’s larger cable operators.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  is Germany’s largest cable
company.  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , controlled by U.S. billionaire
 John Malone , owns the second-largest, Unitymedia, and is
awaiting regulatory approval for its proposed 3.16 billion-euro
acquisition of the third-largest, Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH.  Network Investment  As part of the restructuring, Tele Columbus plans to invest
200 million euros in its networks.  “With the financial issues that the company had, the
investments were not at a level that you should expect from a
cable company, so we need to catch up,” Verhelst said.  Cable companies take a large part of broadband  Internet
sales  in Germany, competing mainly with phone company  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , he said. “I think I can grow the business by taking
my part in that growth, also in telephony and digital TV.”  Tele Columbus has about 2.1 million connected households,
mainly in Berlin, Brandenburg, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and
Thuringia. The company didn’t disclose financial results in
2010. In 2009, it had sales of 227 million euros and an
operating profit of 99 million euros, according to spokesman
Hannes Lindhuber. The company doesn’t have final numbers for
2010 yet, “but the results were quite stable compared with the
year before,” Lindhuber said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  