-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop for Third Day on Rate Rises, Commodities

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-05T21:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-third-day-on-commodities-rate-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day as crude oil tumbled below $100 a barrel followed by
declines in silver and gold as concern mounted that tighter
monetary policy may curb growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.8 percent to
1,161.68 as of 4 p.m. in New York. Crude oil fell to its lowest
since March 16 pushing  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index down 0.3
percent and  Russia ’s Micex Index down 0.8 percent. India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped for a ninth day,
the longest stretch of losses since 2001.  The Philippine central bank raised its overnight deposit
rate to 4.5 percent from 4.25 percent, its second increase this
year.  Malaysia ’s central bank raised its policy rate to 3
percent from 2.75 percent.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
indicated the benchmark rate would remain at 1.25 percent until
at least after June. Investors had expected a quicker move to
fight surging inflation. The euro fell 2 percent to $1.4633.  “There’s concern economic growth may not be as high as
before,” said Finny Fauzana, who helps manage $64 million in
assets at PT PNM Investment Management in Jakarta, “and that’s
hurting the outlook for commodities, which in turn affects
commodity stocks.”  OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer, and
OAO Novatek, the country’s second-biggest gas producer, led
stocks lower in Moscow. Gazprom fell 1.8 percent and Novatek
lost 1.2 percent.  Polish Stocks Fall  Poland ’s WIG20 Index fell 0.7 percent as the government
approved a draft budget aimed at cutting its fiscal deficit
below next year’s European Union limit. The Warsaw bourse is the
third-largest in emerging  Europe  after Russia and  Turkey .  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
retreated 1 percent, helping drag Johannesburg’s FTSE/JSE Africa
All Shares Index down 0.9 percent.  The Bovespa fell for the fourth day.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA fell as much as 3
percent each.  Mexico ’s IPC index fell 0.6 percent for the fourth day of
losses. Silver producer Industrias Penoles SAB declined 4
percent to its lowest price in almost three months. The peso
depreciated 0.7 percent against the dollar as U.S. jobless
claims unexpectedly rose.  Oil slid 8.6 percent, its biggest decline in two years, to
$99.80 a barrel, on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange in New
York.  Copper for July delivery lost 13.60 cents, or 3.3 percent,
to $3.998 a pound, its first close below $4 a pound in five
months, on the Comex in New York.  Ruble Weakens  The ruble depreciated 1.1 percent against the dollar and
the rand weakened 0.8 percent. The Czech Republic’s PX Index
slid 1.1 percent, as Komercni Banka AS fell 0.9 percent after
its first-quarter earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slid 1.2 percent before
the rates decision and the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
retreated by 0.5 percent.  Vietnam ’s VN Index sank 1.5 percent,
the most in seven weeks after that country’s central bank raised
its repurchase rate yesterday.  The Sensex fell 1.4 percent, led by 6Bank Ltd., which lost
2.8 percent.  India  raised  interest rates  on May 3 for the ninth
time in 13 months, while  China ’s central bank has lifted
borrowing costs four times since October.  Tata Investigation  Tata Motors Ltd. fell 2.1 percent. India’s Central Bureau
of Investigation, which is probing a 2008 sale of phone licenses
may explore the role of Tata Group Chairman  Ratan Tata  as well
as that of billionaire  Anil Ambani , a lawyer for the federal
police said.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 5 basis points to 283 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose 3 basis points
to 188.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  