-- 
Mercator Declines in Ljubljana After Agrokor’s Bid Rejection

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-05T09:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mercator-declines-in-ljubljana-after-agrokor-s-bid-rejection-1-.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d. fell the
most in almost two months in early trading in Ljubljana after
 Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  Group d.d. rejected an improved bid for a 23
percent stake in the Slovenian retailer by the Croatian rival
Agrokor d.d.  Shares continued to drop for a third consecutive day.
Mercator fell 2.20 euros, or 1.4 percent, to 156.40 euros at
10:46 a.m at the Ljubljana stock exchange after dropping as much
as 5.4 percent in earlier trading, which was the most since
March 14. That gives the largest publicly traded retailer in the
Balkans a market value of 589 million euros ($877 million).  Pivovarna Lasko, which is struggling to repay loans of
about 400 million euros, yesterday rejected a 221 euros per
Mercator share offer by Agrokor, the largest privately held
company in neighboring  Croatia . The rejection follows the move
by the Slovenian competition  protection office  which forbid
Lasko to freely dispose of Mercator shares on the grounds of
possible “high concentration” in the retail industry.  “Pivovarna really had no other choice, and the question is
if there will be enough political will to sell Mercator and if
there will be any interested parties to offer a decent price,”
Radivoj Pregelj, analyst at Abanka Vipa d.d. said in an e-mail.
“It’s quite normal that shares dropped, but Mercator is still
attractive because of a decent dividend payment.”  Agrokor sought to acquire Mercator in the past with the
biggest opposition coming from Slovenian government officials,
who claim the takeover would harm the country’s food industry.  Mercator last month proposed a 7.20 euro dividend from last
year’s profit, an increase of 60 percent from a year earlier
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  