-- 
Mercator Shares Rise in Ljubljana, Reversing Earlier Drop

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-05T13:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mercator-shares-rise-in-ljubljana-reversing-earlier-drop-1-.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d., the
largest publicly traded retailer in the Balkans, reversed
earlier losses in Ljubljana, gaining the most in a week.  Mercator rose 6.40 euros, or 4 percent, to close at 165
euros at the Ljubljana stock exchange after falling as much as
5.4 percent in early trading. Pivovarna Lasko Group d.d., which
owns a 23 percent stake in Mercator, yesterday rejected an offer
to purchase the Slovenian retailer by the Croatian rival Agrokor
d.d.  “A large number of companies on Ljubljana bourse face low
market depth, large bid-to-ask spreads and relatively low daily
turnover, which allows for sizable intraday volatility,” Jernej Kozlevcar, a  fund manager  at Triglav Asset Management Co. in
Ljubljana said in a phone interview today. “That is also the
case of Mercator today and in recent weeks. I don’t expect any
significant changes without new information on the possible sale
of a majority stake in Mercator.”  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR) , which is struggling to repay loans of
about 400 million euros, yesterday rejected a 221 euros per
Mercator share offer by Agrokor. The decision follows the move
by the Slovenian competition protection office which forbid
Lasko to freely dispose of Mercator shares on the grounds of
possible “high concentration” in the retail industry.  Mercator proposed in March to its investors to form a group
and sell a majority holding to attract better offers as the
Slovenian retailer and its Croatian rival Agrokor vie for
control of the industry in the Balkans.  Pivovarna Lasko dropped the most in a week, falling 11
percent to close at 9.80 euros in  Ljubljana .  -- Editor: Douglas Lytle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  