-- 
Merkel Says Germany Will Press for Peace Process to Restart

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-05T17:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/merkel-says-germany-will-press-for-peace-process-to-restart-1-.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that
Germany will push for the Middle East peace process to be
restarted, saying that “time is running out” for a solution.  “The peace process must be resumed very quickly through
Middle East negotiations,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin
today after talks with  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas. Any solution must include recognition of Israel and a
renouncement of violence, as well as “a commitment to the
negotiation process,” Merkel said.  Abbas was in Germany one day after the Palestinian
Authority that rules the  West Bank  and the Islamic Hamas
movement that governs the  Gaza Strip  announced they had
completed a reconciliation agreement to end a nearly four-year
rift.  Israel  has called the agreement, that paves the way for
Palestinian elections and a unity government, a “victory for
terrorism.” Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel.  “Hamas is part of the Palestinian people,” Abbas said.
“We’re speaking at the moment in the name of the Palestinian
people. We’ve been charged by the entire Palestinian people --
opposition and non-opposition -- to reach a political solution
with Israel. Once that solution has been reached, we’ll subject
this solution to a referendum.”  Palestinian Authority officials have said they may seek
United Nations recognition of an independent state if
negotiations with Israel, broken off last September, are not
resumed.  “We want a two-state solution, and that means we want that
the Jewish state of Israel is recognized and we want that a
Palestinian state is recognized,” Merkel said. “The way we see
is the way of negotiations about exactly that. Then of course
 Germany  will recognize a Palestinian state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  