-- 
Ethiopian Government Says It May Grant Additional Land to Karuturi Global

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T10:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ethiopian-government-says-it-may-grant-additional-land-to-karuturi-global.html
Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG)  may receive an
additional 200,000 hectares (494,211 acres) of land from the
Ethiopian government if its current 100,000-hectare concession
is developed within two years, the Agriculture Ministry said.  “We have an agreement to give additional land if they
accomplish the 100,000 hectares within two years,” Esayas
Kebede, head of the ministry’s land investment support
directorate, said in a phone interview today from Addis Ababa,
the capital.  On April 29, Esayas said the government in November reduced
Karuturi’s concession by two-thirds from 300,000 hectares
because the area was too large for a single company to manage
and to allow for an annual migration of antelope in southwestern
Ethiopia. Karuturi yesterday denied the concession had been
reduced.  “The information seemed to be baseless because Karuturi has
not received any legal letter about the reduction from the
Ethiopian government,” Niladri Mondal, a spokesman for Karuturi,
said by phone from Mumbai today. “If a letter had been given, we
would have taken it into consideration.”  Karuturi’s lease agreement, published on the ministry’s
 website , says the company will receive an additional 200,000
hectares if it develops the plot adequately within the specified
period.  Karuturi, which has invested $100 million in  Ethiopia  so
far, plans to have 65,000 hectares in production this year and
sell its first harvest in October mainly within Ethiopia and to
other East African nations, Chief Executive Officer Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi said in an e-mailed statement in February.
The company is growing crops including rice, palm oil, sugar
cane and cereals.  The government is happy with the Indian company’s
development of the land so far, Esayas said today.  Ethiopia has transferred about 350,000 hectares of
agricultural land in the Gambella, Benishangul-Gumuz and
Southern Nations regions since September 2009, according to the
ministry. Investors include companies from Ethiopia,  India ,
 China ,  Saudi Arabia  as well as Ethiopians living abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 