-- 
MetLife Monitoring $550 Million in Tepco Bonds, Toppeta Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-06T00:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/metlife-monitoring-550-million-in-tepco-holdings-toppeta-says.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, holds about $550 million of bonds from Tokyo Electric
Power Co., which owns the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station that
was damaged in the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  The holding is “the only noteworthy investment we are
monitoring” in  Japan  for losses after the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, said Bill Toppeta, the head of New York-based
MetLife’s international business, in a conference call today.  The utility faced radiation leaks at the power plant north of
Tokyo after the catastrophe knocked out its cooling systems.
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co., Japan’s second-largest life
insurer, last month cut its profit estimate and said it will
book a charge of about 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) tied to
the plunge of Tepco shares.  The quake and tsunami killed more than 14,000 people, with
about 11,000 missing, according to the country’s  National Police
Agency .  Two independent agents who worked with MetLife in Japan
are “missing and presumed dead,” Toppeta said.  MetLife expanded in Japan last year with the purchase of a
unit from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  for about $16
billion. The quake may reduce second-quarter after-tax operating
earnings by $45 million to $65 million, on additional claims and
higher expenses, MetLife said yesterday when it announced first-
quarter results.  MetLife slipped $1.40, or 3 percent, to $44.75 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company advanced 0.7
percent this year.  First-quarter net income climbed 20 percent to $1.01
billion on higher international revenue and investment income
after the purchase of American Life Insurance Co. from  New York- 
based AIG, MetLife said late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  