-- 
EU Moves Closer to Sanctions on Syria Over ‘Brutal Crackdown’

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-05T09:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/eu-moves-closer-to-sanctions-on-syria-over-brutal-crackdown-.html
The European Union was moving to
expand sanctions against the government of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad as his military stepped up a crackdown against
protestors that has left hundreds dead.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  has been pushing the
EU to go beyond an arms embargo and impose travel restrictions
and asset freezes on top Syrian officials. The Syrian violence
will be discussed by Hague and other foreign ministers from the
22-nation contact group in talks in  Rome  today aimed at ending
the Libyan conflict.  “I appreciate very much the call for EU sanctions, which
should be pursued,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
today before the start of the meeting. “Together we have to
show the Syrian government there are consequences for this
brutal crackdown on the Syrian people.”  Pressure to impose further sanctions against Syria has been
building as the army intensifies its violence against widening
protests that are posing the most serious challenge to the 11-
year rule of President Assad. A total of 553 civilians and 105
army and security personnel have been killed since March 18, the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on its  website  today.
Hundreds of others have been detained.  Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said he discussed
expanding sanctions with Clinton today and the package would
include restrictions “on the movement of individuals directly
involved in violence that has been committed in the last few
weeks.”  ‘Severe Sanctions’  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called on the
international community to adopt “the most severe sanctions”
against Syria in an interview yesterday with weekly magazine
L’Express.  The Syrian army began withdrawing today from the southern
city of Daraa, the scene of the most violent crackdown by
military forces since the protests began, state-run television
reported.  “Army units began to pull out gradually from Daraa after
completing their mission by detaining terrorist elements and
restoring security and calm,” it said today.  Syria  sent troops into cities to quell demonstrations,
inspired by popular revolts in Egypt and Tunisia earlier this
year, that have spread across the country. In response, Assad
has ended emergency rule that was in place from 1963 and pledged
future reforms that have failed to halt the spread of
demonstrations.  The contact group is meeting after Libyan forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  bombarded the port of Misrata yesterday. The
attacks threatened an aid ship trying to deliver supplies and
evacuate stranded migrant workers and wounded Libyans. Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has said his government will
present a peace plan at the meeting that involves Qaddafi giving
up power.  In  New York , the International Criminal Court’s chief
prosecutor said he will seek arrest warrants for three key
regime figures for alleged  war crimes .  During her time in Rome, Clinton is expected to meet with
representatives of Libya’s  Transitional National Council , the
interim authority set up by the rebels in the eastern city of
Benghazi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net  