-- 
EU Proposes More Secure Carbon Trading After Thefts

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-06T08:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/eu-proposes-tighter-security-for-co2-transactions-after-thefts.html
The European Union proposed measures
to better protect the bloc’s carbon-registry system from fraud
and abuse after thieves roiled the market earlier this year.  The proposed regulation on the EU common registry, which
will start operating next year, includes a 24-hour delay in the
transfer of emission permits that may be fraudulent, according
to a  draft published today  by the European Commission. The
region’s spot carbon market grounded to a halt for 15 days
earlier this year after computer hackers in January illegally
transferred allowances valued at around 50 million euros ($73
million) at today’s prices.  “The proposed regulation looks pretty good,” said Simone Ruiz, EU affairs director at the International  Emissions Trading 
Association in Brussels. “Cautious congratulations to the
commission.” The draft “includes 80 percent of what we
proposed to improve the system.”  The European Commission, which oversees the world’s largest
carbon cap-and-trade program, proposed that serial numbers of
carbon permits shouldn’t be visible to market participants.  “We have doubts on the benefits of the prohibition of the
disclosure of serial numbers,” Ruiz said. “Regarding the
delay, the commission doesn’t foresee any exemptions for
automated transactions.”  30 Carbon Warehouses  The common registry will replace the current system
starting in 2013. Transactions in emission permits are now
tracked by about 30 national carbon warehouses. While most of
the measures will be applicable to the single registry, some may
become mandatory in the current trading system from 2008 to
2012, Yvon Slingenberg, head of the emissions unit at the
commission, said in March.  “I’m confident that member states will back the measures,
as they reflect what stakeholders suggested during the
consultations that we had,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, Brussels
climate spokesman for the commission, said today by phone. The
plan is subject to approval by the EU  climate change  committee,
composed of representatives of the member states, as well as the
European Parliament.  The measures proposed include establishing a harmonized
alert mechanism in case of emergency, exchange of information on
suspected fraud and a two-factor identification of users.  Trusted Accounts Lists  The draft also provides for the creation of trusted
accounts lists from June 30, 2012, in the EU registry. Accounts
held by the same holder should be automatically included on the
trusted lists. Transfer of allowances to an account not included
in such a list should be subject to approval by an additional
representative, according to the draft.  Spot carbon permits fell 1.4 percent today on the BlueNext
exchange in Paris.  The move to the single registry is designed to ensure
better control and uniform standards for recording transactions
in the six-year-old EU emissions trading system. Some member
states and firms neglected security rules in national
registries,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the
commission, said on Jan. 28.  The EU emissions program, known as the ETS, is the
cornerstone of  Europe ’s plan to cut  greenhouse gases  that
scientists blame for climate change. It imposes pollution limits
on companies including  Germany ’s utility RWE AG and  France ’s
Electricite de France SA, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be
21 percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters that produce less
carbon dioxide than their quota can sell surplus allowances and
those exceeding their limits must either buy additional permits
or pay a fine of 100 euros per metric ton of CO2.  Identification Checks  The commission has already demanded that national
registries implement additional identification checks and prove
they meet minimum security requirements after hackers illegally
transferred about 4 million permits from  Austria , the  Czech
Republic ,  Italy ,  Greece  and  Romania .  Separately, the commission is also working to improve
supervision of the spot carbon market, which accounts for 10
percent to 15 percent of emissions trading in the EU.  The commission sought opinions yesterday from traders,
emitters, national authorities and climate experts on whether
spot carbon trading should be subject to a tailor-made oversight
regime or to the existing EU rules on financial instruments. The
EU regulator plans to present a draft supervision proposal later
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  