-- 
EU States May Be Able to Halt Short-Sale Curbs on Sovereign Debt

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-05T17:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/eu-states-may-be-able-to-halt-short-sale-curbs-on-sovereign-debt.html
National regulators may be able to
temporarily opt out of planned European Union rules on naked
short-selling under a Hungarian compromise designed to lessen
worries about bond-market liquidity.  National officials at a meeting in Brussels today said the
Hungarian measures “adequately” resolve concerns that draft
rules may prompt investors to shun government bond markets, said
Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for the country, which holds the
rotating EU presidency.  Finance ministers including  Italy ’s Giulio Tremonti
criticized the European Commission’s original September
proposals, saying they may disrupt their sovereign debt markets
by reducing trading volume.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, and  Christine Lagarde ,  France ’s finance
minister, have warned that the EU shouldn’t delay adoption of
the law, which is intended to prevent short-selling from harming
financial stability.  Under the Hungarian plan, regulators “would be able to
temporarily suspend the planned restrictions on naked short-
selling of sovereign debt, if the liquidity of that market has
fallen below a certain level,” Hajdu said in an e-mail.
“Details of how this will work will be determined at a later
stage.”  Governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament must
agree on the draft law before it can enter into force. EU
finance ministers are scheduled to discuss the short-selling
proposals in Brussels on May 17.  Short sellers seek to profit on declining markets by
selling borrowed shares or bonds, on the belief their price will
fall, then replacing them with securities bought at a lower
price. In an uncovered, or naked, short sale, the speculator
places the sell order without obtaining the underlying
securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  