-- 
Eugene Melnyk Reaches Agreement With OSC in Probe of Biovail Drugmaker

-- B y   G a r y   N o r r i s
-- 
2011-05-05T19:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/eugene-melnyk-reaches-agreement-with-osc-in-probe-of-biovail-drugmaker.html
Eugene Melnyk has agreed to sanctions
with the Ontario Securities Commission under which the Biovail
Corp. founder accepted a five-year ban as a director or officer
of a public company.  Melnyk, 51, whose private interests include ownership of
the  National Hockey League ’s  Ottawa Senators , also agreed to pay
$565,000 ($584,000) of the commission’s costs, accepted a
reprimand and dropped his appeal against the commission’s
findings, under a joint sanctions agreement presented to a
commission panel. The panel approved the agreement following a
hearing in Toronto today.  The commission found last September that Melnyk “did not
contravene Ontario securities law but his conduct was contrary
to the public interest.”  This followed 27 days of hearings in March, April and June
of 2009 into what the commission ruled was misleading or untrue
disclosure by Biovail regarding an earnings miss following an
Oct. 1, 2003 crash near  Chicago  of a truck carrying the
company’s one-a-day formulation of antidepressant Wellbutrin XL.  The commission previously reached settlements with the
corporation and three of its other executives. Melnyk was the
only one to take the case to a full hearing.  The proposed sanctions, especially the five-year ban as an
officer or director of a reporting issuer, are “appropriate and
proportionate to Mr. Melnyk’s level of responsibility,”
commission staff lawyer Johanna Superina told a three-
commissioner panel headed by James Turner.  She said the situation was complicated by Melnyk’s
position as controlling shareholder, but not an officer or
director, of Trimel BioPharma SRL, a Barbados-based private
company in the process of going public on the  TSX Venture
Exchange .  Melnyk attended the hearing but didn’t speak to reporters.  Melnyk “doesn’t have any comment, however, he is pleased
that these issues with the OSC are now behind him,” Ken
Villazor, his spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story: Gary Norris at
 gnorris1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 