-- 
Fannie Mae Loses Bid to Dismiss Ex-Contractor’s Lawsuit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-06T00:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/fannie-mae-loses-bid-to-dismiss-employment-lawsuit.html
Fannie Mae  lost its bid to dismiss a
lawsuit filed by a former contractor who alleges she was fired
and blocked from a Treasury Department job after complaining
about the company’s work on a program to modify home loans.  U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer in Washington today
ordered Fannie Mae to turn over documents to help determine
whether the government-owned mortgage finance company was a
private employer or a federal entity when Caroline Herron claims
she was improperly fired and “blackballed.”  “The outstanding issue that will govern this case and that
cannot be decided without a fact record is whether Fannie Mae
is, or was at the relevant time period, a ‘private’ actor or a
‘federal’ actor,” Collyer said in her ruling.  Herron sued Fannie Mae and three current and former
executives last year, claiming they ruined her reputation in the
industry because she told Treasury officials that Fannie Mae
wasn’t pursuing loan-modification projects requested by the
department, such as the Making Home Affordable Program. Herron
seeks more than $1.2 million in damages.  Herron is a former vice president at Fannie Mae who worked
at the company from August 2000 to November 2007. Fannie Mae
rehired her as a consultant in 2009 to work with Treasury on
federal government efforts to prevent mortgage foreclosures,
according to court papers.  ‘Wasting Taxpayer Money’  Herron told Fannie Mae and Treasury officials that the
company “focused on maximizing incentive payments available to
Fannie Mae under various federal programs -- even if this meant
wasting taxpayer money and delaying the implementation of high
priority Treasury programs,” according to the complaint.  Herron, who was fired in January 2010, alleges Washington-
based Fannie Mae intentionally interfered with a permanent job
offer she had from Treasury.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, declined to
comment.  In court papers, Herron claims Fannie Mae was able to
receive incentive payments of as much as 20 percent of
compensation levels based on enrollment and completed
modifications on a quarterly basis. Fannie Mae could receive an
incentive payment for each “trial modification” processed
before the end of 2009 regardless of whether the modification
became permanent, Herron claimed.  Herron alleges Fannie Mae signed homeowners up for the
loan-modification program knowing that they were ineligible or
wouldn’t provide the required documentation.  ‘Failed Attempt’  Fannie Mae has denied the allegations and twice sought to
have the case dismissed. The company said it conducted an
independent investigation into Herron’s allegations and found no
merit to them.  Herron’s lawsuit is about her “failed attempt to leverage
a short-term engagement with Fannie Mae into long-term
employment with the U.S. Department of the Treasury,” Fannie
Mae said in court papers.  “We look forward to conducting discovery into the federal
control of Fannie Mae’s governance and operations,” Herron’s
lawyer, Alan Kabat of Bernabei & Wachtel PLLC in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail.  The case is Herron v. Fannie Mae, 10-cv-00943, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 