-- 
Fed Presidents Signal Employment Growth Too Slow to Remove Record Stimulus

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-05T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/fed-presidents-signal-employment-growth-too-slow-to-remove-record-stimulus.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents indicated that the central bank won’t remove record
stimulus soon, saying the Fed is missing its goal for full
employment and inflation isn’t a long-term risk.  Eric Rosengren , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston , and San Francisco’s John C. Williams followed the lead
taken by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who signaled last week
that policy makers will keep stimulus in place after ending
large-scale bond purchases in June.  “Right now we’re pretty far away from our targets, and
right now we’re keeping monetary policy accommodative,”
Rosengren, 53, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
News. “It’s very appropriate given how far we are from our
targets.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said last week that the economy, which has added an
average of 149,000 jobs a month over the last six months, is
recovering at a “moderate pace.” For  interest rates  to rise,
“we’d have to see much more job growth than we’ve seen to
date,” Rosengren said in the interview.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday and bonds climbed after private
reports showed that companies added fewer workers than forecast
in April and service industries expanded at the slowest pace in
eight months. A Labor Department report tomorrow may show that
the jobless rate was unchanged at 8.8 percent last month and
185,000 jobs were added to payrolls, according to the median
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,347.32 in New York trading. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note fell to 3.22 percent from 3.25 percent.  Payroll Growth  Another regional Fed bank president, Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , predicted average monthly payroll growth of 200,000
from April through the end of the year. At that pace, he said,
it would take three years for the workforce to reach its pre-
recession level.  Rosengren said unemployment is “well above” the long-term
norm of about 5 percent to 6 percent, “so we need to stimulate
the economy enough to get much more job growth.”  The Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher  offered a contrasting view
yesterday at a speech yesterday in Las Cruces,  New Mexico ,
saying the central bank has done all it can to revive growth and
that he will be at the forefront of calling for tighter credit
to fight inflation if needed.  Bond Purchases  Bernanke said last week that the Fed would continue
reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities to keep the Fed’s
balance sheet stable after finishing large-scale purchases in
June. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.8 percent in March from
9.8 percent in November, the month the Fed began its $600
billion bond-purchase program to boost the recovery and stave
off deflation.  Asked whether a third round of so-called quantitative
easing was still under consideration, Rosengren said that
“nothing’s off the table, it depends on economic conditions, so
we have to do whatever makes sense given our outlook for the
economy.”  “If we were to see inflation rates going down dramatically
and the unemployment rate going up dramatically, we’d have to
reexamine what our monetary policy is,” he said. “That’s not
something I expect, that’s not something that’s in most people’s
forecasts.”  The Fed’s key measure of inflation, which excludes food and
energy, rose 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier. That
compares with a long-term inflation goal of about 2 percent.  Williams, in a speech in  Los Angeles  yesterday, said excess
capacity in the economy “will likely persist for several
years” and that a period of high inflation is “very
unlikely.”  ‘Persistent Headwinds’  The economy faces “persistent headwinds” such as high
gasoline prices and a “severely depressed” housing market,
Williams said in his first comments on policy since taking
charge at the  San Francisco  Fed in March.  Williams, 48, predicted the world’s largest economy will
grow at a 3 percent pace in the current quarter, up from 1.8
percent in the first three months of the year.  Policy makers last month lowered their forecasts for growth
this year and raised estimates for so-called  core inflation .  The inflation rate should peak in the middle of the year
before returning to an annual level of 1.25 percent to 1.5
percent, said Williams, backing the Fed’s view that surging
commodity prices will have a “transitory” effect on inflation.  Investors share that assessment. Market expectations, as
measured by the spread between Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and nominal bonds, predict inflation of 2.8 percent
in the next year, declining to 2.5 percent over two years and
2.4 percent over the next five years.  Global Demand  Commodity-price gains are the result of global supply and
demand and are unlikely to persist over the long term, Williams
said. They represent only a “small portion” of the cost of
finished goods, and long-term inflation expectations are stable,
he said.  The wage-price spiral of the 1970s is “largely absent
today,” he said, adding that Fed policies are unlikely to
account for more than “a very small portion” of commodity-
price increases.  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. He succeeded  Janet Yellen , who
became the Fed board’s vice chairman in October.  Rosengren joined the  Boston  Fed as an economist in 1985 and
became its president in 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in 2013. At the
Fed’s December 2007 meeting, he became the only currently
serving policy maker to dissent from a FOMC decision in favor of
more accommodative policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Boston at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  