-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Says ‘Modest’ Rise in Key Rate Is Desirable This Year

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-05-05T17:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-modest-rise-in-key-rate-is-desirable-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said it would be “desirable”
to lift the target for the benchmark U.S. interest rate by a
“modest amount” this year, based on his inflation forecast.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “should raise the fed
funds rate by around 50 basis points” if  core inflation  rises
by 1.5 percent this year, he said today in remarks prepared for
a speech in Santa Barbara,  California . “Under my baseline
forecast, it would be desirable for the FOMC to raise the fed
funds target interest rate by a modest amount toward the end of
2011,” said Kocherlakota, who votes on monetary policy.  U.S. central bankers are considering when and how to
withdraw record stimulus after reducing their forecasts for
growth and raising estimates for inflation. Kocherlakota sided
with last month’s FOMC decision to complete $600 billion of bond
purchases on schedule in June. Today he offered alternatives of
more bond purchases or a rate increase earlier in the second
half of this year, depending on the path of inflation.  “I do think that the Fed needs to shrink its large balance
sheet,” Kocherlakota said in remarks at the  Santa Barbara 
Economic Summit. “But I see that as a longer-term mission that
can take place over the next five or six years or so.”  Data released today show the highest gasoline prices in
almost three years are depressing consumer sentiment. U.S.
consumer confidence dropped to a five-week low, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. The number of claims for
 unemployment benefits  unexpectedly rose last week, Labor
Department figures showed.  Stocks Decline  U.S. stocks fell after the jobless claims report and then
rebounded as falling oil prices spurred gains in consumer
companies.  The central bank has kept the benchmark rate near zero
since December 2008 to support the recovery and pledged to leave
it there for an “extended period.”  The economy should grow at the “disappointing” rate of 3
percent to 3.5 percent this year, as households rebuild their
net worth and small banks contending with poor asset quality
limit lending, Kocherlakota said.  The  unemployment rate , 8.8 percent as of March, should
remain at or above 8 percent this year and won’t fall close to 5
percent for another five years, he said. The Fed’s preferred
gauge of inflation, which excludes food and energy, should
remain this year at 1.5 percent on an annualized rate, where
it’s been since the fourth quarter through March, he said.  ‘Modest Amount’  The option of shrinking the Fed’s balance sheet, which
Kocherlakota said he has less confidence in as a policy tool,
should be “sufficiently gradual” and come with “as much
certainty as possible,” he said.  Kocherlakota, 47, has led the Minneapolis Fed since October
2009 and is former chairman of the economics department at the
University of Minnesota. He earned his bachelor’s degree in
mathematics from  Princeton University  and his doctorate from the
 University of Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Santa Barbara, California, at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  