-- 
FIFA’s Blatter Says He’ll ‘Weed Out’ Corruption If Re-Elected as President

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-05T14:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/fifa-s-blatter-says-he-ll-weed-out-corruption-if-re-elected-as-president.html
FIFA president Sepp Blatter today
acknowledged soccer’s governing body contained people who
engaged in “improper conduct” and vowed to “weed out”
corrupt officials if he gets a fourth term.  Blatter said if he’s re-elected June 1 to lead the
organization he’ll work to improve FIFA’s reputation. The group
most recently came under scrutiny when two members of its 24-man
decision-making body were suspended following an investigation
into allegations of selling their votes to select  World Cup 
hosts.  “The negative perception is a direct result of our
inability to get our message across,” Blatter said in  a column 
with Inside World Football, a specialist sports news website.
“It is of course also the result of improper conduct by a few
who tarnish the image of many.”  Blatter is being challenged by Mohamed  Bin Hammam , a Qatari
who’s responsible for soccer in  Asia . The 75-year-old has headed
FIFA for 12 years, and there have been other allegations of
corruption against officials. Bin Hammam, 61, is also a  FIFA 
official and has been on the organization’s executive committee
since 1996, two years earlier than Blatter.  The Swiss official, who last week revealed he earns about
$1 million a year, promised to introduce greater transparency
and to communicate better.  FIFA Executive Committee members  Amos Adamu  of  Nigeria  and
Reynald Temarii of Tahiti were suspended in November after they
were caught telling undercover reporters from the London-based
Sunday Times newspaper that their votes could be traded for cash
to build facilities in their home countries. Russia was selected
to host the 2018 World Cup and Qatar, a desert state that’s
smaller in size than  Connecticut , was picked to stage the 2022
tournament.  The FIFA head also used his column to criticize “pundits”
who “twist the facts and continue to throw mud at people who
are doing a massive job for millions around the world.”  Just before December’s vote for the World Cup hosts, he
reminded voting members about the conduct of the U.K. media.
England’s bid for 2018 then finished last of the four
candidates.  “I am committed to help improve FIFA’s corporate conduct
and to help weed out real corruption (but also to fight against
general and unjustified broadsides thrust at our way),” Blatter
wrote. “What is unacceptable in law (entrapment, for example),
must also be unacceptable to those whose mission seems to be
grounded in bringing down anything FIFA do. No matter what.”  Blatter has said he’d like to consider changing the
selection process for the World Cup to allow all of FIFA’s 208
members to decide where the most-watched sporting event is
played. He’s also said if re-elected, it would be his last term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London   at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 