-- 
Fillon Says Socialist Election Win Would Damage French Economy

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-05T11:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/fillon-says-socialist-election-win-would-damage-french-economy.html
French Prime Minister Francois Fillon
marked the fourth anniversary of Nicolas Sarkozy’s election as
president with an attack on the opposition Socialists a year
before elections that polls show the incumbent would lose.  “We have laid the base for a  France  that is more
innovative, more solid, and more realistic in the face of
globalization,” Fillon told reporters in Paris after a meeting
with cabinet members to review their performance. “I don’t want
to put it in the hands of a left that doesn’t understand the
world as it is.”  France must hold presidential elections by next May, with
polls showing Sarkozy running behind potential Socialist
candidates and with some surveys even predicting he would be
eliminated before the decisive round by the anti-immigrant
National Front’s Marine Le Pen.  Fillon said today that the French economy is “entering a
positive cycle” and that spurring growth while maintaining
budget “discipline” was his priority.  Fillon said he’d maintain his pledge to cut the  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013. A delay
would “weaken” French finances, he said.  The Socialists said last month that if they return to power
they won’t necessarily reach the 3 percent deficit target in
2013. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed France’s top AAA credit
rating yesterday.  Fillon did admit some setbacks in Sarkozy’s four years in
office, saying that the world economic crisis prevented him from
reaching growth targets, that a law to limit taxes to half a
family’s income was “misunderstood” and withdrawn, and that
violent crime hasn’t fallen.  “We’ve had some setbacks, but no one can say we haven’t
kept most of our commitments,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  