-- 
Finbank of Nigeria to Sell Stake to Boost Capital, Governor Sanusi Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-05-05T11:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/firstrand-s-sterling-purchase-likely-to-win-nigerian-central-bank-support.html
Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) , a Nigerian lender bailed
out by the government in 2009, is due to announce this week that
it will sell a stake to an investor to recapitalize its
operations, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  “Finbank has signed, and I believe they’ll be announcing
this week,” Sanusi said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday,
where he is attending the  World Economic Forum  on Africa.  First
City Monument Bank Plc (FCMB)  is likely to buy a stake in Finbank, said
Adesoji Solanke, a banking analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in
Lagos.  Sanusi pumped $4 billion into 10 banks two years ago to
help clear toxic debts that were threatening a collapse of the
industry. He then invited bidders for both healthy and
distressed banks as the central bank tried to revamp the West
African nation’s banking system.  “The short term priority for the central bank remains to
finalize the mergers and acquisitions and the recapitalization
of banks, so we can restore financial stability,” Sanusi said.
“I would’ve liked to have seen things proceed faster. But these
things take time. We’re in a very difficult position where banks
have lost capital, so frankly many big investors are not wanting
to pay a very good price.”  Other Nigerian banks that have announced transactions to
sell stakes include  Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON) ,  Union Bank
Nigeria Plc (UBN)  and  Afribank Nigeria Plc. (AFRIBANK)   Shares Gain  Finbank’s shares climbed as much as 4.2 percent to 0.75
after Sanusi’s comments and were trading at 0.73 as of 11:58
a.m. in Lagos.  First City Monument “has been tipped to be the most likely
acquirer and recently confirmed that it will be making an
announcement soon on its mergers and acquisitions plans,”
Solanke said in an e-mailed note today. “The governor’s
disclosure reveals more progress and should re-instill
confidence in the entire process” of consolidation in the
banking sector.  Sanusi said he will probably allow an acquisition of
 Sterling Bank (STERLNBA)  Plc by  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s second-
biggest financial services company. FirstRand said on Dec. 2 it
plans to enter Nigeria, Tanzania, Angola, Ghana and Kenya.  “If they do reach an agreement that is mutually
acceptable, we are most likely not to object to it,” Sanusi
said. “FirstRand spoke to me before they started speaking to
Sterling. I did give them the go-ahead for them to talk.”  FirstRand is seeking a majority stake in Sterling, which
has about 100 branches in  Africa ’s most populous nation. Sanusi
said he didn’t object to a foreign bank owning a majority stake.  “I’m a strong believer in allowing a healthy mix of local
and foreign banks,” Sanusi said. “I believe foreign banks do
bring best practices, they bring risk management, they bring
governance, and the connections that are good for any financial
system that’s trying to grow. We won’t have any objections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  