-- 
World Food Prices Rise to Near-Record High as Inflation Speeds Up, UN Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-05T10:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/food-prices-approach-record-high-as-grain-prices-fuel-inflation-worldwide.html
World food prices rose to near a
record in April as grain costs advanced, adding pressure
to inflation that is accelerating from Beijing to Brasilia and
spurring central banks to raise  interest rates .  An index of 55 commodities rose to 232.1 points from 231
points in March, the  United Nations ’ Rome-based Food and
Agriculture Organization said in a report on its website today.
The gauge climbed to an all-time high of 237.2 in February
before dropping 2.6 percent in March.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose at its fastest pace
since December 2009 in the 12 months ended in March, the same
month in which Chinese consumer prices rose by the most since
2008. The  European Central Bank  raised interest rates on April
7, joining  China ,  India , Poland and  Sweden  in a bid to control
inflation partly blamed on food costs. Costlier food also
contributed to riots across northern  Africa  and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  this year.  “There seems to be some easing for a lot of commodities,
but whether this is demand rationing, we have to wait and
see,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the FAO, said
before the report. “If the weather is good, if plantings
expand, I think we could see some relief in food prices.”  Sugar prices slumped 18 percent in  New York  last month,
while milk futures fell 1.8 percent in  Chicago , U.S. wholesale
beef prices dropped 3.4 percent and pork declined 2.2 percent.
Wheat prices rose 5 percent in Chicago after falling the
previous two months and corn jumped 9.1 percent.  Corn Planting  Corn has almost doubled in the past 12 months on
speculation that more planting in the U.S., the world’s largest
grower, won’t be sufficient to rebuild global stocks. Wheat
surged 57 percent over the same period and soybeans gained 39
percent as flooding ruined crops in  Canada  and Australia and
drought reduced harvests in Russia and  Europe .  Of the grains, corn “is the most worrisome,” Abbassian
said in a statement. “We would need above-average, if not
record, yields in the U.S.,” however, “plantings so far have
been delayed considerably due to cool and wet conditions on the
ground,” he said.  The FAO’s gauge of grain prices, which account for 27
percent of the overall index, jumped to its highest level since
June 2008, advancing to 265.1 points in April from 251.2 the
previous month.  Dry Weather  World grain stocks will probably slide for a second year
in the 12 months through June 2012 as corn consumption outpaces
production and dry weather hurts wheat prospects in the U.S.
and the European Union, the International Grains Council said
in a report April 20.  “With demand continuing strongly, prospects for a return
to more normal prices hinge largely on how much production will
increase and how much grain reserves are replenished in the new
season,” David Hallam, the director of FAO’s Trade and Market
division, said in a statement.  The FAO’s food-price index fell for eight months in a row
after reaching its previous peak in June 2008, a situation that
probably won’t be repeated this year,  Concepcion Calpe , an
economist at the UN agency, said last month. “Very strong”
demand for food, feed and biofuel may mean prices will climb in
coming months, she said.  Meat Prices  The index of meat prices, which make up 35 percent of the
overall index, was little changed at 172.8, up 0.5 percentage
point from the March level.  The FAO index of sugar prices fell to 347.8 points, the
lowest level in seven months, from 372.3 in March. Cooking-oil
prices slipped to 259.1 points in April from 259.9, while the
dairy index fell to 228.7 from 234.4 in March.  Food output will have to climb by 70 percent from 2010 to
2050 as the world population swells to 9 billion and rising
incomes boost meat and dairy consumption, the FAO forecasts.
Producing 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of pork can take 3.5
kilograms of feed, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data  shows.  About 44 million people have been pushed into poverty
since June by the “dangerous levels” of food prices,  World
Bank  President Robert Zoellick said in February. Another 10
million may join them should the UN food index rise another 10
percent, the World Bank said April 16. The number of hungry
people in the world globally declined last year to 925 million
from more than 1 billion in 2009, according to the FAO.  “A sliding dollar and increased oil prices are
contributing to high food-commodity prices,” Hallam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  