-- 
Foreign Buying of Emerging Local-Currency Debt to Drop: JPMorgan

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-05T16:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/foreign-buying-of-emerging-local-currency-debt-to-drop-jpmorgan.html
Foreign purchases of emerging-market
debt issued in local currency may fall about 39 percent this
year as measures to stem capital inflows curb investors,
according to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Foreign purchases may fall to $107 billion this year from a
record $174 billion last year, analysts including Joyce Chang,
JPMorgan’s New York-based global head of emerging-markets
research, wrote in a report. Flows to  Latin America  will tumble
to $15 billion from $38 billion, partly due to a tax on foreign-
bond purchases, the analysts wrote. Flows to  Asia  may fall to
$62 billion from $82 billion.  Developing-nation “local markets are unlikely to see a
repeat of the record foreign buying that occurred in 2010,” the
analysts wrote.  Emerging-market countries including  Brazil  and  South Korea 
have implemented  capital controls  in an effort to limit upward
pressure on their currencies from investors attracted by their
relatively high economic growth and low debt ratios. Brazil
imposed a 6 percent tax on foreign purchases of local bonds, and
South Korea introduced a levy on non-deposit foreign-currency
liabilities held by domestic and foreign banks to reduce the
won’s volatility.  The supply of emerging-market debt is growing as developing
nations’ governments turn to funding themselves in their own
currencies in order to limit risk from exchange rate volatility,
JPMorgan said. Local currency-denominated debt markets will grow
between 10 percent and 15 percent a year for “at least the next
decade,” they said.  About 82 percent of emerging-market government debt, worth
$5.5 trillion, is locally denominated, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  