-- 
RBS Report Sent to Independent Review by U.K. Lawmakers

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-05T17:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/former-morgan-stanley-chief-to-oversee-fsa-s-report-into-rbs.html
U.K. lawmakers commissioned an
independent review of the  Financial Services Authority ’s report
into the 2008 collapse of the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   David Walker , former chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
International, and lawyer Bill Knight will examine the FSA’s
study, the regulator and the Treasury Committee of the House of
Commons said in separate statements. The FSA said it cleared RBS
and former executives including ex-Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  after the report was completed in December.  The FSA came under pressure from U.K lawmakers to publish
the findings of its probe into the collapse of RBS’s finances,
and had been scheduled to release a report at the end of March.
Edinburgh-based RBS posted the largest loss in corporate history
in 2008 and required the biggest bank bailout in the world
following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV.  “Walker doesn’t always say what his master wants him to
say,” Darren Fox, financial regulation partner at  Simmons &
Simmons LLP  in  London , said in a telephone interview today. “He
will be seen as a robust choice.”  The duo will ensure the report is “seen as a rigorous and
transparent account of the different factors which contributed
to RBS’s failure,” the FSA said in a statement on its website.  Confidentiality Constraints  “Producing a high quality account takes time, both because
the causes of RBS’s failure were complex and multi-faceted and
because of the need to respect due legal process and
confidentiality constraints,”  Adair Turner , chairman of the
London-based FSA, said in the statement today.  A spokeswoman for RBS wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  Knight is a former senior partner at  Simmons & Simmons ,
while Walker led a review of corporate governance rules
following the financial crisis.  “It is essential that Parliament gets to the bottom of
this,” the Treasury committee chairman,  Andrew Tyrie , said in a
statement.  “We need to know the decisive mistakes which destroyed
RBS, how they came to be made, whether the FSA was asleep at the
wheel and whether we can have confidence that they are awake
now,” Tyrie said.  The FSA is prohibited under U.K. and European Union law
“to publish information collected through a supervisory
investigation” without permission from the individuals
mentioned in the report,  Hector Sants , chief executive officer
of the agency, said last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  