-- 
France’s Second-Hottest April in Century Desiccates Farm Fields

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-05T08:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/france-s-second-hottest-april-in-century-desiccates-farm-fields.html
France , the European Union’s largest
grain grower, had one of its hottest and driest Aprils on
record, causing a soil-moisture deficit across the country, the
Agriculture Ministry said.  Last month was the second-hottest April since 1900 and one
of the driest since 1953, Agreste, the ministry’s statistics
department, said in a  report  on its website. Rainfall in France
was below average for a fourth month, it said.  The dry weather and above-average temperatures in France
are likely to result in an early wheat harvest in June, Martell
Crop Projections said in a May 2 report. French wheat is usually
harvested in July and August.  European wheat and rapeseed are at an “important tipping
point” because stored soil moisture from the winter has been
used up, Martell said. Dry weather in  Germany  and  England ’s
hottest April are also threatening grain crops across the
European Union, producer of a fifth of the world’s wheat.  France grew 5.9 percent of the world’s 2010/11 wheat crop,
based on numbers from the International Grains Council. The
country produced 35.7 million metric tons of soft wheat last
year and 2.53 million tons of durum wheat, according to crops
office FranceAgriMer.  Dry Weather  “The precipitation level was below normal seasonal values
for the fourth consecutive month,” Agreste said. “The level of
available soil-water reserved has become deficient compared to
normal for all of the country.”  The north of France on average received 14 millimeters
(0.55 inch) of rain in April, 28 percent of normal values, while
the northeast got 15 millimeters last month, 25 percent of
normal levels, the ministry said.  Temperatures across France averaged 14.5 degrees Celsius
(58 Fahrenheit) in April, 3.8 degrees above normal, while
average rainfall was 21 millimeters, 65 percent less than
normal, according to the report.  Accumulated rainfall since the start of March is below
normal, “particularly” north of the line from Bordeaux to
Nancy, the ministry said. That part of the country accounts for
more than 80 percent of France’s  wheat crop .  The rainfall deficit across France since the start of March
on average is 43 percent, ranging from a shortfall of 72 percent
in the west and 63 percent in the north to 25 percent more rain
than normal in the country’s southeast, Agreste said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 