-- 
Freddie Mac Shareholders Lose Right to Sue for Losses

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-05T19:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/freddie-mac-shareholders-lose-right-to-sue-company-for-losses.html
Shareholders of  Freddie Mac  lost their
bid to sue former directors and officers of the government-owned
mortgage finance company when the Federal Housing Finance Agency
stepped in to lead the case in  Virginia .  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, today upheld
a ruling by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema, who found that
the 2008 law creating the FHFA as Freddie Mac’s conservator gave
the agency the authority to substitute itself as the plaintiff.  “The district court, interpreting the act, concluded that
‘the plain meaning of the statute is that all rights previously
held by Freddie Mac’s stockholders, including the right to sue
derivatively, now belong exclusively to the [Agency],’” the
court said.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System
along with other shareholders alleged former Freddie Mac
officials wasted company assets and mismanaged the company
resulting in “significant losses.”  Named defendants included Richard Syron, former chief
executive officer of McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac, and
Anthony Piszel, Freddie Mac’s chief financial officer from
November 2006 to September 2008.  Brinkema dismissed the case on April 20 at the request of
FHFA, which in court papers said an investigation “found no
evidence sufficient to demonstrate any of these defendants
engaged in willful misconduct with respect to the allegations in
the derivative complaints.”  ‘Adopted the Reasoning’  Matthew Miller , a  Washington  lawyer who represents the
shareholders, said he is disappointed with the ruling and that
the appeals court “essentially adopted the reasoning of the
district court.” Miller said his clients are still considering
whether to file additional appeals.  Corinne Russell, an FHFA spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Freddie Mac and its larger rival, Washington-based  Fannie
Mae , own or guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans. The
federal government took control of the companies in September
2008 amid losses stemming from the collapse of the mortgage
market. Since then, they have drawn $153 billion in federal aid
to remain solvent amid soaring foreclosures and lagging  home
prices .  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v.  Federal Housing Finance Agency , 09-01973, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 