-- 
April Store Sales Beat Estimates as Shoppers Gain Confidence

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-05T20:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/gap-macy-s-surpass-april-sales-estimates-as-consumer-confidence-gains.html
Same-store sales at U.S. retailers in
April surpassed analysts’ estimates, led by Limited Brands Inc.
and  Macy’s Inc. (M) , as consumers gained confidence in the U.S.
economy’s recovery.  Limited, operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain, boosted
sales 20 percent, almost double the average gain of analysts’
estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc., which tracks more
than two dozen U.S. chains. Sales at Macy’s, the second-largest
U.S. department store chain, rose 10.8 percent, also surpassing
projections.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than estimated in
April as six straight months of job gains buoyed the spending
that makes up about 70 percent of the economy. Retailers also
benefited from the Easter holiday falling on April 24, 20 days
later than a year ago.  “The story here is that the consumer is somewhat resilient
despite rising gas prices and ongoing concerns about the labor
market,” said  Ken Perkins , president of Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics.  Overall, same-store sales rose 8.7 percent, compared with
projections of a 7.7 percent gain for the chains tracked by
Retail Metrics. That marked a 20th straight increase from
September 2009. Retailers as a group posted a gain of 2.2
percent in March, surpassing projections for a drop of 0.5
percent.  Limited, based in Columbus,  Ohio , rose 10 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $40.42 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, advanced 95
cents, or 3.7 percent, to $26.35.  Victoria’s Secret  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Sales at Macy’s rose 5.3 percent combined for March and
April, surpassing its forecast of as much as 4.5 percent.
Victoria’s Secret led the gains at Limited, posting an increase
of 25 percent.  Clothier  Gap Inc. (GPS)  also surpassed estimates with an increase
of 8 percent after analysts expected sales to be little changed.
Revenue at the San Francisco-based company’s  Old Navy  chain led
the gains, advancing 14 percent.  Old Navy’s gains showed consumers facing rising gas prices
and high unemployment are still driven by promotions and value,
said Edward Yruma, a New York-based retail analyst for Keybanc
Capital Markets.  ‘Under Pressure’  “The consumer is still clearly under pressure,” Yruma
said. “Look at Gap, their most productive division was their
most promotional.”  Gasoline prices in the U.S. last month surged to the
highest level since July 2008 on concern that refinery outages
in  Texas  may reduce U.S. inventories of the fuel.  Many parts of the U.S. also faced adverse weather last
month, which J.C. Penney Co. cited for curbing sales and foot
traffic. The third-largest department store chain’s revenue were
below estimates, along with rival Kohl’s Co. and luxury
retailers  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and Nordstrom Inc.  Teen retailer  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , which stopped reporting
monthly sales earlier this year, posted a decline in same-store
sales of 7 percent for the first quarter because it used more
discounts than expected. That compared with estimates for a drop
of 3.3 percent. The company also revised its first-quarter
profit forecast to about 20 cents per share from as much as 38
cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 