-- 
GBL Unwinds Swaps; Gallienne, Lamarche to Join Management

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-05T18:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/gbl-unwinds-swaps-gallienne-lamarche-to-join-management-1-.html
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB) , the
Belgian investment firm controlled by billionaires  Albert Frere 
and Paul Desmarais, reported profit dropped because of costs for
unwinding derivatives and said Ian Gallienne and Gerard Lamarche
will join the three-member executive management next year.  First-quarter net income declined to 11 million euros ($16
million) from 20.1 million euros a year earlier, the Brussels-
based company said today in a statement. Cash earnings, the
basis for GBL’s shareholder payouts, were a negative 23.3
million euros as GBL spent 16 million euros to unwind an
interest-rate swap contract and didn’t receive any dividends.  GBL spent 1.16 billion euros so far this year, most of
which was used to take over  Pargesa Holding SA (PARG) ’s 25.6 percent
stake in  Imerys SA (NK) , the world’s biggest producer of minerals
used to add colors to paint. The transaction transferred 1.09
billion euros of cash to Geneva-based Pargesa, GBL’s controlling
shareholder, and inflated GBL’s debt net of cash, short-term
investments and own shares to 1.06 billion euros as of April 30.  The investment firm also said Ian Gallienne, 40, and Gerard Lamarche, 49, will join the three-member executive management
prior to next year’s annual shareholders’ meeting, replacing
Gerald Frere, 59, and Thierry de Rudder, 61. Albert Frere, 85,
will remain chief executive officer.  Gallienne is Frere’s son-in-law and manages Ergon Capital
Partners SA, GBL’s private-equity arm. Lamarche is chief
financial officer at GDF Suez SA, GBL’s 5.2 percent stake in
Paris-based GDF Suez is its second-biggest investment by value,
behind the 4 percent stake in Total SA.  Gerald Frere will succeed his father as chairman and both
Thierry de Rudder and  Paul Desmarais  Jr. will join Paul
Desmarais as vice chairman of GBL’s board, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  