-- 
GE Oil & Gas Focuses on Research After $4.1 Billion in Deals

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-05-05T14:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ge-oil-gas-focuses-on-research-after-4-1-billion-in-deals.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s Oil & Gas unit,
which invested $4.1 billion in acquisitions since October, is
increasing research spending on new products including equipment
to extract fossil fuels from the ocean floor and shale rock.  Oil & Gas is spending a record 4 percent of sales a year in
research and development, excluding acquisitions, said Claudi
Santiago, the unit’s head. The company introduced products this
week including a black-box system, similar to that used in
commercial jets, that can withstand deep-sea pressure in
underwater drilling and remote-monitoring software that crunches
time-use data.  Revenue from service contracts tied to such products “will
continue to grow strong double digits because there are massive
opportunities to upgrade our installed base of equipment all
around the world,” Santiago said in a telephone interview this
week.  Opportunities lie in areas such as Brazil,  Australia , West
Africa and to a lesser extent,  Canada , while extraction of oil
and  natural gas  from shale rock is rising in  North America .  The unit’s focus tracks the strategy at the parent company,
where Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has boosted
industrial research and development spending to about $6 billion
this year, the highest ever.  GE Oil & Gas predicts about $11 billion in total sales this
year, up from more than $1 billion a decade ago, making it one
of the fastest-growing businesses at the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company.  Positioning the Business  Acquisitions since October have included John Wood Group
Plc’s well-support division and Wellstream Holdings Plc, an oil
services provider focused on  Brazil , for a combined $4.1
billion, and parts of the $3 billion Dresser Inc. takeover.  The division’s record of integrating previous purchases
such as the 2007 acquisition of Vetco Gray Inc., along with
booming demand for new sources of fossil fuels in both developed
and emerging markets, drove the recent expansion, he said.  “We have positioned the business extremely well for the
next decade,” Santiago said. “When the dust settles, and we put
on the board numbers I know they are going to deliver, our
shareholders will be very pleased.”  Sales in the first quarter, which included only one month
of Wellstream results, rose 12 percent to $1.79 billion, with
profit rising 4 percent to $199 million.  Because GE Oil & Gas now does business in more than 100
countries, it can act as an entry conduit in those places for
the parent company’s other businesses, Santiago said.  Service Contract Sales  In the first quarter, the oil and gas unit reported an
 equipment backlog  of $7.5 billion, with a service agreement
backlog of $4.1 billion. Investing now will lay the foundation
to increase sales of service contracts, which have higher,
steadier margins than equipment alone, during the next decade,
Santiago said.  Services revenue of less than $200 million 10 years ago
“now is $2.5 billion,” he said.  In the first quarter, the Oil & Gas profit margin of 11
percent fell below some analyst estimates, as Santiago invested
in developing products, some of which use technology from the
parent company’s other divisions. Those include the world’s
biggest makers of  aircraft engines  and medical-imaging equipment
and related software. That spending will weigh on margins for
the next two to three quarters, he said.  “Obviously in the short term, as we are spending all that
money to create and accelerate, it’s going to put a little bit
of pressure in the margins,” Santiago said. The investment will
contribute to growth “over the next decade,” he said.  The ability to increase oil extracted from wells by 2 or 3
percentage points versus competitors gives GE an advantage,
Santiago said.  Liquefied Natural Gas  Producers are boosting exploration for oil and natural-gas
liquids in the U.S. because of higher crude prices, which have
climbed 37 percent in the past year. The number of land rigs
active in the U.S. over the past 12 months has climbed 25
percent to 1,769, according to Baker Hughes Inc.  Annual production of gas from shale in the U.S. climbed 57
percent last year to 4.87 trillion cubic feet, according to the
Energy Department. Shale formations include dense rock that can
be fractured to release oil and gas.  “With what happened in  Japan  in the nuclear industry, we
see gas becoming a key source of energy in the power-generation
industry” and liquefied natural gas demand continuing to grow,
he said. “We believe gas will become the de-facto cleanest
source of energy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  