-- 
Gerdau First-Quarter Profit Falls 23% on Increasing Costs

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-05T20:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/gerdau-net-income-declines-23-to-240-million-in-first-quarter-of-2011.html
Gerdau SA (GGBR4) ,  Latin America ’s largest
steelmaker, said first-quarter profit fell 23 percent as raw-
material and production costs increased. Shares plunged to a
two-year low.  Net income dropped to 390.8 million reais ($241.6 million),
or 26 centavos a share, from 504.3 million reais, or 35
centavos, a year earlier, the  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based company
said today in a statement. Gerdau was expected to post per-share
profit of 25 centavos on an adjusted basis, the median of five
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gerdau and other Brazilian steelmakers are trading near
their lowest levels in about two years as higher raw-material
costs hurt profit margins and a local-currency rally boosts
competition from imports. Producers will likely under-perform
miners and pulp and paper stocks in the next two to three
months, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Brazilian companies should not be able to increase prices
as much as we previously forecast,” Goldman analysts led by
Marcelo Aguiar in  Sao Paulo  wrote in a May 3 report to clients.
“Otherwise, imports should become a threat again.”  Gerdau fell 4.4 percent to settle at 16.95 reais in Sao
Paulo trading today, its biggest drop in more than six weeks and
the lowest close since May 15, 2009. In the past 12 months the
stock has lost 37 percent, compared with a 2.3 percent drop for
the benchmark Bovespa Index.  Crude Steel  Gerdau’s crude-steel production rose 9 percent to 4.75
million metric tons in the quarter, the company said. Net sales
rose 18 percent to 8.36 billion reais, less than the 26 percent
increase in the cost of goods sold during the period.  The company aims to lower costs by producing enough  iron
ore , the main raw material used to make steel, to supply all of
its mills next year, Chief Executive Officer Andre Gerdau Johannpeter said today on a conference call.  Gerdau, which is “paying attention” to possible mining
acquisition opportunities, isn’t currently negotiating a
purchase, Chief Financial Officer Osvaldo Schirmer said on the
same call.  In April, Gerdau and shareholders raised about 4.98 billion
reais in Latin America’s biggest stock sale in almost seven
months. The offering helped fuel speculation that it may buy
part of rival Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, the
Brazilian steelmaker known as Usiminas. Johannpeter declined to
comment when asked about it today.  Steel Prices  Gerdau expects domestic and international steel prices to
remain “stable” this year, Johannpeter said. The company
withdrew “some” price discounts earlier this year, he said,
declining to give specific figures.  The company said in a statement today it plans to invest
718 million reais through 2013 to expand some units and install
a new plant in the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo. Gerdau will
also spend 560 million reais on its U.S. units by 2013.  The earnings results are based on international financial
reporting standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  