-- 
Germany Daybook: Trichet May Signal Pace of Rate Cycle

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-05T06:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/germany-daybook-trichet-may-signal-interests-rate-cycle-pace.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet today may indicate just how fast he’s prepared to
raise  interest rates  over the coming months.  While policy makers meeting in Helsinki will keep the
benchmark rate at 1.25 percent, according to all 48 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, any pledge by Trichet for “strong
vigilance” would signal an increase as soon as June. The
Frankfurt-based central bank in April raised borrowing costs
from a record low for the first time in almost three years.  EQUITIES:
* Adidas AG (ADS)   reports 1Q earnings. The world’ second-
largest sporting goods maker is striving to generate more growth
in BRIC states and improve on a profit decline in 4Q.
*Beiersdorf AG (BEI@GR) the German maker of Nivea skin cream,
reporting first-quarter results, last month reiterated a 2011
forecast of unchanged revenue and lower margins for its
consumer-products division. *ProSiebenSat.1 AG (PSM@GR)
 Germany ’s biggest private broadcaster, which is trying to cut
debt, will present first-quarter results after agreeing to sell
its Dutch and Belgian operations in April. *E.ON holds its
annual general meeting amid efforts by the company to persuade
the government to rethink its aim to phase out nuclear power
quicker following the Fukushima disaster. 10 a.m.  GOVERNMENT:
* Chancellor Angela Merkel  and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor
Orban brief reporters after a meeting to prepare a European
Union summit in June. Merkel and Orban may comment on Hungary’s
media laws as well as the economic outlook of both countries;
Chancellery, 1:20 p.m. (TNI GER EU)
*Merkel hosts press briefing in Berlin with  Palestinian
Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas . Merkel will air her
government’s position following a May 4 agreement between the
the Palestinian Authority and the Islamic Hamas movement that
may end an almost four-year rift and establish a joint
government. The move will harm prospects for peace, say Israeli
officials. Joint press briefing 6.20 p.m.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*German factory orders for May. A survey of analysts by
Bloomberg News expects a slight expansion of 0.4% compared with
2.4% growth in March; 12:00 a.m.
*Shares of incorporated makers of offshore  wind turbines  such as
Nordex (NDX@GY, SIE@GY, VWS@DC) may gain a boost today after
newspapers reported that Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may increase
tariffs payable on power generated by the renewable energy.  MARKETS:
*The DAX Index fell 1.7% to 7,373.93.
*The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.4 percent to 278.52
*MSCI Asia-Pacific Index is unchanged at 6:25 a.m. Frankfurt
time.
*German 10-year bond yield at 3.293% *Euro -- U.S. $1.4865.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  