-- 
German Note Yields Advance Before ECB Rates Decision; Spanish Bonds Drop

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-05T11:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/german-2-year-yields-reach-2-year-high-before-ecb-interest-rate-decision.html
German two-year note yields fell
before a European Central Bank meeting at which economists
expect officials to leave  interest rates  unchanged and ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to signal increases may be ahead.  The drop pushed the yield up to the highest in nearly 2 1/2
years. Portuguese 10-year bonds fell as the  International
Monetary Fund  said the nation’s economy will face “significant
headwinds” as it tackles its deficit. Spanish bonds and notes
underperformed German securities as the nation auctioned debt.  “There’s been no particular sign to indicate that they are
veering from their hawkish stance, and it’s all going to hinge
on what Trichet says,” Eric Wand, a rate strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in London, said of ECB policy makers.
“The front end has been suffering.”  The yield on the two-year German note increased two basis
points to 1.92 percent as of 11:47 a.m. in London, after
reaching 1.95 percent, the most since December 2008. The 1.5
percent security due March 2013 declined 0.025, or 25 euro cents
per 1,000-euro ($1,483) face amount, to 99.24.  The 10-year yield rose less than one basis point to 3.30
percent. Bonds pared an earlier decline after factory orders in
 Germany  unexpectedly dropped in March.  The difference in yield between two-year notes and 10-year
bonds has narrowed to 138 basis points from 210 basis points on
Dec. 31 as benchmark bund yields were outpaced by those of
shorter-dated securities, which are most susceptible to changes
in interest rates.  Bund Losses  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.9
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, as
investors added to bets that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs. Trichet said after the ECB’s March meeting that
“strong vigilance” is required on prices and policy makers
followed that with a 0.25 percentage-point increase in the
refinancing rate in April.  Policy makers will leave the benchmark refinancing rate at
1.25 percent today, according to all 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Trichet is scheduled to hold a press conference
in Helsinki to explain the decision. Euribor futures were lower
before the rates announcement, with the yield on the December
contract up two basis points at 2.19 percent.  The 10-year bund yielded 10 basis points more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries today. The yield rose above the U.S.
equivalent this week for the first time since June 2009, as
investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will keep interest rates on
hold. Treasuries have returned 1.5 percent this year, according
to the Bloomberg/EFFAS data.  Portuguese Rescue  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell, with yields rising 10 basis
points to 9.62 percent. The nation announced on May 3 an
agreement on a European Union-led rescue loan package of as much
as 78 billion euros. It said today its economy will shrink about
2 percent this year as the government implements additional
austerity measures to qualify for the international aid.  Portugal will need to make savings of 10 percent of gross
domestic product over three years to bring down its deficit, the
International Monetary Fund said. The nation will pay the IMF
interest of 3.25 percent for the first three years of loans as
part of its bailout program, followed by an increase to 4.25
percent, the IMF said. Loans from European governments will
carry higher rates that have not yet been calculated, Juergen
Kroeger, a European Commission official, told reporters after
the package was agreed upon in Lisbon today.  Portugal ’s aid package will spare it from having to tap
bond markets for funding for slightly more than two years, the
IMF said. Market financing will be “almost non-existent” this
year, the nation’s finance ministry said.  Two-year Portuguese note yields fell five basis points to
11.34 percent.  Greece ,  Spain   Greek bonds fell, with the 10-year yield 13 basis points
higher at 15.54 percent. The leader of  Finland ’s euro-skeptic
True Finns party, Timo Soini, said  Europe ’s crisis-handling
mechanism “doesn’t work” and Greece will default on its debts
as efforts to keep the country afloat have failed. He spoke
today in a phone interview with Bloomberg Television.  Spain sold 3.4 billion euros of five-year notes at a yield
of 4.549 percent at auction today, below the maximum target of 4
billion euros. Demand for the securities maturing in April 2016
was 1.86 times the amount sold.  The nation drew bids for 2.17 times the amount of notes
sold at a sale of five-year debt on March 3, and an average bid-
to-cover ratio of 2.02 in the past three sales. The average
yield in the auctions was 4.325 percent. The yield on five-year
notes rose three basis points today to 4.57 percent.  “It might not be a stellar sale, but there is nothing to
indicate this is a troubled auction,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .  France  also sold 9.5 billion euros of debt today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  