-- 
German Bonds Jump as Trichet Signals ECB May Hold Interst Rates Next Month

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-05-05T16:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/german-two-year-notes-stay-lower-as-ecb-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged.html
German government bonds jumped as
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  damped
speculation that policy makers would raise  interest rates  as
soon as next month.  The advance sent the two-year yield down from its highest
since December 2008. Trichet said the ECB will monitor inflation
risks “very closely,” suggesting it may wait until after June
to increase borrowing costs. The central bank kept its main rate
at 1.25 percent today, as predicted by all 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Portuguese 10-year bond yields reached a
record relative to benchmark German bunds as the nation said its
economy will contract while it tackles its deficit.  “The market is flying on Trichet using the code words
‘monitor closely’ rather than ‘strong vigilance’,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
 Germany . “The market has been very aggressive in pricing in a
June hike over the past days. Now you see it being reversed.”  The yield on the two-year note slid 15 basis points to 1.76
percent as of 5:01 p.m. in London, after earlier rising to 1.95
percent. The 10-year bund yield dropped eight basis points to
3.22 percent.  The difference in yield between two-year notes and 10-year
bonds widened six basis points to 145 basis points as benchmark
bund yields dropped less than those of the shorter-dated
securities, which are most susceptible to changes in interest
rates. The spread narrowed to 139 basis points yesterday, the
least since January 2009, according to closing prices.  Rates ‘Certain’  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.9
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, as
investors added to bets that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs.  Two-year note yields climbed 23 basis points on March 3
after the ECB left its main rate at a record low 1 percent and
Trichet said “strong vigilance is warranted” to counter
inflation. Policy makers lifted the refinancing rate by 25 basis
points at their next meeting.  The yield on the December Euribor futures contract fell 17
basis points today to 2.01 percent as investors curbed bets on
higher interest rates.  “It’s pretty much certain they are not going to hike next
month, that much is pretty obvious given the words Trichet
used,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “It has been
supportive for bonds, because there had been pressure
particularly in the front end of the curve.”  U.S. Jobs  Bonds also advanced as a report showed initial jobless
claims unexpectedly rose in the U.S. last week to the most since
August, having pared an earlier decline after factory orders in
Germany unexpectedly dropped in March.  “The U.S. data is also playing a role here, if you see how
the U.S. market is reacting,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell, with yields rising 17 basis
points to 9.69 percent. That increased the additional yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of bunds to a
record 647.9 basis points.  The nation announced on May 3 an agreement on a European
Union-led rescue loan package of as much as 78 billion euros. It
said today its economy will shrink about 2 percent this year as
the government implements additional austerity measures to
qualify for international aid.  Portuguese Austerity  Portugal  will need to make savings of 10 percent of gross
domestic product over three years to bring down its deficit, the
 International Monetary Fund  said. The nation will pay the IMF
interest of 3.25 percent for the first three years of loans as
part of its bailout program, followed by an increase to 4.25
percent, the IMF said.  Loans from European governments will carry higher rates
that have not yet been calculated, Juergen Kroeger, a European
Commission official, told reporters after the package was agreed
upon in Lisbon today.  Portugal’s aid package will spare it from having to tap
bond markets for funding for slightly more than two years, the
IMF said. Market financing will be “almost non-existent.”  Greek bonds fell, with the 10-year yield eight basis points
higher at 15.49 percent. The leader of  Finland ’s euro-skeptic
True Finns party, Timo Soini, said  Europe ’s crisis-handling
mechanism “doesn’t work” and  Greece  will default on its debts
as efforts to keep the country afloat have failed. He spoke
today in a phone interview with Bloomberg Television.  Spanish Sale  Spain  sold 3.4 billion euros of five-year notes at a yield
of 4.549 percent at auction today, below the maximum target of 4
billion euros. Demand for the securities maturing in April 2016
was 1.86 times the amount sold.  The nation drew bids for 2.17 times the amount of notes
sold at a sale of five-year debt on March 3, and an average bid-
to-cover ratio of 2.02 in the past three sales. The average
yield in the auctions was 4.325 percent.  The difference in yield between 10-year Spanish and German
bonds widened six basis points to 202 basis points.  “It might not be a stellar sale, but there is nothing to
indicate this is a troubled auction,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .  LCH Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s largest clearing house,
increased the extra deposit it demands from clients to trade
Irish government bonds to 55 percent from 45 percent after
yields rose relative to a AAA benchmark. The yield on Irish 10-
year bonds climbed 10 basis points to 10.29 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  