-- 
German Manufacturing Orders Unexpectedly Declined in March

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-05T10:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/german-manufacturing-orders-unexpectedly-declined-in-march-1-.html
Factory orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly dropped in March, led by a slump
in demand for investment goods at home and abroad.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, slipped
4 percent from February, when they rose a revised 1.9 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, according to the
median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the year,
orders rose 9.7 percent, when adjusted for work days.  Surging energy prices have clouded the economic outlook by
sapping purchasing power of households and companies, while
countries from Ireland to Spain toughen austerity measures. In
Germany, companies have relied on faster-growing markets to
bolster orders.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering
company, yesterday raised its full-year earnings forecast.  “Although the series is notoriously volatile the fall in
orders clearly signals that Germany’s industrial sector lost
some strength moving into the second quarter," said  Aline
Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
‘‘Fiscal policy tightening in the  euro zone  probably kicks in
and world trade becomes less vigorous."  The euro extended its decline after the report and traded
at $1.4831 at 12:17 p.m. in Frankfurt.  ‘Favorable’ Outlook  The ministry had previously reported an order increase of
2.4 percent for February. It said today that the outlook remains
‘‘favorable’’ and that the share of big-ticket items was
‘‘strongly below average.’’  The Bundesbank forecast German economic growth will weaken
to 2.5 percent this year from last year’s record 3.6 percent
expansion. The Frankfurt-based central bank said on April 18 the
country’s ‘‘positive economic fundamental trend should
continue’’ in the current quarter.  Foreign factory orders dropped 4.3 percent from February,
when they increased 1.8 percent, today’s report showed. Domestic
orders slipped 3.5 percent. Orders for investment goods dropped
7.2 percent from the previous month, when they rose 3.6 percent.
Orders for  consumer goods  fell 0.6 percent in the month, while
those for intermediate goods rose 0.3 percent.  Continental AG, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
today reported its highest profit in more than three years. The
Hanover, Germany-based company had a ‘‘good start to the year,”
Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said.  Broadening Recovery  The German economy’s recovery is broadening as companies
add workers and raise wages, encouraging consumer demand.
Unemployment fell below 3 million for the first time in almost
19 years in April, keeping the jobless rate at 7.1 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , on May 4 reported record first-quarter profit
per car on surging demand for the revamped 5-Series sedan and
overhauled X3 sport-utility vehicle. Siemens said the same day
that profit will rise at least 75 percent this year.  The global economy is in “good shape,” Siemens CEO  Peter Loescher  said yesterday. “We’ve achieved outstanding, broad-
based orders growth.”  The recovery is showing some signs of slowdown. German
business confidence fell for a second month in April and
inflation accelerated to 2.6 percent, the fastest in 2 1/2
years. In the 17-member euro region, economic confidence also
weakened last month and industrial orders rose less than
economists forecast in February.  While the  European Central Bank  last month raised its
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent, some
policy makers have signaled a need for further monetary
tightening. Investor expectations for two more quarter-point
increases in the main lending rate this year are “well
founded,” ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said on April 16.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will release its rate
decision at 1:45 p.m. Frankfurt time, followed by a press
conference 45 minutes afterwards.  “The economic upswing in Germany remains on track,” said
 Joerg Lueschow , chief economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.
“While the peak in growth lies behind us, there’s no reason to
fear a downturn this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  