-- 
Gibson Finds Salvation With Puppet; Spanish Civil War: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-05T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/gibson-finds-salvation-with-puppet-spanish-civil-war-movies.html
After his wife dumps him, depressed
businessman Walter Black strings his necktie to a shower rod and
tries to hang himself. The rod collapses, sending him crashing
to the floor.  This awkward mixture of tragedy and comedy is the hallmark
of Jodie Foster’s “ The Beaver ,” a film about a down-and-out
toy company executive who finds salvation through a beaver hand-
puppet that replaces his own deficient personality.  Mel Gibson , voicing the puppet with a cockney accent
reminiscent of  Michael Caine , does a valiant job in his dual
roles as Black and the furry alter ego he pulls from a trash
bin. Kyle Killen’s story could easily have turned into a farce,
but Gibson gives his human and rodent characters surprising
dignity.  Still, the film falters because of its wild swings in tone
and its failure to explain Black’s black moods. It’s also hard
to separate Gibson’s on-screen breakdown from his real-life
domestic crisis, which surfaced just as the film completed
shooting.  It sure looks like Gibson’s personal demons -- who can
forget those tape-recorded phone conversations of him screaming
and cursing at his wife? -- fueled his gut-level performance in
“The Beaver.  ‘Today Show’  The beaver puppet encourages Black to “blow up” his life
and start over. Black follows the advice, giving his employees
more freedom, inventing a wildly successful woodcarving toy and
promoting his homespun philosophy on the “Today” show. Then
his life unravels again, climaxing with a gory accident.  A subplot involving Black’s rebellious teenage son (Anton Yelchin) and the valedictorian of his high-school class
(Jennifer Lawrence) is an unnecessary distraction.  Give Gibson and Foster (who directs and plays Black’s wife)
credit for tackling challenging material that doesn’t fit into
any of Hollywood’s neat marketing categories. “The Beaver” is
a commendable failure.  “‘The Beaver,” from  Summit Entertainment , opens tomorrow
in New York,  Boston ,  Washington ,  Chicago ,  Dallas ,  Los Angeles ,
 San Francisco ,  Seattle  and Austin,  Texas . Rating: **  ‘There Be Dragons’  Set against the backdrop of the 1930s Spanish Civil War,
“ There Be Dragons ” is a sweeping tale of saints and sinners
and the thin line separating them.  Written and directed by Oscar nominee Roland Joffe (“The
Killing Fields”), it’s also a philosophical meditation
disguised as a dramatic film. Like college philosophy classes,
it can be both thought-provoking and mind-numbing.  Robert Torres (Dougray Scott) is visiting Spain to research
a book about Josemaria Escriva (Charlie Cox), the founder of the
controversial Catholic sect Opus Dei.  When he learns that his father Monolo (Wes Bentley) was a
childhood friend of Escriva’s, it opens the door to a mysterious
past that led Escriva to the priesthood and Monolo to become a
spy during the brutal civil war. Torres also finds out about his
father’s unrequited, ill-fated love for a beautiful Hungarian
revolutionary (Olga Kurylenko) who fought against the fascists
in  Spain .  Though a few scenes take place in 1976, when Torres visits
his father on his deathbed, most of the story is told in
flashbacks that trace the divergent paths that Monolo and
Escriva took.  Joffe can’t figure out how to turn this sprawling material
into a compelling film. While the events are epic, the
storytelling is not.  “There Be Dragons,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, opens
tomorrow across the U.S. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 