-- 
Gold May Drop as Investors Sell on Rise to Record, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/gold-may-drop-as-investors-sell-on-rise-to-record-survey-shows.html
Gold may decline as some investors
sell after the metal’s rally to a record and as other
commodities drop, a survey found.  Eight of 18 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 44 percent, said bullion will fall next week.
Seven predicted higher prices and three were neutral. Gold for
June delivery was down 4.5 percent for this week at $1,485.70 an
ounce by 11:30 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It
reached a record $1,577.40 on May 2.  Bullion gained for six consecutive weeks as it advanced to
a record on demand for a hedge against rising inflation and an
alternative to a weakening dollar.  Gold prices  slipped this week
as silver plunged after Comex owner CME Group Ltd. raised margin
requirements and as industrial metals and crude oil declined.  “This market has risen too far, too fast,” said Jim Pogoda, an investor in Summit,  New Jersey , and a former
precious-metals trader for Mitsubishi International Corp. “I
think we’ll get a more significant pullback over the next few
weeks, as I expect many speculative longs that contributed to
the frenzy to exit.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of April 29.  The weekly gold survey, that started almost seven years
ago, has forecast prices accurately in 208 of 361 weeks, or 58
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish; 7 Bearish; 8 Neutral: 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 