-- 
Goldman Sachs-Backed Indian Bourse Favors Ventures Over Mergers

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-05-05T18:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/goldman-sachs-backed-indian-bourse-favors-ventures-over-mergers.html
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,
the nation’s largest bourse, will seek to collaborate with other
exchanges on joint products rather than merge or acquire to
drive growth, the chief executive officer said.  The NSE plans to introduce rupee-denominated derivatives 
based on the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index, the 
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
and is seeking an “exciting Far Eastern product,” Ravi Narain 
said in an interview at  the World Federation of Exchanges
IOMA/IOCA conference  in Mumbai. The exchange will also expand
in currency and interest-rate derivatives, he said.  “We are busy focusing on internal organic growth,”
Narain, 55, said. “Broader alliances outside India work well
for us. The moment you do a merger with one exchange you lock
out all other exchanges -- we are more interested in looking at
product by product alliances to see what are the gaps and needs
in the Indian financial firmament that we can fill.”  Exchanges have announced takeovers totaling about $20
billion since October as competition forces chief executive
officers to seek to cut costs by expanding into new markets.
Indian government rules mean shareholders in Mumbai-based NSE,
which include Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Temasek Holdings Pte,
can only take a 5 percent stake in the privately held company
that has 77 percent of equity trading in the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  New Markets  Deutsche Boerse AG agreed a $9.5 billion purchase of NYSE
Euronext that would create the world’s largest exchange
operator. London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it will acquire
 Canada ’s TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto bourse.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
announced a rival offer for NYSE Euronext, which the company’s
board has twice rejected. The current wave of consolidation
started in Asia when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  bid for ASX Ltd.,
the Australian stock exchange.  “As the developed-market consolidation game plays out,
there’s an equally large chunk of the world that is watching
these developments with huge interest but with an understandable
amount of caution,” Narain said. “The big-ticket
consolidations are new and still underway and only time will
tell. The jury is still out.”  The SGX deal, unanimously recommended by the companies’
boards, was blocked by Australian regulators who cited national
interest, leading SGX President Muthukrishnan Ramaswami to say
earlier this week that the exchange now thinks collaboration
ventures in Asia are likelier than mergers. Narain said he was
“stunned” at the Australian decision.  Bring to  India   NSE said in July it’s in discussions with the Tokyo Stock
Exchange for companies in both countries to list shares in each
other’s markets. NSE’s customers are increasingly looking to
diversify their holdings to include more non-Indian assets, he
said.  “We are going to understand and analyze what are the
assets people are looking at and bring them to India to trade as
a rupee-denominated asset on the NSE,” said Narain, who studied
at the  Cambridge University  in the U.K. and the U.S. Wharton
School of Business.  The average daily turnover on the NSE over the past year is
140 billion rupees as compared with 42 billion rupees on the
Bombay Stock Exchange,  Asia ’s oldest bourse, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s economic growth and corporate earnings lured
foreign investors to buy a record $29.4 billion of local
equities last year and made the local benchmark index the best
performer and most expensive among the world’s 10 biggest
markets.  Foreign funds invested a net 72.1 billion rupees in April
and 69 billion rupees in March, after withdrawing 94 billion
rupees in the first two months of 2011, according to data on the
 website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  “When everyone else is rushing into India why would I go
rushing out?” said Narain, who helped set up the NSE and has
been involved in it since its incorporation in 1992. “If there
are six exchanges that are in fierce competition to each other
on a global platform, we can happily tie up with each of them
without ruffling any feathers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Mumbai at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  