-- 
Goldman Sachs Energy Banker Adam Peakes Said to Depart for Tudor Pickering

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-05T17:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/goldman-sachs-energy-banker-adam-peakes-said-to-depart-for-tudor-pickering.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost at least
its fourth senior U.S. energy investment banker in a year, as
Adam Peakes in Houston quit to join former colleagues at Tudor,
Pickering, Holt & Co., said a person with knowledge of the move.  Peakes, a managing director at New York-based Goldman
Sachs, will have the same title at  Tudor, Pickering  when he
joins later this year, said the person, who requested anonymity
because Peakes hasn’t started at his new job yet. Tudor,
Pickering is an energy-focused investment bank based in Houston.  Goldman Sachs has lost energy bankers to competitors as a
boom in mergers and acquisitions among oil and gas companies
puts the professionals in demand. Energy deals jumped 57 percent
to $357 billion in 2010 from $227 billion the previous year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brady Parish, a Goldman Sachs managing director in Houston,
left last year and opened an office for Moelis & Co. this year.
William Montgomery, a partner in Houston, is retiring and plans
to join a local private-equity firm. Raymond Strong, a managing
director in  New York , quit for Evercore Partners Inc. this year.  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Peakes was part of the Goldman Sachs team that is advising
offshore driller  Pride International Inc. (PDE)  on its proposed $7
billion sale to Ensco Plc. He advised  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  on its
$5.5 billion purchase of BJ Services Co. last year.  Tudor, Pickering was formed in 2007 by Bobby Tudor, a
former Goldman Sachs partner, and Dan Pickering. Maynard Holt,
the co-president, is also a former Goldman Sachs banker.  Byron Trott’s BDT Capital Partners LLC and ex-Murphy Oil
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Claiborne Deming agreed last month
to provide $110 million to Tudor, Pickering. Trott founded his
Chicago-based firm in 2009 after leaving Goldman Sachs, where he
was a vice chairman and arranged some of the biggest purchases
by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman and CEO  Warren Buffett .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 