-- 
Goldman Sachs Names Alejandro Vollbrechthausen to Run Brazilian Operations

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-05-05T13:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/goldman-names-alejandro-vollbrechthausen-head-of-brazil-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, named Alejandro Vollbrechthausen to
replace Valentino Carlotti as president of the Brazilian unit.  Carlotti, who has led Goldman Sachs’s Brazil business since
April 2007, will remain in the region “over the next several
months to effect a smooth transition” before relocating to  New
York , according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs, the biggest U.S. securities firm before
converting to a bank holding company in September 2008, is
expanding in economies in emerging markets including China,
Russia and India, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein has said.  Foreign investment banks have faced increased competition
from local companies in  Brazil  as they seek wealth-management
and advisory business in Latin America’s biggest economy.
Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent last year,
the most in two decades. Unemployment is at all-time lows and
credit has expanded to record highs.  Vollbrechthausen previously managed the emerging market
sales desk in New York, according to the memo, which was
confirmed by  Michael DuVally , a spokesman in New York.  Under Carlotti’s management, Goldman hired bankers to start
a local private-banking business and asset-management division
in 2009, which completed the firm’s strategy to establish a
full-service bank in the region after two failed attempts to buy
local lenders.  After Carlotti’s arrival in Brazil, the Wall Street firm
increased its Brazil-based staff to about 300 people from about
10 bankers and traders who advise on mergers, underwrite
securities, trade derivatives and commodities and analyze
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 