-- 
IAC’s Diller Says His ’Failure’ With Deals Meant A New CEO Was Needed

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   W i l l o w   B a y
-- 
2011-05-05T20:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/iac-s-diller-says-his-failure-with-deals-meant-a-new-ceo-was-needed.html
Barry Diller , the billionaire chairman
of IAC/InterActiveCorp, said it was “a failure” on his part
not to find more ways to invest the company’s cash when he was
serving as IAC’s chief executive officer.  Diller stepped down as CEO of IAC, the operator of dating
service Match.com and search engine Ask.com, in part because he
decided he wasn’t the best person to seek new opportunities, he
said. IAC named Greg Blatt, 42, to the CEO post in December,
while Diller kept his position as chairman.  “I wanted somebody fresh because it is a failure,” said
Diller, 69, in an interview with Bloomberg Television during the
Milken Institute Global Conference in  Los Angeles . “You can’t
be over-capitalized for a long period of time without admitting
you’re just not good enough.”  He said he had looked at every possible deal, and “could
not find value.” IAC had $1.32 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of March.  Diller, whose New York-based company has more than 50
Internet sites, said he has become the “king” of spinning off
companies, having separated several of IAC’s businesses,
including  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , over the past three years. He said he
had no current plans to spin off Match.com, which accounts for
24 percent of IAC’s revenue.  IAC Model  IAC rose 11 cents to $35.31, at 4:00 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 23 percent
this year.  He said IAC is being built around new opportunities to
create and distribute subscription-based content on digital
platforms, while “old line, very consolidated big companies
feel the forces of creative destruction, which is inevitable.”  Blatt, IAC’s former general counsel and the chief executive
of Match.com, has the energy and perspective to seek out ways to
expand the business, Diller said.  “I’m saying to him ‘you go search for opportunities.
You’re younger, you’re fresher,’” Diller said.  Diller, who had been CEO for six years, said he is
adjusting to the role of chairman.  “I’m learning,” he said. “I do feel ultimately
responsible. I’m getting better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 