-- 
Iberdrola’s $1.5 Billion Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Cost Cutting

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-05T09:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/iberdrola-profit-beats-estimates-as-u-s-wind-output-surges.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the world’s biggest
producer of renewable energy, said first-quarter profit rose 10
percent to a record, beating analyst estimates, as U.S. wind-
energy generation surged and it trimmed costs.  Net income advanced to 1.01 billion euros ($1.5 billion)
from 922 million euros a year earlier, exceeding the 906.6
million-euro median estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Operating costs dropped 12 percent to 785 million euros,
Bilbao, Spain-based Iberdrola said today in a statement.  Iberdrola, which generates more than half its power from
carbon-free sources including nuclear, is reducing costs and
expanding in new regions to sustain profit growth as increased
supplies of natural gas from shale in the U.S. boost competition
for renewable-energy projects in the largest economy.  “It’s been a tremendous effort to contain costs,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ignacio Galan said in a
briefing for investors today.  Gross margins improved by 1 percent and efficiency rose by
13 percent after a reorganization of the corporate structure.
The company eliminated 700 million euros of costs by integrating
finance, purchasing and communication systems across countries,
it said.  “These results may be a catalyst for the shares,” Banesto
Bolsa analyst Antonio Cruz-Guzman said in a note to clients.  The company’s shares rose 0.2 percent to 6.26 euros as the
Bloomberg Europe 500 Electric Index fell 0.1 percent. Iberdrola
has gained about 8.5 percent this year, compared with a 2.5
percent gain in the 23-member index.  Wind-Turbine Output  Output from U.S. wind turbines jumped 48 percent to 3,090
gigawatt-hours, offsetting a 25 percent decline in Spanish
hydropower generation. Total production slipped 7 percent to
39,511 gigawatt-hours, the company said today in a filing.  Power demand declined by 0.5 percent from a year earlier in
 Spain  and by 3 percent in the U.K., compared with an increase of
7.5 percent in  Brazil , where the company completed the
acquisition of Elektro Eletricidade e Servicos SA last month.  Iberdrola is working to reduce its debt after making
acquisitions including Energy East Corp. and Scottish Power Plc
and a shortfall in Spanish power bills strained its balance
sheet, prompting Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
to place a negative status on its  credit rating .  The company’s leverage declined to 44 percent from 50
percent from the year-earlier period as it used  cash flow  to pay
down debt and a Spanish government-backed fund bought part of
the company’s entitlement to future power bill revenue to repay
the so-called tariff deficit.  “We have continued to improve our financial position,”
Galan said.  Standard & Poor’s  rates Iberdrola’s long-term debt as A-,
the seventh-highest notch. Moody’s gave Iberdrola debt an
equivalent ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  