-- 
Iceland Should Issue Foreign Currency Bonds “Soon,” IMF Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T16:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/iceland-should-issue-foreign-currency-bonds-soon-imf-says.html
Iceland needs to return to the
international bond markets “soon” to establish that the island
can refinance its debt and normalize  investor relations , the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “The sooner Iceland re-engages with international capital
markets, the quicker it’s to normalize relations,” Julie
Kozack, the IMF’s Iceland mission chief, said at briefing today
in Reykjavik. “As conditions permit; the sooner the better.”  Iceland has been planning to sells bonds for the first time
since its financial system collapsed more than two years ago as
713 million euros ($1 billion) of debt matures, Finance Minister
Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said in January. Those plans had to be
reassessed after Icelanders rejected in an April 9 referendum a
$5.9 billion deal to compensate U.K. and Dutch depositors in
failed Landsbanki Islands hf’s Icesave accounts.  Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason said this month that the
plan would be resumed once the “picture of the Icelandic
economic recovery becomes clearer.” The  central bank  needs to
refinance 638 million euros in December and a 75 million-euro
syndicated loan due September, according to data on its website.  The cost of insuring against an Icelandic default is now
lower than that of guarding against a failure of bonds issued by
euro members Portugal and Ireland, credit default swaps show.  Enough Reserves  “The first most important thing is to reestablish
access,” said Kozack. “I think to the extent that enough can
be issued to roll over the amounts” due this year and in 2012
it “would be helpful, but Iceland has enough reserves to meet
those payments.”  Iceland received a $4.6 billion IMF-led package in 2008
after its economy collapsed. The lender hasn’t had any
discussions on extending its $2.1 billion part, which expires in
August, Kozack said today.  The country is struggling to emerge from its financial
meltdown. Gross domestic product shrank 1.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, bringing last year’s contraction
to 3.5 percent, the  statistics office  said March 8. Unemployment
held at 8.6 percent in March, the highest rate in almost a year,
the Directorate of Labor said on April 12.  The economy will expand 2.3 percent this year, 2.9 percent
in 2012 and 2.7 percent in 2013, the central bank said April 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  