-- 
Michelin Chef Wareing to Fete School-Days Cuisine at St. Pancras

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/michelin-chef-wareing-to-fete-school-days-dishes-at-st-pancras-interview.html
Marcus Wareing is a perfectionist: As
chefs go, he’s intense, driven and can be tough.  See the world in a grain of sand and he’ll say you’re not
the only pebble on the beach. Ask him about his time as  Gordon Ramsay ’s best friend and you’ll soon learn how they fell out.  At least, that was the Wareing I’ve known for the past few
years. So who is this with me at the chef’s table at the Gilbert
Scott, smiling, reminiscing nostalgically about school meals and
shrugging his shoulders if something’s not quite right?  “I don’t want people to come here to take photographs of
the food and sit here criticizing,” he says of his new London
eatery, which opened this week at St. Pancras station. “People
take food too seriously. They need to chill out a bit.”  Wareing does have reasons to be cheerful. The restaurant is
housed in a Victorian Gothic building that’s one of the most
stunning in  London . The interior designs by David Collins (whose
previous projects include the Wolseley and Madonna’s bedroom)
are gorgeous: the red-and-cream color scheme of the dining room
reflects St. Pancras’s railway history, while in the bar, the
eye is drawn to the elaborately decorated original ceiling by
light fittings in the shape of giant bells.  The menu consists mainly of comfort food, with many of the
dishes based on the kind of thing Wareing ate as a child: Fish
cakes, fish & chips, pease pudding and Manchester tart all make
an appearance, and few Britons will resist  Paxo  stuffing.  Meeting, Eating  “I want this to be my Ivy, the Wolseley,” Wareing, 40,
says, referring to the venues of Chris Corbin and  Jeremy King ,
where people meet and eat, see and are seen, and the focus is on
hospitality and comfort rather than the brilliance of the chef.  “It’s all about the concept, it’s all about the client,
it’s all about the staff, it’s all about the food, it’s all
about everything, whereas where I’m from, it’s all about the
chef,” he says. “That’s slightly out of date, and people have
moved on.”  Wareing holds two Michelin stars at Marcus Wareing at the
Berkeley, a restaurant he originally created for Ramsay under
the name Petrus. (The breakup of the former friends was bitter
before Wareing opened his own restaurant in September 2008.)  “I don’t want my name anywhere near here, not
interested,” he says. “Because I’m over the chef wanting his
name above the door. Take  Marcus Wareing  at the Berkeley as an
example. If I could reverse the clock back, I’d take my name off
it. The only reason why I kept my name on it was because I
wanted people to know that I was Petrus and that I was the man
behind it. They needed to know that that restaurant hadn’t
changed hands.  Chef’s Investment  “I’ve invested a lot of money in the Gilbert Scott,
millions,” he says. “I don’t do consultancies, not in
restaurants. It’s my business. I run this operation the same as
the Berkeley. The investment for me is colossal.”  Much of the menu consists of nostalgia food elevated to a
higher level by the modern cooking of the chef Ollie Wilson,
formerly of J. Sheekey and Scott’s. Fish and chips, for example,
come with a mushy-pea mayonnaise, mini-Yorkshire puddings float
on rich gravy and Eccles cakes are served with cheese ice cream.  Most starters cost less than 10 pounds ($16.50) and mains
are in the 15 pounds to 20 pounds range. I can’t review a
restaurant on the day of opening, based on sitting in the
kitchen with the owner asking the head chef to prepare dishes.  What I can say is this: If the food in the dining room is
that good, Wareing won’t be the only one smiling.  The Gilbert Scott,  St. Pancras  Renaissance Hotel, Euston
Road, London, NW1 2AR. Tel. +44-20-7278-3888 or click on
 http://www.thegilbertscott.co.uk/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 