-- 
Lightning Sweep Capitals in NHL Playoffs; Bruins and Sharks Take 3-0 Leads

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-05T04:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lightning-sweep-capitals-in-nhl-playoffs-bruins-and-sharks-take-3-0-leads.html
The  Tampa Bay  Lightning defeated the
top-seeded Washington Capitals 5-3 to sweep their National
Hockey League playoff series.  Tampa Bay advanced to the Eastern Conference finals, where
it will play the Boston Bruins or Philadelphia Flyers for a
place in the Stanley Cup finals. The Bruins defeated the Flyers
5-1 yesterday to move within one victory of a series win.  Also last night, the  San Jose Sharks  moved within a win of
eliminating the  Detroit Red Wings  with a 4-3 overtime victory.  At St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa, Florida, Sean Bergenheim
scored two second-period goals for the Lightning in Game 4 of
the best-of-seven series. Martin St. Louis, Ryan Malone and
Marc-Andre Bergeron contributed the other three goals.  The Lightning, who have won seven straight games in the
postseason, advanced to the Eastern Conference finals for the
first time since they won the  Stanley Cup  in 2004.  Marco Sturm, John Erskine and John Carlson scored for the
Capitals.  At TD Garden in Boston, Zdeno Chara scored two goals for
the Bruins, who took a 3-0 lead in their playoff series against
the Flyers. David Krejci, Daniel Paille and Nathan Horton also
scored for Boston, which hosts Game 4 tomorrow. Andrej Meszaros
scored the only goal for Philadelphia.  At Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Devin Setoguchi scored his
third goal of the game nine minutes, 21 seconds into overtime as
the Sharks took a 3-0 lead in their series against the Red
Wings. Setoguchi scored power-play goals in the first and second
periods and Dan Boyle added another in the third period for  San
Jose .  Nicklas Lidstrom, Patrick Eaves and Pavel Datsyuk scored
for the Red Wings, who host Game 4 tomorrow.  In tonight’s game, the  Nashville Predators  will try to even
their series against the Vancouver Canucks at two games apiece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  