-- 
India May Probe Roles of Ambani, Tata in 2G Phone Case

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-05-05T12:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/india-probing-roles-of-anil-ambani-tata-in-2g-case-correct-.html
Indian investigators probing a 2008
sale of phone licenses may explore the role of Tata Group
Chairman  Ratan Tata  and billionaire Anil Ambani, a lawyer for
the federal police said.  The Central Bureau of Investigation, which last month
submitted charges in the case to a special court, hasn’t yet
completed its probe and could still seek more information from
the two businessmen, K.K. Venugopal, a counsel for the
investigator, told the Supreme Court in New Delhi today. A
petitioner asked the court to look into their involvement today.  Ambani, chairman of  India ’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , and Tata last month
appeared before an Indian parliamentary panel investigating the
sale. Neither were named in the Central Bureau of
Investigation’s charges.  Gaurav Wahi, a spokesman for Reliance Communications,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. “We are not aware
of any such statement,” said an e-mail from Tata Sons Ltd., the
group’s holding company.  The investigators are probing a sale of spectrum at what
the government’s auditor described as “unbelievably low”
prices, depriving the treasury of as much as 1.4 trillion rupees
($31 billion) in revenue.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , two
ministry officials and half a dozen company executives are on
trial in New Delhi after the CBI found they had “entered into a
conspiracy” to award phone permits to ineligible companies.  Reliance Communications fell 5.6 percent, the most since
Feb. 18, to 89.05 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
shares have lost 39 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent fall in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  