-- 
Indonesia’s Economic Growth Slows, Giving Central Bank Room to Hold Rates

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-05-05T06:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/indonesia-s-growth-slows-giving-room-to-extend-rate-rise-pause.html
Indonesia’s economic growth slowed
last quarter as  government spending  eased, boosting scope to
extend a pause in interest-rate increases after inflation cooled.  Gross domestic product rose 6.5 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in Jakarta today. It gained 6.89 percent in the
prior quarter, according to previously reported data. The first-
quarter number was lower than the 6.58 percent median forecast
of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  aims to expand the
economy at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent, partly by
boosting investment in roads, railways and ports. The rupiah’s
rise against the dollar is the second highest among  Asia ’s 10
most-traded currencies this year, as officials permit gains to
restrain price pressures fueled by the growth.  “The data increases the risk that they may delay more
tightening, especially given the recent moderation in inflation
and as an appreciating rupiah is having an anti-inflationary
effect,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong-Kong based economist at
Credit Agricole CIB. A 0.25 percentage point rate rise is more
likely later rather than earlier in the second quarter, he said.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 0.3 percent as of noon
local time today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 8,563 per dollar, and has risen
about 5 percent in 2011.  Bank Indonesia  will provide “more
room” for the currency to appreciate to reduce import costs,
Deputy Governor Budi Mulya said in Jakarta last week.  Interest Rates   Private consumption provided the main support for GDP
growth in the first quarter, contributing 2.6 percentage points
of the expansion, Rusman Heriawan, chairman of the statistics
office, said today. Economic growth usually accelerates as the
year progresses because government spending picks up, he said.  Government expenditure rose 3 percent in the period from a
year earlier, less than the 7.33 percent pace in the fourth
quarter, today’s report showed. The pace of growth in exports
and investment also moderated.  The central bank of  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy kept
its benchmark rate at 6.75 percent in April, after raising it in
February by a quarter of a percentage point. That was the first
increase since October 2008.  Consumer prices climbed 6.16 percent last month from a year
earlier, easing from a 6.65 percent pace in March. Prices
probably won’t increase significantly in May and may fall
slightly, Heriawan said on May 2.  Asian Tightening  Asian nations from  India  to  China  have extended rate
increases this year to damp inflation stoked by oil at more than
$100 per barrel, costlier food and economic expansion.  The Malaysian and Philippine central banks will consider
raising rates at policy meetings today, while India boosted
borrowing costs two days ago for the ninth time since mid-March
last year.  Total investment in 2011 is expected to increase to 240
trillion rupiah ($28 billion), 170.4 trillion rupiah of which
will come from foreign direct investment, Azhar Lubis, deputy
chairman at  Indonesia ’s Investment Coordinating Board, said
April 20.  Investment  rose 27.3 percent to 53.6 trillion rupiah in the
three months to March 31 from the same period a year earlier,
less than the 58.9 trillion rupiah the previous quarter,
according to the board’s website.  Imports surged 32 percent to a record in March from a year
earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said three days ago.
Exports increased 27.5 percent.  Growth Estimate  Indonesia’s central bank estimates the economy may expand
as much as 6.5 percent this year and 6.4 percent in the second
quarter.  Growth in the world’s fourth-most populous nation has
prompted companies to raise prices as demand and commodity costs
increase.  PT Lippo Karawaci, Indonesia’s largest property developer,
increased its sales target to 3 trillion rupiah this year from 2
trillion rupiah last year, Jopy Rusli, a director at the company,
said by telephone last month.  PT United Tractors, Indonesia’s biggest heavy equipment
seller, expects to sell 7,000 units of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ’s heavy
equipment this year, a 29 percent increase from 2010, due to
strong demand from coal miners, Finance Director Gideon Hasan
said in Jakarta on May 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  