-- 
ING Reports First-Quarter Net Income of $2.05 Billion, Beating Estimates

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-05-05T08:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ing-reports-first-quarter-net-income-of-2-05-billion-beating-estimates.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, reported a 12 percent increase in
first-quarter profit that beat estimates as earnings at the
insurance unit almost quadrupled.  Net income climbed to 1.38 billion euros ($2.05 billion)
from 1.23 billion euros in the first three months of 2010, the
Amsterdam-based firm said in a statement today. ING shares rose
as much as 2.9 percent as profit exceeded the 1.25 billion-euro
average projection of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ING is preparing its insurance unit for a sale, a condition
for the European Union’s approval of  government aid . The firm is
considering two initial public offerings, one for the European
and Asian operations and one for the U.S., while “exploring all
options” for the Latin American part of the business. Chief
Executive Officer Jan Hommen has said the IPOs are likely to
take place in 2012 depending on market conditions.  “These are strong results, underlining ING is well on
track,” said Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS
Securities. “The nice comeback of the operational result at
insurance will brush up the unit’s reputation and allow
management to concentrate on its divestment.”  ING shares rose 21 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 8.99 euros as
of 10:12 a.m. in Amsterdam trading. They have gained 24 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of about 34.5
billion euros.  Insurance Earnings  The insurance division had an underlying pretax profit of
461 million euros, up from 121 million euros a year earlier.
Fees and premium-based revenue rose 11 percent to 1.33 billion
euros in the quarter.  ING in November said it was taking steps to bring
accounting and hedging for its variable annuities business at
the U.S. insurance operations in line with peers ahead of the
sale and increase reserves of the business. The company took a
975 million-euro pretax writedown in the fourth quarter.  The firm earlier this year hired two former  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  executives to help prepare its U.S.
insurance business for an IPO. Rodney Martin became CEO of the
unit, while Alain Karaoglan was named vice president of finance
and strategy.  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government. The company, which paid back 5
billion euros in December 2009, is scheduled to redeem another 2
billion euros next week from retained earnings after its banking
business recovered in 2010. The firm plans to repay the
remainder of the aid by May 2012, it reiterated today.  Balance Sheet  ING seeks to reduce its balance sheet by about 45 percent
from 2008 levels. In addition to EU-imposed divestments, which
also include its U.S. online banking unit and Dutch retail
lender WestlandUtrecht Bank, the company has been selling other
non-strategic assets. The company earlier this year agreed to
sell the majority of its Real Estate Investment Management unit
for about 770 million euros.  The firm may move ING Direct USA’s Alt-A mortgage assets
and the risk-transfer deal with the Dutch state to ING Bank as
it prepares to divest the online unit, Chief Risk Officer Koos Timmermans said on a call today. “We’re not planning on a short
notice to unwind this transaction, but we might change the
ownership of that transaction within ING,” he said.  The company is “sounding the market” for interest in
WestlandUtrecht, which is mainly a mortgage bank. In light of
new Basel III capital and liquidity requirements, there aren’t
“that many potential candidates in a position to buy” the
unit, Hommen said.  Underlying profit before tax at ING’s banking operations
rose 32 percent to 1.70 billion euros. The firm set aside 332
million euros for doubtful loans, compared with 497 million
euros a year earlier and 415 million euros in the final three
months of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  