-- 
Mega Mini Cooper Countryman is Fun in Traffic, Seriously Cool

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mini-cooper-countryman-is-fun-in-traffic-seriously-cool-jason-h-harper.html
The 2011  Mini Cooper  S Countryman is a
big Mini. Big, of course, is relative in this case, but this new
four-door’s size rankles purists, who point to the name of the
brand itself. You can’t have a super-size Mini.  Yes, BMW says, you can.  The Mini family, owned by  BMW , now includes the various
Cooper models, the larger Clubman and the all-new Countryman,
which has been described as Mini’s SUV. The base starts at
$22,350; $27,650 for the all-wheel-drive S model.  Despite vigorous claims to the contrary, Americans are
still stuck on big cars. So it makes absolute sense for the
company to expand what a Mini can be. The Countryman is a mega
Mini, but only in a Lilliputian world. It’s a mere 13.48 feet
long.  To put that in perspective, a  Chevy Suburban  is 18.5 feet,
a  Ford Explorer  16.4 and a  Mazda  3 sedan more than 15. It is big
next to a 8.8-foot Smart, but sales of that tyke are lousy.  The original Mark I Mini was released in 1959 (10 feet).
Its iconic status was cemented when three Cooper S’s were filmed
gamboling down outdoor church steps in the 1969 movie  “The
Italian Job.”   BMW introduced the “new” Mini Cooper in 2001 (12 feet),
and it soon gained its own revered status (and a turn in an
updated “Italian Job”). People love them. I’ve never got an
ugly look for piloting a Mini.  Seriously Cool  There’s no mistaking the Countryman for anything but a
Mini. It remains true to its overall dimensions, as if a Cooper
had been ballooned with extra air. Yet the overall look is
tougher, the exterior details more rugged.  My test car was white with black hood stripes and a
blacked-out roof and pillars. The front grill is upright, and
body cladding around the wheel arches are also darkened. It even
had black rims. Seriously cool. Mini knows its customers are
through-and-through style conscious.  The interior is vintage modern Mini, which is what I don’t
like about it. It’s time to do away with the oversize clock-dial
speedometer, which looks like it should be hanging in a school
cafeteria. Fun ten years ago, tired today. Same for the toggle-
style switches.  The Countryman seats four in bucket seats, and it’s
comfortable in the rear with good headroom. There’s a metal rail
running down the center of the cockpit, designed for clip-on
accessories like a specialized sunglass case or drink holders.
Overall cargo space with the back seats down is an ample 41.3
cubic feet.  Some Fun  The turbocharged 1.6-liter 4-cylinder engine has more
elasticity than a bungee cord. My test had a six-speed manual,
an ideal mate. In spirited driving you can rev the engine to the
heavens in second and third gears, and cruise comfortably in
sixth. It never seems to complain and has plenty of torque. An
enthusiast’s power-plant.  Same goes for the stick shift itself. Easy to engage with a
forgiving clutch, but interactive. It makes the Countryman fun
even in traffic.  I was much less impressed with the AWD system, which is
largely pointless. This is the first model to be offered with
the option, but it overwhelmingly runs in front-wheel-drive mode
anyhow, only transferring torque to the rear when it senses
slippage. And it won’t engage at high speeds.  Attractive to those in the snow belt perhaps, but the
added weight means that the front-wheel-drive-only S model is
actually 3/10ths of a second quicker to 60 mph, taking seven
seconds.  Growing Pains  The Countryman’s added height and weight conspire to work
against the go-kart handling that the brand is famous for. The
Countryman is still maneuverable, just less so.  My car had 18-inch run-flat tires which were extremely loud
on the freeway and gave precious little cushioning on the bumps.
Worse, the entire car lurches whenever it encounters a bump mid-
corner, wrenching the steering wheel the opposite way. All
problems that could potentially be fixed with a different tire
choice.  The mega Mini does mean trading in a few Mini-like
characteristics. But for many customers, the extra space inside
is worth the car’s growing pains.  The 2011 Mini Cooper S Countryman ALL4 At a Glance  Engine: Turbocharged 1.6-liter 4-cylinder with 181  horsepower and 177 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: 6-speed manual or 6-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 7.3 seconds (manual).  Gas mileage per gallon: 25 city/31 highway.  Price as tested: $31,150.  Best features: Roomy, looks great.  Worst features: Bumpy ride, excessive tire noise.  Target buyer: The Mini lover looking to expand.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 