-- 
Iraq’s Kurdish Region Says Getting Funds for Oil Contractors

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-05T16:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/iraq-s-kurdish-region-says-getting-funds-for-oil-contractors-1-.html
Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region
said it can start paying foreign  oil companies  after it received
confirmation from the central government of a partial
reimbursement of about $122 million for crude exports.  “The Kurdistan Regional Government has received a written
notice from the federal Ministry of Finance in  Baghdad 
confirming release of the first oil export payment to the KRG
contractors,” Barham Salih, prime minister of Iraq’s Kurdish
region, said today.  The payment amounts to “around 50 percent” of the $243
million in revenue generated by the sale of more than 5 million
barrels of oil exported from the Kurdish region from the
beginning of February until March 27, Salih said in an e-mailed
statement.  Crude exports from the Kurdish region of northern  Iraq 
resumed on Feb. 3 after a halt of more than a year. The
shipments stopped after the Kurds angered the central government
by signing their own production agreements with foreign
companies such as  Norway ’s  DNO International ASA (DNO)  and  Genel
Enerji AS  of  Turkey .  The Oil Ministry in Baghdad refused to recognize these
contracts. The companies are still owed $400 million to $500
million in unpaid revenue.  Shares of DNO International surged in Oslo trading after
the announcement, gaining 0.99 krone, or 14 percent, to 8.29
kroner at 4:25 p.m. local time.  Boosting Kurdish Output  “The payments would be reinvested by the companies to
boost production levels in the Kurdistan Region,” which plans
to increase oil exports to 200,000 barrels a day by the end of
the year, the Kurdish government’s Natural Resources Minister
 Ashti Hawrami  said in the same statement.  The Kurdish region exported an additional 4.5 million
barrels of oil from March 27 to April 29, Hawrami said. The
crude exited through neighboring Turkey at an average rate of
135,000 barrels a day, he said.  The release of payments by the central government will also
“add impetus to discussions over a long-delayed raft of federal
oil and gas related legislation,” Salih said. “It augurs well
for the timely passage of a federal hydrocarbons law, a federal
revenue sharing law, and the other federal oil legislation.”  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves, needs
foreign investment and expertise to help ramp up energy exports
and rebuild an economy shattered by years of conflict, sanctions
and sabotage. The central government has signed 15 oil and gas
licenses since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime
of former President  Saddam Hussein .  The Kurdish region has attracted more than $10 billion in
investments in energy exploration and development from more than
40 companies from 17 countries, Salih said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  