-- 
Lithuania Central Bank Raises Economic-Growth Forecast Again

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-05-05T11:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lithuanian-central-bank-raises-economic-growth-forecast-again.html
Lithuanian economic growth may
accelerate at a faster pace than previously estimated on rising
demand abroad for the country’s goods, the central bank said.  Gross domestic product will probably expand 5.6 percent
this year, compared with a February estimate of 3.3 percent,
Vilnius-based  Lietuvos Bankas  said today in an e-mailed
statement. The bank raised its 2012 growth forecast to 4.8
percent from 4.1 percent. It’s the second time this year the
bank boosted its outlook.  Lithuania’s economy, part of the Baltic region along with
Estonia and  Latvia  that suffered the world’s deepest recession
in 2009, is benefiting from rising demand for its exports, which
account for about two-thirds of output. GDP growth accelerated
to 6.9 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in three
years.  “The development of macroeconomic indicators shows the
strengthening of the economic recovery in Lithuania,” the bank
said. “In addition to rising activity in the main foreign trade
partners, a recovery of domestic demand is starting to exert
favorable influence on the economy.”  The yield on  Lithuania ’s 10-year bond fell 0.01 percentage
point to 5.4 percent today after the release of the forecasts,
the lowest since it was sold March 2 at 6.125 percent.  The central bank raised its inflation forecast for this
year to 3.8 percent from 2.8 percent on food and fuel prices.
Consumer prices may rise 3.9 percent in 2012, it said.  “Pressure on prices has not been observed yet” because of
rising demand, the central bank said. “However, it may emerge
when economic recovery matures.”  The  Finance Ministry  raised on March 16 its economic growth
forecast for 2011 to 5.8 percent from a previous estimate of 2.8
percent.  Lithuania had the outlook on its  credit rating  increased to
positive from stable by Fitch Ratings yesterday as the economy
recovers and public finances strengthen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  