-- 
Liverpool Had Fiscal-Year Loss on Former Owners’ Interest Costs

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-05T12:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/liverpool-had-fiscal-year-loss-on-former-owners-interest-costs.html
Liverpool, the Premier League soccer
club taken over last year by the group that controls the  Boston
Red Sox , had a fiscal-year loss of 20 million pounds ($33
million) as the former owners paid interest on their debt.  The loss, which included interest payments of 17 million
pounds, compares with an 8.37 million-pound profit for the
soccer team a year earlier. That profit was swallowed to pay
interest payments on its parent company, Kop Football (Holdings)
Ltd.’s debt. Kop last year reported a loss of 42.6 million
pounds on interest payments of 36.5 million pounds.  New owner Fenway Sports Group, which took over three months
after the fiscal year ended, is concentrating on paying down
debt and cutting the average age of its squad, which is in fifth
place with three matches remaining this season. Fenway said
revenue rose to 184 million pounds, and debt increased to 123
million in the last 12 months under former owners  George Gillett 
and Tom Hicks.  “Since the end of the last financial year, Fenway Sports
Group has paid off 200 million pounds of acquisition debt from
the previous owners, dramatically reducing interest payments as
a result and meaning we are able to invest more revenue in the
team rather than servicing debt,” Managing Director  Ian Ayre 
said in a statement  posted on the club website .  The 18-time English champion said the full accounts will be
published by  Companies House  later today.  New Owners  Fenway bought the club for about 300 million pounds in
October after agreeing to pay off most of the team’s debts with
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Wachovia Corp. Hicks and
Gillett tried to block the sale at the  High Court  in London,
describing the sale as an “epic swindle.” They lost their
entire 140 million pounds of equity.  The new owners have continued to work on expanding the
team’s non-match day income. Ayre said Liverpool should begin to
benefit from a sponsorship deal with international bank Standard
Chartered Plc, made under the previous owners, that he described
as the “largest partnership contract in the club’s history.”  Liverpool, which has also won five European Cups, had the
worst start to a season in more than half a century amid the
fight over the ownership. It briefly occupied the relegation
positions, before stabilized under  Kenny Dalglish , the former
title-winning manager and player brought in to replace  Roy Hodgson  in January.  The team’s current league position qualifies it for the
Europa League, the continent’s lower-level regional competition.
However, the team is set to miss out for the second-straight
year on the elite Champions League, a competition that generates
about 30 million pounds for English teams.  New Signings  The new owners, led by  John W. Henry , used the record 50
million pounds the team received from Chelsea for striker
 Fernando Torres  on bringing in  Luis Suarez  and Andy Carroll as
his replacements. Carroll became the club’s costliest signing at
35 million pounds.  “We had an extremely successful January transfer window
which saw the ownership and management teams working closely to
bring in some high-quality players,” said Ayre, who was
promoted from commercial director earlier this year. “The club
is now in an excellent position to move forward and all of us
can approach the future with optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  