-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Unexpectedly Jump on One-Time Events

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-05T12:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-jump-due-to-special-factors.html
The number of claims for U.S.
unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose last week, pushed up by
auto-plant shutdowns and other unusual events that seasonal
variations failed to take into account, the Labor Department
said.  Applications for jobless benefits jumped by 43,000 to
474,000 in the week ended April 30, the most since August, Labor
Department figures showed today. A spring break holiday in New
York, a new emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto
shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan  were the main reasons
for the surge, a Labor Department spokesman said as the data was
released to the press.  Even before last week, claims had drifted up, raising
concern the improvement in the labor market has stalled.
Employers added 185,000 workers to payrolls in April, fewer than
in the prior month, and the unemployment rate held at 8.8
percent, economists project a Labor Department report to show
tomorrow.  “We’re seeing so many distortions in the claims numbers
week to week that it’s hard to say, but I’m willing to be
patient and wait and see,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Other reports show an improvement in the labor market. It’s
going to take a while to dig out of the hole we have in relation
to the jobs the economy lost during the recession.”  Futures Fall  Stock-index futures dropped after the report. The contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June fell 0.6
percent to 1,334.8 at 8:58 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities 
rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
3.18 percent from 3.22 percent late yesterday.  Economists forecast 410,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Forecasts ranged from
395,000 to 450,000 in the survey of 46 economists. The Labor
Department revised the prior week’s figure up to 431,000 from an
initially reported 429,000.  A spring break holiday at schools in the state of  New York 
prompted workers to file claims, which the seasonal adjustment
factors didn’t expect last week, the Labor Department official
said. In addition, Oregon began a new emergency benefits program
for the long-term unemployed that also pulled in some new
claimants, he said. Finally, auto plant shutdowns due to parts
shortages caused by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan also
contributed to the increase, the official said.  The spokesman also said that any claims filed by workers
throughout the South that lost their jobs due to the storms that
spawned tornados would probably be reflected in a different set
of data rather than in the initial claims figures.  Productivity Cools  The productivity of U.S. workers slowed in the first
quarter and labor costs rose as a growing economy prompted
companies to boost employment, another report from the Labor
Department showed today.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.6
percent annual rate, after a 2.9 percent gain in the prior three
months. Expenses per employee climbed at a 1 percent rate after
dropping 1 percent.  The four-week moving average for jobless claims, a less-
volatile measure, rose to 431,250 from 409,000.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
rose by 74,000 in the week ended April 23 to 3.73 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers
receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Extended Benefits  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
42,900 to 4.12 million in the week ended April 16.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, rose to 3 percent in the
week ended April 23 from 2.9 percent, today’s report showed.
Twenty states and territories reported an increase in claims,
while 33 had a decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates. These data are reported with a one-week
lag.  Employers announced fewer job cuts in April than the same
month last year, Chicago-based Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc.
said yesterday. Planned firings decreased 4.8 percent to 36,490
last month from April 2010.  ‘Signs of Improvement’  “Employment has begun to show signs of improvement,”
Scott Davis, chief executive officer of United Parcel Service
Inc., said during an April 26 call with analysts. “In the U.S.,
unemployment dipped below 9 percent for the first time in almost
two years, further evidence that the recovery continues.”  While payrolls have grown each month since October, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 27 that central
bankers would like to see more strength in the U.S. labor
market, noting that a recovery has been “quite slow.”  “The labor market is improving gradually,” Bernanke said
to reporters during the first-ever press conference following a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting. “We would like to make
sure that that is sustainable. The longer it goes on, the more
confident we are.”  Another report yesterday showed employment at U.S.
companies increased 179,000 in April, the smallest gain in five
months, according to ADP Employer Services.  Stimulus Necessary  Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Boston  President Eric Rosengren
yesterday said record stimulus is necessary to spur the
“anemic” economy and that raising  interest rates  to combat
increasing food and fuel prices would impede growth.  “With significant slack in labor markets, stable inflation
expectations, and  core inflation  well below our longer run
target, there is currently no reason to slow the economy down
with tighter monetary policy,” Rosengren said during a speech
in Boston.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker of computer-
networking equipment, is among companies trying to cut costs.
The  San Jose , California-based company last week said it is
offering early-retirement packages to some employees in the U.S.
and  Canada . The company didn’t specify how many workers it
expected to take the packages or how much would be saved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  