-- 
Couric Talks With CBS for Syndicated Show Said to Break Down

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-05T15:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/katie-couric-s-talks-with-cbs-for-syndicated-daytime-show-said-to-collapse.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Katie Couric have ended
discussions for a syndicated talk show that would keep her at
the media company after she steps down as evening news anchor,
people with knowledge of the situation said.  It remains possible that talks could resume before Couric’s
contract ends in June, said one of the people, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter because it is private.
A limited role for Couric with “60 Minutes” or “CBS Sunday
Morning” is still possible, the person said.  Couric, who has been CBS’s anchor for five years, is in
discussions with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC about a daytime talk
show, people familiar with the matter said last week. She would
also have a role covering elections and appear on prime-time
specials, said one of the people. Couric told People magazine on
April 26 that she would leave her post as anchor.  “Katie has not made a decision about her future,” said
Matthew Hiltzik, Couric’s outside public relations
representative. David Ford, an ABC spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Sonya McNair, a spokeswoman for  CBS News .  CBS has named “60 Minutes" correspondent Scott Pelley
today to succeed Couric. The end of talks with CBS was reported
yesterday by TV Guide. Today, the website TMZ reported that
Couric was near a $20 million deal with ABC.  Couric, 54, the former ‘‘Today’’ show host, receives $13
million to $15 million a year under a five-year deal with CBS
that started in 2006, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  CBS, based in  New York , fell 38 cents to $26.83 at 11:23
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have added 43 percent this year before today. Disney gained 2
cents to $42.64 and had climbed 14 percent year-to-date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  