-- 
Ireland’s Prime Minister Kenny Says Nation Can Handle Debts

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-05-05T19:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/kenny-says-ireland-can-handle-its-debt-in-sign-no-restructuring-is-planned.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said
the nation can handle its debts, signaling the government has no
plan to restructure its borrowings.  Ireland’s debt will peak at 116 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014, according to government forecasts published on
April 29. The figure was 25 percent at the end of 2007.  “I think we can deal with it,” Kenny said at the  Council
on Foreign Relations  in  New York  today. “The scale of the
challenge is enormous but so is the opportunity.”  Ireland last year sought an international bailout, as
investors shunned government and banking debt after the economy
shrank about 15 percent since 2007. Kenny is seeking a cut on
the average 5.8 percent interest rate the Irish are paying on
the aid.  The potential reduction is “probably of the order of 75 or
85 basis points, which would be rounded up possibly to 100 basis
points,” Kenny said in an interview.  He said he wasn’t prepared to raise Ireland’s 12.5 percent
corporation-tax rate to appease fellow EU leaders, in exchange
for a cut in the rate.  Fine Gael leader Kenny took power in March, after Fianna
Fail, which has ruled since 1997, suffered a record defeat in
elections. Fine Gael had its best-ever performance and voters
turned against Fianna Fail after it presided over the worst
recession on record and an 85 billion-euro ($124 billion) rescue
from the EU and the IMF in November.  Some 35 billion of the euros were earmarked for the banks.
Kenny said the  European Central Bank  had insisted Ireland not
seek to impose losses on senior bondholders in the two “ pillar
banks,” Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks.  He said if Anglo Irish Bank Corp, which was nationalized in
2009, needed more capital, senior bondholders would be “treated
in a different light.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities of similar maturity widened
16 basis points to 705 points today. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  