-- 
Kenya’s Five-Day Gasoline Shortage to End Tomorrow, Energy Minister Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-05-05T12:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/kenya-s-five-day-gasoline-shortage-to-end-tomorrow-energy-minister-says.html
Kenya’s five-day fuel shortage will
end tomorrow as technical problems and supply disruptions ease,
Energy Minister Kiraitu Murungi said.  About 7.3 million liters (1.93 million gallons) of fuel was
sent to gasoline stations in Nairobi, the capital, in the past
two days and supply will be boosted further to end the shortage,
Murungi told reporters today in Nairobi.  “A refinery shut-down on April 27 due to a  power outage 
caused by a technical problem at the Kiambere power station
delayed delivery of 8 million liters of super petrol,” he said
in a statement handed to reporters. The fuel is yet to be
refined, Energy Ministry Permanent Secretary  Patrick Nyoike  said
at the same briefing.  The shortage was also caused by a five-day delay in
delivery of a shipment of 29 million liters of gasoline that was
scheduled to arrive on April 21 and an under-delivery of 7
million liters of gasoline in March, Murungi said.  Kenya
Petroleum Refineries Ltd. , the East African nation’s sole fuel
processor, hired an engineering consultant to carry out design
work on its proposed $899 million upgrade, Nyoike said April 21.  Kenya  raised the maximum retail price for gasoline in
Nairobi by 7.2 percent to 108.16 shillings ($1.29) per liter,
the Energy Regulatory Commission said April 14. The government
then cut the excise duty on kerosene by 30 percent and 20
percent for diesel to help ease pressure on inflation.  No More Disruptions  President Mwai Kibaki told officials from the energy and
finance ministries today to take urgent steps to normalize fuel
supplies throughout the country, according to an e-mailed
statement from the presidency.  “President Kibaki also instructed the relevant government
agencies to take steps to ensure that there will be no future
supply interruptions caused by circumstances under government
control,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  