-- 
Kinder Morgan to Buy Petrohawk Pipelines for $855 Million

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-05-05T11:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/kinder-morgan-to-buy-petrohawk-pipelines-for-855-million-1-.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , the
second-largest U.S. pipeline partnership by market value, will
pay $855 million to complete its purchase of  PetroHawk Energy
Corp (HK) ’s gas-gathering pipelines in the Haynesville Shale and
obtain a 25 percent stake in a joint venture with the company in
Texas’s Eagle Ford shale.  Kinder Morgan  also will spend $220 million to build an oil
pipeline from the Eagle Ford to the  Houston Ship Channel , the
company said in a statement today.  The agreement strengthens Kinder Morgan’s position in two
of the biggest oil and gas shale formations in the U.S. and
provides Petrohawk with cash to develop its oil and gas
producing properties.  “We expect opportunities in the prolific natural gas
shales to be a primary driver of future growth,” Chief
Executive officer  Richard Kinder  said in the statement.  Kinder bought a 50 percent stake in PetroHawk’s 400-mile
pipeline system in the Haynesville Shale in Louisiana and Texas
in April 2010 for $875 million. It will assume $65 million in
debt for the Eagle Ford assets and the rest of the Haynesville
assets, now known as Kinderhawk Field Services, bringing the
total value of the transaction to $920 million, the company
said.  Joint Venture  Petrohawk will own 75 percent of the Eagle Ford joint
venture, which will include 280 miles of gas gathering lines and
112 miles of gas condensate gathering lines, according to the
statement. The Eagle Ford Shale is an oil and natural-gas
formation that lies under a 50-by-400 mile swath of South  Texas .  Petrohawk, based in Houston, reported a first-quarter net
loss of $1.2 million today. Excluding the impact of hedging
contracts that lock in the price of energy commodities, the
company earned $44.4 million, or 15 cents a share.  Enterprise Products Partner LP is the largest U.S. pipeline
operator.  (Kinder Morgan will hold a webcast to discuss the
acquisition today at 9 a.m. New York time. To view, go to
 http://www.kindermorgan.com .)  -- Editors: Susan Warren, Jessica Resnick-Ault  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at   Mlee326@blooomberg.net   David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Susan Warren
at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 