-- 
King Keeps Rate, Asset Plan Steady as Reports Show U.K. Economy Is Fading

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-05T11:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/king-keeps-rate-asset-plan-steady-as-reports-show-u-k-economy-is-fading.html
The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low as signs the recovery is losing
momentum kept a majority of policy makers focused on stimulating
growth during the government’s fiscal squeeze.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , held the key rate at 0.5 percent, as forecast by
all 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The bank also left
its bond-purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($330 billion),
as forecast by 29 economists in a separate poll.  The economy stalled over the fourth and first quarters, and
surveys this week showed services, manufacturing and
construction growth moderated in April. Officials, who will
publish new growth and inflation forecasts next week, are split
on the threats from government spending cuts and inflation
that’s double the  central bank ’s 2 percent target.  “The outlook for growth is tepid and the committee may not
do anything until November,” said David Tinsley, an economist
at National Australia Bank in London and a former central bank
official. “The risks are potentially that they may be on hold
for longer than that. Their projections may show a downgrade to
their growth forecast.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
announcement and was at $1.6489 as of 12:45 p.m., from $1.6488
yesterday. Bonds declined, with the yield on the 10-year gilt up
3 basis points at 3.41 percent.  Tighter Policy  The Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  kept its key rate
at 1.25 percent today, after it raised the rate in April. The
 Federal Reserve  last week retained its pledge to keep rates
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  Monetary policy elsewhere is becoming tighter. The
Philippine and Malaysian central banks today increased  interest
rates , and India raised rates this week for the ninth time since
March 2010. The cost of borrowing in  China , Asia’s biggest
economy, may rise further after its central bank said this week
that taming inflation is its top priority.  King will publish the Bank of  England ’s new forecasts on
May 11. Data last week showed the economy grew 0.5 percent in
the first quarter, barely enough to erase a contraction in the
previous three months. The recovery may be further restrained as
the government cuts spending to narrow the  budget deficit  and
household pay growth lags behind inflation.  The National Institute for Economic and Social Research
today lowered its 2011 growth forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.5
percent in January, and raised its inflation projection to 4.5
percent from 3.8 percent. The group, whose clients include the
central bank, sees inflation slowing to 1.9 percent in 2012.  ‘Subdued’  “Sentiment and economic performance is being affected by
concerns over austerity measures and cost inflation,”  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, said in a
statement today. It also said the economy has been “subdued.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has vowed to
stick to his plan to eliminate the bulk of the budget deficit by
April 2015. The government chopped spending by 6 billion pounds
in the year to March and will cut 310,000 public-sector jobs.
Both parties in the coalition, which took office a year ago, are
set to lose seats in local elections held today across England.  Households are under pressure from a surge in oil and other
commodity prices. The pound’s 25 percent drop on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007 has fed price pressures
by raising import costs.  Gradual  The squeeze from the government’s fiscal plans is easing
pressure on the bank to lift rates to counter inflation now,
said  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe 
in London and a former U.K. Treasury official.  “If we weren’t seeing the fiscal tightening, they would
have gone ahead and hiked,” she said. “Policy is in emergency
mode and we’re not in the same crisis we were in two years ago,
so they will want to normalize, but at a gradual pace.”  Demand in emerging markets is benefiting some companies.
London-based  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller, said
today sales rose 7 percent in the quarter through March, more
than analysts estimated, as sales of Scotch whisky in Asia
offset sluggish demand in Europe.  Minutes  Minutes of today’s decision will be published on May 18.
The report on April’s meeting showed  Andrew Sentance , whose term
finishes at the end of the month, maintained a call to raise the
key rate a half point to 1 percent, while  Martin Weale  and Chief
Economist Spencer Dale kept up a push for a quarter-point
increase. The remaining officials, including King, voted for no
change on the rate, as  Adam Posen  argued for a seventh month to
expand the bond-purchase program.  Investors have pushed back bets on the first rate increase
to December from expectations a month ago that the first move
would come in July, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Plc.  “If the market’s not pricing in a rate increase, that
gives the bank a bit of leeway,” said  Ross Walker , an economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “There’s a risk
to their credibility, but that risk has receded in recent weeks
as the activity data have faltered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  