-- 
Komercni Banka Drops After Quarterly Earnings Miss Estimates

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-05-05T10:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/komercni-banka-drops-after-first-quarter-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
 France ’s Societe Generale SA, dropped the most in more than
three weeks after posting first-quarter profit that missed
estimates.  The stock slid as much as 2.2 percent and was trading 1.7
percent lower at 4,260 koruna by 11:50 a.m. in Prague.  Net income for January to March rose 5.2 percent to 3.38
billion koruna ($208 million) from a year earlier, the lender
said in a statement today. That compares with a 3.43 billion-
koruna median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Net banking income was particularly below market
expectations,” Cyrrus AS analyst Marek Hatlapatka wrote in a
note to clients. Transaction fees were under “competitive
pressure” and income from derivative trading was affected by
“lower market volatility,” Hatlapatka wrote. He recommends
that investors buy the stock.  Komercni Banka reiterated today that cost growth may
outstrip revenue expansion. The lender plans to refurbish
branches, add cash machines, hire staff and invest in
information technology platforms to capture business
opportunities, it told reporters in  Prague  today.  The ratio of operating cost to income ratio was 39.5
percent, the bank said. Komercni expects the measure for the
whole of 2011 to rise to 41 percent.  Net banking income was little changed at 7.97 billion
koruna in the first quarter, Komercni said. The cost of risk
fell 42.4 percent to 548 million koruna from a year ago when the
measure peaked, Komercni said.  Czech banks have been benefiting from a decline in bad
corporate loans and first-quarter economic growth estimated by
the Czech National Bank at 2.5 percent. Komercni’s rival,  Erste
Group Bank AG (RBAG) ’s Ceska Sporitelna AS, reported a 21 percent
increase in profit last week.  Komercni also said it completed the acquisition of a 50.1
percent stake in  Societe Generale (GLE)  Equipment Finance Czech
Republic, a provider of equipment and vendor financing, for 1.8
billion koruna. The acquisition will be “accretive” for
Komercni straight away, the bank said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net . and Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague
at   kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net  