-- 
Korea Insiders Buying Most Stock in 2 Years Show Best Kospi Gain Persists

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-06T07:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/korea-insiders-buying-most-stock-in-2-years-shows-best-kospi-gain-persists.html
South Korean executives are buying
shares in their companies at the fastest pace in two years,
fueling a rally that already sent the benchmark index to a
record high.  Insiders of  KRX 100 Index (KRX100)  companies made at least 255 stock
purchases this year, topping sales by 34 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The value of purchases jumped to $51
million, the highest level since the first quarter of 2009, when
South Korean stocks began a rally that sent the KRX index up 40
percent in six months.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  Chief Executive Officer Kim Bahn Suk and  Hana
Financial Group Inc. (086790)  Director Lee Ku Taek bought shares as the
KRX index’s valuation climbed to 1.6 times net assets, the most
expensive level since June 2008. Analysts are increasing
earnings estimates for South Korean companies as global economic
growth and supply curbs at Japanese competitors boost demand.
KRX index profits will jump 27 percent in the next 12 months,
compared with 18 percent in the MSCI All-Country World Index,
according to about 2,000 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “Executives won’t buy shares to lose out, and it’s a good
signal for Korean stocks,” Kim Sung Woo, a Seoul-based  money
manager  at Mirae Asset Global Investments, South Korea’s biggest
mutual fund company that oversees more than $40 billion, said in
an April 28 phone interview. “They’re the ones who know the
company pretty well, and that reflects their confidence in
business outlooks and share prices.”  Earnings Outlook  The 100-stock KRX index, whose companies have a median
market value of $5.4 billion, has advanced 4.4 percent this
year. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI) , comprised of more than 700 South Korean
stocks with a median market capitalization of about $114
million, has gained 4.7 percent and reached an all-time high on
May 2. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up 6.2 percent since
Dec. 31, while the MSCI AC World gauge of stocks in emerging and
developed markets has climbed 4.9 percent.  LG Chem’s first-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates as
the Seoul-based company benefited from Asia’s economic growth
and disrupted operations at chemical producers in  Japan 
following the nation’s strongest earthquake. Confidence in the
outlook for profits is one reason LG Chem executives purchased
shares, Owen Sung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the company, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Kim, the CEO of South Korea’s biggest chemicals maker,
bought about 500 shares on March 23, among more than $353,000
worth of equity purchased by LG Chem insiders in the past three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KT Buyers  Lee, the Hana Financial director, purchased 3,000 shares on
March 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hana insiders
have bought $406,000 of equity in the past three months, the
data show. The purchases may have been made as a bet on the
company’s growth potential amid “undervalued” share prices,
Lee Jung Dae, a company spokesman, said by phone.  Company insiders of Seongnam, South Korea-based  KT Corp. (030200) , a
seller of Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, made at least 89 stock
purchases during the past three months, the most in the KRX
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The current share price is excessively undervalued
compared with fundamentals, and there’s enough room for stock-
price gains,” KT said in an e-mailed statement on April 21.
“Stock purchases by executives, which were voluntary buying,
show their confidence in the company’s future.”  Korea Discount  The KRX index’s rally has boosted its price-to-book ratio
by about 60 percent since the first quarter of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The South Korean index still
trades at about a 16 percent discount to the MSCI AC World,
compared with an average gap of about 30 percent during the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The discount stems in part from concern over conflict with
 North Korea , which shelled an island in the South’s territory in
November, according to Mirae Asset’s Kim. Former U.S. President
 Jimmy Carter  made his second trip in less than a year to North
Korea last month to help push forward stalled multinational
talks on curbing the regime’s development of atomic weapons.  The increase in South Korean valuations has left shares
vulnerable to a slowdown in developed-nation growth, according
to  Adrian Mowat , the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong . Seok Yun, the Seoul-based
head of research at Credit Suisse Group AG, says the end of the
 Federal Reserve ’s bond-buying program, known as quantitative
easing, in June may also limit gains.  Global Growth  Fed policy makers said on April 27 that the economy is
recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in inflation is
likely to be temporary, as they agreed to finish their $600
billion of bond purchases on schedule.  Economic reports in the biggest developed economies, which
had surpassed forecasts from mid-August through April, are
trailing estimates this month as raw-material costs rise and
central banks tighten monetary policy, according to Citigroup
Inc.’s Economic Surprise index. The gauge, which measures how
much reports are exceeding economist estimates in Bloomberg News
surveys, has declined to minus 13 from 35 at the beginning of
the year.  In the U.S., insiders are cutting back stock investments.
Executives of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies made 135
share purchases in the first quarter, trailing sales by 91
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 160 buys in the fourth quarter and 172 in the third
quarter, the data show.  Profit Momentum  The rally in South Korean stocks “mostly reflects the
resilient global economy, and I believe upside potential from
here may be limited,” Credit Suisse’s Yun said in an interview.
“Stocks may move in a narrow range in the short term because of
uncertainty over how markets would react to a possible end of
so-called QE2.”  Equity analysts are still raising their earnings estimates
for South Korean companies. Profit-growth forecasts for the KRX
index increased by 6 percentage points this year and per-share
earnings are projected to reach the highest on record in the
next 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Earnings momentum has been very strong,” Michael Chung,
a strategist at Citigroup in  Seoul , wrote in an April 25
research note.  South Korea ’s economy expanded 4.2 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, while exports climbed 27 percent to
a record in April. The nation’s economy may expand 4.5 percent
this year, compared with global growth of 4.4 percent, according
to April estimates from the Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund .  LG Chem Rally  “Growth will probably stay strong or even accelerate,”
Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in an April 27 interview with Bloomberg Television.  LG Chem shares have climbed 29 percent this year and
touched a record high on April 21. The company is valued at 14
times estimated earnings, compared with an average 16 times for
global peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
predict the stock will advance 19 percent in the next 12 months,
according to the average of 26 price estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hana Financial shares have gained 2.1 percent in 2011,
compared with a 5.3 percent drop in the MSCI Korea Financials
Index. The Seoul-based lender trades for 0.9 times net assets,
about half the 1.7 average ratio for global peers, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  KT shares are trading at 7.1 times estimated earnings, 54
percent lower than the global industry average, after falling 13
percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts
forecast KT shares will rally 32 percent in the next 12 months,
based on the average of 15 price estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Corporate earnings are set to get better,” said Jason Yu, head of research in Seoul at Samsung Securities Co., whose
team was top-ranked for Korea research by Asiamoney magazine’s
2010 survey. “Stock purchases by major shareholders at this
price level could be a good implication because this means that
they’re optimistic about price outlooks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 