-- 
Kraft Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast, Citing Starbucks Loss

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-05T21:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/kraft-foods-lowers-full-year-profit-forecast-citing-commodity-costs.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the world’s second-
largest food company, lowered its full-year earnings forecast
because of the loss of the  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  distribution business
and surging commodity costs.  Profit, excluding items such as integration costs, will be
at least $2.20 a share, Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft said
today in a statement. That compares with a prediction of at
least $2.24 in February. Analysts on average project $2.23,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Financial Officer Tim McLevish cited escalating raw-
material expenses and an “unsettled” economy. In March, Kraft
lost its pact to distribute Starbucks’s coffee to food
retailers, a business that generated about $500 million
annually. McLevish said in February that termination of the pact
could cut 2011 profit by at least 4 cents a share.  “It appears increasingly likely that Kraft will fail to
deliver double-digit earnings growth,” Ed Aaron, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets , said in a note to clients this week. The
Denver-based analyst rates the shares “sector perform.”  First-quarter net income fell 58 percent to $799 million,
or 45 cents a share, from a year earlier, when Kraft had a gain
on the sale of its pizza unit. Excluding some items, profit was
52 cents, compared with the 47-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Performance  The stock fell 7 cents in late trading to $33.32 after
closing at $33.39 on the New York Stock Exchange. The foodmaker,
second only to Nestle SA, has gained 6 percent this year.  Food and beverage companies such as Kraft,  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ,
and  Kellogg Co. (K)  have raised prices on many products to cope with
rising costs for commodities such as wheat, corn, and coffee.
Kraft, led by Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld, said
today that price increases helped to make up for those expenses.  The maker of Oreo cookies and Cadbury chocolate said North
American sales climbed 4.4 percent. Revenue grew 24 percent in
 developing countries . Organic revenue, which excludes
acquisitions, divestitures and foreign-currency fluctuations,
increased 4.6 percent, compared with Aaron’s 2.6 percent
projection. Kraft also cut its full-year forecast for organic
sales growth from at least 5 percent to a minimum of 4 percent.  Sara Lee, the maker of Ball Park hot dogs and Senseo
coffee, today lowered its full-year earnings forecast, partly
because of “extraordinary headwinds” in commodity costs, CEO
 Marcel Smits  said. Sara Lee now expects those expenses to rise
by $650 million this year, more than triple the amount predicted
in August.  Kraft Revenue  Kraft’s first-quarter revenue rose 11 percent to $12.6
billion. That compared with the $12.3 billion average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month Kraft said it will introduce its Gevalia coffee
to U.S. supermarkets in August. Kraft generates $5 billion in
sales globally from its coffee brands, which include Maxwell
House in the U.S. and Jacobs in  Europe .  Last year Kraft acquired British confectioner Cadbury Plc
for about 13.6 billion pounds ($22.4 billion) in cash and stock,
transforming the maker of Velveeta cheese into the world’s
biggest confectioner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  