-- 
KSG Agro of Ukraine Shares Rise on First Warsaw Trading Day

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-05T10:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ksg-agro-of-ukraine-shares-rise-on-first-warsaw-trading-day-1-.html
KSG Agro SA, a Ukrainian grain and
sunflower seed producer, gained in its first day of trading on
the  Warsaw Stock Exchange .  The stock rose 0.5 percent to 22.1 zloty at 11:56 a.m. in
Warsaw, valuing the company at 330 million zloty ($124 million).
The shares earlier climbed as much as 3.9 percent.  KSG, the sixth company from neigboring Ukraine to list in
Warsaw since November, sold 108.4 million zloty of shares at 22
zloty each in an initial public offering last month. Industrial
Milk Co. of Ukraine rose 2.3 percent over its IPO price when the
stock started trading in Warsaw yesterday.  Ukrainian companies are seeking to list in Warsaw in their
biggest numbers ever after demand spurred gains in the country’s
stocks of as much as fourfold. A total of eight companies
including  Kernel Holding SA (KER) , a sunflower-oil producer,  Astarta
Holding NV (AST) , a sugar company, and Milkiland NV, a dairy company,
have sold more than 2 billion zloty of shares in  Poland  in five
years, according to data from the Warsaw bourse.  The exchange estimates that five to 10 more companies from
outside Poland will start trading this year, Chief Executive
Officer Ludwik Sobolewski said yesterday. The majority of debuts
will come from Ukraine, he said. The growing number of listings
from the country prompted Warsaw to start an index of Ukrainian
companies as of yesterday.  Kernel, Astarta  Shares of Kernel, which joined Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20
Index in March, have surged threefold from its offering price in
2007 while Astarta’s stock jumped almost fourfold since its
share sale five years ago. Coal producer Sadovaya Group SA has
gained 47 percent since its December offering.  The Warsaw bourse is the third-largest in emerging  Europe 
after Russia and  Turkey , with a total market capitalization of
$223 billion, according to Bloomberg data. The Polish exchange
has been the fastest-growing market in central Europe in the
past 10 years, more than doubling the number of traded companies
and almost tripling daily turnover, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  