-- 
New York Fed Asks Judge to Dismiss Armenian Group’s ‘Turkish Gold’ Lawsuit

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-05T20:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/new-york-fed-asks-judge-to-dismiss-armenian-group-s-turkish-gold-lawsuit.html
The  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York 
asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit filed by an Armenian group
seeking to force the disclosure of information on gold and other
assets allegedly seized by the Turkish government in 1915.  The nonprofit  Center for Armenian Remembrance , based in
Glendale,  California , sued the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in
March, saying Armenian assets called “Turkish gold” were
seized during the “Armenian Holocaust.”  The center’s claims are “moot” because the nonprofit
group has “already conducted a thorough examination of
defendant’s relevant records” and “has already received and
reviewed documents it has deemed relevant to its requests,” the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in its response to the
complaint filed today in  federal court in Manhattan .  The bank asked U.S. District Judge Deborah A. Batts to
throw out the center’s lawsuit and order the group to pay the
bank’s legal costs.  The assets, according to the center’s lawsuit, totaled
about five million British pounds at the time and were deposited
by the Turkish government in  Germany ’s Reichsbank. They were
taken by the U.S. and other Allied powers at the end of World
War I under the Treaty of Versailles, the center said.  The group said it filed a Freedom of Information Act
request with the Federal Reserve in June. The agency said it
couldn’t locate any information and forwarded the request to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which also said it couldn’t
find any records.  The case is Center for Armenian Remembrance v. Board of
Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , 1:11-cv-01483, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  