-- 
New York’s 9/11 Memorial Will Connect Names to Relationships Among Victims

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T22:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/new-york-s-9-11-memorial-will-connect-names-to-relationships-among-victims.html
The  National Sept. 11 Memorial &
Museum  to be created at  New York ’s World Trade Center has set
the arrangement of 2,982 names of victims who perished in two
separate attacks on the Twin Towers, at the Pentagon and on an
airplane that crashed in Pennsylvania.  Memorial planners said they decided how to arrange the
names, to be engraved in bronze near reflecting pools, after
mailing questionnaires to more than 3,500 of the victims’ next-
of-kin. Their answers helped develop a system of “meaningful
adjacencies” that consider personal and business relationships
among those who died.  The names can be located through a Memorial Guide website,
 names.911memorial.org , and on mobile-device applications,
officials said at a news conference across from  Ground Zero  in 7
World Trade Center, one of the towers in the complex completed
and occupied. The website includes photographs and biographical
information from relatives.  “They died as friends and co-workers and will be
remembered together as friends and co-workers,” Memorial
President Joe Daniels said. “The arrangement of the names,
forever etched in bronze, expresses the bonds that could not be
broken by the murderous attacks of that day.”  President’s Visit  The announcement coincided with today’s visit by President
 Barack Obama , who laid a wreath at Ground Zero to honor the dead
and met with families who lost loved ones in the attack. It was
his first trip to New York since he announced May 1 that
terrorist leader Osama bin Laden was killed during a U.S. raid
in  Pakistan .  Obama’s visit came 129 days before the memorial opens to
family members on the 10th anniversary of the attacks. Public
admissions start the next day, through the reservation of a
visitor pass. The memorial and museum has raised $395 million
from about 300,000 donors, Daniels said.  The nearly 3,000 names include Sept. 11 victims at the
World Trade Center, and those who died in the Feb. 26, 1993,
bombing there. The display also shows the people killed at the
Pentagon and aboard United Airlines Flight 93, the fourth
hijacked jetliner, which crashed in a  Pennsylvania  field.  The memorial got 1,200 responses from its mailing to
families of the victims, Daniels said.  Planners honored every request to place a name near a
friend or family member, and even strangers. That included
Victor Wald, a stockbroker from  Avalon Partners , and Harry Ramos, head trader at  May, Davis Group Inc. , an investment bank,
who stopped to aid Wald in the stairwell at the 55th floor of
the South Tower. Ramos told Wald, according to witnesses, “I’m
not going to leave you.” Wald’s wife requested they be listed
near each other.  Cantor Bond Trader  Anthoula Katsimatides requested the name of her brother,
John Katsimatides, 31, a bond-trader at  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP who
was among 658 at the firm who lost their lives when a plane
slammed into the 104th floor of the North Tower, appear beside
three co-workers.  “They hung out together at work and after work and shared
so many good times, I assume he died with them, and I’d rather
his name be with them than listed with a bunch of strangers,”
Katsimatides said in an interview.  Cut by water-jet through the bronze, the names are meant to
appear as voids in daylight and will be back-lit at night, on
panels framing two reflecting pools situated within the original
footprints of the towers, according to memorial plans.  Crash Victims  Among the names of the dead listed side by side are Daniel Raymond Brandhorst, 41, his son David Reed Gamboa Brandhorst, 3,
and the elder Brandhorst’s partner, Ronald Gamboa, 33, who each
died Sept. 11 as passengers on hijacked United Airlines Flight
175, which was crashed into the World Trade Center.  “They were such a beautiful family and we appreciate that
they will be remembered that way,” Denise Kelly, sister of the
elder Brandhorst and aunt to his son, said in a statement
released by the memorial.  Mark Joseph Colaio and Stephen J. Colaio, brothers who
worked for  Cantor Fitzgerald , will also appear together. So will
New York City firefighter John T. Vigiano II and his brother,
Joseph Vincent Vigiano, a city police officer. All four died on
Sept. 11.  The chairman of the Sept. 11 Memorial, New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  