-- 
Nigeria’s Central Bank ‘Frontloaded’ Interest Rate Increases, Sanusi Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-05T11:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/nigerian-central-bank-may-limit-rate-increases-to-spur-growth-sanusi-says.html
Nigeria ’s central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi indicated he may limit interest-rate increases to help
spur lending in Africa’s biggest oil producer and as demand for
foreign currency eases, reducing pressure on the naira.  “We frontloaded a lot of the increase that people thought
we’d do gradually over the year” when the central bank raised
its benchmark interest rate by 1 percentage point to 7.5 percent
on March 22, Sanusi said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria , based in the capital Abuja, is
aiming to bring inflation down below 10 percent. Rising energy
and food costs this year pushed the inflation rate to an annual
12.8 percent in March from 11.1 percent a month earlier, the
statistics office said on April 18. While the central bank is
aware of rising price pressures it also wants to avoid
undermining stability in financial markets after using $4
billion to bail out banks in 2009, Sanusi said.  “We did a massive increase relatively at the last Monetary
Policy Committee,” Sanusi said in Cape Town, where he was
attending the  World Economic Forum  on Africa. “Part of what we
factored in was the expectation of increased spending during
elections, the increased cost of energy, the possible reduction
in fuel subsidies” and other issues.  Currency Pressure  While monetary authorities will face a “very tough year”
with energy prices surging, Nigeria’s central bank is “not only
an inflation-targeting central bank,” Sanusi said.  Moreover, inflation pressure may ease as demand for foreign
currency at the central bank’s bi-weekly auctions declines
following last month’s elections, reducing pressure on the
naira. The central bank sold $350 million at yesterday’s
auction, compared with demand of $383.3 million. That’s down
from average demand of $453.36 at the March auctions.  “With everything calming down we expect pressure we’ve
seen on the naira and demand at the auctions coming down,”
Sanusi said.  The naira weakened 1.4 percent to 152.8 against the dollar
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Investment will probably pick up after the conclusion of
elections, Sanusi said in an interview with CNBC  Africa  today.  “A lot of decisions were delayed because of the
elections,” he said.  Fuel Costs  Sanusi has been defending the naira, keeping it within 3
percent above or below 150 per dollar, in a bid to curb
inflation. That policy was cited as a concern by the
 International Monetary Fund , which said in February the central
bank should allow for more exchange-rate flexibility to avoid
depleting foreign currency reserves.  Sanusi told CNBC Africa that surging fuel prices are
putting pressure on reserves as import costs climb. Nigeria
relies on fuel imports for more than 70 percent of its domestic
needs because of a lack of refining capacity. Sanusi estimated
in June last year the subsidy on domestic fuel prices will cost
the government 520 billion naira ($3.4 billion) in 2010.  Incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan won 57 percent of
votes cast in the April 16 poll, which was marred by violence in
which about 600 people were killed in the mainly Muslim northern
part of the country. Jonathan is due to select a new Cabinet
when he is sworn in for a four-year term on May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  Cape Town  at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 