-- 
Obama Said to Meet Tomorrow With Forces From Bin Laden Raid

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-05T19:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/obama-said-to-meet-tomorrow-with-forces-from-bin-laden-raid-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will meet
tomorrow with members of the aviation regiment that ferried U.S.
commandos to the compound in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was
killed, an Army official said.  The meeting will be at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where the
president previously was scheduled to speak to U.S. troops who
recently returned from deployments to  Afghanistan   Obama will visit privately with members of the regiment at
a hangar on the base, the official said on condition of
anonymity because the meeting hasn’t been announced.  Fort Campbell is the base for the Army’s 160th Special
Operations Aviation  Regiment , which piloted the SEALs of the
Navy’s Special Warfare Development Group to the house in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan . It also includes the 101st Airborne
Division, which has several brigade combat teams that recently
returned from Afghanistan.  Once known as the secret Task Force 160, the aviation
regiment was formed in 1981 and has participated in most major
U.S. military operations since the 1983 invasion of Grenada. Its
pilots are known as the “ Night Stalkers .”  Five of its personnel and eight aircraft, including two
Black Hawks, were either destroyed or damaged during the October
1993  battle in Mogadishu , Somalia.  The unit’s Black Hawks and the mission to rescue the
aircrews were the basis of the  book  and movie “Black Hawk
Down.”  Obama met yesterday in the Oval Office with Vice Admiral
 William McRaven , leader of the Joint Special Operations Command,
two administration officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 tcapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 