-- 
Obama Seeks Closure at New York’s Ground Zero After Killing of Bin Laden

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-06T01:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/obama-visits-ground-zero-after-bin-laden-death-seeking-closure.html
President  Barack Obama , seeking to
bring some closure to the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil
after the killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, laid a
wreath at  New York ’s “Ground Zero” and honored those whose
lives were sacrificed.  Obama’s stop at the  Sept. 11 memorial  was his first visit
to the former World Trade Center  site  as president. He talked
with emergency workers and met privately with some of the family
members of those who died in the attack. Tomorrow, he’ll meet
with some of the special operations forces involved in the
Pakistan raid that killed bin Laden, two administration
officials said.  “What happened on Sunday, because of the courage of our
military and the outstanding work of our intelligence, sent a
message around the world, but also sent a message here back home:
that when we say we will never forget, we mean what we say,”
Obama told firefighters at the headquarters of Engine Company 54,
Ladder Company 4 and Battalion 9, which lost 15 of the 343
firefighters who died on Sept. 11, the single largest loss of
life at any firehouse.  The trip comes four days after Obama announced that bin
Laden was killed by U.S. commandos at the Pakistani compound
where he was hiding. Ending a debate within his administration,
Obama said yesterday that he won’t release any images of bin
Laden’s body or his burial service at sea.  Bin Laden’s Remains  The president said in an interview with CBS’s  “60
Minutes”  program that the U.S. accorded bin Laden more
consideration than the terrorist leader did his victims.  “We took more care on this than, obviously, bin Laden took
when he killed 3,000 people,” Obama said in the interview to be
broadcast May 8. “He didn’t have much regard for how they were
treated and desecrated. But that, again, is something that makes
us different.”  He also told CBS that bin Laden’s death means that the U.S.
doesn’t need to “have a perpetual footprint of the size we have
now” in  Afghanistan . As of March 2011, the U.S. had about
100,000 troops there, according to the Pentagon; under Obama’s
plan, the U.S. is to begin troop withdrawals in July.  Obama was greeted upon arrival in New York by Rudy Giuliani,
who was mayor at the time of the attacks. The two had lunch at
the firehouse, along with fire department officials, before
heading to Ground Zero. He also stopped at the First Precinct
police station in lower  Manhattan .  Meeting With Families  The president met with about 60 Sept. 11 families who were
invited by the White House in consultation with staff of the
 National 9/11 Memorial . The group was intended to be a cross-
section of those who have been advocates on behalf the families,
according to the administration.  Around the corner from the visitors’ center, a group of
victims’ relatives who weren’t invited complained that they were
being kept behind police barricades.  “I called and called and no one would get back to me with
an invitation,” said Allison Agnes Adams, 53, whose husband
Patrick, 60, chief security officer for Fuji Bank, was killed in
the attack. “I’m terribly disappointed.”  Ann Rossinow, who lost her son Norman, 39, an Aon Corp.
risk manager, got to  Ground Zero  at 9:30 a.m. only to be
directed behind police barricades for more than two hours
waiting for a glimpse of the president.  “I wanted to share this with the other families who lost
loved ones,” she said. “I wanted to congratulate and thank the
president, and they treated us like this. It hurts.”  Obama invited former President  George W. Bush , a Republican
who was in office when the attacks occurred, to join him in New
York. Bush declined the offer.  Out of Spotlight  “He appreciated the invite but has chosen in his post-
presidency to remain largely out of the spotlight,” David
Sherzer, a spokesman for the former president, said in an e-
mailed statement. “He continues to celebrate with all Americans
this important victory in the war on terror.”  Bush plans to mark the 10-year anniversary of the attack at
the  World Trade Center site  in September, Sherzer said. Carney
said Obama also will be there.  At the police station, Obama praised the leadership shown
on Sept. 11, 2001, by Giuliani, a Republican who has said he may
run again for president in 2012. Giuliani said earlier this week
that he admired “the courage of the president” in ordering the
assault against bin Laden.  Nation United  Obama said the nation was united in its response to the
threat of terrorism.  “Americans, even in the midst of tragedy, will come
together, across the years, across politics, across party,
across administrations, to make sure that justice is done,”
Obama told the officers.  Obama’s private meeting tomorrow with members of the Army’s
160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, which piloted the
commandos to the house where bin Laden was hiding, will come
during a previously announced trip to Fort Campbell,  Kentucky ,
according to a military official who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The base is home to the regiment and several units
that recently returned from Afghanistan, which the U.S. invaded
in October 2001 because the Taliban government was harboring al-
Qaeda. Obama also will speak at a rally there.  A ceremony was held today at the Pentagon, where 184 people
died Sept. 11 when one of the four commercial airliners hijacked
by al-Qaeda slammed into the building. Vice President  Joe Biden 
laid a wreath at the  memorial  there and met with relatives of
those killed, along with first responders. Also at the ceremony
in the Washington suburb of Arlington,  Virginia , were Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and former Defense Secretary
 Donald Rumsfeld .  Public Approval  Like Bush’s in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks,
Obama’s standing with the public got a boost following bin
Laden’s death, according to a  New York Times/CBS News poll 
conducted May 2 and 3. Fifty-seven percent of respondents said
they approved of the president’s overall job performance, up
from 46 percent last month.  Still, the pain of Sept. 11 remains acute, and any
appearance of mixing events such as today’s with politics is
risky. Bush was criticized in 2004 when he released campaign ads
using images of emergency workers in the rubble of the World
Trade Center towers.  “The line between honor and exploitation is a fine one,
but I think it is entirely appropriate that President Obama
visit Ground Zero,” said Mark McKinnon, vice chairman of Public
Strategies Inc., a political consulting firm, and a former media
adviser to Bush. “As long as there is no dancing in the end
zone, the families of the 9/11 victims deserve the closure.”  Economic Concerns  The state of the economy will be the primary driver for
voters in the next election, not bin Laden, according to  Paul Begala , a Democratic strategist and onetime political aide to
former president  Bill Clinton  who now is advising an independent
campaign group that will raise money for the 2012 contest.  The president’s higher overall ratings in the New York
Times/CBS News poll didn’t extend to voters’ view of his
handling of the economy, where his approval rating fell to the
lowest level since he took office. Thirty-four percent of those
polled said they approve of Obama’s handling of the economy,
down 4 percentage points from a poll conducted two weeks ago.  The nationwide telephone survey of 532 U.S. adults has a
margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show that the
jobless rate held at 8.8 percent in April, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Unemployment is forecast to average 8.5 percent in 2012.  Begala said Republicans will have a harder time criticizing
Obama’s leadership or his ability as commander-in-chief because
of the successful operation against bin Laden.  “They’ve lost at least one of the two lines of attack that
they need to dislodge an incumbent president,” Begala said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  