-- 
Crude Declines a Fourth Day in New York on Signs U.S. Demand Is Slowing

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-05T12:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/oil-in-london-halts-three-day-decline-before-ecb-interest-rate-decision.html
Oil declined for a fourth day in  New
York , the longest losing streak in eight weeks, as a drop in
gasoline demand added to signs of slowing growth in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Crude fell as much as 3.3 percent, its biggest decline
since April 12. Stockpiles climbed to the highest since October
and gasoline consumption slipped to a four-week low, the U.S.
Energy Department said yesterday. A Labor Department report
today showed an unexpected increase in the number of first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments last week.  “Demand is still slow,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “The crude inventory build is
largely explained by the only tiny rebound in U.S. refinery
utilization rates.”  Crude for June delivery lost as much as $3.55 to $105.69 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract was at
$106.25 at 1:47 p.m. London time. Prices have gained 33 percent
in the past year. Brent oil for June settlement fell as much as
$4.11, or 3.4 percent, to $117.08 a barrel and was at $117.72 on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Brent’s premium to the U.S. oil benchmark West Texas
Intermediate narrowed for the fifth time in six days. The spread
between the two front-month contracts decreased to $11.44 a
barrel as of 10:26 a.m. London time today from $11.95 at
settlement yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits jumped by 43,000 to
474,000 in the week ended April 30, the most since August, Labor
Department figures showed today. A spring break holiday in New
York, a new emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto
shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan  were the main reasons
for the surge, a Labor Department spokesman said today.  In  Libya , forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi attacked rebel-
held cities in the country’s west as ministers from 22 nations
prepared to meet in  Rome  today to discuss ways to end the
fighting. Oil has rallied 19 percent in New York this year as
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran ,
Oman, Syria and Yemen.  A measure of U.S. gasoline consumption dropped 2.2 percent
to 8.94 million barrels a day in the week ended April 29,
according to the Energy Department. Stockpiles decreased 1.05
million barrels to 204.5 million, declining for an 11th week,
the longest stretch of declines in four years. Supplies were
forecast to fall 500,000 barrels, based on the median estimate
from 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Slow Grind  “The data is signaling that the recovery isn’t as rapid as
some were expecting,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who
predicted oil will average $113 a barrel in the third quarter.
“It’s going to be a slow grind back for the U.S.”  Crude inventories rose 3.42 million barrels to 366.5
million last week, the highest since October, the Energy
Department said. Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade,
increased 102,000 barrels, the most in a month.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing companies slumped to 52.8 in April, the lowest
level since August. Employment rose 179,000 in April, according
to ADP Employer Services, less than a median estimate of 198,000
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The overnight data reports raised doubts over the
strength of the U.S. recovery,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in an e-mailed note today. “Coupled with
another 3.4 million-barrel rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, price
trends could remain soft.”  Crude in New York today intermittently traded below a
technical indicator that signals prices may extend losses.
Front-month futures at $108.80 a barrel are near the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oil has climbed above that indicator since late
February, when protests against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
disrupted supplies from the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  