-- 
Mondi Cost Pressures Moderate as Paper Prices Increase, CEO Hathorn Says

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-05T10:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mondi-says-cost-pressures-moderate-may-increase-as-much-as-8-this-year.html
Mondi Group,  Europe ’s largest maker of
office paper, said it expects prices across most of its products
to continue increasing while costs will rise at a slower pace
than last year.  The outlook for prices remains “strong in all the key
paper grades” after improvements in the second-quarter
continued, while costs have “moderated,” Chief Executive
Officer David Hathorn said in an interview today. Costs may
increase 7 percent to 8 percent this year after rising about 12
percent last year, Chief Financial Officer  Andrew King  said.  Demand for paper products increased after economies
rebounded from the global recession. Mondi, which makes kraft
paper, industrial bags and corrugated packaging in Europe, North
and  Latin America  and  Asia , is also not seeing new suppliers
enter its main markets, bar recycled container board in Europe
and uncoated fine paper in  Russia , helping to support prices,
Hathorn said.  “The fundamentals remain attractive,” he said, adding
that market-demand growth is helping to compensate for the new
supply of recycled container board and uncoated fine paper.  Mondi gained as much as 2.7 percent to 65.07 rand in
Johannesburg trading and was trading at 64.80 rand as of 12:15
p.m. in the city. The stock has added 20 percent this year
compared with a 1.5 percent increase by  Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s
largest maker of glossy paper.  Growth Aspirations  Mondi posted a first-quarter operating profit of 187
million euros ($277 million), “well in excess” of earnings a
year ago, Mondi said in a statement, without giving year-earlier
figures. The company is spinning off its Mondi Packaging South
Africa business and planning to list the company’s shares in
Johannesburg to focus on expanding.  “MPSA has aspirations, it’s growing in areas that are
outside Mondi’s core focus,” Hathorn said. “We don’t want to
allocate further capital to those areas. Hence the desire to
separate it, to enable them to live as an independent company
with a well-structured balance sheet and the ability to pursue
growth in those areas such as rigid plastics.”  Mondi will remain “open-minded about acquisitions,”
Hathorn said, adding these will be balanced against investing in
capital expenditure on existing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  