-- 
Option Butterfly Signals Investors Underestimate Currency Volatility Risk

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-05T14:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/option-butterfly-signals-investors-underestimate-currency-volatility-risk.html
Currency derivatives suggest investors
are underestimating the risk of broad swings in foreign-exchange
markets as the  Federal Reserve  completes its bond-purchase
program and lawmakers spar over the U.S. debt limit, according
to Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG.  “You are looking at a massive event risk coming up, and
the options market is underestimating that,” said David Woo,
head of global rates and currencies research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York. “These two issues could interact in
very unexpected ways and become a major source of volatility in
the markets.”  A gauge of the demand for hedges against extreme currency
moves in the dollar against the euro, known as the option
butterfly, is near the lowest since September 2008. Implied
volatility of options that protect against fluctuations in
developed nations’ currencies is 11.93 percent, below the record
level of 26.55 percent set in October 2008 and an average of
12.5 percent the last two years, according to a JPMorgan index.  Option volatility for U.S. equities is also near a four-
year low and at the least in almost a year for  interest rates  as
the Fed drives investors to higher yielding assets by keeping
borrowing costs at a record low while the Obama administration
runs record deficits to sustain the recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The Fed is scheduled to
complete $600 billion in purchases of  Treasury securities  in
June and the Treasury projects that the U.S. can borrow through
Aug. 2 after reaching its $14.3 trillion debt later this month.  Euro Option Strangle  Bank of America’s Woo advised investors on April 26 to buy
so-called U.S. dollar volatility if levels fall further by
purchasing six-month euro option strangles. The strategy, which
involves the simultaneous purchase of a euro put at a strike
price of $1.374 and call struck at $1.547, will profit if the
euro moves sharply during the life of the contracts. A  call
option  grants the right to purchase a currency and a put allows
for sales, with the strike price giving the pre-set  exchange
rate .  The dollar fell to a 17-month low against the euro
yesterday on speculation the Fed will maintain record-low rates
while the  European Central Bank  increases borrowing costs. The
euro slid today after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
inflation risks will be watched “very closely,” signaling the
policy makers may wait until after June to raise rates again.  The euro dropped 1.1 percent to $1.4666 at 9:58 a.m. in
New York, after reaching $1.4940 yesterday.  ‘End of QE’  Standard & Poor’s  said on April 18 that the U.S. government
risks losing its top rating unless policy makers agree on a plan
by 2013 to reduce deficits and the national debt. The ratings
company added that it saw a one-in-three likelihood of a
reduction in the long-term rating within two years.  “The end of QE is likely to be more challenging for
markets than the consensus assumes,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the
Singapore-based head of global currency strategy at UBS said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “We also have plenty of
event risk in the eurozone as well as uncertainty about the
direction of U.K. monetary policy and renewed intervention risks
in  Japan  if the yen continues to rebound.”  The yen strengthened, falling below 80 per dollar today for
the first time since central banks intervened to weaken the
currency in March, on demand for the safest assets.  Low Volatility Environment  “Currency volatility could go lower,” said Caio Natividade, the London-based head of foreign-exchange derivative
strategy for Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone interview.
“Most news that should have shocked the market this year has
not managed to do so for sufficiently long to make volatility
rise sustainably. Our analytical models tell us that we are
indeed moving to a low volatility environment again.”  Fed policy makers said at the completion of their rate-
setting meeting on April 27 that the economy is recovering at a
“moderate pace” and a pickup in inflation is likely to be
temporary. The central bank kept rates locked at a record low of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Crude oil surged about 30 percent in the past six months in
 New York  amid the threat of supply cuts. Gold and silver reached
records in April as investors sought to hedge financial assets
against a weakening dollar and accelerating inflation.  “Potential for disruptive gridlock in the U.S. budget
debate combined with high  oil prices  and unrest in the Middle
East presents tail-risks for the  currency market ,” said Arindam Sandilya, head of foreign exchange derivative strategy at
JPMorgan in New York. “There is significant potential for
shocks to the system that currency volatility levels suggest the
market is not prepared for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at   emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  