-- 
Organized-Crime Figure Palumbo Sentenced to 10 Years for N.Y. Murder Plot

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-05T18:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/organized-crime-figure-palumbo-sentenced-to-10-years-for-n-y-murder-plot.html
Anthony Palumbo, a former member of
the Genovese  organized-crime  family in  New York , was sentenced
to 10 years in prison for agreeing to murder a Russian
professional killer.  Palumbo, 62, pleaded guilty in August to charges of
conspiracy to commit murder in aid of a racketeering enterprise.
U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in New York sentenced him
today to the statutory maximum for the crime, rejecting
arguments by defense attorney Steven K. Frankel that his client
deserved less time because the conspiracy took place almost
20 years ago and didn’t culminate in a murder.  “There is strong evidence that Mr. Palumbo is a long-term
member of an organized-crime family,” Holwell said.  Prosecutors said Palumbo was a soldier and acting capo, or
crew leader, in the Genovese family who operated in New York and
 New Jersey , overseeing gambling, loan-sharking and extortion.  Palumbo was in charge of the family’s interests in a mob
cartel that extorted money from petroleum companies affiliated
with Russian organized crime as part of a bootlegging scheme,
prosecutors said.  In late 1992 or early 1993, a Russian mobster asked Palumbo
and others to kill a murderer who worked for him, the government
said. Palumbo the others agreed to commit the murder, although
higher-ranked members of the Genovese family wouldn’t authorize
it and the man wasn’t killed, prosecutors said.  Palumbo, who served 46 months in federal prison after
pleading guilty in 1998 in a gasoline-tax scheme, apologized to
his family and others in the courtroom before Holwell imposed
his sentence.  “I was involved in a gasoline scheme,” he said. “I pled
to it and I thought it was behind me. This thing came back and
it just never finished.”  The case is U.S. vs. Masullo, 1:08-cr-00874, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 