-- 
Orkla Evaluating Its Ownership in Borregaard, Chief Wiggen Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-05-05T09:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/orkla-evaluating-its-ownership-in-borregaard-chief-wiggen-says.html
Orkla ASA (ORK)  Chief Executive Officer
Bjoern Wiggen comments on its ownership in Borregaard, which
produces biochemicals and biofuels, its 39.7 percent stake in
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, and its Russian business. He spoke
today in an interview in Oslo after presenting earnings.  On potential sale of Borregaard:  “The results were satisfactory and so a positive
development. The reason for that is that that the supply/demand
balance has shifted. That in itself can create a better position
for Borregaard but also more interest structurally when looking
at new opportunities both for us and for other players.  “We have to evaluate all the time: would it be more value-
enhancing for us to realize the value from Borregaard and invest
in other areas or would it be better to continue to invest in
Borregaard.”  On interest from industry in Borregaard:  “We don’t comment on that; what I can say is that the
interest from investment bankers has certainly increased lately.
We will evaluate the ownership. We also have arguments for
continuing to develop Borregaard because it has some interesting
production development projects investing in new areas, becoming
more and more a bio-refinery company.”  On Renewable Energy holding:  “If you see development within REC itself I must say I’m
very satisfied. Everything that you can control internally had a
very positive development. The market in solar field is up and
down. I haven’t changed my view from last quarter.”  On Russian business:  “ Russia  has additional challenges to our Nordic business.
Everybody has seen raw material costs increase but in Russia we
also have increases in taxes, transportation and so on. What we
have done is to integrate our two Russian units into one,
creating one management, one sales and marketing organization
that will certainly improve efficiency and productivity. Our aim
is to have a break-even result for our Russian business for the
year as a whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  