-- 
Mortgage Rates for 30-Year U.S. Loans Decrease to Four-Month Low of 4.71%

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-05-05T14:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-u-s-loans-decrease-to-four-month-low-of-4-71-.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  fell for a third
week, sending longer-term borrowing costs to the lowest level
since January as the housing market remains sluggish.  The average rate for a 30-year loan dropped to 4.71 percent
in the week ended today from 4.78 percent, according to Freddie
Mac. That is the lowest since the week ended Jan. 13. The 15-
year rate slid to 3.89 percent from 3.97 percent a week ago, the
McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company said.  The U.S. housing market is struggling to recover from the
worst crash since the Great Depression as unemployment hovers
close to 9 percent and mounting foreclosures depress values.
Lower mortgage rates are unlikely to boost demand as credit
standards get tougher and prices drop, according to  Paul Dales ,
senior U.S. economist at  Capital Economics  in Toronto.  “Despite the latest fall back in mortgage rates, appetite
for mortgage borrowing is still stuck in a rut,” Dales said in
a note to clients yesterday. “Widespread negative equity and
tight credit conditions mean that many households are unable to
get a mortgage even if they wanted one.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s loan applications index
rose 4 percent in the week ended April 29, the Washington-based
group said yesterday. The gain was led by an increase in
refinancing, which climbed 6 percent. The index measuring
purchase applications rose 0.3 percent.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan is below where it
was last year at this time, when it was 5 percent, according to
 Freddie Mac . It fell to a record 4.17 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  