-- 
Mothers Who Brunch Find Manhattan Treats on Special Day: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/mothers-who-brunch-find-manhattan-is-full-of-treats-on-special-day-review.html
Your mom called. She expects to see
you on Sunday. And you’re buying.  The  National Restaurant Association  says Mother’s Day is
the most popular holiday for dining out in the U.S., with 75
million Americans heading for restaurants.  Here are a few suggestions for dining in  Manhattan . A word
to the wise: higher prices and prix fixe menus are all the rage,
so check before you go.  If the kids are too young to whip up breakfast in bed, take
mom to  Lansky’s  instead. Brunch is served from 8 to 4 and all
entrees come with bottomless drinks like mimosas, bloody marys
or coffee.  Imperial Eggs Benedict pairs homemade Maryland crab cakes
with poached eggs in a twist on the usual for $14.95. Prices
range from $9.95 for Creamy Cheese Blintzes to $32.95 for a
Smoked Fish Platter for two.  Large portions might leave mom unable to taste delectable
desserts like apple pies the size of manhole covers. Take a
slice to go for $4.75 and she can eat it in nearby Central Park
after a stroll and an early afternoon nap.  They don’t take reservations but it’s a casual move-‘em-in-
and-out kind of place on the weekends, so the wait should be
bearable.  Lanksy’s Old World Deli is at 235 Columbus Ave., between
70th and 71st streets; information: +1-212-787-0400.  Vegans and Carnivores  Another brunch deal with drinks included is  Essex
Restaurant  on the Lower East Side. It runs from 11 to 8 and
includes an entree and three drinks -- bloody marys,
screwdrivers or mimosas -- for $25 (children $15).  Regulars will recognize a $5 increase over the usual price.
When asked about it, the man who answered the phone said, “I
have to charge $5 more on Mother’s Day to get the staff in.”  The menu appeals to vegans, vegetarians and carnivores
alike with options like tofu scramble with soy cheese, Challah
French toast with Bananas Foster sauce, and biscuits with eggs
and sausage gravy.  Essex is upbeat and noisy, takes reservations and only
accepts cash at brunch. It’s located at 120 Essex St.;
information: +1-212-533-9616.  Gluten Freedom  There may be no such thing as a free lunch but there is a
reasonably priced gluten-free lunch at  Friedman’s  in Chelsea
Market. The small restaurant has an old-fashioned, industrial
feel with vintage wall paper and an exposed kitchen.  Most of the items on the menu are or can be prepared gluten
free, including sandwiches, fried chicken and pancakes.  Brunch prices range from $10 for a Southern breakfast with
organic eggs, grits and fried green tomatoes (not gluten free)
to $14 for a grilled salmon salad with feta and Kalamata olives.  Pork Flautas, $12, consists of three corn tortillas stuffed
with tender braised pork and then fried. It’s a tasty, if busy,
concoction served on creme fraiche with avocado, tomatillo salsa
and fried eggs. Our egg dishes came out slightly undercooked, so
order accordingly.  Reservations aren’t taken. If the wait is too long, order
from the take-out counter and find a park bench upstairs on the
 High Line . This could take some strategizing if a recent Sunday
is any indication.  Friedman’s Lunch serves brunch from 10 to 3 and closes at 7
on Sundays. It is located at 75 Ninth Ave., between 15th and
16th streets; information: +1-212-929-7100.  Retro Feel  At  Brasserie 8 1/2 , mothers are likely to be impressed by
the retro feel of the sweeping, orange-clad staircase, the huge
flower arrangements in the center of the dining room and the
buffet that includes peeled shrimp, heirloom tomatoes and the
obligatory omelet station.  Children of a certain age will love going back and forth
across the expanse for the muffins and cakes displayed on the
bar and perusing the platters of vegetables and meats at the
main buffet. Eggs Benedict, pancakes and the like are served hot
from the kitchen.  On a recent visit, one well-dressed youngster, not even 3
years old, sounded the alarm on the way out, “Grandma, Grandma!
Cancel my  credit card !”  Don’t do it before Mother’s Day: Prices are $49 for adults
and $19 for children under 12, without drinks. Mother’s Day
specials will include roasted spring lamb and chilled asparagus
with sesame vinaigrette.  Brasserie 8 1/2 serves brunch from 11 to 4 and is located
at 9 W. 57th St.; information: +1-212-829-0812.  Signature Dish  It’s highly possible your mother has asked about the recipe
for Lidia Bastianich’s  pear and pecorino-filled ravioli . Lots of
people have. If she hasn’t, she might well after dinner at
 Felidia .  The signature dish is served family-style along with
antipasti, Atlantic salmon, braised flat-iron beef from
Creekstone Farms and more. The special Mother’s Day four-course
feast is priced at $98 per person, with wine pairings for $35.
Children are accommodated at a la carte pricing.  Desserts like blueberry crostata and chocolate flan are
included. Gluten-free dessert options are available a la carte
for $12. Corn or rice pasta is also available.  The dignified flagship of Bastianich’s restaurant group is
quiet enough to chew the family cud, and the food is nicely
presented. Dinner is served from noon, with the last reservation
at 8 p.m.  Felidia is located at 243 E. 58th St.; information: +1-212-
758-1479.  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 