-- 
Lloyds Sets Aside $5.3 Billion to Cover Loan-Insurance Claims; Shares Drop

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-05-05T15:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lloyds-posts-5-7-billion-loss-on-provisions-for-mortgage-insurance-claims.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, set aside 3.2 billion pounds ($5.3
billion) to settle claims that clients were improperly sold loan
insurance, breaking ranks with British competitors.  The decision helped push Lloyds into a first quarter net
loss of 2.4 billion pounds compared with a profit of 169 million
pounds in the year-earlier period, the London-based lender said
in a statement today. Antonio Horta-Osorio, 47, chief executive
officer since  Eric Daniels  departed two months ago, also broke
tradition by releasing the bank’s first detailed quarterly
earnings. The shares fell the most in almost a year.  “It’s refreshing to see a bank break ranks from its peers
and do the right thing,”, said  Which? , the British consumer-
lobby group, in an e-mailed statement. “The rest of the U.K.’s
banks must now follow suit.”  Lloyds’s decision suggests British banks may have to set
aside about 8 billion pounds in total, according to Deutsche
Bank AG research today, almost double the previous estimate.
Last month, a U.K. court decided banks may have to pay
compensation to customers improperly sold so-called payment
protection insurance, used to cover payments on credit cards and
mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  This generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies sold in
2006, the  Financial Services Authority  estimates.  Appeal Considered  The  British Bankers’ Association  and its members are
reviewing last month’s judgment “and considering whether to
make an application to appeal,” the lobby group said in a
statement today. “This decision must be made by May 10, 2011.”  Spokesmen for Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc, also
associated with the court case, did not immediately return calls
for comment. A spokeswoman for Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
declined to comment.  Prior to the Lloyds announcement, the FSA had estimated the
banking industry might face payouts of as much as 4.5 billion
pounds. The FSA declined to comment today. Barclays may have to
set aside 1.1 billion pounds, RBS 1 billion pounds and HSBC 600
million pounds, according to the Deutsche Bank note, written by
London-based analyst Jason Napier.  Asked whether Lloyds was getting all its bad news out of
the way in a single report, Horta-Osorio told journalists, “I
really do not see any kitchen-sinking in these results. I see us
addressing significant problems that exist. These problems have
to be closed. We are drawing a line under PPI.”  Other Providers  The bank’s “recent stock weakness has undoubtedly
reflected some anticipation of kitchen-sinking, but it may still
be premature to assume that this process is over,” said  Ian Gordon , a banking analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “We
remain more concerned about the very weak underlying
profitability.”  Clients who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms or
switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they could have
purchased it from other providers, the  Competition Commission 
has said.  Lloyds slid 8 percent to 53.38 pence in London trading, for
a market value of 36.4 billion pounds. That’s the biggest drop
since May last year.  “The PPI provision was a bit of a surprise and people will
regard it as more than adequate,” said Cormac Leech, an analyst
at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London, who has a “buy” rating on
the stock. “The earnings are on the weak side.”  Lloyds has withdrawn from legal proceedings against the FSA
in relation to PPI, Horta-Osorio said. “I don’t want to
continue a long-running dispute with our regulator,” he said.  Rising Funding  Rising funding costs depressed margins in the first quarter
and provisions on further Irish loan losses increased, Lloyds
said in the statement.  The bank’s net interest margin, the difference between what
banks earns on loans and funding costs, declined to 2.07 percent
in the first quarter from 2.08 percent a year ago and 2.12
percent in the fourth quarter, Lloyds said.  Writedowns climbed to 2.61 billion pounds from 2.4 billion
pounds, 500 million pounds more than the bank’s estimate. The
bank set aside 1.14 billion pounds to cover potential losses in
Ireland, which factors in a 12 percent fall in commercial real
estate prices.  Lloyds returned to profit last year for the first time
since the government-brokered takeover of HBOS Plc in 2008
resulted in 13 billion pounds of losses and a taxpayer bailout.
The  Independent Commission on Banking  said last month that
Lloyds, 41 percent government-owned, should sell more than the
600 branches it’s already selling to meet European rules.  The report may “significantly delay” the commitments
agreed between the U.K. government and the EU, Lloyds said
today.  The lender reduced support from the government and central
bank by 26.2 billion pounds to 70.4 billion pounds in the first
quarter of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 