-- 
Pakistan Warns Against Further Unilateral Raids After Bin Laden Operation

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-05T13:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pakistan-warns-against-further-unilateral-raids-after-bin-laden-operation.html
Pakistan ’s foreign secretary today
warned that a repetition of the unilateral military operation
that U.S. special forces conducted to kill  Osama bin Laden  may
produce a “terrible catastrophe.”  Bin Laden was shot dead by a team of U.S. commandos in a
May 2 raid on a compound in Abbottabad, an army cantonment town
50 kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital, Islamabad.
Pakistan’s government and military are trying to fend off
domestic criticism that the nuclear-armed country failed to
defend its borders, one of which it shares with traditional
rival India.  “Of course, the United States is a friend and important
partner in the fight against terror,” Salman Bashir said in a
press conference in Islamabad. “But it’s worth stating here
that any country, that any other country, that ever acts on the
assumption that it has might and can mimic unilateralism of any
sort, it will find that it has made a basic miscalculation,”
Bashir said.  “We feel that that sort of adventure and miscalculation
would result in a terrible catastrophe,” he said. The U.S.
operation “should not be taken as a rule.”  India ’s army chief, V.K. Singh, yesterday said the Indian
forces were “competent” to carry out an operation similar to
the one that killed bin Laden, Press Trust of India reported.  Bashir echoed comments from other Pakistani leaders in
asserting that relations with the U.S. would survive the killing
of bin Laden, and added that U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  will visit Pakistan this month. “The notion that
Pakistan-U.S. relations have nosedived, this is not our
understanding,” Bashir said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  