-- 
PBOC Should Reduce Intervention in Currency Market, Yu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-05T09:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pboc-should-reduce-intervention-in-currency-market-yu-says-2-.html
China ’s central bank should reduce
intervention in the foreign-exchange market to better reflect
market demand for the yuan, Yu Yongding, a former academic
adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said today.  “China has the conditions for a one-off appreciation
although it must be accompanied by some other measures, such as
strengthening management of cross-border capital flows” to curb
speculation, Yu said in an interview in Beijing. He didn’t
elaborate.  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves climbed by the
second-biggest amount on record in the first quarter to $3
trillion as the PBOC bought currencies including the  U.S. dollar 
from banks to control the yuan’s gains. The nation’s holdings
have exceeded a “reasonable level,” central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last month.  The yuan, which hit a 17-year high on April 29, fell 0.01
percent to 6.4937 per dollar at 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , paring
earlier declines. The currency has gained 0.5 percent in the
past seven trading days and 5.1 percent in the last 12 months.  Yu said the PBOC’s frequent intervention in the foreign
exchange market to maintain a stable  exchange rate  with the U.S.
dollar “isn’t a good deal” because the growth in reserves will
lead to higher capital losses as the dollar weakens over time.  Letting the yuan appreciate “would bring more benefit than
harm to  China’s economy ”, said Yu, former head of the Institute
of World Economics and Politics at the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences .  Widening Band  The exchange rate should be among the tools the government
can use to fight inflation, Yu said in a speech today at the
publication of the  United Nations ’ economic and social survey of
 Asia  and the Pacific. Widening the yuan’s trading band is one
option to make the currency more flexible, he said.  In a China Daily commentary on April 2, Yu suggested the
International Monetary Fund’s Special Drawing Rights, a basket
of four major currencies, as a possible replacement to the
dollar as a  reserve currency , saying the U.S. is “printing”
its way out of its economic problems.  Still, “conditions are not yet ripe” for the yuan to be
included in the basket because it is still not widely used in
international trade, he said today.  “While China has made some progress in internationalizing
the yuan, the move has been mostly driven by government policies
rather than a reflection of real market demand,” he said.  Yuan Internationalization  The nation’s leaders have been pushing for greater use of
yuan in international trade settlement. The central bank has
reached agreement for currency swaps with counterparts in
countries including Mongolia,  New Zealand  and Uzbekistan.  Countries including the U.S. have said the yuan shouldn’t
be included in the IMF’s basket until the currency is fully
convertible. The yuan is now only convertible on the current
account for trade and investment purposes.  Yu said today full convertibility shouldn’t be a condition
for inclusion in the SDR basket and there’s no timetable to
achieve that goal, which should be “the last step of China’s
ongoing economic reform.”  Consumer prices in China jumped 5.4 percent in March, the
biggest increase in 32 months, and have gained by more than the
government’s 4 percent target every month this year. Inflation
may have eased to 5.2 percent in April, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.  Over Tightening Risk  There is no need to be “overly worried” about consumer-
price gains, Yu said today. Inflationary pressure remains high
“but is controllable this year,” he said. While it will be
difficult for the government to keep inflation within its 4
percent target, limiting the growth in consumer prices to under
5 percent is “achievable,” he said.  Rising labor costs will have put greater pressure on
inflation over the next few years, Yu said.  The nation’s economic growth can exceed 9 percent this year
although it faces uncertainties including the risk of over
tightening, which may lead to a sharper downturn in economic
growth, Yu said.  The government should also stay vigilant of any rebound in
property prices, which may add to the risks of a re-acceleration
in economic growth, he said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing.
Editor: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570;
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  