-- 
Pemex’s $3 Billion Bond Sale Program Gets Boost From Rally: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   C a r l o s   M .   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-05T12:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pemex-3-billion-international-bond-plan-boosted-by-rally-mexico-credit.html
Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s
largest oil producer, plans to sell as much as $3 billion of
bonds as soon as this month as speculation the company will
reverse a six-year decline in output drives yields to a four-
month low.  Yields on the company’s dollar notes due in 2020 have
tumbled 48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage point, since Feb.
15, to 4.94 percent, the lowest since Dec. 13, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity notes from
Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-run oil company, fell
16.5 basis points to 5.06 percent in the same period.  Pemex is seeking to issue its first bond in international
markets this year after Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said April 29 the state-controlled company will boost
output to 2.6 million barrels of crude oil a day in 2011. The
Mexico City-based company may raise $1 billion from the sale of
bonds in Europe and $2 billion from a sale in dollars in late
May or early June, Chief Financial Officer Ignacio Quesada said
yesterday at a news conference in Mexico City.  “More production means higher cash flows,” Jack Deino,
who oversees $1.75 billion of emerging-market debt, including
Pemex bonds, at Invesco Advisers Inc., said in a telephone
interview in  New York . “That’s good news for investors.”  Pemex’s bonds have gained 3 percent this year, compared
with a 2.7 percent advance for Mexican corporate debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Mexican
government debt due in 2020 has posted a 2.9 percent advance
this year, pushing yields down to 4.23 percent.  America Movil Sale  Pemex hired BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG to arrange
meetings with bond investors in  Europe  beginning May 9, said a
person with direct knowledge of the talks who asked not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly. It
sold the most debt overseas by any Latin American company except
America Movil SAB last year, raising $6.1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It last issued debt denominated in
euros in October 2009, when it sold 1 billion euros of notes due
in 2017.  “By the end of last year, we funded some of the financing
requirements for this year,” Quesada said. “Therefore our
issues in international markets will be significantly lower this
year.”  Pemex is investing about $23 billion this year to increase
production after it fell to 2.576 million barrels a day in 2010,
the sixth consecutive annual drop. It pumped 2.58 million
barrels of oil a day in April, according to preliminary figures
released on its website May 2.  Slumping Output  “Bonds have performed well because they’ve managed to
stabilize production,”  Eduardo Suarez , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened one basis point
to 145 today at 8:45 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 0.7 percent to 11.7288 per dollar. The
currency is up 5.2 percent this year.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 98 yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  Pemex’s output fell at the steepest rate since World War II
in 2008 because of declines at its Cantarell field, which was
the third-largest in the world when it was discovered in 1976.
Crude production from the company’s largest oil deposit fell 74
percent to 558,041 barrels a day in 2010 from 2.14 million in
February 2001.  Yield Gap  The company is counting on new performance-based contracts
with foreign operators to boost production in older fields and
is exploring in deep waters in the Gulf of  Mexico . It’s opening
production projects to private investment for the first time
since the government seized the oil industry in 1938.  “If they don’t get foreign companies to participate, it
could be very negative” for the bonds, RBC’s Sanchez said.  Investors seeking a higher-yielding alternative to Mexican
government debt will look to buy Pemex’s bonds in the sales
during the next few months, Invesco’s Deino said. The company’s
notes due in 2020 yield 71 basis points more than similar-
maturity government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s a good way to play Mexico,” Deino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at   carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  