-- 
Pernod-Ricard Quarterly Sales Beat Estimates on Emerging Markets

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-05T05:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pernod-ricard-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) ,  France ’s largest
distiller, reported third-quarter revenue that beat estimates,
boosted by sales of products including Martell cognac in
emerging markets.  So-called organic sales, which exclude the effects of
acquisitions and disposals, rose 5 percent in the three months
through March 31, outpacing the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed for a 2.5 percent increase. Total sales increased to
1.62 billion euros ($2.4 billion) from 1.54 billion euros a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement.  “The third quarter confirmed the improved business trends
since the start of the financial year and strengthens our
confidence in our ability to meet our targets,” Pierre Pringuet, the Paris-based company’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  Pernod, the maker of Absolut vodka, is among distillers
looking to emerging markets to drive growth for spirits brands
as European and U.S. sales remain sluggish. Sales in so-called
mature markets, which include  Europe  and the U.S., were
“stable” in the third quarter, compared with organic growth of
15 percent in emerging markets.  Sales rose 7 percent over nine months on the same basis,
Pernod said, boosted by 15 percent growth at the company’s
Asia/Rest of World unit, where it got 31 percent of its revenue
last year, as drinkers bought more cognac and whisky. Sales were
“stable” in Europe, excluding France, as difficult economic
conditions in western European countries including  Spain 
restricted growth.  Nine-month organic sales in France grew 4 percent, aided by
the company’s top 14 brands, it said.  Pernod-Ricard raised its full-year forecast in February and
is now targeting growth in full-year earnings before interest
and taxes, excluding the effect of acquisitions, of close to 7
percent, it said. It maintained its forecast today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  