-- 
Philippine Peso Drops After Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-06T05:50:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/philippine-peso-bonds-drop-on-fastest-inflation-in-2-years.html
(Corrects story first published yesterday to show April
inflation matched the rate a year ago.)  The Philippine peso and government
bonds fell after a report showed inflation accelerated in April,
prompting the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  Consumer prices increased 4.5 percent from a year earlier,
after a 4.3 percent gain in March. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was for a 4.4 percent
gain. That matched the rate in April 2010, which was the fastest
in a year. The local benchmark stock index fell by the most in
seven weeks after economic data from the U.S. raised concern
growth is faltering in the world’s largest economy.  “The market may be pricing in uncertainty on inflation,”
said Lito Biacora, vice president for treasury at Bank of the
Philippine Islands in  Manila . “The weakness in the  U.S. economy 
and the correction in the equities market” are driving the peso
lower, he said.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 42.94 per dollar as of the
4 p.m. close in Manila, according to prices from inter-dealer
broker Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched 42.640 on May 2,
the strongest level since Nov. 5.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised its benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.50 percent shortly after 4
p.m. in Manila, as predicted by 12 of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Three expected no change and one forecast a half a
percentage point rise.  U.S. service industries expanded in April at the slowest
pace in eight months, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
index of non-manufacturing companies showed yesterday. U.S.
companies also added fewer jobs than forecast, ADP Employer
Services said yesterday.  Philippine five-year bonds declined for a second day. The
yield on the 7 percent note due January 2016 increased five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.10 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield was at 5.18
percent at 4:04 p.m. in Manila, shortly before the central bank
announced its rate decision.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 