-- 
Pingpong Returns With Partners From Sarandon to Elle to Hedge Fund Match

-- B y   E r i c   S p i t z n a g e l
-- 
2011-05-05T04:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pingpong-returns-with-partners-from-sarandon-to-elle-to-hedge-fund-match.html
Kim Gilbert was once among the most
promising pingpong players in the U.S.  During a run in the late 1980s, she earned the top prize at
the California State Open, the Pacific Coast Open and even the
U.S. Closed tournament, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
May 9 issue.  Then in 1992, an accident involving a broken shoe heel
shattered the radius in her right arm. In the prime of her
career, she was forced to put down the paddle.  Now 46, Gilbert recently completed what she calls a
“miraculous comeback” in the sport that once made her almost
semi-famous.  An executive at the  Los Angeles  marketing firm  Dial800, 
Gilbert spends her evenings coaching white-collar workers with
their own dreams of table-tennis immortality. She charges as
much as $100 an hour for private lessons and $1,000 for out-of-
town events.  “My goal is to one day have a sustainable business doing
this full-time,” she says. “I am very serious about this.”  Gilbert has picked the perfect moment to reprise her glory.
The emergence of upscale table-tennis clubs -- including Susan Sarandon’s SPiN franchise -- has spawned a pingpong renaissance.  The  Silver Spring , Maryland-based  Sporting Goods
Manufacturers Association  estimates there are 19.5 million
recreational players in the U.S., a 53 percent increase over the
past decade.  According to a 2009 poll by the association, more than half
the players have annual household incomes exceeding $75,000. As
a result, the sport is going corporate.  Hedge Funds  Last month,  SPiN New York  hosted its inaugural “Clash of
the Hedge Fund Titans” tournament, a prelude to a July meeting
between private-equity competitors.  A New York-based charity tournament, Top Spin, is planning
events in Los Angeles,  San Francisco  and  Chicago , and aiming to
attract 2,000 players from companies such as Delta Air Lines
Inc., American Express Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus
division.  “It’s like a real-life version of LinkedIn,” says founder
Peter Farnsworth. “We’re bringing the business community
together through pingpong.”  A Rockville, Maryland-based sports management firm, North
American Table Tennis or  NATT , has become a source for corporate
events in the sport. For up to $15,000, the company’s
instructors will bring hundreds of tables to an office and
orchestrate tournaments or team-building workshops. They’ll even
show up with real players.  Olympic Walk-Ons  “I’m talking about Olympians,” said Alan Williams, NATT’s
marketing director. “How often do you get to meet  Andre Agassi ?
You can’t do it.  Pete Sampras ? Not going to happen. But I can
have you in front of a national pingpong team in, like, five
minutes.”  Business has been good for NATT, which, according to
Williams, is the only company of its kind “operating
exclusively within table tennis.” He says its partners have
included  Crain Communications Inc ., equipment maker  Sportcraft
Ltd ., and Lagardere group’s  Elle  magazine.  Pingpong, Williams says, offers lasting benefits for these
companies -- even if they aren’t obviously financial, and even
if he has no proof they’re real.  “Everyone should play table tennis,” he says. “They’ll
live longer, they’ll be smarter, they’ll be more attractive.”  Williams also says pingpong can be a conduit for
international business relations. If companies want to work on a
global level, he says, they’ll have to demonstrate an interest
in what the rest of the world enjoys. And that, Williams says,
is pingpong.  Chinese Link  He points to 1971, when U.S. table-tennis player Glenn
Cowan befriended his rival from  China , Zhuang Zedong, and helped
thaw relations between the two governments. Williams says the
sport can continue to forge unexpected connections today.  “If you’re interested in people in China being familiar
with your company, you can do it with table tennis,” he says.  Donn Olsen, a coach at the sport’s  Werner Schlager Academy 
in Schwechat,  Austria , said nations in which corporations
sponsor table tennis programs, such as China,  South Korea ,
 Germany  and  Brazil , also have extremely competitive economies.  “Since the transformation of a previously Mao-led China
into a much more capitalistic-based economic system, the
participation of that country’s corporations in table tennis has
skyrocketed,” Olsen said. “Those who thrive in the corporate
challenge of intricacy relate well, emotionally and
intellectually, to the similar demands of table tennis.”  The movement to promote corporate involvement in table
tennis in the U.S. hasn’t been free of setbacks. Williams said
there haven’t been any takers for NATT’s offer of advertisements
on Internet highlight videos from the upcoming North American
Ping Pong Teams Championships.  “There are Chinese businesspeople who want to make
connections to the  United States ,” he said. “And table tennis
is the way to make that connection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Spitznagelt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Kelly at   jkelly101@bloomberg.net . 