-- 
Plains Says Alberta Pipe Spill Leak Was Light, Sweet Crude

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-05T19:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/plains-says-alberta-pipe-spill-leak-was-light-sweet-crude-1-.html
Plains Midstream Canada LP, an
affiliate of  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) , said that  air
quality  near an April 29 spill in northern  Alberta  is within
government standards.  The pipeline rupture discharged 28,000 barrels of light,
sweet crude oil, Michael Hallahan, a Plains Midstream vice
president, said at a Calgary news conference. The spill covers 8
acres (3.24 hectares) about 12 kilometers (7 miles) from the
settlement of Little Buffalo, Alberta.  “The impacted section of the pipeline has been shut down
and the release contained,” Hallahan read from a prepared
statement. He declined to answer media questions.  Plains said it has 150 people at the site working on the
cleanup, which could take several weeks. Alberta regulators are
also on the scene. The company used 1,400 wooden mats to build
access roads through the soft muskeg to get to the site.  The spill occurred about 7 kilometers from the nearest
house and 300 meters from the nearest water source, the Calgary-
based company said. Air monitoring at a school in Little Buffalo
showed no detectable hydrocarbons, Plains said.  The rupture was detected along a remote section of the
pipeline east of Peace River, Alberta. The line, which carried
an average 187,000 barrels a day last year, links the Norman
Wells Pipeline from the Northwest Territories to refinery and
pipeline hubs in  Edmonton , Alberta.  Plains said it had recovered 1,900 barrels of the spilled
crude yesterday. The company said it has been in contact with
government officials and local native Indian bands since the
first day of the incident.  Plains All American, a publicly traded partnership based in
Houston, fell 60 cents to $61.46 as of 2:24 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Plains Midstream is a private
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 