-- 
PMI Declines as Insurer Says Mortgage Losses May Limit Sales in 16 States

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-05T18:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pmi-declines-as-insurer-says-mortgage-losses-may-limit-sales-in-16-states.html
PMI Group Inc. (PMI) , the third-largest U.S.
mortgage insurer, fell the most since January after saying
losses may bring the firm out of compliance with regulatory
standards by the end of June, which could limit sales.  PMI declined 28 cents, or 14 percent, to $1.74 at 2:04 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The Walnut Creek,
California-based insurer posted a first-quarter net loss today
of $126.8 million, or 79 cents a share, its 15th-straight
unprofitable period.  Insurers need to show U.S. regulators they have sufficient
capital to back policies. The company last month repatriated
$14.5 million from a European business to bolster a U.S. unit
called PMI Mortgage Insurance Co., or MIC.  “As a result of continuing losses, we expect that MIC will
be out of compliance with applicable regulatory requirements in
the second quarter of 2011,” and may be prohibited from issuing
new policies in 16 states, the company said in its earnings
statement today.  PMI said it has requested waivers from regulators. Its
principal overseer in  Arizona  told the company in March that it
isn’t required to obtain a waiver to continue writing business
if it fails to meet requirements. The insurer may try to sell
coverage from a different subsidiary if PMI Mortgage Insurance
Co. is prohibited from selling new policies. Kosta Karmaniolas,
a spokesman for the company, declined to comment.  MGIC’S Waiver  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the largest U.S. mortgage insurer,
received a waiver from its Wisconsin regulator to continue
selling policies and has applied for and obtained waivers in
other states, according to an April 20 statement from the
Milwaukee-based company.  Mortgage insurers, which pay lenders when homeowners
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs, have posted
losses as the number of soured loans surged during the
recession. U.S. home prices fell 5.7 percent in February from a
year earlier.  Contracts protecting PMI’s debt for five years increased 3
percentage points to 19 percent upfront as of 1:38 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $1.9 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of PMI’s debt.  Credit-default swaps on rival  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , which rise
as investor confidence deteriorates and decline as it improves,
jumped 1.1 percentage points to 8.4 percent up front, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Radian’s Profit  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
Investors use them to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness.  Radian swung to a first-quarter profit of $103 million on
gains from investments including derivatives, the Philadelphia-
based insurer said today. That compares with a loss of $310.4
million a year earlier. Radian’s stock slipped 1.4 percent.  PMI has fallen about 47 percent this year, compared with
MGIC’s 17 percent slide. No. 2 Radian has fallen 28 percent.  Until 2007, private mortgage policies had been among the
most profitable types of coverage sold by insurers. From 2000 to
2006, members of the Mortgage Insurance Companies of America
reported a profit margin of at least 35 cents for every dollar
they collected in premiums.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  