-- 
Portugal Says Economy to Shrink Twice as Much as Forecast Under Added Cuts

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-05T15:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/portugal-says-economy-is-poised-to-contract-2-this-year-under-added-cuts.html
Portugal ’s economy will shrink twice
as much as forecast this year as the government implements
additional austerity measures to qualify for an international
aid package of as much as 78 billion euros ($116 billion).  Gross domestic product will decline 2 percent both in 2011
and 2012, Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos forecast today at a press conference in Lisbon to
announce the bailout agreement with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . That compares with the government’s
March projection that GDP would shrink 0.9 percent this year and
expand 0.3 percent in 2012.  Portugal resorted to the EU-led bailout after parliament
rejected the government’s latest round of spending cuts and tax
increases to tackle the  budget deficit , prompting early
elections. The budget measures, which include freezing public-
sector wages and cuts in pensions and jobless benefits, have
sparked protests, with public workers planning another one-day
strike tomorrow.  “It’s a big hit,” said Gustavo Bagattini, a European
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “ These measures
will have a very large impact on the domestic economy.”  Portugal is the third euro-area country to seek rescue aid
from the EU and the International Monetary Fund, after bailouts
last year of 110 billion euros for Greece and 67.5 billion euros
for Ireland. Under Portugal’s program, 52 billion euros of loans
will come from the EU and 26 billion euros from the IMF.  Three Years  The IMF loans will have an interest rate of 3.25 percent
for the first three years, and 4.25 percent after that, based on
current rates,  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF mission in
Portugal, said at a separate press conference in Lisbon. The EU
portion will carry higher rates that have not been set yet. The
aid will allow Portugal to avoid having to raise funds in bond
markets for two years, Thomsen said.  The rates Portugal had to pay at debt auctions surged in
the past year on concern the country would need a bailout. The
two-year period “will give the government the breathing space
it needs,” Thomsen said.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell today, snapping four days of
advances as the aid negotiations neared completion. The 10-year
yield rose 16 basis points to 9.68 percent as of 3:37 p.m. in
 London .  Austerity Measures  The package calls for Portugal to implement the austerity
measures that the government proposed and parliament rejected in
March. Spending reductions for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to
pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of GDP, while revenue
increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic output,
Teixeira dos Santos said. The plan also earmarks 12 billion
euros for Portugal’s banks.  The government will freeze public workers’ salaries and
pensions through 2013 and cut pensions or more than 1,500 euros
a month. Tax deductions will be limited and the government aims
to sell its stakes in companies including EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA, the country’s biggest electricity company, and REN-
Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA, operator of the national  power
grid , by the end of this year.  “It’s a very strong and very front-loaded fiscal
program,” the IMF’s Thomsen said. “That is by any standard
ambitious and a strong pace of adjustment.”  The program will allow the economy to start recovering in
2013, Teixeira dos Santos said. The economy expanded less than 1
percent a year on average in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s
slowest growth rates. The  unemployment rate , which stood at 11.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, will peak at 13 percent
in 2013, the finance minister said.  Aid Plan  Portugal’s aid plan is set to be shorter than the 7 1/2-
year maturities on the EU-IMF packages for  Greece  and Ireland.
Greece pays an average 3.5 percent for the first three years of
its plan and 4.5 percent thereafter. Ireland, which is trying to
negotiate better terms, currently pays an average of 5.8
percent.  Portugal is heading for elections on June 5, after Prime
Minister Jose Socrates resigned following the opposition’s
rejection of his deficit-cutting measures. He is governing with
limited powers until the vote.  Socrates’s depiction of the bailout agreement “as a big
success” while he is seeking re-election constitutes “a slap in
the face” to other countries,  Frank Schaeffler , a member of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s governing coalition, said
today.  The  Social Democrats  and the  People’s Party , Portugal’s
biggest and second-biggest opposition parties, have said they
support the program, while blaming Socrates, a Socialist, for
requesting it.  The 78-billion euro package “is the bill, or the price of
indebtedness of the last six years in Portugal,” Social
Democratic leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  said last night in a
television interview. Socrates took office in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net 
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  