-- 
Portugal Wins EU-IMF Aid Package, Fanning European Backlash Over Bailouts

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-05-05T14:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/portugal-wins-116-billion-aid-package-heightening-backlash-over-bailouts.html
Portugal  won a 78 billion-euro ($116
billion) international aid package, fanning domestic controversy
over budget cuts amid an election campaign and renewing
discontent in  Europe ’s richer countries over bailouts.  Emergency lending for Portugal lifted the cost of fighting
Europe’s debt crisis to 256 billion euros just as speculation
mounts that  Greece , the country where it started, is plunging
into a deeper financial hole.  “I will also be honest: this is not easy, it’s a tough
program,” Juergen Kroeger, a European Commission official, told
reporters today after the details were hammered out in Lisbon.  Portugal joined Greece and Ireland as beneficiaries of aid,
heightening the political backlash in wealthier countries such
as  Finland  and  Germany  over the costs of keeping the 17-nation
euro economy intact.  A year of  crisis management  “doesn’t work” and “it’s a
question of time before a default will happen” in Greece, Timo Soini, head of Finland’s euro-skeptic True Finns party, told
Bloomberg Television today.  Soini indicated that the True Finns, which rocketed to
third place in last month’s election, can’t stand in the way of
Portugal’s package, which follows loans of 110 billion euros for
Greece and 67.5 billion euros for Ireland.  Parliamentary Maneuvering  While the party would tolerate parliamentary maneuvering to
funnel aid to Portugal, it would use its status in the future
Finnish government to oppose a strengthening of the  bailout
facility , Soini said.  The  European Central Bank  countered the opponents, with
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  saying Portugal’s program has the
“necessary elements to bring about a sustainable stabilization
of the Portuguese economy.”  Speaking within walking distance of the True Finns’
headquarters after the ECB traveled to Helsinki for its monthly
meeting, Trichet called on “all countries to be up to their
responsibility.”  European governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
forced all of Portugal’s main political parties to pledge to
slash the budget by 10 percent of gross domestic product over
the next three years, no matter who is elected on June 5.  “During that three-year period the economy will face
significant headwinds,” the IMF’s Poul Thomsen said at the
Lisbon press conference. “That is by any standard ambitious and
a strong pace of adjustment.”  Three Years  Euro-area countries will provide two-thirds and the IMF
one-third of Portugal’s loans. IMF loans for the first three
years will come at a 3.25 percent interest rate. The rate on the
European portion will be higher.  Portugal estimated that the economy will shrink about 2
percent in 2011, twice as sharp as the contraction forecast in
March. It predicted another 2 percent decline in 2012, tearing
up a forecast of 0.3 percent growth.  Portugal’s public workers plan to stage a one-day strike
tomorrow, building on May 1 labor-day protests by the country’s
main unions against the planned cuts in pensions,  unemployment
benefits , health care and education.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds fell today, erasing gains made
since the start of the week as the aid talks neared climax. The
10-year yield rose 13 basis points to 9.65 percent at 2:35 p.m.
in Lisbon, pushing the extra yield over German bonds to 642
basis points.  Emergency Relief  Emergency relief for Portugal inflamed anew the political
mood in Germany, which as the euro area’s largest economy is the
main guarantor of the unprecedented rescue programs put in place
by European governments last year.  Calling for aid during an election campaign is “a slap in
the face” to countries that haven’t mismanaged their finances,
said  Frank Schaeffler , a member of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s governing coalition.  “Each country has to tap its own reserves before it makes
a grab for the reserves of the others,” Schaeffler, a Free
Democratic Party member of the German parliament’s finance
committee, said in a phone interview. He said Portugal should
sell its gold stocks first.  Portugal’s aid package requires approval by all euro-area
governments, with most putting it to parliament. Also up for
debate is the strengthening of the temporary euro rescue fund
and the setup of a permanent fund as of mid-2013.  Merkel declined to pass judgment on the Portuguese package,
waiting until European finance ministers discuss it on May 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  