-- 
Pound Gains Versus Euro; Rebounding from 13-Month Low on Trichet Comments

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-05T15:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pound-gains-versus-euro-rebounding-from-13-month-low-on-trichet-comments.html
The pound rose against the euro after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
interest-rate increases may be later than expected, narrowing
the yield advantage over sterling assets.  Sterling recovered from a 13-month low reached earlier
against the European currency, climbing the most in four months.
ECB policy makers will monitor inflation risks “very closely,”
Trichet said at a press conference in Helsinki, wording
interpreted by the market as indicating the bank may wait until
after June to lift borrowing costs. The ECB left its benchmark
interest rate at 1.25 percent, while the  Bank of England  kept
its key rate at a record low 0.5 percent today.  “A lot of people were looking for that ‘strong vigilance’
phrase from Trichet and as soon as it was omitted they began
pricing out the risk of ECB rate hikes at the next meeting,”
said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-based market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA. “That’s caused the euro to suffer against
the pound.”  Britain’s currency appreciated as much as 1.2 percent to
88.85 pence per euro, as of 4:52 p.m. in  London , the steepest
advance since Jan. 7. Sterling had earlier fallen to as low as
90.43 pence to the euro, the weakest since March 22, 2010. The
pound weakened 0.4 percent to $1.6420 and lost 1.2 percent to
131.37 yen.  U.K. Rates  U.K. monetary policy makers led by Governor  Mervyn King 
left their main lending rate unchanged as worsening economic
data reduced the need for higher borrowing costs to curb
inflation, which has soared to more than twice the central
bank’s 2 percent target. Still, inflation unexpectedly eased to
4 percent in March, following five months of acceleration to a
more than two-year high of 4.4 percent in February.  “The BOE is perfectly justified in keeping rates on hold
in light of the weakness in the economy,” said  Hetal Mehta , a
London-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  and a
former U.K. Treasury official.  A report today showed a gauge of U.K. service industries
fell to 54.3 in April from 57.1 the previous month, Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said, lower than the 56 forecast by economists. Data
published yesterday showed  house prices  declined for the first
time in three months, while a gauge of construction growth
unexpectedly dropped to a four-month low.  Money markets are factoring in a 25 basis-point increase in
the central bank’s main rate by year-end, according to sterling
overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the yield
on the 10-year gilt rising less than one basis point to 3.39
percent. The two-year note yielded 1.02 percent, little changed
from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  