-- 
U.K. Pound Trades Near 13-Month Low Versus Euro as BOE Holds Interest Rate

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-05T12:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/pound-approaches-13-month-low-versus-euro-before-interest-rates-decision.html
The pound traded near a 13-month low
versus the euro after a report showed U.K. services growth
slowed more than estimated and the  Bank of England  kept its key
rate at a record low.  Sterling erased losses against the shared currency after
German factory orders unexpectedly fell in March, damping
prospects for rate increases by the  European Central Bank . A
gauge of U.K. service industries fell to 54.3 in April from 57.1
the previous month, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said, lower than the 56
forecast by economists. Policy makers led by Governor  Mervyn
King  left the  bank rate  at 0.5 percent. The ECB left its main
rate at 1.25 percent before a press conference by the bank’s
president Jean-Claude Trichet.  “The BOE is perfectly justified in keeping rates on hold
in light of the weakness in the economy,” said  Hetal Mehta , a
London-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  and a
former U.K. Treasury official. “The BOE is more willing than
the ECB to look through short-term inflation spikes so it’s
inevitable that sterling will underperform the euro.”  The pound declined as much as 0.6 percent to 90.43 pence
per euro, the weakest level since March 22, 2010, before trading
little changed at 89.88 pence at 1:00 p.m. in London. Britain’s
currency climbed 0.2 percent to $1.6516 and lost 0.8 percent to
131.82 yen.  Worsening economic data may ease pressure on British policy
makers to raise rates to curb inflation, which has soared to
more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent target.  House-Price Decline  Reports yesterday showed  house prices  declined for the
first time in three months, while a gauge of construction growth
unexpectedly dropped to a four-month low. Inflation also
unexpectedly eased to 4 percent in March, following five months
of acceleration to a more than two-year high of 4.4 percent in
February.  High levels of debt pose “massive” challenges for the
economy that “will last for many years,”King said May 2 at a
committee of the European Parliament in Brussels. “The economic
consequences of high-level indebtedness now would become more
severe if rates were to rise,” said King.  “The recent slew of U.K. economic data has clearly reduced
the chances of a rate hike,”  Stephen Gallo , head of market
analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London , wrote in an e-
mailed note yesterday. The likelihood of a rise in the key rate
is “practically nil,” he added.  Money markets are factoring in a 25 basis-point increase in
the central bank’s main rate by year-end, according to sterling
overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.  Money Markets, ECB  The pound strengthened 0.1 percent to close at 87.66 pence
per euro after the BOE’s last rate decision on April 7 when it
kept its key lending rate unchanged. The gains came even after
the ECB lifted its main rate for the first time in almost three
years on the same day, though Trichet said the increase wasn’t
necessarily the “first of a series.”  Analysts also weighed whether ECB President  Jean-Claude
Trichet  will today signal faster rate increases when he
discusses the central bank’s policy decision in Helsinki. Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.’s  Derek Halpenny  saying a mention
of the phrase ‘strong vigilance’ could signal further increases
in June or July.  The ECB was predicted to leave is key interest rate
unchanged by all 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  German factory orders slipped 4 percent in March after
climbing a revised 1.9 percent the previous month, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 0.4 percent, according to the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.K. government bonds fell, with the yield on the 10-year
gilt rising 3.5 basis points to 3.41 percent. The two-year note
yielded 1.04 percent, two basis points more than yesterday.  Short-sterling futures also declined, pushing the implied
yield on the contract expiring in December up one basis point to
1.11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  