-- 
Priceline Reign as Top Travel Stock Threatened by IPO Wave

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-05T13:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/priceline-s-reign-as-top-travel-stock-threatened-by-ipo-upstarts.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the top performer
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the past two years, will
encounter more competition for fund managers’ dollars as initial
public offerings double the number of online travel stocks.  Kayak Software Corp., a travel search engine, and HomeAway
Inc., a vacation-rental website, both filed for IPOs in the past
six months. And  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , the biggest online travel agency
by sales, announced plans in April to spin off its TripAdvisor
unit as a publicly held stock.  This  bumper crop  is part of a recovery in stock offerings,
following years of drought. Last month was the busiest period
for U.S. IPO filings in almost four years. With more options
available, investors may seek to diversify their portfolios,
jeopardizing the momentum that propelled a fivefold surge in
Priceline’s shares during the past two years.  “Priceline has been the only game in town,” said  Paul Bard , vice president of research at  Renaissance Capital  LLC, a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO investment firm. “You’re going
to see more innovation from some of these new IPOs, and that
will be attractive to investors.”  The online leisure travel market may expand 16 percent in
the U.S. to $113 billion next year from $97 billion in 2010,
according to research firm  PhoCusWright Inc.  The country
represents less than half the global market.  Sales Growth  The growth has helped fuel sales and profit gains for
Priceline, which is scheduled to report first-quarter results
after the close of trading today. Revenue probably jumped 34
percent to $780.3 million, according to the average estimate of
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income likely rose 65
percent to $88.7 million, analysts predict.  Most of Priceline’s growth is coming outside of the U.S. In
2010, the company’s international business accounted for about
82 percent of operating income, mainly related to its Amsterdam-
based Booking.com business, which Priceline acquired in 2005.
The company’s eponymous name-your-own-price service, touted in
commercials by actor  William Shatner , is aimed at North American
customers. U.S. revenue rose 10 percent last year.  Brian Ek, a spokesman for Norwalk, Connecticut-based
Priceline, declined to comment for this story.  Priceline’s stock has beat every stock in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index in the past two years. The shares fell $3.30 to
$534.36 at 9:38 a.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘Best of the Bunch’  “Priceline continues to do well; it’s the best of the
bunch,” said Bryan Keane, an analyst at Alpine  Mutual Funds  in
Purchase, New York. His firm manages $7 billion in assets,
including Priceline shares. “It’s been beating earnings and
it’s been growing at a very rapid pace.”  Even so, Alpine will look at new opportunities to invest in
online travel companies as business continues to gravitate to
the Internet, he said.  Thirty-four companies announced plans for U.S. IPOs in
April alone, the busiest month for new filings since August
2007, according to Renaissance Capital.  Kayak, located in Priceline’s hometown of Norwalk, filed to
raise as much as $50 million in an IPO in November. The company
said in March that 2010 revenue climbed 51 percent to $170.7
million, helped by a 38 percent increase in website queries.  Started in 2004 by founders of Expedia, Travelocity and
 Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , Kayak compiles flights and accommodation
data from online travel agencies, as well as the airlines and
hotels themselves. Unlike Priceline, Expedia and Orbitz, Kayak
doesn’t complete the transaction on its own site, collecting
money instead from advertising and referring clients.  Vacation Rentals  HomeAway doesn’t compete as directly with Priceline,
because it focuses on the vacation-rental market. The company
has more than 540,000 rental listings in 120 countries.
HomeAway, whose revenue jumped 40 percent to $167.9 million last
year, filed to sell as much as $230 million of stock in its IPO.  “HomeAway represents a niche segment, but it’s one that
will grow in popularity over time as more and more consumers
seek alternative accommodations on their trips,” said  Henry Harteveldt , an analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Forrester Research Inc.  “The privacy that a home or condo or
villa offers is something that may be preferential to the more
public environment of a hotel.”
The biggest of the new IPOs may be  TripAdvisor , which recorded
38 percent sales growth last year to $486 million, almost triple
the growth rate at parent company Expedia. An independent
TripAdvisor, which includes 19 travel and advertising brands,
will give investors the chance to own a stake of the faster-
growing business. Expedia expects to complete the transaction in
the third quarter.  Buy Recommendations  Even with the anticipated wave of travel site IPOs, 16 of
20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg recommend buying Priceline’s
shares. Four have a hold rating, and none recommends selling.  Laszlo Birinyi, president of money management firm Birinyi
Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut , still sees the company
as a safe bet. His firm owned 4,500 shares as of Dec. 31.  “It’s a stock we picked up a little while ago, and it’s
far exceeded any hopes we had for it,” Birinyi said in an April
26 interview with Bloomberg Television. “There are some stocks,
which are in the midst of magical mystery tours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  