-- 
Productivity in U.S. Probably Slowed in First Quarter as Labor Costs Rose

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/productivity-in-u-s-probably-slowed-in-first-quarter-and-labor-costs-rose.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
probably slowed in the first quarter and labor costs rose as a
growing economy prompted companies to boost employment,
economists said before a report today.  The measure of employee output per hour rose at a 1.1
percent annual rate, after a 2.6 percent gain in the prior three
months, according to the median estimate of 68 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report may also show expenses
per employee climbed at a 0.8 percent rate after dropping 0.6
percent.  Companies may need to keep adding staff and increasing
hours after reaching the limit of how much efficiency they could
extract from their workforces in the early phase of the
recovery. A report tomorrow is projected to show employers in
the world’s largest economy added 185,000 workers in April.  “We’re getting to the point where you can’t squeeze more
output without increasing workers and hours,” said Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in  New York .
“As the recovery continues and employment catches up, we’re
likely to see smaller gains in productivity.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from no change to a 3.1
percent increase.  Also at 8:30 a.m., other data from the Labor Department may
show fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, reinforcing the improvement in the labor
market. Jobless claims fell to 410,000 from the prior week,
according to the median projection in the Bloomberg survey.
Forecasts ranged from 395,000 to 450,000.  Hours Worked  The number of hours worked rose 0.4 percent in the first
three months of the year from the previous quarter even as the
pace of economic growth slowed, showing employers found it
difficult to meet demand without more hiring. The economy
expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace from January through
March, after a 3.1 percent advance in the last three months of
2010, the Commerce Department reported on April 28.  Signs of sustained demand are prompting companies to expand
investment in capital equipment and take on more workers.  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain by revenue, sought as many as 50,000 workers in
the U.S. during its National Hiring Day event on April 19.  “We do and have continued to hire through some of the
economic downturns, Donald Thompson, chief operating officer at
McDonald’s, said on an April 21 conference call.  Jobs Added  The Labor Department may report tomorrow that the U.S.
added jobs in April for the seventh consecutive month, according
to economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate
probably held at 8.8 percent.  While today’s productivity report may show labor costs are
rising, wage pressures are likely to remain contained. Federal
Reserve policy makers after their April 26-27 meeting said “the
 unemployment rate  remains elevated, and measures of underlying
inflation continue to be somewhat low” relative to their goal.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” according to the Fed statement last month.  Stocks fell yesterday as lower-than-forecast growth in
 service industries  and employment damped optimism about the
health of the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7
percent to 1,347.32 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  