-- 
Prostate Exam Deaths From ‘Superbugs’ Spur Inquiry Into Cancer Tests

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-05-06T04:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/prostate-exam-deaths-tied-to-superbug-ills-spur-cancer-test-inquiries.html
Shane Greenstein only vaguely recalls
being told that a prostate  biopsy  he had in June was negative
for cancer. That’s because within two days of the exam he was in
the hospital with a potentially deadly blood infection.  “It was the worst illness I have ever felt in my life,”
said Greenstein, 50, an economics professor at  Northwestern
University  who sought emergency-room treatment in Evanston,
Illinois, 10 hours after feeling “mild flu-like symptoms.”  Doctors gave him intravenous fluids to maintain blood
pressure and prevent  shock , a complication that could lead to a
cascade of symptoms including organ failure and death.
Greenstein was saved when the third antibiotic he was prescribed,
an intravenous one, managed to kill the bacteria.  Among the millions of men tested for  prostate cancer  around
the world each year, doctors are detecting an alarming trend: An
increasing number of patients are getting sick from potentially
lethal, drug-resistant infections.  Studies emerging during the past year have uncovered that a
small, yet growing percentage of those undergoing routine needle
biopsy tests are becoming critically ill and dying from
bacterial infections. Infectious complications including  sepsis ,
the condition Greenstein had, from prostate biopsies have more
than doubled in less than a decade, studies from three countries
show. Nine out of 10,000 men whose tests were negative died
within a month, researchers in Toronto reported in the Journal
of Urology in March last year.  More Harm Than Good  The  new reports , by urologists from Baltimore to  Singapore ,
are forcing doctors to rethink their approach to screening for
prostate cancer, the  most common  malignancy in men. The newly
uncovered risk of dangerous infections is adding to  concern  that
the tests are being overused, leading to aggressive  treatment 
that may cause some men more harm than good.  The studies also are exposing another deadly risk
attributed to the global rise of infections that can’t be
readily treated by existing antibiotics.  “We’re all beginning to see more and more sepsis as a
result of resistant bacteria after prostate biopsies,” said
Peter T. Scardino, chief of surgery at the Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center in New York, which does about 2,000 of
the tests annually. “This is an extremely worrisome problem.”  Doing a tissue biopsy of the prostate to detect cancer
typically entails sending an  ultrasound-guided needle  about a
dozen times through the rectum to collect specimens from the
walnut-sized gland that sits under the bladder. The test carries
an infection risk because the needle can take bacteria from the
bowel into the prostate, bladder and bloodstream. The  15-minute
procedure , usually performed in a doctor’s office, can be
dangerous if the bacteria are resistant to antibiotics given at
the time of the biopsy.  ‘Significant Threat’  “It’s a significant threat,” said Florian Wagenlehner,
head of urology at University Hospital Giessen, near  Frankfurt ,
who is researching infectious complications from prostate
biopsies in  Europe . “If you have 1 million procedures a year in
Europe and you have a 1-to-5 percent infectious complication
rate, it’s unacceptable.”  More than 1 million transrectal prostate biopsies are done
in the U.S. each year to diagnose cancers in men whose screening
blood tests suggest they may have the disease. No studies have
examined the risk of sepsis globally. Instead doctors are trying
to gauge the scope of the problem from  studies  beginning to
emerge from North America, Europe and Asia.  Death Toll  “The fact that there is a mortality rate associated with
the procedure, that’s concerning,” said Robert Nam, head of
genitor-urinary cancer at Toronto’s Odette Cancer Centre, who
led the largest  study  to date of hospitalizations after biopsy.  Nam helped uncover the emerging infection risk last year
after he trawled through more than 75,000 electronic records of
biopsy patients treated in Ontario between 1996 and 2005. When
he looked at hospital admissions among patients whose biopsy was
negative for cancer, Nam discovered the chance of being
hospitalized within a month of the procedure had increased
fourfold in less than a decade, reaching 4.1 percent in 2005
from 1 percent in 1996, according to the Journal of Urology
report.  When Nam searched for the cause of the hospitalizations, he
found 72 percent had an infection-related diagnosis. Nam’s
research group is examining individual case files to determine
the cause and severity of the infections and which patients had
drug-resistant bacteria.  ‘Not Just Smoke’  “When you’re admitted to hospital, that’s an indication of
a pretty severe infection,” he said. “I firmly believe the
source of sepsis is from antibiotic-resistant strains.”  Nam’s research was presented at the  American Urological
Association ’s annual meeting in  San Francisco  last June. Four
other studies  with similar  findings were presented by
researchers from the U.S., Czech Republic, Singapore and  South
Korea . Ten studies related to prostate biopsies and infection
are slated for this year’s meeting in  Washington  on May 14-19.  “There’s not just smoke, there is a fire. No question,”
said Gilbert J. Wise, 78, clinical professor of urology at  New
York ’s Weill Cornell Medical Center, who has practiced urology
since 1969. “I’m personally aware of two deaths -- they’re not
mine, thank God -- in patients following biopsy. So it can
happen. It’s a shame. You do something, there is no cancer, and
they die of the procedure.”  Screening Controversy  Infectious complications are adding to debate over so-
called  PSA screening , a blood test for a protein produced by
prostate cells known as prostate-specific antigen. About 30
million American men get the test annually, costing at least $3
billion, said Richard J. Ablin, the scientist who discovered PSA
in 1970. Still, the basis of the exam is flawed because it can’t
detect prostate cancer or distinguish between benign tumors and
deadly malignant ones.  “Despite accumulating evidence to the contrary of the
effectiveness of the test, it continues to lead to a hugely
expensive public health disaster,” said Ablin, 70, a research
professor of pathology at the University of Arizona College of
Medicine in Tucson. “The medical community must confront the
reality and stop the inappropriate use of PSA testing.”  Men most susceptible to harboring resistant bacteria
include those who have taken antibiotics in the year before the
procedure; who have recently visited countries where resistance
is common in the community; and those who work in a hospital or
 live with  someone who does, said David Bell, a urologist in
Halifax, Nova Scotia.  Doctors Vulnerable  Bell, who is head of the urology department at Dalhousie
University, and colleagues reported three cases of sepsis from
multidrug-resistant bacteria in doctors who underwent prostate
biopsy in the  Canadian Journal of Urology  in April last year.
One of the physicians, a 44-year-old whose biopsy was negative
for cancer, died.  “I have personally sent two other departmental chiefs into
the ICU because of biopsies,” Bell, 52, said. “This is a huge
issue. This is actually catastrophic.”  Bell, who completed his urology training in 1990, said he’s
now “much more reluctant” to recommend a biopsy unless there’s
good evidence a patient has a malignancy, and that it needs to
be identified and treated.  Two days after his biopsy, Don Beer, a resident of Canberra
in  Australia , began feeling sick. His chills worsened shortly
after he went to bed at about 7 p.m.  ‘Shivering and Shaking’  “Pretty soon I was shivering and shaking,” said Beer, a
69-year-old former history professor. His case was described by
doctors in a letter to the Medical Journal of Australia in
February.  At the time of the procedure, Beer was given ciprofloxacin,
a pill from the antibiotic class known as  fluoroquinolones ,
favored by most urologists for their ability to concentrate in
the prostate gland and fight a broad spectrum of so-called Gram-
negative bacteria including  E. coli  that inhabit the bowel.  Blood and urine tests on Beer found his infection was
caused by E. coli, the most common cause of urinary tract
infections. Tests found that the bacterial strain coursing
through Beer’s bloodstream was resistant to ciprofloxacin and
four other classes of antibiotics.  Beer’s infection came and went three times before it was
finally cleared with the help of seven courses of four different
antibiotics over nine weeks, according to the letter.  Beer probably picked up the superbug from the  food  and
water he consumed while traveling overseas, said Peter Collignon,
head of infectious diseases at Canberra Hospital, where Beer was
treated. The government-run center has seen 16 cases of sepsis
following prostate biopsy since 2009. E. coli resistant to two
or more antibiotic classes was found in 13 patients and
ciprofloxacin-resistant E. coli was found in 10.  No More Drugs  “This is a major international public health problem --not
just in prostate biopsies,” said Collignon, who also teaches at
the Australian National University. “We are all seeing so many
difficult or impossible to treat Gram-negative bacteria
infections, and there’s nothing in the pipeline capable of
fighting the most resistant of them.”  People may carry resistant bacteria for years, said Maurine Leverstein-van Hall, a clinical microbiologist at the University
Medical Center in the Dutch city of Utrecht. A quarter of people
whose bowels were colonized with the superbugs still had them a
year later, her research found.  Beer traveled to Morocco and Spain 12 months before the
procedure, and Vietnam and Cambodia two years prior. He’d also
spent weeks traveling through  China ,  Egypt , Jordan, Turkey,
Chile, Argentina, Peru and Bolivia from 2002 to 2006.  India , China  Ciprofloxacin-resistant E. coli is uncommon in Australia,
the only country where general practitioners require government
authority to prescribe the medicine. A  national survey  found
resistance in 4.9 percent of 762 specimens tested in 2006.  In
Europe , resistance ranges from 7 percent in Iceland to 36
percent in  Italy  and 43 percent in Cyprus. More than half of
specimens tested in India, China and  Thailand  resist
ciprofloxacin and three other antibiotic classes, a  2011 study 
found.  Researchers in  Australia  and  Sweden  testing rectal swabs of
international travelers taken before and after their trips
reported last year that a quarter to half returned home carrying
multidrug resistant E. coli in their bowels. Of those who
visited India, at least three-quarters were colonized with the
superbugs.  Tailoring Treatment  Michael Liss, a chief resident in his final year of urology
training at the University of  California ,  Irvine , in  Los Angeles ,
is researching  a test  that will help doctors predict the best
antibiotic for preventing infections. Liss was prompted to look
for ways to make the procedure safer after almost losing a
patient to sepsis three years ago.  Biopsy candidates who recently traveled to India, China and
other parts of  Asia  should wait six months after their return
before having the procedure, said Anthony Costello, who does
about 200 biopsies a year at prostate cancer clinics at the
Royal Melbourne and Epworth hospitals in Melbourne. He estimates
two of every 100 biopsy patients will develop sepsis. About
26,000 procedures were done in Australia last year, more than
double the number a decade earlier, government statistics show.  Prostate biopsies are also controversial because a cancer
 diagnosis  doesn’t necessarily save lives. A two-decade-long
study led by Gabriel Sandblom of the Karolinska Institute in
Stockholm found that PSA tests and digital rectal exams helped
detect cancer but didn’t reduce deaths. A separate  study  from
Sweden last year showed that 293 men needed to be invited for a
cancer screening and 12 had to be treated to prevent one death.  $9.9 Billion in Costs  An estimated  217,730 men  were diagnosed with prostate
cancer and 32,050 men died of the disease in the U.S. last year.
U.S. medical costs linked to prostate cancer care were estimated
at  $9.9 billion  in 2006.  One in six men in the U.S. will be diagnosed with prostate
cancer during their lifetime, according to the National Cancer
Institute in Bethesda,  Maryland . Even still, fewer than 3
percent of men  will die  from the malignancy.  The  American Cancer Society  changed its  guidelines  in 2010
to reflect a growing body of research suggesting screening tests
may do more harm than good in some men. The cancer group said
patients should be warned of the risk of misleading tests
results and treatment side effects, which might in some cases
cause more damage than the slow-growing disease.  Do No Harm  “There has been this huge enthusiasm for everyone getting
their PSA checked, which has led to a lot of prostate biopsies
that have not benefited anyone,” said James R. Johnson, an
infectious diseases physician at the Veterans Affairs Medical
Center in Minneapolis. “The more dangerous the biopsy becomes
because of infection risk, the more likely it is that the
balance is shifting toward harm, rather than benefit.”  Sepsis survivor Greenstein says the desire to get an early
jump on prostate cancer is such that it wouldn’t dissuade him
from a repeat biopsy if it’s recommended.  “The risks are too high,” the father-of-four said.
“You’ve got to do what you can to avoid it.” But at the first
sign of a problem, he said he would seek medical help. “I would
go to the hospital at 8 o’clock, rather than wait until the next
morning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  