-- 
Protests in Pakistan on Bin Laden Show Limits of His Support

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 
2011-05-06T20:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/protests-in-pakistan-over-killing-of-bin-laden-show-limits-of-his-support.html
Protests in  Pakistan  sparked by Osama bin Laden’s killing have drawn smaller crowds than those over
U.S. drone attacks, showing that the al-Qaeda leader failed to
win broad support even amid widespread anti-American sentiment.  About 300 lawyers in their customary black suits and ties
recited funeral prayers for bin Laden May 4 on the lawn of the
 High Court  in Peshawar and protested what they called a
violation of Pakistani territory. Hundreds of people gathered in
the cities of Karachi, Rawalpindi and Quetta following the al-
Qaeda leader’s killing on May 2 in Abbottabad, 50 kilometers (30
miles) north of Islamabad, the capital.  “In Pakistan, public perception isn’t in favor of al-Qaeda
but it’s anti-American,” Rashid Khan, a professor of
international relations at the  University of Sargodha  in central
Pakistan, said in a phone interview. “People from outside
usually confuse one with another.”  U.S. Marine Corps Colonel  David Lapan , a spokesman for the
Pentagon, said as far as he knows Pakistan hasn’t lodged any
official protest over the raid or asked the Defense Department
to reduce its almost 300 military personnel in the country.  “We have not been alerted to any new decisions about the
size of our military personnel in Pakistan,” Lapan told
reporters at the Pentagon today. The U.S. also hasn’t noticed
any problems in getting its supplies through Pakistan on the way
to Afghanistan, he said.  5,000 Protest  A protest in Peshawar last month against U.S. drone attacks
on militants that have also killed civilians attracted 5,000
people, according to a report in The News. Newspaper editorials
have been critical of the al-Qaeda leader, accusing him of
spawning violence that has cost the lives of thousands of
Pakistanis.  Bin Laden  “has been a source of ideological motivation for
some radical groups, but he never captured a reputation of a
hero” among Pakistan’s 180 million people, Zafar Nawaz Jaspal,
a professor of international relations at Quaid-e-Azam
International University in Islamabad, said in a phone
interview.  Support for bin Laden in Pakistan fell from 46 percent in
2003 to 18 percent last year, according to a Pew Global
Attitudes  survey . In a  separate study  in 2010, Pew reported that
only 17 percent of Pakistanis had a favorable view of the U.S.
And while 59 percent described America as an enemy, just 11
percent saw it as a partner.  Drone Attacks  The U.S. military says its war against the Taliban in
 Afghanistan  is hindered by neighboring Pakistan’s failure to
shut down safe havens for militants on its soil. Many U.S. drone
attacks target the district of North Waziristan, which the U.S.
says is home to both Taliban and al-Qaeda guerrillas.  Some Pakistani leaders have tried to draw a curtain on the
killing of bin Laden, with Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani 
saying May 4 in Paris it was time to “move on.” Others, like
Pakistan Foreign Secretary Salman Bashir, have aimed criticism
at the U.S.  He told reporters yesterday in Islamabad that military
action that violates a country’s sovereignty raises legal and
moral issues. “There are some red lines in our relationship,
and these red lines need to be observed,” he said.  In the U.S., debate has focused on whether Pakistani
officials helped bin Laden hide for years in one of their
country’s main military centers. CIA director Leon Panetta, in a
May 3 interview with Time magazine, said U.S. officials planning
the raid “decided that any effort to work with the Pakistanis
could jeopardize the mission” because “they might alert the
targets.”  Pakistan Aid  Senator  Carl Levin  and other U.S. lawmakers have called for
a review of aid to Pakistan, which in fiscal 2010 rose to $4.35
billion, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  Some Pakistanis say the fact the U.S. was able to carry out
a raid undetected in the heart of their country raises questions
about the effectiveness of their own military.  “If the U.S. can come and target anybody on our soil, then
who will stop  India ?” Waseem Ahmed, 44, a college teacher based
in Rawalpindi, said yesterday, referring to the country’s long-
time rival and neighbor with which it has fought three wars
since 1947.  Religious Party  “There is big resentment in Pakistan following the U.S.
operation,” Sargodha University’s Khan said. “People think
Pakistan can’t defend its borders.”  While protests over bin Laden’s killing have been small, if
“pressure builds on Pakistan internationally” over charges it
hasn’t done enough to fight terrorism, religious parties will
use it as a rallying point’’ against the country’s alliance with
the U.S., Khan said.  Jamaat-e-Islami , Pakistan’s biggest religious party, plans
to hold nationwide demonstrations today to protest the U.S.
raid, leader Munawar Hasan said in a phone interview today.
“Americans have flouted our sovereignty and freedom on such a
big scale,” Hasan said.  While Jamaat has polled about 5 percent of the vote in
elections, it carries influence “because of its effectiveness
in mobilizing street power” and “its adeptness at using
Pakistan’s Islamic identity” to win support, according to a
 January report  by Lisa Curtis, a senior research fellow at the
Washington-based  Heritage Foundation .  Army Offensives  Militants linked to the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qaeda may
seek to target civilians or security services to avenge bin
Laden’s death, Khan said. Suicide bombings and gun attacks have
killed thousands of Pakistani civilians and security force
members since 2009 when the army launched offensives against
militant strongholds.  Bin Laden wasn’t “simply an enemy of other countries; he
and his ideology have exacted a stunning death toll in Pakistan
over the last few years,” Pakistan’s English-language  Dawn
newspaper  wrote in an editorial May 4. “Add to this the way he
was killed, and embarrassment turns into deep shame.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir in  Peshawar  at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  