-- 
Qaddafi’s Cash Hoard Will Be Made Available to Libyan Rebels, Clinton Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-05T22:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/qaddafi-s-cash-hoard-will-be-made-available-to-libyan-rebels-clinton-says.html
The Obama administration said it will
permit Libyan rebels to draw on the $33 billion in Libyan assets
frozen by U.S., as allied nations opposing  Muammar Qaddafi 
looked for further measures to force him from power.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  made the announcement at
a meeting in Rome yesterday of foreign ministers from NATO and
allied nations. The Contact Group on Libya vowed to “intensify
the pressure” on the Qaddafi regime, which has continued its
attacks on civilian areas such as Misrata in defiance of the UN
Security Council and major Western powers.  The Obama administration seeks to make “some portion of
the assets” in the U.S. owned by Qaddafi and the Libyan
government available “to help the Libyan people,” Clinton
said. The administration is considering providing more than $150
million from the frozen assets in the near term, according to a
State Department official authorized to brief reporters on
condition that his name not be used.  In a  statement , the contact group said it agreed on a
separate finance mechanism for donors to aid the  Transitional
National Council , the Libyan rebel authority in the eastern city
of Benghazi. The statement said Kuwait gave $180 million to the
fund. It didn’t mention any other donations.  Qaddafi’s forces continued to bombard rebel-held cities as
the foreign ministers met. Allies including Qatar took part in
the  Rome  meeting as did representatives of the Libyan opposition
council.  Oil Tumbles  The insurgency in Libya, which has Africa’s largest proven
oil reserves, has helped push up  oil prices  this year. Oil fell
below $100 a barrel in  New York  yesterday in the biggest one-day
decline in since April 20, 2009, reflecting expectations that
slowing economic growth will curtail oil demand. Crude oil for
June delivery fell $9.44, or 8.6 percent, to settle at $99.80 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have fallen 12 percent
over the past four days.  The rebels “urgently need” between $2 billion and $3
billion for food, salaries, gasoline, and other uses, Mahmoud
Shamman, a council spokesman, said in an interview in Rome.  The contact group said Qaddafi, his family and regime
members “have lost all legitimacy” and that the allies favor
“the beginning, as soon as possible, of a political transition
that reflects the will of the Libyan people.”  ‘Intensity the Pressure’  The contact group called for stepping up military actions
without publicly acknowledging that some military analysts and
officials, such as U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, have described the conflict as settling
into a stalemate that leaves Qaddafi in control of part of
 Libya .  “Time is running out” for the Qaddafi regime, the contact
group said in its statement. “We will intensify the pressure on
the regime politically, militarily and economically” until it
complies with the demands of the UN Security Council to stop
attacks on civilians and to permit aid deliveries.  “As long as Qaddafi continues to attack his citizens, we
will continue to strike his forces and the assets, facilities
and command centers across Libya that are supporting his
operations,” Clinton said in remarks to other ministers.  Clinton also announced that the U.S. will remove legal
barriers to make it easier for oil sales to benefit the council.  The Treasury Department recently took steps to remove
barriers under U.S. law for oil-related transactions that
benefit the Transitional Council. Kuwait announced that it would
assist and Clinton called on other members of the Gulf
Cooperation Council to help.  Recognition  Clinton met with a senior opposition official, Mahmoud
Jibril, who raised the issue of U.S. recognition of the rebels’
interim government, according to a second administration
official who briefed reporters. She responded that the U.S. was
giving the opposition substantial support regardless of the
question of official recognition as Libya’s legitimate
government.  Clinton said the U.S. will provide $53 million toward the
United Nations target of raising $310 million for Libyan relief.
“They are still a long way from that goal,” Clinton said. She
noted that the U.S. is providing another $13 million in other
relief support for Libya and urged more countries to contribute.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen urged the allies May 4 to channel money to
Libya’s opposition.  “Funding is a political move to foster regime change and
less about protecting Libyan civilians,”  Jan Techau , director
of the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in Brussels
and a former German Defense Ministry analyst, said in a phone
interview. “Rasmussen wants to find which countries subscribe
to regime change and how to pay for it.”  Air Strikes  The insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule of Libya
began in February and allied forces have been making air strikes
since March.  In the contact group meeting, Turkish Foreign Minister
Ahmet Davutoglu called for a cease-fire within seven days,
according to Italian foreign minister  Franco Frattini .  Qaddafi loyalists pounded the rebel-held western port of
Misrata May 4, endangering an aid ship which delivered supplies
and picked up stranded migrant workers and wounded Libyans.  A British mine-clearing vessel, HMS Brocklesby, destroyed a
mine containing 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of high explosives
laid by pro-Qaddafi forces at the entrance to Misrata’s harbor,
the Ministry of Defense in  London  said in an e-mailed statement.  $33 Billion  British jets attacked two multiple rocket launchers near
Sirte on May 3 and a pair of surface-to-air missile launchers
near Tripoli May 4, the ministry said in a separate e-mailed
statement. NATO said in an e-mailed statement its jets flew 49
strike missions on May 4, with targets around Misrata including
three tanks, two mobile rocket launchers and three armored
vehicles.  The U.S. Treasury Department said about $33 billion of
frozen Libyan state assets were held in the U.S. at the end of
March. The Treasury yesterday said in a statement that the asset
freeze will be extended to include three companies owned by the
Libyan government. The companies are Libyan Jamahiriya
Broadcasting Corp., the state broadcasting company; Dalia
Advisory Ltd., a London-based investment firm; and Lafico
Algeria Holdings, an Algeria-based unit of the Libyan Arab
Foreign Investment Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Rome at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  