-- 
Canadian Solar Aims to Increase Market Share Amid Supply Glut

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-05T01:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/qu-seeks-to-squeeze-out-canadian-solar-s-competitors-in-global-panel-glut.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , the Chinese
solar-panel maker that’s expanding factories more than 60
percent this year, aims to increase its market share as global
overcapacity among manufacturers squeezes out smaller rivals.  Chief Executive Officer Shawn Qu said the Suzhou-based
company’s reputation for quality will persuade customers to
choose its photovoltaic devices over those of competitors as
output potential outstrips demand to 2012, pushing prices down.  “During an oversupply situation everybody’s margins get
pressure, but it’s actually the tier-one companies that gain
market share,” Qu said in a telephone interview. “Last year we
had a big under capacity, but this year and next year it may be
different.”  The company, whose competitors include  China ’s Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. and Evergreen Solar Inc. of the U.S., reports
earnings next week. He declined to comment on them.  The stock lost 9 percent in the first quarter on investor
concern that subsidy cuts in  Germany  and Italy may trim demand
just as the company increases its investment. Yingli’s U.S.-
traded shares have gained about 31 percent in the same period,
while Evergreen plunged 61 percent.  Qu said he’s bracing Canadian Solar for increased
competition because newer markets in the U.S. and China may not
compensate for slower demand in  Europe , where governments are
reining in subsidies.  “They are looking mid- to long-term,” said Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at the German bank Joh. Berenberg,
Gossler & Co. in  London . “New markets like the China or the
U.S. with  California  will show nice growth rates, and you want
to be ahead of that curve.”  Profit Squeeze  Canadian Solar, the No. 7 solar-panel maker by capacity,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, is already seeing its
profit squeezed, and Qu said gross margins may have slipped to
about 15 percent in the first quarter from 17 percent in the
previous three months.  The company’s profit more than doubled last year to $51
million as panel sales in Germany soared, according to Bloomberg
data.  Global production capacity is set to rise to at least 41.5
gigawatts of panels this year from about 32 gigawatts last year,
with demand of 28 gigawatts at most, London-based New Energy
Finance estimates. The forecast glut will help push down panel
prices.  “You may have some radical over-capacity” this year, Qu
said.  While maintaining the bulk of its manufacturing in China,
the company is also setting up a factory in  Canada , the country
it was named after.  The 200-megawatt plant in Ontario, where Qu earned a
doctorate and researched solar technology at the  University of
Toronto  in the 1990s, is due for completion in the second
quarter. It will allow Canadian Solar to sell panels in the
province. Ontario offers subsidized rates to  power plants  that
use locally produced equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  