-- 
Rajaratnam Case Gets Quiet After New Juror Takes Seat on Panel

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-05T19:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/rajaratnam-jurors-start-deliberations-over-in-insider-case-afer-disruption.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s  insider-trading  case
was quiet compared with events yesterday, when a juror was
dismissed for medical reasons and the judge ordered the public
to leave her alone.  The remaining 11 jurors, joined by an alternate, started
new deliberations after more than a week of fruitless effort.
Today, they asked for pens and paper before lunch, and later
sent a note requesting some exhibits including wiretaps from the
trial.  After reporters contacted the dismissed juror,
U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in  Manhattan  ordered that
“no person shall contact any excused, impaneled or alternate
juror regarding the jury’s deliberations” before the verdict.  Holwell reinforced the emphasis on silence in explaining
why he had sealed the transcript of proceedings held in his
robing room. Those discussions with lawyers concerned the
excused juror and Rajaratnam’s emergency foot surgery May 1,
which has kept the Galleon Group LLC co-founder away from court
so far this week.  “The court is mindful of the presumption of public access
to various stages of a criminal trial,” Holwell wrote.
“However, the court is also mindful that it is the historic
duty of a trial judge to safeguard the secrecy of the
deliberative process that lies at the heart of our system of
justice.”  Closing the Proceedings  Closing the proceedings was “essential” to preserve the
secrecy and integrity of deliberations and the privacy of the
jurors, Holwell said. Disclosure of sealed proceedings would
compromise Rajaratnam’s right to an impartial jury and the
“public’s interest in the fair administration of justice,” the
judge said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  John Dowd , the lead defense lawyer, is also keeping quiet.  After chatting with reporters on April 28 about his post-
trial travel plans and the reasons his client didn’t testify,
Dowd and his team have retreated to another courtroom in the
building and mostly stayed out of sight while the jury has
deliberated.  ‘Leave Me Alone”  Dowd wouldn’t answer questions as he left the courtroom
yesterday after jurors reheard some of the wiretapped
recordings. Earlier this week, Dowd cited court rules that, he
said, bar him from discussing the case in public.  When asked on May 2 why Rajaratnam wasn’t in court that
day, Dowd was blunt, telling reporters “Leave me alone.”  Another kind of silence -- the code of “omerta” observed
by members of crime organizations -- was the subject of a
separate proceeding before Holwell today.  With a member of the Rajaratnam defense team watching from
the gallery, the judge sentenced Anthony Palumbo to 10 years in
prison for a murder conspiracy connected to what prosecutors
said was his job as a senior member of the Genovese crime
family.  In urging Holwell to hand down a stiff sentence, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman cited Palumbo’s oath of silence.  “He will abide by the term ‘omerta,’” Weitzman said. “To
this day, he refuses to identify members” of his alleged
organization.  Something in Common  Aside from the judge, the Rajaratnam and Palumbo cases have
little in common. The exception is wiretaps. In both instances,
the government resorted to secret recordings to gather evidence
against their target.  The Galleon prosecution marked the first time an insider-
trading probe has relied on electronic surveillance, a tactic
that is commonplace in organized crime investigations.  In Rajaratnam’s case, authorities collected dozens of
recordings that prosecutors said are evidence of insider
trading.  In Palumbo’s case, according to his defense attorney, the
U.S. got nothing.  The insider-trading case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-
01184. The Palumbo case is U.S. vs. Masullo, 08-cr-00874. Both
are in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  