-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Hears Replay of Chiesi Wiretaps in Insider Case

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-06T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/rajaratnam-jurors-listen-to-chiesi-wiretap-calls-in-insider-trading-case.html
Jurors in the Raj Rajaratnam insider
trading case listened to replays of wiretapped recordings of the
Galleon Group LLC co-founder’s conversations with former trader
Danielle Chiesi as they continued to deliberate.  The jury yesterday asked to hear six recordings played
during the trial in federal court in  Manhattan . On one of them,
Chiesi, a former analyst at New Castle Funds LLC who has pleaded
guilty in the case, asked Rajaratnam whether she should “show a
pattern of trading.”  “You should buy and sell, and buy and sell,” Rajaratnam
said, according to a recording that prosecutors say is evidence
that the two tried to hide their illegal trades.  The alleged Rajaratnam-Chiesi conspiracy is fifth of five
separate insider-trading conspiracies on the list of charges
against Rajaratnam, who is also accused of making nine specific
illegal trades.  “It’s anybody’s guess, but I think they’re close” to
reaching a verdict, said  Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at the
Tobin School of Business at St. John’s University in  New York .
He isn’t involved in the case.  In their deliberations last week, jurors heard wiretapped
recordings of Rajaratnam’s conversations with former McKinsey &
Co. partner Anil Kumar and ex- Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive Rajiv Goel.
The alleged Rajaratnam-Goel and Rajaratnam-Kumar conspiracies
are the third and fourth counts, respectively, that the jurors
must resolve.  Akamai, AMD  Deliberations were restarted May 4, after U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell replaced a juror who was dismissed for
medical reasons. Some of the Rajaratnam-Kumar recordings were
re-played May 4 for the new juror.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intel Corp. and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  Rajaratnam is accused of conspiring with Chiesi to trade
illegally in Akamai Technologies Inc. and  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)   In one conversation re-played this afternoon, Rajaratnam
called to thank Chiesi after he sold at least 150,000 Akamai
shares short. The stock, which closed at $31.25 on July 30,
opened the next day at $23.34. Short sellers benefit when the
price of a stock goes down.  ‘Classy Way’  “You did it in such a classy way,” Rajaratnam said in the
recorded call. “The way you worked the relationship.”  “It’s a conquest,” an excited Chiesi responded, according
to the tape. “It’s a conquest. It’s mentally fabulous for me.”  Chiesi, who lives in New York, then said she was on her way
to a meeting at the Chinese consulate.  “I want to own  China ,” Chiesi told Rajaratnam, according
to the recording.  Yesterday was the eighth day of deliberations, which are
scheduled to continue today.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  