-- 
Ralcorp Holder Levin Capital Expects ConAgra to Succeed With 7% Higher Bid

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-05T20:34:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ralcorp-investor-expects-conagra-to-succeed-with-higher-bid.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  investor Jack Murphy says he expects the biggest U.S. maker of store-brand
foods to consent to a takeover if spurned suitor  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG)  boosts its bid at least 7 percent.  “Ralcorp will listen at a higher price, and we think
ConAgra is willing to bid higher,” Murphy, senior portfolio
manager at Levin Capital Strategies LP, said yesterday in an
interview. “Our gut says $92 to $100.” New York-based Levin
owns 1.75 million Ralcorp shares, or 3.2 percent based on the
shares outstanding as of January.  Ralcorp, also the maker of Grape-Nuts cereal, has fought
off ConAgra’s advances since March, saying a takeover wouldn’t
be in the best interest of shareholders. The St. Louis-based
company, led by Chairman William Stiritz, posted its third
straight quarter of accelerating sales growth this week, buoyed
by acquisitions such as American Italian Pasta Co. last year.  “Our proposal is compelling both strategically and
financially,” ConAgra Chief Executive Officer Gary Rodkin said
yesterday. The $86-a-share offer, worth about $4.9 billion, is
32 percent more than Ralcorp’s closing price before the initial
overture. Ralcorp has traded above the bid price since then,
signaling investors expect a new bid to emerge.  Teresa Paulsen, a spokeswoman for ConAgra, declined to
comment. Matt Pudlowski, a spokesman for Ralcorp, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Ralcorp rose $2.81, or 3.2 percent, to $90.20 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Omaha, Nebraska-
based ConAgra fell 44 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $25.07.  Debt Ratings  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s Rating Services both
threatened to lower their ratings on ConAgra and Ralcorp because
of the offer, which would include $2.5 billion in debt. Rodkin
said yesterday that he’s “comfortable” with ConAgra’s credit
profile and that the company can maintain an investment-grade
rating.  Yesterday Ralcorp snubbed ConAgra’s bid of $86 a share, its
second unsolicited advance in less than two months. Buying
Ralcorp, which generated about $3 billion last year from selling
foods under retailers’ own brands, would help ConAgra almost
quadruple private-label sales.  Staggered Board  The terms of Ralcorp’s directors expire at different times,
according to company filings, making it impossible for ConAgra
or any suitor to replace the so-called staggered board at a
single meeting. Ralcorp also is incorporated in  Missouri , which
has more stringent anti-takeover rules than other states,
according to Wallace Brockhoff, a mergers and acquisitions
lawyer with Lathrop & Gage LLP in  St. Louis .  ConAgra had offered $82 in March, which Ralcorp snubbed.
The company is embracing a so-called “poison pill” strategy to
prevent any one party from acquiring the shares without paying a
premium.  ConAgra’s offer is 10.6 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The multiple is less than the 13 times  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT)  paid for Cadbury Plc last year and more than the 6 that
private-equity firm KKR & Co. recently paid for Del Monte Foods
Co.  “I think rational minds will prevail here,” Murphy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  