-- 
Ranbaxy Falls Most in 6 Weeks After $1 Billion Fines Report

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-05-05T12:04:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ranbaxy-falls-most-in-6-weeks-after-1-billion-fines-report-1-.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  India ’s
largest drugmaker by revenue, fell the most in more than six
weeks in Mumbai trading after Fortune Magazine said U.S. federal
prosecutors are negotiating a dispute settlement that could cost
the company more than $1 billion.  The reported settlement “seems too high” as it is more
than half the company’s sales of 85.5 billion rupees ($1.9
billion) last year, Priti Arora, a Mumbai-based analyst at Kotak
Institutional Equities, said by phone today. Fortune didn’t
mention where it got the information.  The settlement relates to accusations by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration and  Department of Justice  of manufacturing
problems and fraudulent testing. The FDA imposed a temporary ban
on all pending and future reviews of drugs from Ranbaxy’s Paonta
Sahib facility in February 2009. The “ application integrity
policy ” led to a ban on all products from the unit, which was
the company’s primary manufacturing site for exports to the U.S.  Ranbaxy, based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi , said in November
it is “co-operating fully” with U.S. authorities for “early
and comprehensive resolution of all outstanding issues.” The
drugmaker declined to comment on the Fortune report.  Shares Fall  Ranbaxy fell 6 percent to 426.35 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai trading, the most since March 21. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index dropped 1.4 percent.  “We believe the settlement amount of $1 billion  is
disproportionate to the profitability,” of Ranbaxy’s drug
pipeline over the next three years, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
analysts Balaji Prasad, Rishi Jhunjhunwala and Baneesh Banwait
wrote in a note today. “If correct, this could materially
impact” the company’s profitability, they wrote.  Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi Sankyo
Co., reached an agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  in 2008 to sell
copies of its cholesterol treatment Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling medicine. The Indian drugmaker, which is awaiting FDA
approval, would be granted a six-month period of exclusive sales
under federal rules that may help it add as much as $585 million
in revenue, according to the median of four analysts’ estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  