-- 
Tremonti Says Italian Stimulus Plan Won’t Boost Public Spending

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-05T12:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/tremonti-says-italian-stimulus-plan-won-t-boost-public-spending.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
government passed a 10-point plan aimed at spurring investment
and growth without increasing public spending, Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti said.  The plan includes tax breaks for companies that finance
research and measures to reduce bureaucracy, speed up public-
works projects and remove impediments to investing European
Union funds earmarked for Italy, Tremonti said.  “There is a lot in this package that will reduce red tape
and create incentives for investment without relying on the
engine of public spending,” Tremonti said today in  Rome  after
the Cabinet passed the proposal.  Tremonti has avoided the kind of stimulus spending that
inflated budget deficits in other European Union countries and
triggered the region’s debt crisis.  Italy ’s shortfall declined
to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product last year, half the
level of  Spain .  Much of the new package is focused on accelerating public-
works projects that often stall because of Italian bureaucracy
or challenges from local governments. Public works in Italy take
twice as long to complete and cost twice as much as in the rest
of  Europe , Tremonti said.  The measures will also set up a regulatory authority for
water services. The move is part of the government’s plan to
force local governments to sell parts of their water authorities
to private investors, Tremonti said.  Tremonti did not release details of the plan and said he
would explain the measures at a “seminar” on May 11.  The Cabinet also approved today the extension of incentives
for photovoltaic plants. The ministers did not discuss any
additional budget cuts, Tremonti said. He was responding to
press reports yesterday that the government planned an extra 7
to 8 billion euros ($10.3 billion to $11.8 billion) of cuts for
the next two years.  --~Andrew Atkinson, Eddie Buckle  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  