-- 
Republicans Rally Behind Boeing Over Labor Board Complaint

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-05-05T23:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/republicans-rally-behind-boeing-over-u-s-labor-board-complaint.html
U.S.  House Republicans  demanded that
the  National Labor Relations Board  provide information about its
decision to file a union-retaliation complaint against  Boeing
Co. (BA)  for building an airplane factory in South Carolina.  The House Education and the Workforce Committee gave the
board until May 19 to submit documents and communications
between a regional office that investigated the case and the
national office, according to a letter released today by the
Republican chairmen of the committee and a subcommittee.  The board filed a complaint against Boeing on April 20,
saying it should add a  production line  in Washington state,
where it has assembled its aircraft since 1916, because it
retaliated against striking unions by building a South Carolina
factory for the 787 Dreamliner.  The board’s action is an “extraordinary remedy that
requires Boeing to relocate its operations across the country,”
Representatives  John Kline  of  Minnesota , chairman of the
committee, and Phil Roe of Tennessee, chairman of the panel on
health, employment, labor and pensions, wrote in the letter.  Lawmakers, state officials and Boeing have joined in
criticizing the board, with Republican senators urging President
 Barack Obama  to withdraw the nomination of Lafe Solomon, NLRB
acting general counsel, who filed the case. Boeing has faced
increased labor tension, with a strike by engineers and four by
the Machinists union since 1989, including a two-month walkout
at the end of 2008.  ‘Political Fight’  “Boeing, with the help of South Carolina politicians, is
making this a political issue, and trying to win it politically,
because they know they won’t win it in the courts,” Tom Wroblewski, president of the International Association of
Machinists District 751 in Seattle, said in an interview today.
“They’re shifting this to a political fight against the NLRB.”  The labor board said Boeing chose South Carolina over
adding a line in  Washington  state because of the union’s history
of strikes in the Puget Sound area. Boeing doesn’t have to shut
the South Carolina plant as long as it opens another production
line in Washington, according to the remedy outlined by the
board.  Boeing “has enough outsourced work all around the world
that they could fill that building in South Carolina a hundred
times over,” Wroblewski said. The factory is almost finished
and scheduled to begin operating in July.  A spokesman for Boeing declined to comment on the letter
from the House Republicans. The company, which moved its
headquarters to  Chicago  in 2001, sent a letter May 3 saying the
NLRB mischaracterized the company’s position.  ‘Facts, Law’  Solomon said in an interview yesterday that he won’t
withdraw the complaint, which he said was investigated by the
NLRB’s regional office and sent to Washington for further
action.  “I didn’t go seek this case,” Solomon said. “It isn’t
that I had some agenda to go get this case. This case came to me
and I decided on the facts and the law.”  Solomon said that “from our perspective, the second line
in  South Carolina  was retaliatory.”  Efforts failed during six months to settle the case,
Solomon said. He disagreed with Republicans who said the
complaint targets South Carolina because it is a right-to-work
state, where labor agreements can’t require workers to join a
union to get a job.  “It’s not legally significant to our case,” Solomon said.  Senator Protest Nominees  A group of 19 Republican U.S. senators demanded in a
separate letter to Obama the withdrawal of the nominations of
Solomon and  Craig Becker , nominated as a Democrat to the NLRB
and criticized for his ties to labor unions including the AFL-
CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation. The senators also
criticized the Boeing complaint in a letter yesterday.  “We consider this an attack on millions of workers in 22
right-to-work states, as well as a government-led act of
intimidation against American companies,” according to the
letter from Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, and
18 colleagues.  Attorneys general  from nine states also have criticized the
NLRB’s complaint, which said Boeing, the world’s biggest
aerospace company, was retaliating for labor strikes at its
Seattle-area hub, violating workers’ rights.  The attorneys general in an April 28 letter demanded that
the board withdraw the  complaint . Republican Senators Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee  and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina on
May 3 said they would introduce an amendment to prevent the NLRB
from taking action against Boeing.  June Hearing  A hearing on the Boeing case is scheduled June 14 before an
administrative law judge in Seattle.  Boeing decided to open its new 787 line in South Carolina
in 2009, after talks with the Machinists failed to produce a
longer contract that would have protected it from work
stoppages. Boeing has since expanded plans for the new facility,
saying it wants to fully replicate the work done in Washington.  Boeing has assembled its commercial jets near Seattle since
1916, when lumberman Bill Boeing built his first wooden float
plane in a Lake Union boathouse. The company in 2003 said it
would build the planned new 787 Dreamliner at its widebody-jet
factory in Everett, just north of  Seattle , after Washington
state approved tax breaks valued at $3.2 billion over 20 years
to keep Boeing from moving work elsewhere.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  