-- 
Senate Republicans Plan to Block Consumer Bureau While Seeking Changes

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-06T12:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/republican-senators-to-block-consumer-nominee-absent-changes-1-.html
U.S. Senate Republicans told President
 Barack Obama  they will block any nominee to lead the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau unless Democrats agree to change the
agency’s structure and funding.  The warning, delivered in a letter to the White House, adds
to the uncertainty surrounding the agency, created by the Dodd-
Frank Act last year over the objections of Republican lawmakers
and financial-industry lobbyists.  Forty-four Republican senators, led by  Richard Shelby  of
Alabama, the top Republican on the Banking Committee, signed the
May 2 letter made public yesterday. They wrote that they want
the agency’s director to be replaced by a board of directors,
its funding brought under congressional control and its
operations subject to more oversight from other bank regulators.  “No person should have the unfettered authority presently
granted to the director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau,” the senators said in the letter signed by Republicans
including Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky . “We
believe that the Senate should not consider any nominee to be
CFPB director until the CFPB is properly reformed.”  Democrats control 53 of the 100 votes in the Senate, so the
44 Republican signatures ensure they wouldn’t be able to garner
the 60 needed to overcome objections to a nominee.  Payday Lenders  The consumer bureau was conceived as a response to what
proponents said was the failure of existing regulators to
protect consumers from risky financial products that contributed
to the credit crisis. Under Dodd-Frank, the bureau has authority
to regulate products and financial firms from the biggest banks to
mortgage originators and payday lenders.  Banking lobbyists fought the idea from its inception,
arguing that an agency separate from prudential regulators would
threaten the safety and soundness of the banks. Financial firms
have expressed concern that the bureau’s rules will limit the
products they can offer or result in new regulatory compliance
costs. Recently, for example, agency officials said they would
consider restrictions on credit-card debt-protection products,
from which big card issuers earned $2.4 billion in 2009.  The structural changes proposed by the senators in their
letter echo proposals advancing in the Republican-controlled
House. Banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  have lobbied on the legislation,
according to public filings. Two financial industry trade
groups, the  American Bankers Association  and the Consumer
Bankers Association, have done the same, the filings show.  Elizabeth Warren   “Republicans fought the creation of a strong consumer
watchdog from the start and now they are at it again,” Senate
Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat,
said in a statement yesterday.  Obama hasn’t nominated a director for the consumer agency.
Last year he named Harvard University law professor Elizabeth Warren as an adviser to set up the bureau after then-Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, said she couldn’t get the 60 votes needed to be
confirmed as director.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  set July 21 as the
date the agency would start operations as an independent agency.
The Republican move leaves Obama with the choice of missing that
deadline, acceding to the demands or going around the lawmakers
by making a temporary appointment during a congressional recess.  Senate’s Authority  Shelby, in a statement yesterday, said a recess appointment
would undercut the Senate’s authority.  “Senate confirmation is about accountability and giving the
American people a voice in the process,” Shelby said. “I would
hope the president won’t silence the people’s voice.”  Two Republican senators --  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts  and
 Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska  -- didn’t sign the letter to Obama.  Warren, who has been criticized by banks and Republicans
for her role in a 50-state investigation of the mortgage
industry by state attorneys general, hasn’t been ruled out by
the White House as a candidate for the permanent post.  The consumer agency has been a polarizing entity since the
idea was first included in the Obama administration’s financial
overhaul proposal in June 2009. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
 pledged millions  of dollars to “kill” the bureau, running
campaign advertisements and working a grassroots campaign that
resulted in more than 200,000 letters designed to sway lawmakers
thought to be on the fence.  Initially drafted as a standalone agency, Dodd reached a
compromise to place the bureau inside the  Federal Reserve  in an
effort to appease Republican critics. In the end, only three
Republicans voted for the final measure.  Jamie Dimon   Since the passage of Dodd-Frank, banks and the business
lobby have focused on changing the bureau’s structure. Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  addressed its creation in a  letter  to shareholders last
month that noted his concerns about a standalone agency.  “It has been widely reported that we were against the
creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (C.F.P.B.),”
Dimon wrote in the April 4 letter. “We were not -- we were
against the creation of a standalone C.F.P.B., operating
separately and apart from whatever regulatory agency already had
oversight authority over banks.”  The Obama administration, which touted the bureau as one of
the cornerstones of the regulatory overhaul, remains committed
to its independence, according to Amy Brundage, a White House
spokeswoman.  ‘Special Interests’  “For far too long, American consumers have fallen victim
to fraud, misleading claims, and powerful special interests and
the President believes that American families who were the
hardest hit by this financial crisis deserve an independent
watchdog to protect consumers and prevent predatory lending and
other abuses in the future,” Brundage said in an e-mailed
statement.  Frank Keating, the head of the  American Bankers
Association , endorsed the move by Senate Republicans.  “We appreciate and support the 44 senators who are calling
for structural changes to the CFPB before considering any
nominee,” Keating said in an e-mailed statement. “These
commonsense reforms strike the right balance and provide a
critical check on the bureau’s broad authority.”  Travis Plunkett , director of legislative affairs for the
Consumer Federation of America, said giving in to the Republican
demands would “give big banks extraordinary power over the
bureau’s operations” even before it begins work.  “The measures that the senators are demanding were all
considered and rejected by Congress last year,” Plunkett said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  