-- 
Rexam Reports 9% Gain in First-Quarter Can Sales Outside U.S.

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-05-05T15:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/rexam-reports-9-gain-in-first-quarter-can-sales-outside-u-s-.html
Rexam Plc (REX) , the world’s biggest
beverage-can maker, reported a 9 percent increase in first-
quarter can sales volumes outside  North America  as demand rises.  Global can volume growth, excluding expected declines in
the U.S., was up 9 percent in the first quarter, Chief Executive
Officer Graham Chipchase said today on a conference call. Rexam
has forecast a 15 percent decline in sales volumes in North
America this year from 2010, he said.  “The market is improving and Rexam is benefiting,” Lars Kjellberg, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
wrote in a note today. The company has outperformed some of its
peers this year because of “differences in geographical
exposure,” he said.  Rexam, which returned to profit in 2010 from a loss a year
earlier, operates in more than 10 European countries, six in
 Asia  and six in Latin America, as well as in the U.S., according
to its  website . The London-based company saved 88 million pounds
($144 million) from cost-cutting and restructuring last year,
and hired Barclays Capital to manage the sale of a division
making container lids to help reduce expenses further.  The sale process is “progressing well,” Chipchase said
today, without elaborating. “Our continued focus on return on
capital employed, costs and cash generation gives us confidence
of improved performance in 2011,” he said in an earlier
management  statement .  In  Europe , first-quarter sales were “slightly better than
the market,” where overall can sales rose by about 5 percent,
Chipchase said. The company sold 10 percent to 20 percent more
cans in  South America  and achieved “double-digit” growth in
Russia, he said, adding that it’s too early to predict an annual
trend.  Rexam advanced 0.5 percent to 385.4 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close of trade in  London . The stock rose as much as 2.6 percent
during the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  