-- 
Trichet Says Essential to Avoid Broad-Based Price Pressures

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-05T14:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-says-essential-to-avoid-broad-based-price-pressures.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy, economic growth,
inflation risks and the sovereign debt crisis.  He made the remarks in Helsinki today after the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.25 percent.  On ECB policy:  “An adjustment of the very accommodative monetary policy
stance was warranted. We continue to see upward pressure on
overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity
prices.”  “While the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying
pace of monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity
remains ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price
pressures. Furthermore, recent economic data confirm the
positive underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro
area, with uncertainty continuing to be elevated.”  “We will continue to monitor very closely all developments
with respect to upside risks to  price stability .”  “I don’t think at all we have a policy of normalization.”  “We take decisions that are commensurate with the delivery
of price stability over the medium term.”  “We are responsible for price stability in the euro area
as a whole.”  “We will continue to deliver price stability in line with
our definition.” Trichet said today’s rate decision was
“unanimous.”  “Being the first big central bank in the world to increase
interest rates, from that standpoint we don’t have a credibility
problem.”  On the inflation outlook:  “Inflation rates are likely to stay clearly above 2
percent in the coming months.”  The “increase in inflation rate largely reflects higher
commodity pressures.”  “It is essential that the recent price developments do not
give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures.”  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
remain on the upside.”  “Risks also relate to stronger-than-expected price
pressures in the context of stronger-than-expected growth in the
ongoing recovery.”  The “underlying pace of monetary expansion is gradually
picking up but remains moderate.”  “I wouldn’t say at all that we are changing our attitude
in any respect as regards inflation.”  “It is our judgment that there are upside risks to price
stability.”  “We will always do what is necessary to deliver price
stability.”  “We are looking at the second-round threats and we are in
a posture of monitoring very, very closely all developments;
that is certainly not benign neglect.”  On the economic outlook:  “Recent economic data confirm the positive underlying
momentum of economic activity in the euro area.”  “Risks to growth are broadly balanced, with uncertainty
elevated.”  There are “downside risks related to ongoing risks in some
sectors of financial markets that could spill over into the
euro-area real economy.”  There are “ongoing risks stemming from natural and nuclear
disasters in  Japan .”  “It is important that banks continue to extend credit to
the private sector in the context of increasing demand.”  “There is a risk that in some countries fiscal balances
may fall behind targets.”  “It is of the utmost importance that substantial and far
reaching reforms should be implemented urgently in order to
increase competitiveness, flexibility.”  On fiscal consolidation:  “Our message on fiscal policies is directed to all
countries.”  “We call permanently on all countries to be extremely
alert in this domain.”  “The plan is as soon as possible to get a country in a
situation where it has a primary surplus in its fiscal
position.”  “We, as a Governing Council, are calling all countries to
be up to their responsibilities.”  On Ireland:  “In the case of Ireland, we have a plan which has been
approved by the international community.”  “We have also a plan for restructuring and reshaping the
banking sector.”  “We share the view that it is credible.”  “The level of commitment of the Eurosystem to Ireland has
absolutely no precedent.”  “We are siding with Ireland in the difficult
circumstances.”  On the economy:  “Today, we have countries which have very, very
encouraging levels of growth and others which are lagging
behind.”  “The countries that are now adjusting were going very
fast, and the countries today that are going very fast were in a
very slow growth mode.”  “What counts is the average.”  “We see the risks for the euro-area economy as a whole as
broadly balanced. We see risks on the upside, we see risks on
the downside.”  “It is no time to claim victory.”  “The recovery is until now confirmed without too much
doubt.”  “We never, never are complacent.”  On  Portugal ’s financial-aid package:  “We consider that the program contains the necessary
elements to bring about a stabilization of the Portuguese
economy.”  “It is important that there is broad political support for
these adjustment programs.”  “It calls for the present government and the future
governments to do the job.”  “It calls for the present government for the time that it
has, to do the job.”  “The Governing Council welcomes the economic and financial
adjustment program which was adopted by the  Portuguese
government .”  The ECB also “welcomes the broad political support for the
adjustment program.”  “The program contains the necessary elements to bring
about sustainable stability of the Portuguese economy.”  “On Portugal, we have no new concept, no new window.
Nothing new, nothing special.”  On new Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann:  “As chairman of the Governing Council, I very warmly
welcome Jens Weidmann as our new member.”  On the Eonia rate that banks charge each other for overnight
loans:  “We are looking very carefully at what’s going on. Not
surprisingly, the decision we took in April was reflected in
Eonia.”  “It’s up to the market to function. Eonia is the result of
market functioning.”  “It seems to me the volatility we saw at certain moments
has quite significantly reduced in Eonia behavior.”  “If there is confirmation that the volatility of Eonia was
less pronounced than before it would be good.”  On  Greece :  “We expected all countries to be up to their
responsibilities in the present circumstances.”  “Our message on fiscal countries is a message that’s going
to all countries, Greece of course, amongst the others.”  “We consider that what is important is to do the job, to
adjust. There is a plan and we call for the implementation of
the plan.”  “As regards the question of restructuring, we consider
what is important is to do the job, to adjust, there is a plan
we call for the implementation of the plan. Full stop.”  On exchange rates and the US dollar:  “We are of course incorporating in our analysis this
exchange-rate situation.”  “It’s one of the parameters we include.”  “The exchange-rate situation is fully in line with what we
had incorporated.”  “I consider this statement important and I entirely share
myself the analysis the two” U.S. “authorities have
produced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  