-- 
Trichet Signals ECB Will Wait Until After June for Next Interest-Rate Move

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-05T14:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-signals-interest-rate-move-after-june-says-ecb-will-monitor-risks.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled the bank will wait until after June to
raise interest rates again, wrong-footing some investors who had
expected a quicker move to fight inflation. The euro plunged.  “We are never pre-committed and we can increase rates
whenever we judge it appropriate,” Trichet said at a press
conference in Helsinki today after the ECB left its benchmark
interest rate at 1.25 percent. He refrained from using the
phrase “strong vigilance” that would have signaled a June rate
increase, saying only that the ECB will monitor inflation risks
“very closely.”  The euro fell more than 2 cents to $1.4620 after Trichet’s
remarks and the yield on  Germany ’s two-year government bond
dropped 15 basis points to 1.78 percent.  Policy makers may want more time to assess the health of
the 17-nation euro economy before adding to April’s monetary
tightening, which was the first in almost three years. While
inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last month and economic
growth has gained momentum, higher borrowing costs may
exacerbate a debt crisis that has already forced Greece, Ireland
and Portugal to ask for external help.  “The ECB has apparently postponed its next rate hike from
June to July,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in London. “Thereafter, we expect the ECB to
raise rates by 25 basis points each quarter until the main rate
hits the roughly neutral level of 3 percent.”  ‘Exceptionally Low’  The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark rate at a record low
of 0.5 percent today. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  last week
retained its pledge to keep rates “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period” to bolster the world’s largest economy.  Monetary policy  elsewhere is becoming tighter. Central
banks in the  Philippines  and  Malaysia  today raised interest
rates, and  India  this week increased its borrowing costs for the
ninth time since March 2010. Rates in  China ,  Asia ’s biggest
economy, may rise further after its central bank said yesterday
that taming inflation is its top priority.  With surging oil costs fueling price pressures, ECB
Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on April
26 that the period of “abnormally low” interest rates “may be
ending.”  Price Pressures  “We continue to see upward pressure on overall inflation,
mainly owing to energy and commodity prices,” Trichet said
today. “It is essential that recent price developments do not
give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures.”  The euro-area economy will grow 1.7 percent this year and
1.8 percent in 2012, according to ECB forecasts. Inflation will
average 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent next year, the
bank predicted in March. It will issue new projections in June.  “The Governing Council will be presented with a
substantial increase in the next set of staff macroeconomic
projections for 2011 inflation,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “This, along
with a likely upward revision to the 2011 GDP projection, should
pave the way for signaling a July rate increase at the June
meeting.”  ECB policy makers are concerned about so-called second-
round effects, when rising commodity prices feed into wage
demands and spark more persistent inflation.  ‘Tactical Arguments’  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile food
and energy costs, accelerated to 1.3 percent in March, the
fastest since August 2009. Producer-price inflation quickened to
6.7 percent, the fastest since September 2008.  “On the basis of the economic situation, a rate rise
imminently is justified,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-region
market economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Tactical
arguments favored delaying another hike a little longer to avoid
market anxiety over an aggressive tightening cycle and a further
jump in the euro.”  The single currency has gained more than 9 percent against
the dollar this year, threatening to erode European export
growth. Trichet said Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner ’s statement
that a strong dollar is in the U.S. interest is “important.”  Euro-area governments are cutting spending to rein in
budget deficits, clouding the economic outlook.  Portugal  announced on May 3 it had agreed on a European
Union-led rescue loan package of as much as 78 billion euros
($114 billion). It said today its economy will shrink about 2
percent this year as the government implements additional
austerity measures to qualify for international aid.  Debt Crisis  Investors remain concerned about Greece’s ability to pay
back its own bailout loans.  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the debt against
default rose to new records last week. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds widened to 1,228 basis points
today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Portugal’s 10-
year spread with Germany was at 646 points and Ireland’s was at
705 points.  Trichet welcomed the bailout plan for Portugal, saying it
contains the elements necessary to stabilize its economy. He
said  Greece  must continue to implement its consolidation program
and rejected the idea of it restructuring its debt. “We call
for the implementation of the plan, full stop,” Trichet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  