-- 
Trichet’s Dollar Comments Hint at Motivation for ECB Rate Move Restraint

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-06T11:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-s-dollar-comments-hint-at-motivation-for-ecb-rate-move-restraint.html
The euro may have helped European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  decide against a June
interest-rate increase, economists said.  The single currency has gained almost 9 percent against the
dollar this year, fueled in part by a transatlantic split in
monetary policy as the ECB has started raising  interest rates 
while the  Federal Reserve  shows no signs of following. Trichet
yesterday dashed bets of some investors anticipating a rate
increase next month and signaled policy makers are growing more
concerned about the euro’s strength.  “The recent rise in the euro exchange rate may be among
the factors that seem to have pushed the likely time for the
next rate increase back to the July meeting,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in
London.  Trichet took the unusual step of reading aloud recent
statements from Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , rather than just referring to the
U.S.’s position in general terms as he typically does.  Geithner said April 26 that “a strong dollar is in our
interest as a country,” a day before Bernanke said the Fed
“believes that a strong and stable dollar is both in American
interest and in the interest of the global economy.”  Stronger Euro  “I entirely share myself the analysis the two authorities
have produced,” Trichet said in Helsinki yesterday after
refraining from using the phrase “strong vigilance” that would
have signaled a June rate increase. “We are of course
incorporating in our analysis this exchange-rate situation.”  While a stronger euro helps the ECB tackle inflation, the
rise threatens to slow expansion, especially the growth of
crisis-torn nations such as Portugal and Ireland reliant on
exports as they impose austerity on their economies.  The euro fell three cents against the dollar after
Trichet’s remarks and traded at $1.4526 at 12:40 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  today compared with $1.4840 before yesterday’s press
conference.  “Trichet went out of his way to emphasize the relationship
of the dollar and euro,” said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “There has been a
substantial appreciation and that suggests other things being
equal that forecasts should be getting revised downward.”  Callow quoted Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development research which suggests a 10 percent increase in the
euro on a trade-weighted basis saps euro-area growth by 0.7
percentage point in each of the subsequent two years. It is up
about 5 percent on that basis since November, he said.  Market Panic  Ken Wattret , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said
another rate increase so soon after April “could have panicked
markets about how aggressive the ECB tightening cycle would be,
pushing the euro exchange rate sharply higher.”  “With wage growth contained, and money and credit growth
rates low, there was no need for the ECB to take the risk,”
Wattret said.  Trichet indicated today that the ECB remains concerned
about inflation and is waiting for new economic projections in
June before deciding when to resume raising rates.  Policy makers are “extremely alert,” he told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in Helsinki. “We will of course have
a new rendezvous with our new projections next month.”  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny also told reporters in
Helsinki today that markets over interpreted the ECB’s message
and “there can be no idea about being dovish.”  No Alarm  After the ECB lifted its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent
from 1 percent in April, the first increase in almost three
years, the euro rose more than 3 percent.  Companies are expressing differing responses to the euro’s
gains. Software AG,  Germany ’s second-biggest maker of  business
software , said April 27 that the currency is a “headwind.” At
the same time, it allowed airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG to cut
fuel-cost projections by 200 million euros ($292 million) to 6.6
billion euros this year.  Politicians have so far chosen not to sound the alarm on
the currency. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told
Bloomberg Television on May 4 that a strong euro benefits the
region’s companies as it cuts costs of raw materials priced in
dollars and forces European firms to seek additional ways to
boost competitiveness.  The single European currency is doing “extremely well,”
Lagarde said in Hanoi, even as she added that she would like to
see a “strong dollar.”  More Time  Societe Generale SA economist Veronique Riches-Flores said
in a report this week that the euro area has a greater capacity
to weather a stronger euro than in 2008. That’s because the
currency’s gains are less broad this time. Inflation in  Asia 
means its real value in emerging markets has declined and its
strength helps offset the surge in oil costs, she said.  Euro-area policy makers may want more time to assess the
health of their economy before adding to April’s monetary
tightening. While inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last
month and economic growth has shown resilience, increases in
borrowing costs and the euro may exacerbate  Europe ’s debt crisis
that has already forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
external help.  The respite may not last long, with economists at Nomura
Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. among those
holding fast to forecasts that the ECB will act again in July.  “The ECB is likely to escalate its language to ‘strong
vigilance’ in June,” said Citigroup’s Juergen Michels. “The
ECB highlighted that current interest rates are ‘very
accommodative,’ suggesting that further rate hikes will
follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  