-- 
Trichet’s ECB Rate Signal Just a Respite for Indebted Nations: Euro Credit

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-05-06T14:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-s-ecb-rate-signal-just-a-respite-for-indebted-nations-euro-credit.html
Jean-Claude Trichet’s signal that the
 European Central Bank  will hold off raising interest rates next
month may provide only a respite for distressed euro nations
grappling with anemic growth and demands to cut their debt.  The ECB president indicated that the bank will wait until
after June to raise rates for a second time this year after the
ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent yesterday. The
prospect of rising borrowing costs underscored  Europe ’s economic
divide and political tensions over bailouts.  While the ECB’s decision wrong-footed some investors who
had expected a quicker move to fight accelerating inflation, the
euro region’s most indebted countries are being squeezed by rate
increases and a strengthening euro.  “The periphery’s weak cyclical outlook, poor earnings
prospects for workers -- especially in real terms -- and tighter
credit conditions will jointly amplify the restrictive impact of
rising  interest rates ,” said Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at
Societe Generale SA in London. “ Greece , Portugal, Ireland and
structurally weak economies such as  Italy  are likely to suffer
disproportionately.”  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, expanded at a record 3.6
percent last year. Europe’s so-called periphery is struggling
with weak or negative growth as it imposes austerity.  Greece is in its third year of recession and its two-year
notes yield more than 25 percent. Portugal yesterday cut its
2011 forecast, saying the economy will shrink 2 percent. Ireland
and Italy last month both scaled back their forecasts for this
year, respectively to 0.75 percent and 1.1 percent, while Spain
expects 1.3 percent growth.  Contrasting Data  Highlighting Europe’s divide, German industrial production
rose for a third month in March as construction surged, while
Spanish output fell the most in five months in March on weak
demand. The data were released today in Berlin and  Madrid .  Portugal yesterday won a 78 billion-euro ($116 billion)
bailout, joining Greece and Ireland as aid beneficiaries and
heightening the political backlash in wealthier countries such
as  Finland  and Germany over the costs of keeping the 17-nation
euro economy intact.  A year of  crisis management  hasn’t worked and “it’s a
question of time before a default will happen” in Greece, Timo Soini, head of Finland’s euro-skeptic True Finns party, told
Bloomberg Television. He indicated the party, which rocketed to
third place in elections last month, will use its status in the
future government to oppose strengthening Europe’s rescue fund.  ‘Enough’  European voters are now saying “we have had enough of the
transfer of risk and debt from the private sector to the public
sector,” said Irwin Stelzer, an economist at the Washington-
based Hudson Institute, a research center. “The whole theory of
the euro zone is a kind relief of democratic pressures; you do
things in committees and the electorate isn’t really involved.
That game is over.”  Trichet was quick to remind Finland of its duties as a euro
member as he rejected the idea of a Greek debt restructuring.  “With regards to Portugal, we expect all countries to be
up to their responsibility in the present circumstances,” he
said in Helsinki.  ECB policy makers may want more time to assess the health
of the euro-area economy before adding to April’s monetary
tightening, the first in almost three years. The ECB is likely
to “go ahead with the next rate hike in July,”  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in  London , said
in a note yesterday.  ‘Extremely Alert’  Trichet said today that policy makers remain “extremely
alert” on inflation, indicating they may make further decisions
on monetary tightening with new forecasts in June. The ECB is
“monitoring very closely all that will happen,” he told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in Helsinki.  The prospect of higher rates has being driving up the euro,
making exports vital for boosting growth more costly. While the
euro fell three cents against the dollar after Trichet’s remarks
yesterday and traded at $1.4506 at 4:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt , its
strength may prove a greater concern for peripheral nations than
higher rates, said Jean-Michel Six, chief European economist at
rating company  Standard & Poor’s .  “The very strong currency that we are about to see in the
coming months in my opinion is likely to be a bigger problem for
 Spain , Portugal, even Italy as far as their competitiveness is
concerned,” Six said on May 2 on Bloomberg Television.  Further rate increases will hurt peripheral banks by
crimping already-weak household demand, London-based Consensus
Economics economists including Frederik Ducrozet said in a May 3
research  note .  “Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland would be the
most exposed,” according to the note, which said that non-
performing loans in Europe’s periphery “have the potential to
keep rising as low-income earners struggle to pay their
mortgages.”  Feeling the Pinch  Variable-rate mortgages account for almost 100 percent of
new lending in Portugal and about 85 percent in Spain, compared
with 15 percent in Germany, according to the Brussels-based
European Mortgage Federation. In Ireland, 85 percent of
outstanding loans track market rates.  “Consumers in the periphery, already under pressure from
consolidation efforts, will increasingly feel the impact of rate
hikes, especially since  Portugal , Ireland and Spain are among
the euro-area countries with the highest share of variable-rate
mortgages,” said  Nick Matthews , a senior European economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at   jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  