-- 
Trichet Says ECB Interest Rate Increases Not Dependent on Exiting Measures

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-05T22:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-says-rate-increases-not-dependent-on-exiting-measures.html
The  European Central Bank  can raise
 interest rates  while at the same time keeping its non-standard
tools in place, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  “The ECB has indicated clearly that interest-rate
increases could perfectly well take place independently of the
timing of the phasing out of the non-standard measures -- if
those non-standard measures continue to be fully justified by
the situation,” Trichet said in Helsinki today, according to
the text of his speech.  The ECB last month raised its benchmark lending rate for
the first time in almost three years, while at the same time
keeping its emergency support for banks, which can obtain as
much money as they need at the key rate for up to three months.
Trichet today signaled the bank will wait until after June to
increase borrowing costs again as policy makers may want more
time to assess the health of the 17-nation euro economy.  The ECB lifted the key rate to 1.25 percent from a record
low of 1 percent in April. As well as supplying banks with
unlimited liquidity, the central bank has a government bond
purchase program in place.  “The non-standard measures have to be commensurate with
what we are observing on the market, namely to help the
transmission of our monetary policy to function better again,”
Trichet said. “The standard measures are there to deliver  price
stability  in the medium term.”  While inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last month and
economic growth has gained momentum, higher borrowing costs may
exacerbate a debt crisis that has already forced  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  to ask for external help.  Trichet also reiterated his call for a “quantum leap” in
economic governance. “The Stability and Growth Pact needs to be
reinforced and a strong surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances
and competitiveness needs to be installed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Helsinki at  gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Helsinki at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  