-- 
Trichet May Signal Rate Plans After ECB Holds at 1.25%

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-05T11:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/trichet-may-signal-rate-plans-after-ecb-keeps-benchmark-at-1-25-.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet may indicate how fast he’s prepared to raise
 interest rates  to fight surging inflation after the bank kept
them on hold today.  ECB officials meeting in Helsinki left the benchmark rate
at 1.25 percent, as predicted by all 48 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The central bank in April raised the key
rate from a record low of 1 percent, the first increase in
almost three years. If President Trichet calls for “strong
vigilance,” it would signal another move in June. He holds a
press conference at 3:30 p.m. local time.  ECB officials including  Italy ’s Mario Draghi, seen as the
frontrunner to replace Trichet from November, have signaled
they’re in favor of further monetary tightening to fight
inflation that quickened to 2.8 percent last month, the fastest
in 2 1/2 years. Their task of normalizing policy is being
complicated by governments struggling to contain  Europe ’s debt
crisis that forced Portugal to ask for external help last month.  “Inflation is clearly above the ECB mandate, so you need a
normalization of rates,” said Stephane Deo, chief Europe
economist at UBS Securities LLC in London. “The question now is
not whether the normalization will happen, but at what pace.”  ‘Exceptionally Low’  The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark rate at a record low
of 0.5 percent today. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  last week
retained its pledge to keep rates “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period” to bolster the world’s largest economy.  Monetary policy elsewhere is becoming tighter. Central
banks in the  Philippines  and  Malaysia  today raised interest
rates, and  India  this week increased its borrowing costs for the
ninth time since March 2010. Rates in  China ,  Asia ’s biggest
economy, may rise further after its central bank said yesterday
that taming inflation is its top priority.  The 17-nation euro-area economy will grow 1.7 percent this
year and 1.8 percent in 2012, according to ECB forecasts.
Inflation will average 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent
next year, the bank predicted in March. It will issue new
projections in June.  With surging oil costs fueling price pressures, ECB
Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on April
26 that the period of “abnormally low” interest rates “may be
ending.”  Sharper Language  Draghi has also sharpened his language. While Trichet said
last month’s rate step wasn’t necessarily the start of a series,
Draghi signaled more to come. “ Monetary policy  must take into
account the emergence of inflationary tensions, pushed by rising
food and energy prices,” he said on April 13.  ECB policy makers are concerned about so-called second-
round effects, when rising commodity prices feed into wage
demands and spark more persistent inflation. Euro-region core
inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
accelerated to 1.3 percent in March, the fastest since August
2009.  Adding to signs of cost pressures, euro-region producer-
price inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 6.7 percent in
March. That’s the fastest since September 2008.  “If there is the risk that inflation feeds through into
second-round effects, the ECB won’t even think about it,” said
 James Nixon , chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in
 London , who expects the central bank to raise borrowing costs
next month. “They’ll raise rates.”  Tightening Cycle  In 2005, when the ECB last embarked on a tightening cycle,
policy makers raised the benchmark rate at least once every
quarter. A similar approach would point to the central bank
increasing borrowing costs in July.  “It is crystal clear that the window of opportunity for
rate hikes is wide open this year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “It won’t be as open in
the years to come. This could be the main motivation for the ECB
to hike rates more often this year.”  Government efforts to lower budget deficits are clouding
the region’s growth outlook and making it harder for officials
to raise rates. While  Portugal  on May 3 reached agreement with
officials preparing its European Union-led bailout that will
provide as much as 78 billion euros ($116 billion) in aid,
investors remain concerned about  Greece ’s ability to pay back
its own bailout loans.  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the debt against
default rose to new records last week. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds widened to 1,209 basis points
yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura International Plc
in London, said it would be a “mistake” for policy makers to
raise borrowing costs too quickly.  “There’s really no reason for a more aggressive
tightening,” he said. “Will they go down the more hawkish
route and realize it’s a policy mistake six months later?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  