-- 
Ringgit Drops on Slowdown Concerns, Rate Outlook; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-05T09:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ringgit-drops-on-slowdown-concerns-rate-outlook-bonds-gain.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit fell for a third
day, its longest losing streak since February, on concern the
central bank will hold off from raising interest rates as signs
of an economic slowdown in the U.S. dim the outlook for exports.  Currencies weakened across Southeast Asia’s five largest
economies after reports yesterday showed growth in U.S. service
industries and employment cooled in April.  Bank Negara Malaysia 
will refrain from raising borrowing costs at a monetary policy
meeting today, according to the majority of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Government bonds  advanced.  “If the U.S. recovery is deemed to be somewhat derailed
momentarily, and with China data suggesting a measured slowdown
from policy tightening, then it could support a case for a hold
on  interest rates ,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-
exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “We see
a higher probability of an increase in the second half” in
Malaysia, he said.  The ringgit declined 0.5 percent to 2.9915 per dollar as of
4:55 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has depreciated 1 percent since May 2, trimming
this year’s advance to 2.4 percent.  Bank Negara will keep its overnight policy rate at 2.75
percent in a decision expected after 6 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur
today, according to nine of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Seven predicted an increase to 3 percent, which would be the
first since July 2010.  U.S. Data  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded in April at the
slowest pace in eight months, according to an index of non-
manufacturing companies published by the  Institute for Supply
Management . Employment at U.S. companies rose by 179,000, the
smallest gain in five months, according to ADP Employer
Services.  “Global risk sentiment is being driven by recent economic
data that may favor safe-haven currencies in the very short
term,” Saktiandi said.  Malaysia’s three-year bonds gained, pushing yields to the
lowest in more than two months. The government is scheduled to
auction more of existing September 2017 notes later this month,
according to its sale calendar. It may disclose the amount and
date of offering as early as today.  The yield on the 3.434 percent bond due August 2014 fell
two basis points or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.26 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate has dropped 21 basis
points since April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 