-- 
Rotana to Open Hotels in the U.A.E, Delays Plans in Syria, Libya

-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-05-05T13:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/rotana-to-open-hotels-in-the-u-a-e-delays-plans-in-syria-libya.html
Rotana, an Abu Dhabi-based hotel
management company, plans to open six hotels this year in the
 United Arab Emirates  as occupancy levels drop in  Syria  and a
project in  Libya  is delayed because of war.  “It’s another year preparing for openings,” Chief
Operating Officer Omer Kaddouri said in an interview. “The
Middle East is going through a little bit of turmoil right now
so certain plans might be put on hold.”  Revolutions in Tunisia and  Egypt  have triggered civil
unrest in other Middle Eastern and North African nations such as
Syria and Libya causing tourism to suffer. Protests have spared
the U.A.E. and Qatar, while other Gulf states have seen
demonstrations calling for reforms and regime change.  Rotana currently operates 42 hotels in the Middle East and
North Africa with 30 hotels under development, said Kaddouri.
Unrest in Syria has left “a complete reduction in occupancy”
in Rotana’s two hotels there, he said. “When things get better
in Libya I’m sure we will be back on track.”  Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Plc (MLC) , the operator of more
than 120 hotels worldwide, halted projects in Syria and Libya
while proceeding with new properties in the rest of the Middle
East and North Africa, Chief Executive Officer for the Middle
East Ali Lakhraim said May 3.  In the U.A.E., there is “a certain degree compensation for
the drop in revenue in some of our hotels in the crisis areas,”
Kaddouri said. “There is a direct link between what’s happening
outside and what’s happening in the U.A.E.” The six hotels that
are due to open in the U.A.E. and one in Qatar this year have an
investment value of more than $800 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahraa Alkhalisi in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  