-- 
Rwanda to Seek Second Credit Rating as It Prepares to Sell First Eurobond

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-05T11:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/rwanda-to-seek-second-credit-rating-as-it-prepares-to-sell-first-eurobond.html
Rwanda , which was named by the World
Bank in 2009 as the world’s “top reformer” for making the most
business-friendly changes to its regulations, will seek a second
credit rating this year as it prepares to sell its first global
bond, Finance Minister John Rwangombwa said.  The government is in talks with  Standard & Poor’s  on a
sovereign rating this year and “we expect to be really ready
for the market in the next two to three years,” Rwangombwa said
in an interview in Cape Town yesterday.  The East African nation, which makes most of its foreign
currency from tourism and the export of coffee, doubled the size
of its  economy  in the nine years to 2010, according to the  World
Bank , as it recovers from a genocide that killed 800,000 mainly
ethnic Tutsis in 1994. With government debt of just 12 percent
of gross domestic product, Rwanda is now seeking to tap
international markets to finance spending on power projects and
roads to help boost the economy’s potential.  “We have investment banks that are willing to go to the
market right now,” Rwangombwa said in the interview at the
 World Economic Forum  on Africa. “But we are putting our house
in order to ensure that we are getting the right cost of our
financing. There is appetite outside there.”  African Eurobonds  Rwanda joins African countries such as  Nigeria  and Zambia
that are turning to global capital markets to fund
infrastructure projects. Rwanda has a sovereign credit rating of
B by  Fitch Ratings , lower than Zambia’s B+ and in the same
category as Uganda, Mozambique and Seychelles.  The yield on Nigeria’s $500 million Eurobond was 6.16
percent today, unchanged from yesterday.  Ghana ’s dollar-
denominated notes due in 2017 rose, reducing the yield by three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.06 percent.  The  African Development Bank  is investigating helping
Rwanda sell a “diaspora” bond that will be marketed to
Rwandans living abroad, the lender’s chief economist and vice
president, Mthuli Ncube, said in Cape Town yesterday.  The World Bank has praised economic progress in Rwanda,
where it takes just three days to register a company, compared
with an average of 45 days in sub-Saharan  Africa  and 13.8 days
in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
countries, according to the lender.  Renaissance Capital  said in a report on April 12 that
Rwanda is succeeding in reaching its goal of becoming a
“Singapore of Africa” due to political stability, low
corruption and a shift to a service economy.  Investor Demand  Investor demand in the recent sale of the state’s 25
percent stake in brewer Brassieries et Lemonaderies du Rwanda
SA, a unit of Heineken NV, indicates appetite for Rwandan
assets, Rwangombwa said. The government plans to hold an initial
public offering for Bank of Rwanda this year and “already the
indications are that appetite is very high in the market,” he
said.  Rwangombwa has lowered his target for economic growth this
year to 7 percent from 8 percent as rising food and energy costs
push up inflation and boost import costs. The government may
consider reducing fuel taxes to ease costs if its outlook for
inflation worsens, he said. Inflation accelerated to 4.1 percent
in March from 2.3 percent the month before, the statistics
office said on April 15.  The finance minister presented a budget of 1.12 trillion
francs ($1.86 billion) to parliament on May 2 for the fiscal
year ending June 2012, with revenue expected to jump 14 percent
to 538 million francs. The  budget deficit  is forecast to narrow
to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.1
percent in the year through June. International donors fund
about 41 percent of state spending, Rwangombwa said.  Stronger  tax revenue  is mainly due to increased spending as
the economy expands, the minister said.  “People have more money and there’ll be more revenues,”
Rwangombwa said. “Also there’s an increase in the efficiency of
revenue collection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  Cape Town  via at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 