-- 
Samsung, HTC Make Gains on Apple in Booming Smartphone Field

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-05-05T20:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/samsung-htc-make-gains-on-apple-in-booming-smartphone-field-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (HTJ) 
led the smartphone industry in sales growth last quarter,
underscoring the rise of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system
as a leading challenger to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Samsung’s global sales rose more than fourfold to 10.8
million units, while HTC more than tripled to 8.9 million units,
making them the fourth- and fifth-biggest sellers of
smartphones, according to research firm IDC Corp. The overall
market grew 80 percent to 99.6 million, IDC said.  The companies, the two biggest handset makers putting
Android on their devices, outpaced the top three smartphone
makers:  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Apple and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which rely
on different software. While Nokia remained No. 1, it’s backing
away from its current smartphone operating system in favor of
Microsoft Corp. software. That’s clearing the way for a showdown
between Apple’s iPhone and its Android rivals.  “The rise of Android as a prominent mobile operating
system has allowed several suppliers to gain share quickly,”
Kevin Restivo, an analyst with Framingham, Massachusetts-based
IDC, said in a statement.  Nokia’s market share slipped to 24.3 percent, from 38.8
percent a year earlier. RIM, which makes the BlackBerry, fell to
14 percent from 19.1 percent. The iPhone fared the best among
the top three. Sales of the device more than doubled to 18.7
million, vaulting Apple past RIM. The iPhone, which accounted
for half of Apple’s $24.7 billion in sales last quarter, made up
18.7 percent of the overall market.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , gives away the
Android software for free to boost revenue from services such as
mobile advertising and expand the market for its search engine.
In addition to Samsung and HTC, Motorola Mobility Holdings Corp.
has embraced the operating system.  Another research report yesterday from Canalys found that
Android accounted for 35 percent of global smartphone shipments,
compared with 19 percent for Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  