-- 
Samsung Stock to Drop on Concern Over Apple Orders, Competition, BGC Says

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-05-06T06:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/samsung-stock-set-to-drop-as-apple-adds-to-challenges-bgc-says.html
Samsung Electronics Co. shares are
poised to drop amid increased competition and the possible loss
of orders from iPad-maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , BGC Partners Inc. said,
recommending a so-called short sale of the stock.  Investors should bet on Samsung falling to the bottom of
the three-month trading range of 850,000 won to 950,000 won,
BGC’s Singapore-based sales manager Jamie Coutts wrote in an e-
mail. Falling below 850,000 may “herald a technical target of
750,000 won” for the world’s largest maker of memory chips and
flat-screen panels, Coutts wrote May 4, when the shares dropped
2.5 percent to 915,000 won. The market was shut yesterday.  “Going full blown on this call now,” Coutts wrote. “When
you get a trading range like that over a certain period of time,
usually the market tends to start to preempt the price action
around the resistance and support levels,” Coutts said in an
interview with Bloomberg News.  Short selling is the sale of borrowed stock in the hope of
buying it back at a lower price.  Shares in  South Korea ’s biggest company fell 1.8 percent to
899,000 won at the close of  Seoul  trading, extending their loss
this year to 5.3 percent. The Suwon, South Korea-based
manufacturer of Galaxy smartphones reported a 30 percent drop in
first-quarter profit as competition drove down prices. Apple may
switch to alternative chip suppliers including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  amid
increased rivalry with Samsung over alleged copying, Gus Richard, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co., wrote in a report
this week.  “With both firms suing each other for patent infringements
in smart devices, it is not surprising that Apple is looking to
dump Samsung for all its major component needs,” Coutts’s
colleague Amir Anvarzadeh wrote in a separate e-mail to clients.  Apple Lawsuits  The Apple lawsuits “won’t affect our business with them,”
said  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung based in Seoul.
Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  Apple, the second-largest buyer of components from Samsung
in 2010, filed an intellectual property lawsuit against Samsung
in April, accusing the company of copying the iPhone and iPad.
Samsung countersued Apple, alleging patent infringements.
Apple’s relationship as a customer for components shouldn’t be
disrupted by the suit, Apple’s Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook 
said on a conference call April 20.  Apple ordered Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to
make the so-called A5 processors for its iPad2 and iPhone5
devices, the Economic Daily News reported on March 10, without
saying where it got the information. Apple previously ordered
the chips from Samsung, according to the report.  ‘Tough Environment’  Samsung is facing a “very tough environment” for the rest
of the year as competition with rival chipmakers including
Elpida Memory Inc. intensifies and amid weakness in demand for
liquid-crystal-display panels, Coutts wrote. Elpida said this
week it will start mass-producing the world’s smallest dynamic
random access memory chip, with a 25-nanometer line width, in
July, possibly ahead of Samsung.  Thirty-nine of 40 analysts have “buy,” “outperform” or
“overweight” recommendations on Samsung’s stock, with one
“neutral,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Could it be possible that the street, which has held a
five-year infatuation with the stock, is ignoring the serious
headwinds and challenges it now faces?” Coutts wrote.  Vietnam ’s VN Index has climbed 3.2 percent since Coutts
told clients in a Dec. 6 e-mail the nation’s stocks were poised
to rally, based on comparisons of price movements and trading
activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  