-- 
San Miguel Slumps Most in 21 Years After Selling $1 Billion Shares, Bonds

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-05-05T05:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/san-miguel-plunges-most-in-21-years-on-1-billion-offering-at-33-discount.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the  Philippines ’
biggest food and beverage maker, slumped the most in 21 years
in  Manila  trading after selling about $1 billion of stock and
convertible bonds at a wider-than-estimated discount.  San Miguel sank by a record 28 percent to 109.5 pesos
after saying it sold shares at 110 pesos, 33 percent less than
the average price in the 20 trading days through April 12,
before it was halted. President Ramon Ang said in November that
he planned to raise $3 billion selling shares at a range of 150
pesos to 200 pesos.  The slump wiped 100 billion pesos ($2.3 billion) off the
market value of the  San Miguel  beer producer, which had more
than doubled in the year to April 12. Investors drove up the
share price on speculation a push into higher-return energy,
transport and telecommunication businesses would boost earnings.  “Shifting into power, which the economy needs to sustain
growth, should be positive, it’s just that the near-term
picture is kind of muddled,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , a
strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila. “There’s an
expectation of rising inflation, so around the corner we’ll
probably have rising interest rates.”  Ang said in February he plans to spend more than $4
billion to finance San Miguel’s expansion in a bid to boost
revenue to 1 trillion pesos in sales in five years, double the
company’s forecast of 530 billion pesos for 2011.  ‘Poor Sentiment’  Trading volume for San Miguel, which resumed today after
being halted for three weeks, was the highest since at least
October 2004.  San Miguel is “a victim of poor sentiment,” said Astro
del Castillo, managing director at First Grade Holdings Inc. in
Manila. “During the time of the offering there was still
uncertainty in the air, with  oil prices  and  Japan , so to ensure
the offering was a 100 percent success, they offered it at a
discount.”  Petron Corp. (PCOR)  and other San Miguel units may also sell
shares to fund expansion plans, Ang told reporters in Manila,
without elaborating. “The best advice I can give to investors
is to hold on to the shares,” he said.  Net income for San Miguel in the first quarter was higher
than last year, Ang said, declining to elaborate. Profit in the
first three months of 2010 rose 7.2 percent to 2.9 billion
pesos.  Conversion Premium  San Miguel and controlling stockholder Top Frontier
Investment Holdings Inc. sold shares at 110 pesos each. The
bonds that are convertible to shares offer an annual coupon of
2 percent and a conversion premium of 25 percent to the offer
price,  San Miguel  said April 20.  The foodmaker said it set aside 189.1 million common
shares from its treasury for the $600 million convertible bonds,
sold to overseas investors and with a three-year maturity.  The equity sale, involving 145.78 million shares, raised
$370 million, San Miguel said in a stock-exchange  filing  today.
The deal increased the company’s public float to 14 percent, it
said in the statement.  Ang said April 11 he wants to increase San Miguel’s public
float to 49 percent. The public float of the beverage maker was
13 percent in January, according to a filing.  San Miguel had dropped 12 percent in two days after it
announced April 11 that it would raise about $850 million. It
later raised the amount to $900 million.  Asset Sales  The final value increased to about $1 billion after an
overallotment option was exercised, said Eduardo Francisco,
president of BDO Capital & Investment Corp., one of the
arrangers of the deal.  The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 2.4
percent from April 13, when San Miguel was halted, through
yesterday. The benchmark fell 1.2 percent today.  San Miguel will use the proceeds from the fundraising to
finance infrastructure projects while Top Frontier will repay
loans from its own investors, according to a filing on April 11.  San Miguel, which started as a brewer in 1890, had about
$2.9 billion in cash at the end of 2010. It has sold assets to
fund acquisitions in industries that Ang said have a return on
equity that is about triple the 7 percent level for food and
beverages.  Ang has completed more than $6 billion of asset sales in
the past five years, helping fund acquisitions that include a
controlling stake in Philippine oil refiner Petron, the
contracts for four government-owned  power plants , coal mines
and the operator of the airport for the island resort of
Boracay. Chairman Eduardo Cojuangco has said the purchases will
“secure” the company’s future.  The company’s share and debt sale follows an April 12
Supreme Court decision that said Cojuangco legally acquired
about a fifth of San Miguel, the biggest company listed in the
Philippines by sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After a revolt deposed dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  in 1986,
the government seized Cojuangco’s shares, alleging they were
bought using state funds. He denies the accusation, and the
nation’s anti-graft court ruled in his favor in 2007, leading
the government to file an appeal before the  Supreme Court .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  