-- 
Sara Lee Evaluates Options for International Bakery Unit

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-05T20:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/sara-lee-evaluates-options-for-international-bakery-unit-1-.html
Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , the U.S. food maker
planning to break itself up, said it’s evaluating strategic
options for its international bakery and North American
refrigerated dough units.  The moves will help Sara Lee’s two proposed separate
businesses, which are focused on meat and coffee, gain “the
best platform for a strong and independent future,” Sara Lee
said in a statement today.  The international bakery unit operates in four countries
and accounted for less than 10 percent of Sara Lee’s $10.8
billion in sales in the year ended June 2010. The 72-year-old
maker of Ball Park hot dogs said in January that it will split
itself in two, spinning off its meat brands like Jimmy Dean and
Hillshire Farms into a new public company by early 2012.  “The buyers are not likely international food companies -
it will likely be a local buyer in my view,”  Christopher Growe ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview. The
St. Louis-based analyst recommends holding the the shares.  Sales at the international bakery unit declined 7 percent
in the third quarter ended April 2 because of slower sales in
the Spanish business, which sells bread under the Bimbo brand.
Sara Lee has lowered prices in  Spain  to boost sales, and also
wants to shift its unionized Spanish employees to become
independent contractors to lower expenses. The operations
include fresh bakery in Portugal, refrigerated dough in  France ,
and desserts in  Australia .  Previous Overtures  Prior to its decision to split the company, Sara Lee’s
board rejected approaches from  JBS SA (JBSS3) , KKR & Co. and an Apollo
Global Management LLC group that valued Sara Lee at as much as
$18.50 a share, according to people with knowledge of the
negotiations at the time.  Sara Lee rose 14 cents to $19.28 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 10
percent this year, compared with a 6.2 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Full-year earnings, excluding some items, will now be at
least 79 cents a share, down from a previous minimum of 85
cents, Sara Lee said. The company is raising prices on most
products, a move that may alienate some customers. Analysts on
average project 86 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Sara Lee, along with food makers such as  Kellogg Co. (K)  and
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , has raised prices amid surging costs for raw
ingredients such as coffee and meat. Wells Fargo Securities
analyst Eric Serotta estimates that Sara Lee’s commodity costs
will increase 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  