-- 
Scene Last Night: Druckenmiller, Gary Cohn, Langone, Larry Fink

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-05T15:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/scene-last-night-druckenmillers-gary-cohn-kenneth-langone-larry-fink.html
Stanley Druckenmiller  greeted  Gary Cohn  before the two waded into a maze of seated guests last
night for the Langone Medical Center Violet Ball at Cipriani
42nd Street.  Druckenmiller, who recently closed his fund Duquesne
Capital Management LLC, shot ahead to his front and center
table, where he found his wife, Fiona. Their neighbors included
the dean of New York University’s Langone Medical Center, Dr.
Robert I. Grossman, and Dr. Richard Tsien, the newly installed
director of the center’s Neuroscience Institute, funded by a
$100 million gift from the Druckenmillers.  Cohn, president of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , took his seat
at an adjacent table and pulled out the thick journal with more
than 50 pages of tributes to the Druckenmillers, the ball’s
honorees. His seatmates included Larry Fink, chairman and chief
executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and a board member of the
Langone Medical Center, and Thomas S. Murphy, co-founder of
Crestview Partners LP. Nearby were portfolio managers John Long
and David Rogers of PointState Capital, formed by former
Duquesne Capital staff, and Thompson Dean, managing partner and
CEO of Avista Capital Partners LLC.  Kenneth Langone, a $200 million donor to, and chairman of,
the center, came to the lectern and announced that the event had
raised $9.7 million, $3 million above the previous record.  Of the honorees, Langone said, “To Elaine and me, they’re
part of our family.” He noted with pride that he is the
godfather of the Drukenmillers’ daughter Tess, who is headed to
 Brown University  in the fall.  Closing his fund hasn’t made Druckenmiller more hands-on
with his philanthropy.  ‘Ensembles of Neurons’  “We try to back the best people at the various
nonprofits,” Druckenmiller said during cocktail hour. “The
best thing I can do is to make money to help them do their
job.”  The Druckenmillers have placed their bets on Dr. Tsien,
recruited from  Stanford University . He is focusing the
institute’s work on network neuroscience.  “We’re talking about how ensembles of neurons work
together,” Dr. Tsien said. “Like a symphony orchestra.”  The medical center presented the Druckenmillers with a
framed photograph of a neuron within the hippocampus.  Many Wore Hats  Robert E. Diamond Jr., chief executive officer of Barclays
Plc, arrived at the Central Park Conservancy’s Frederick Law
Olmsted luncheon with his daughter, Nell, a senior at  Princeton
University  who is joining Deutsche Bank on July 6.  Diamond, the event’s corporate chairman, assumed his post
on the receiving line next to the chairman of the Women’s
Committee of the Central Park Conservancy, Gillian Miniter, to
greet more than 1,000 guests.  Many wore hats. Nell Diamond wore a red topper made of
turkey feathers and ostrich quills. Donya Bommer, a former
television anchor who is married to hedge-fund founder Scott Bommer, crafted her hat in her kitchen with her 3-year-old from
a Zitomer headband and tin foil. It was a copy of the hat
Princess Beatrice wore to the wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton .  Robert Diamond  was hatless. “If I had worn one, it would
have been a Red Sox cap,” he said.  Also hatless were the guests at Jeffrey Peek’s “Annual
Men’s Table,” including Gerald Hassell, president of the Bank
of  New York  Mellon, and William Harrison, former chairman and
CEO of JP Morgan Chase. Peek is vice chairman for  investment
banking  at  Barclays Capital .  “We’re here to see all the beautiful women,” said
Harrison.  ‘British Weather’  Inclement weather meant umbrellas and tents.  “If you invite a British bank, you get British weather,”
Diamond said at the lectern, as guests including Conservancy
trustees Richard Gilder and Diana DiMenna nibbled at their
roasted chicken and wheatberry farro salad.  Diamond noted he left New York for  London  in 1988, and
returned in 2008, to find Central Park “incredibly
transformed” thanks to the work of the conservancy, which
raises money for, and manages, the park.  Now he lives on Central Park West with his wife, Jennifer.
“The first thing we do and the last thing we do every day is
look out on Central Park,” he said.  The event raised more than $3 million for the park.   (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 