-- 
Schools Find Ayn Rand Can’t Be Shrugged as Donors Build Courses

-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-05-05T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/schools-find-ayn-rand-can-t-be-shrugged-as-donors-build-courses.html
John Allison, former chairman of bank
holding company  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , admires author Ayn  Rand  so much that
he devised a strategy to spread her laissez-faire principles on
U.S. campuses. Allison, working through the BB&T Charitable
Foundation, gives schools grants of as much as $2 million if
they agree to create a course on capitalism and make Rand’s
masterwork, “Atlas Shrugged,” required reading.  Allison’s crusade to counter what he considers the anti-
capitalist orthodoxy at universities has produced results -- and
controversy. Some 60 schools, including at least four campuses
of the  University of North Carolina , began teaching Rand’s book
after getting the foundation money. Faculty at several schools
that have accepted Allison’s terms are protesting, saying donors
shouldn’t have the power to set the curriculum to pursue their
political agendas, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
June issue.  “We have sought out professors who wanted to teach these
ideas,” says Allison, now a professor at  Wake Forest
University’s business school  in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina .
“It’s really a battle of ideas. If the ideas that made America
great aren’t heard, then their influence will be destroyed.”  Allison, 62, is one of a number of wealthy philanthropists
who are making bold demands on schools as a condition of giving,
says Jack Siegel, a lawyer whose Chicago-based  Charity
Governance Consulting  LLC works with colleges and nonprofit
groups.  Seeking to leave their imprint on everything from the
direction of scientific research to the performance of sports
teams, these benefactors are stirring conflicts when their
causes don’t fit with the priorities of administrators and
faculty.  Strings Attached  The strings attached to the gifts present university
presidents with tough choices: While schools suffering from
diminished endowments and government funding cuts following the
recession need the money, administrators are sometimes forced to
reject the offers to avoid a dust-up on campus.  “I have known some gifts in which the university just
could not agree to the terms,”  Ohio State University  President
E. Gordon Gee says. “If there are too many strings attached,
you have done yourself a disservice. If someone gave me $100
million to start a school of massage at  Ohio State University ,
I’d have to say, ‘Sorry, it’s just not in our strategic plan.’”  Donors as far back as John Harvard, the first benefactor of
what was renamed Harvard College after his death in 1638, have
gotten their names enshrined on buildings in a quest for
immortality. “They’re building a tombstone,” Siegel says.  Henry Kravis , the billionaire co-founder of KKR & Co.,
pledged $100 million last year to fund an expansion of  Columbia
University ’s business school. The  new lecture hall  at his alma
mater will be called the Henry R. Kravis Building.  UConn Football  Many donors today insist on more than a marquee. Robert Burton, who runs his own investment firm in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , said he gave more than $7 million to the  University
of Connecticut  with the understanding that he would have a say
in the football program. In January,  he asked  for his gift back,
saying the school hired a football coach without consulting him
first. A month later, the university announced that it and
Burton had reconciled their differences.  “Donors want something back, and in many cases they want a
say-so in what’s happening,” Siegel says. “When their money
isn’t used the way they want it to, they are unhappy.”  In one of the more ambitious demands made by a donor,
hedge- fund manager  Jim Simons tried to use his pledge to change
tuition practices within the entire  State University of New York 
system. In July, Simons’s pledge of $150 million to SUNY’s  Stony
Brook campus  seemed like a life buoy thrown to a drowning
institution.  Tuition Law  SUNY was facing $210 million in budget reductions. Before
writing the check, Simons, 73, the founder of Renaissance
Technologies LLC, demanded that the state legislature pass a law
allowing the 64 SUNY campuses to set their own tuition for the
purpose of reducing their dependence on state aid. The
legislature rejected the proposal in August.  So the fund manager, who had donated $60 million to  Stony
Brook  in 2008 for the  Simons Center for Geometry and Physics 
building, has yet to fulfill his latest pledge. Simons declined
a request for an interview through a spokesman.  Schools coping with strained budgets are under pressure to
boost their fundraising, giving private donors more leverage in
making demands. After peaking at $31.6 billion in 2008, total
gifts decreased the next year before rising a half percent to
$28 billion in 2010, according to the  Council for Aid to
Education .  Declining Endowments  While the average endowment of 865 U.S. colleges increased
8.4 percent last year to $408 million, that’s down from 2008’s
average of $484 million, according to a survey by the  National
Association of College and University Business Officers  and
Commonfund Institute.  Drexel University  spent years wooing Bennett LeBow,
chairman of cigarette maker  Vector Group Ltd. (VGR) , to get $45
million to construct a new building to house the  LeBow College
of Business . He gave Drexel $10 million in 1999 in a naming
rights deal, but he demanded that the institution improve its
position in business school rankings before he donated more.  “He is a businessman and looks at metrics and objective
measures of performance,” says George Tsetsekos, dean of the
business school.  Tsetsekos says he flew from Philadelphia to LeBow’s office
in Miami several times to try to convince the Drexel alum to
make the gift. The dean also sent his best students to meet with
LeBow and show him that the school was attracting higher-caliber
pupils as its ranking improved.  ‘Off My Back’  LeBow, at a ceremony in November announcing his $45 million
gift, credited Tsetsekos’s persistence. “I just want him off my
back,” LeBow, 73, said. “I wish I had enough Kleenex for all
the tears I’ve been hearing from him in the past years.”  A C$35 million ($36 million) gift from the family
foundation of billionaire Peter Munk has been met with as much
scorn as appreciation at the  University of Toronto . The money
from Munk, chairman of Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , was
used to help create the  Munk School of Global Affairs .  Paul Hamel, a professor of medicine, and John Valleau, an
emeritus chemistry professor, attacked the university’s
agreement to accept the donation in a 7,361-word  essay  published
in February in an online campus magazine. Students also staged
protests outside the university’s governing council meetings.  Barrick’s Mines  In the funding deal, the Munk foundation will release the
final C$15 million at its own discretion and only if the
university meets 23 requirements laid out in a 26-page
 memorandum of agreement . The professors claim that the structure
of the agreement will make scholars at the Munk school reluctant
to criticize Barrick, the world’s largest miner of precious
metals.  Amnesty International  and  CorpWatch  have alleged that
Barrick’s operations have caused pollution and violated the
human rights of workers in Papua New Guinea and  Australia . In
Tanzania, security guards at Barrick’s mines have allegedly shot
and killed villagers who scavenge for small pieces of gold.
Barrick has publicly denied that it’s responsible for these
alleged violations.  “Anti-mining activists frequently make wide-ranging
accusations against Barrick, often relying on information that
is just plain wrong,” spokesman Andy Lloyd says. “The company
is fully committed to responsible environmental stewardship and
upholding human rights.”  Front Entrance  The essay also lashes out at the demands attached to Munk’s
gift. Among the 23 requirements, the university must stage an
opening celebration for the Munk school and hire a media
tracking service to evaluate its branding strategy.  The professors were especially incensed at the rule that
said lower-level staff will not be allowed to use the front
entrance of the building, which they say violates the social
norms of a public university.  “The main entrance of the school, remodeled at
considerable public expense, is to be restricted to ‘senior
staff’ (defined how?), while everyone else, including their
assistants and students and even their less-senior faculty
colleagues, are to walk around to a back door!” the professors
wrote.  President David Naylor posted a  spirited defense  of the
Munk agreement on the university’s website. “Personal attacks
such as those we have seen on Peter Munk are a deplorable
affront to the values of rational and respectful discourse that
are supposed to characterize a university,” Naylor said.  Veterinary School  The university also said that critics misinterpreted the
requirement about the building’s front entrance, saying everyone
was free to use it. Barrick declined to make Munk available for
comment.  Madeleine Pickens, the wife of energy tycoon  T. Boone Pickens , used the power of her donation to try to change how the
veterinary school at  Oklahoma State University  treats animals.
She had given $5 million to the university, joining her husband
who had donated or pledged $525 million to build a football
stadium and for scholarships and faculty chairs at his alma
mater.  In February 2009, Madeleine criticized the veterinary
school in an interview with the university newspaper. She said
students, as part of their training, were performing multiple
surgeries on the same research dogs before killing them.
“That’s barbaric,” she said in the article, and insisted that
the school stop the practice of putting animals to death.  “I found out some things I knew weren’t right, and I felt
very comfortable bringing the issue up,” Madeleine Pickens says
in an interview. “People have a voice but animals don’t, so you
have to speak up.”  ‘Right Quick’  Hours after the article appeared, the university issued a
statement, saying it was already working on ways to keep animals
alive and to return them to shelters after the student training.
Two months later, on her  website , Madeleine Pickens commended
the university for changing the practices at the vet school.  “She had some concern about the methods they were using at
the school,” Boone Pickens says. “She spoke up, and they got
with her right quick.”  Inge Reichenbach, vice president of development at  Yale
University , says schools have been changing their approach to
fundraising to better handle the demands of donors. She says
they have evolved away from accepting almost any gift, no matter
the purpose, to steering benefactors toward the school’s
priorities.  Stanford  “What we have learned is you have to address issues in how
you implement the gift and what the objectives are, both of the
donor and the university, before you accept the gift,”
Reichenbach says. “We take quite a bit of time to address these
things so in 10 years it doesn’t become a problem.”  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California , tries to
eliminate the possibility of conflicts with donors by surveying
its professors. Before the school launched a $4.3 billion, five-
year fundraising campaign in 2006, it asked the entire faculty
and its academic departments to compile wish lists of needed
projects.  The university encourages donors partly by giving them a
menu of projects such as naming-rights gifts to choose from. For
$25 million, a benefactor’s name will be placed on a renovation
of the Encina Commons, located behind one of the original
collections of sandstone buildings built by railroad tycoon
Leland Stanford. A $250,000 donation can support a fund for
needy students.  Exxon Donation  Benefactors rarely deviate from the university’s preferred
projects, says Martin Shell, Stanford’s vice president for
development. “We want to make sure we understand what the donor
has agreed to and what we’ve agreed on, to make sure there’s a
meeting of minds so there’s no confusion down the road,” Shell
says.  Stanford’s tightly scripted fundraising program didn’t
prevent a blowup with Hollywood producer Stephen Bing. After
Bing pledged $2.5 million for an undisclosed purpose, he learned
that  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  was running advertisements touting its
earlier promise to donate up to $100 million to Stanford to
support  climate change  and energy research.  Bing, who backs environmental causes, demanded that
Stanford prevent Exxon from using the school’s good name in its
marketing to promote itself as a green company. A group of
alumni rallied to Bing’s cause and lobbied the school’s board of
trustees to vote their shares in support of a 2007 Exxon
shareholder resolution calling on the oil giant to reduce its
contributions to global warming.  But that wasn’t enough for Bing, who rescinded his donation
in 2007 because Stanford refused to end its relationship with
Exxon. Bing declined to comment.  Ayn Rand  Allison, who promotes Ayn Rand’s writings, will likely
generate more conflicts on campuses as he seeks to expand his
foundation’s gifts to 200 schools nationwide. In 2006,  Meredith
College  in Raleigh, North Carolina, gave up a seven-year,
$420,000 grant from the BB&T foundation after some faculty
bristled at the president’s decision to accept the money on the
condition that the school teach “Atlas Shrugged.”  After  Guilford College  in Greensboro, North Carolina,
accepted a 10-year, $500,000 grant from Allison’s foundation,
 Richard Zweigenhaft , a professor of psychology, protested the
decision in an article for Academe, a magazine published by the
 American Association of University Professors . He said the
appropriate faculty committees weren’t consulted before the
school decided to take the money.  “This deal with BB&T was simply an egregious case of the
college administration deciding to sell a chunk of the
curriculum,” Zweigenhaft says.  As private donors gain more power on campuses, it’s just
the kind of shift away from state control that Rand would
applaud.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Lubove in  Los Angeles  at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  