-- 
SEC Subpoenas Credit Suisse Over Mortgages, MBIA Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/sec-subpoenas-credit-suisse-over-mortgages-mbia-says-in-n-y-court-filing.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission subpoenaed  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  seeking documents
related to mortgage debt, bond insurer MBIA Insurance Corp. said
in a court filing as it seeks information as part of a lawsuit
against three of the bank’s units.  “Credit Suisse is now the subject of an investigation by
the Securities and Exchange Commission, which issued a subpoena
this week seeking the same types of documents as MBIA seeks with
this motion,” the bond insurance unit of Armonk, New York-based
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , said in  the filing  in New York State Supreme Court.
The document, dated April 29, was filed today.  Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse spokesman in New York,
declined to comment on MBIA’s statement about an SEC
investigation. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  U.S. investigators have been scrutinizing companies
involved in the mortgage business before the worst collapse in
 home prices  since the Great Depression.  The  Justice Department  this week sued Deutsche Bank AG for
more than $1 billion, saying the firm lied while arranging
federal insurance on faulty mortgages.  MBIA alleges in its case that Zurich-based Credit Suisse
failed to repurchase soured mortgages out of a 2007
securitization as contractually required. That was true even as
the bank obtained funds from the originators of the loans over
similar demands that the lenders buy back the debt, MBIA said.  Bear Stearns, Ambac  The allegations echo charges unveiled in January against
Bear Stearns Cos. in a suit by bond insurer Ambac Assurance
Corp., in a case against the defunct investment bank and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which bought Bear Stearns in 2008.  Credit Suisse in an April 29  filing  in MBIA’s case said
that contracts for its mortgage-bond transaction failed to call
for the bank to repurchase loans simply because they went
delinquent within a few months or involved borrower fraud,
differing from contracts between lenders and Credit Suisse.  Credit Suisse cited e-mails from its employees and MBIA
officials before the deal closed in which the bank explicitly
stated that those so-called representations and warranties
wouldn’t be made.  “MBIA is entitled to what its contracts with CS provide,
and not more,” Vames, the Credit Suisse spokesman, said today
in an e-mail.  MBIA said in its filing today that Credit Suisse demanded
some repurchases by lenders for issues covered by its own
contracts, and that early loan defaults should have been seen as
“red flags” for further reviews.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, 603751/2009,  New York  State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York
at   jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York
at   sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 