-- 
Shell Says Alaskan Oil Spill Wouldn’t Top 9,468 Barrels a Day

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-05-05T20:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/shell-says-alaskan-oil-spill-wouldn-t-top-9-468-barrels-a-day.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  would spill no
more than 9,468 barrels a day in case of a blowout at proposed
wells off  Alaska ’s Arctic coast, according to drilling plan
filed with U.S. regulators.  Shell, blocked since 2007 from developing its Alaska
leases, is seeking U.S. approval to drill as many as four wells
in the  Beaufort Sea  -- two in 2012 and two in 2013. The volume
the wells would discharge in a worst case varies, depending on
the well, the Hague-based company said in a plan obtained today.  Shell pledged to deploy skimming vessels to limit a spill
in the remote region that is home to polar bears and beluga
whales, and use a capping dome to shut a ruptured well. The
company’s Alaska campaign is portrayed by industry and
environmentalists as a first test for regulators outside the
 Gulf of Mexico , where exploration resumed under new restrictions
after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s spill last year, the biggest off the U.S. coast.  “Shell has designed their response program based upon a
regional capability of responding to an increasing range of
spill volumes,” the company said in the plan.  Shell provided two estimates for the worst-case discharge
in the report, citing either 9,468 barrels or 9,648 barrels.
Kelly op de Weegh, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
9,468 barrels is correct.  BP’s failed Macondo well in the Gulf spilled as much as
62,000 barrels a day after a April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon rig, the U.S.  said  on Aug. 2.  Responding to a spill is the chief concern in the Arctic
“because of the challenging conditions” such as ice and high
seas and where “you don’t have an immediate Coast Guard
presence,”  Michael Bromwich , director of the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, said in an April
15 interview at Bloomberg’s office in  Washington .  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  