-- 
Silver Investors Dump Bets After Exchange Boosts Margins 84%

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/silver-investors-dump-futures-as-comex-boosts-speculator-trading-costs-84-.html
The biggest slump for silver since
1983 may not be over as the Comex exchange in  New York  makes it
84 percent more expensive for speculators to trade the metal,
triggering an exit by investors.  The minimum amount of cash that must be deposited when
borrowing from brokers to open new positions will rise to
$21,600 per contract after May 9, CME Group Ltd., Comex’s owner,
said yesterday. That’s up from $11,745 two weeks ago. Open
interest in futures has tumbled about 15 percent since the
exchange began raising margin requirements on April 25.  Prices may drop an additional 14 percent to $34 an ounce by
the end of next week from yesterday’s closing price, according
to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of six
analysts. Silver has more than doubled in the past year as
record-low U.S. borrowing costs and a slumping dollar prompted
investors to buy precious metals as alternative assets.  “You’re talking about a very volatile market, a very
significant run-up in a very short period of time,” said
 Michael Cuggino , who helps manage $12 billion at Permanent
Portfolio in  San Francisco . “It went too high too fast, and
exacerbating it on the downside is the increased margin
requirements.”  As of April 29, the metal had soared 57 percent in 2011,
the most among the 19 commodities tracked by the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index. In the past four sessions, silver
plunged 25 percent, the most since February 1983. The slump
trimmed this year’s advance to 17 percent, trailing gains by
gasoline, coffee and gasoil.  ‘Frothy Market’  “If you have to put up that much more margin, many people
simply say ‘no, I won’t do it,’ so they liquidate,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-
based Gartman Letter. “It got a bit frothy, and frothy markets
need to correct.”  CME raised margins after “unprecedented high levels of
volatility,” Harriet Hunnable, the managing director of metals
products, said in a telephone interview from the company’s
headquarters in Chicago. Silver’s 10-day historical volatility
jumped to 81.19 today, the highest since March 2009. The
exchange has announced five margin increases in the past two
weeks.  “When markets become highly volatile, and we can see the
market anticipates further volatility, then it is highly likely
that we will change the amount we require,” Hunnable said.
“The exchange increases margins to manage the risk people
face.”  Margins Increase  Before the increases, margins were about 5 percent of the
value of a futures contract, which is for 5,000 ounces. After
the plunge in prices, the cost after May 9 would be about 12
percent of a contract, using today’s settlement.  Silver “went up much too fast, and if it continues to go
up, that’s disaster,” said  Jim Rogers , the chairman of
Singapore-based Rogers Holdings, who predicted the start of the
global commodities rally in 1999. “I’m very happy it’s coming
down nicely. I hope it comes down some more so I can buy some
more. Markets are always correcting.”  The metal may reach $45 in the third quarter, said Ralph Preston, a principal at Heritage West Financial Inc., a San
Diego company that specializes in futures trading. “At this
point, I see some serious long liquidation and profit taking,
but not an end to the historic 2011 rally.”  Rally Outlook  The rally won’t stop “until the  Federal Reserve  begins to
aggressively hike interest rates, the Middle East simmers down,
and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission concludes its
multiyear investigation into supposed market manipulation,”
Preston said.  Silver futures for July delivery fell $3.148, or 8 percent,
to close at $36.24 on the Comex.  Prices touched $49.845 on April 25, the highest since the
Hunt Brothers cornered the market in 1980. Futures rallied as
investor demand rose, pushing holdings by exchange-traded funds
backed by the metal up 24 percent in the past 12 months. Shares
outstanding of the  iShares Silver Trust (SLV)  ETF, the biggest such
fund, tumbled 4.7 percent on May 3, the largest slide since
January 2008.  Traders who follow options markets may not be surprised by
this week’s declines. The ratio of puts per call for the iShares
Silver Trust rose higher than 0.9 in April, the highest since
December 2008.  Record High  Silver reached a record $50.35 in January 1980 as the
government investigated the Hunt Brothers’ attempt to corner the
market. The brothers were forced to sell off their holdings, and
the price collapsed to $10.90 in four months.  Prices may drop as low as $31 by the end of the week before
rebounding, said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services in  Chicago . On April 28, McGhee forecast $62
by the end of the year.  “Silver is a freight train,” McGhee said. “The market
doesn’t change, doesn’t give up. It’s relentless, and you’re
just going to get rolled over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  