-- 
Singapore Prosecutor to ‘Vigorously’ Target White-Collar Crimes

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-05-05T07:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/singapore-prosecutor-to-vigorously-target-white-collar-crimes.html
Singapore  will “vigorously”
prosecute white-collar crimes as the city state protects its
reputation as a financial hub, Attorney General Sundaresh Menon
said today.  “We need to make it absolutely clear that white collar
criminals will be caught, prosecuted and punished,” Menon told
reporters after a conference in Singapore. “We regard it as a
very important area given the significance to the status of
Singapore as a global financial services hub.”  Prosecutors and regulators around the world are boosting
 oversight  of their capital markets after coming under scrutiny
during the global financial crisis. Menon, who took office in
October, set up the Economic Crimes and Governance Division in
January to prosecute complex financial crimes, while the central
bank won its first civil lawsuits for stock rigging and  insider
trading  last year.  The specialized financial crimes unit isn’t a signal that
the city will be filing more criminal charges against white
collar offenders instead of seeking civil penalties through the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, Menon said.  “It’s not a question of heavy-handed or light-touched,”
said Menon, who was the former managing partner at Singapore-
based Rajah & Tann LLP. “I just don’t think that white collar
crime deserves to be treated as a quasi crime.”  The economic crimes unit will seek closer ties with other
agencies including the central bank and second officials to
overseas law enforcement units to deepen their understanding of
white collar offenses, Menon said. The division is headed by
Aedit Abdullah, a former district judge and government lawyer
who has worked at the central bank.  Ravi Menon, managing director of the monetary authority,
said at a separate event that while regulation is
“imperative,” it shouldn’t undermine enterprise and innovation.  “Regulation must not stifle markets but seek to make them
work better,” Ravi Menon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  