-- 
Singapore Wealth Gap Weighs on Ruling Party as Opposition Girds for Vote

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-06T11:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/singapore-wealth-gap-weighs-on-lee-s-ruling-party-before-vote.html
Singapore ’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, whose party’s five-decade rule oversaw a 41-fold jump in
gross domestic product, may find past success doesn’t sell as
well to younger voters in tomorrow’s election.  The  People’s Action Party  is facing the most contests for
parliamentary seats since independence in 1965. PAP members will
likely keep a majority at a time of record economic growth,
according to Pearlyn Wong, an investment analyst in Singapore at
Bank Julius Baer & Co., which manages about $262 billion. At the
same time, a decline in the share of the popular vote may spur
the next PAP government to lean toward opposition concerns.  Singapore’s success has fueled wider income inequality,
with the world’s highest share of dollar-millionaire households
contributing to pressure on property and consumer prices. The
opposition has called for more limits on the influx of foreign
workers that make up the majority of construction and shipyard
employees, and urged further steps to contain  home prices .  “The PAP has to be mindful of and adapt to the new
generation of voters who demonstrate a ‘papa don’t preach’
mentality,” said Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law at the
 Singapore Management University . “A relatively poor showing at
the general election would certainly get the PAP back to the
drawing board not just to re-examine the policy but also how to
better communicate the policies.”  Parliament Makeup  Polls close at 8 p.m. tomorrow. The parliament dissolved
last month was made up of 82 PAP lawmakers, two elected
opposition politicians and 10 non-elected members. Tan said a
loss of more than seven seats by the PAP or their share of the
popular vote dipping below 60 percent would be a poor showing.  In a nation where 82 percent of households have  Internet
access , the PAP’s Facebook page is “liked” by 25,004 people,
less than the 32,332 who favor the rival Workers’ Party. Voter
polls and approval ratings aren’t published in Singapore.  Opposition groups including the  Workers’ Party  and
Singapore Democratic Party are contesting the PAP for 82 of 87
parliamentary seats on May 7. The constituency of  Lee Kuan Yew ,
87, the Cambridge University-trained lawyer who led the island
from British rule and became its first premier, is the only one
going uncontested.  “This is really shaping up to be an exciting election,”
said Samantha Lee, 23, an undergraduate and first-time voter.
“The PAP has done a great job bringing us so far but maybe it’s
time to have more voices representing the people. The record
number of opposition candidates this time must surely say
something about citizens wanting more alternatives.”  Stock Reaction  Property stocks including  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and  Keppel Land
Ltd. (KPLD)  have fallen in the run-up to tomorrow’s vote amid concern
there will be increased pressure to rein in home prices.
CapitaLand has dropped 4.7 percent in the past month, exceeding
the 2.2 percent decline in the  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , while Keppel
Land has retreated 11 percent.  “If there is a result that’s a lot less than expected for
the ruling party, such as if they lose 20-30 percent of the
number of seats in the parliament,” stocks would drop, said
Wong of Bank Julius Baer. “There might be some concern in the
market that some of the policies that they’ve been very
aggressive on might be scaled back or modified, such as on
casinos, tourism, commercial properties and immigration.”  Opposition parties may win 10 to 17 parliamentary seats,
meaning the PAP will still have more than 80 percent of seats
and “be in complete control of policy-making and
implementation,” Prasenjit Basu, an economist at Daiwa Capital
in Singapore, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Growth Recipe  In recent years, Singapore’s drive for growth has included
the opening of two casino-resorts and bringing the Formula One
race to the island to boost tourism. More than a third of
Singapore’s 5.1 million population is made up of foreigners and
permanent residents, whose growing numbers have led to increased
competition for housing, jobs and education.  Smaller than  New York City  and without natural resources,
Singapore’s gross domestic product was about S$285 billion ($231
billion) last year, compared with S$6.9 billion in  1960 , based
on 2005 market prices, while GDP  per capita  surged to S$59,813
from S$1,310 based on current prices. GDP surged 14.5 percent
last year, the most in  Asia . Singapore is the only Asian country
with AAA ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “Do not rock this foundation,” Lee Kuan Yew said in an
editorial in the Today newspaper last week. “Do not risk your
assets, property values, job opportunities. Vote for men and
women of proven character and track records of high
performance.”  Paying Dividends  The administration of Lee’s son, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, 59, says it hasn’t neglected its citizens for the sake of
growth. In this year’s budget, the government plans to spend
S$6.6 billion on benefits to ease the burden of inflation.  The government is distributing cash to all adult citizens
as a “dividend” from record growth, supplementing the wages of
low-income workers, upgrading homes and requiring companies to
increase contributions into employees’ pension fund.  The PAP’s message still resounds among some voters.  “The current party works for me,” said Tan Sze Theng, 31,
a tutor who lives in the affluent Bukit Timah neighborhood in
Singapore. “I have my job, the country is stable, there are
worse-off places to be in. There is complacency in the
government, but it’s not big enough a reason for me to vote for
the opposition.”  Lee Apologizes  Opposition groups are seeking to create a more diverse
political structure. The  Singapore Democratic Party  said on its
website April 18 that “little room has been left for the views
of citizens to shape the policy-making process. This has led to
a situation where local and national government is very far
removed from the day-to-day concerns of the people.”  Prime Minister Lee apologized at a PAP rally for not moving
faster to address shortfalls in housing, the  Straits Times 
reported. “If we didn’t quite get it right, I am sorry but we
will try and do better the next time,” the paper quoted him as
saying May 3.  Dissent is growing among Singaporeans who may feel less
beholden to a ruling party that led the island out of colonial
rule than past voters. The shift mirrors that in nations from
 Malaysia  to  India , where the hold of independence-era parties
has weakened. The last polls, in May 2006, returned the PAP to
power with about 67 percent of the votes cast, down from 75
percent in the 2001 elections.  ‘Very Complacent’  “They keep telling us how they built Singapore,” said
Alvin Lee, a 25-year-old economics and finance student at
Singapore Institute of Management who plans to vote for the
opposition. “They are really very complacent.”  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , a gauge of  income inequality ,
rose to 0.48 last year from 0.444 in 2000, according to the
statistics department. A reading of zero means income equality,
while a reading of one means complete inequality. Inflation
accelerated to a two-year high of 5.5 percent in January.  “It’s very pressurizing living in Singapore,” said
housewife Low Bee Kian, 39, who has three children aged 10 to 16.
“Everything is so expensive. The government says the economy is
doing well but why am I not feeling it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  