-- 
Skill Mismatch, Housing Woes Lifted U.S. Jobless, IMF Study Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-05T20:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/skill-mismatch-housing-woes-lifted-u-s-jobless-imf-study-says.html
A mismatch between workers’ skills and
employers’ requirements combined with a depressed housing market
may have increased the structural U.S. unemployment rate by
about 1.5 percentage points since 2007,  a study  by International
Monetary Fund economists said.  Poor housing conditions may slow the move of unemployed
people to other regions, according to the research published
today. That may help explain why in states that have bigger
increases in foreclosures and larger house price declines, skill
mismatches lead to even higher unemployment, the study said.  An unexpected increase in the number of claims for
 unemployment benefits  last week added to concerns that
improvement in the labor market has stalled. Employers added
185,000 workers to payrolls in April, fewer than in the prior
month, and the unemployment rate held at 8.8 percent, economists
project a Labor Department report to show tomorrow.  While the study’s estimated impacts on structural
unemployment “still leave ample space for reductions in the
unemployment rate from the current” level, “we may begin
observing slower job reallocation flows as the unemployment rate
goes below 7 percent or so, with deleterious impact on wage and
price inflation,” economists Marcello Estevao and Evridiki
Tsounta wrote in the report.  The structural rate of unemployment is the level of
joblessness below which inflation tends to accelerate.  Worker Demand  The authors measured the mismatch in each U.S. state
between the demand for workers of given skills and the supply of
those skills. Those with the largest increases include Delaware,
Hawaii and  Michigan , they said, adding that mismatch continued
to increase even after the recession ended.  Combining housing market information and skill mismatches
show that states such as California, Ohio and  Florida  were
particularly hit, they said.  The study, called “Has the Great Recession Raised U.S.
Structural Unemployment?” acknowledges that mismatches and
regional differences will dissipate with the economic recovery,
while recommending measures to boost hiring and improve the
housing market.  “Effective measures to alleviate housing market strains,
including controlling foreclosures and ensuring effective loan
modifications, seem to be needed,” they said. “On the skill-
mismatch side, targeted policies aimed at hiring the long-term
unemployed, perhaps through subsidies to net hiring and
retraining, would reduce structural unemployment rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 