-- 
Slovenia Seeks Greater State Role in Economy Via Banks, Insurers

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-05T13:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/slovenia-seeks-greater-state-role-in-economy-via-banks-insurers.html
Slovenia wants to keep control of its
largest banks and insurers to increase its grip on the nation’s
financial industry and the economy, Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said.  Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s government will keep control
of the country’s two largest banks, Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d.
and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., as well as in the four
main insurers, including the largest Zavarovalnica Triglav d.d.
Krizanic said today as the Cabinet presented a plan for managing
state assets.  “It’s about three very important financial institutions
that wish to remain independent,” Krizanic told reporters in
Ljubljana. “The state’s role may eventually drop to a
controlling stake of 25 percent plus one share while possibly
seeking strategic partners for these companies. We will thus
have a similar system as in western European countries.”  Slovenia, the first post-communist country to adopt the
euro in 2007, has been reluctant to sell state-owned assets on
fears of losing its economic independence. The country of 2
million residents needs to reduce the state’s role in the
economy to speed up its recovery, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in February.  The export-driven economy, which contracted the most among
the euro-region members in 2009, will expand at a slower pace
than previously forecast. The government’s economic institute
sees gross domestic product growing 2.2 percent this year from
the previous estimate of 2.5 percent made last year.  Nova Ljubljanska and Nova Kreditna, in which the government
holds an indirect majority, control over 40 percent of the
Slovenian banking industry market in terms of assets. Triglav
insurer holds a 36 percent of the Slovenian insurance market.  Slovenia joined the Paris-based OECD of 34 wealthy nations
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  