-- 
SocGen First-Quarter Net Unexpectedly Declines 14% on Egpt, Debt Charges

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-05T09:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/socgen-first-quarter-net-unexpectedly-declines-14-on-debt-charges-egypt.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-
largest bank by market value, said first-quarter profit fell 14
percent, hurt by a charge tied to its own debt and provisions
resulting from political turmoil in  Egypt .  Societe Generale dropped as much as 4.4 percent in Paris
trading, the biggest decline since November, after saying net
income declined to 916 million euros ($1.36 billion), missing
the 1.06 billion-euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Societe Generale, whose shares trailed those of larger
French rival BNP Paribas SA every year since the financial
crisis began in 2007, aims to reach 6 billion euros of profit
next year, helped by its investment bank and consumer-banking
networks in markets from Russia to Egypt.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  reported
net income that beat analysts’ estimates yesterday, helped by
the purchase of Fortis units during the financial crisis.  “Societe Generale is suffering from a lack of development
through acquisitions and from political problems in North
 Africa ,” said Valerie Cazaban, who helps manage 100 million
euros at Stratege Finance in Paris and owns shares in BNP
Paribas. “BNP Paribas has an advantage on Societe Generale
because it bought Fortis at a good time and at a good price.”  Societe Generale fell 1.57 euros, or 3.4 percent, to 43.96
euros by 10:50 a.m. in Paris, trimming the gain this year to 9
percent. That compares with a 0.7 percent advance in the 48-
company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index in
2011.  2012 Goal  Societe Generale’s Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea ,
who took over three years ago after a record loss from
unauthorized trading, said today the bank is “on track” to
reach its 2012 goals.  “My target fundamentally is to put the house in order,”
Oudea said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We are
one of the few banks in my mind with some capacity to grow in
the next two-to-three years.”  Leaving aside the 362 million-euro accounting charge
resulting from an improvement in the value of its own debt,
Societe Generale’s first-quarter profit rose 10 percent as
French consumer-banking and corporate- and investment-banking
earnings increased on lower bad-loan provisions.  Oudea, 47, plans to balance earnings from corporate- and
investment-banking with higher revenue from consumer lending in
countries such as  Russia . He became CEO in May 2008, four months
after the company announced a 4.9 billion-euro trading loss it
blamed on  Jerome Kerviel , 34. Oudea added the title of chairman
a year later, when  Daniel Bouton , now 61, stepped down.  Egypt, Tunisia  Societe Generale, which gained almost 3 million clients in
Russia by acquiring control of OAO Rosbank in 2008, said last
year it was aiming to add 4 million customers by 2012 by opening
at least 500 branches in 41 countries stretching from  Senegal  to
 Romania .  Upheaval in parts of Africa dented earnings in the past
quarter. Profit from international banking fell 61 percent to 44
million euros as Societe Generale booked about 50 million euros
of provisions in Egypt, Tunisia and Ivory Coast.  “In these countries, our banks had to close for a certain
period of time,” Oudea said in the interview. Still, Societe
Generale “can do good business even if there is still some
volatility and of course potentially lower growth, in particular
in 2011, than expected at the beginning of the year.”  French consumer-banking profits in the first quarter more
than offset that impact, climbing 26 percent to 352 million
euros on a 7.7 percent increase in revenue.  Risky Assets  The bank posted a profit of 131 million euros at its
insurance and financial-services division, up 87 percent.
Earnings at the investment bank rose 9.2 percent to 591 million
euros on lower provisions and writedowns from toxic assets.  The bank had 96 million euros of provisions in the quarter
from risky assets, including asset-backed securities and debt
backed by U.S. bond insurers, down from 214 million euros a year
earlier, according to a statement. The risky assets generated 42
million euros of revenue in the first quarter, the company said.  BNP Paribas, along with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest banks, and London-based Barclays Plc,
posted lower profits at their investment banks as fixed-income
revenue slumped.  Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities at
Societe Generale declined 8.5 percent to 713 million euros,
while equities revenue climbed 12.5 percent, the bank reported.  Greece  Restructuring ‘Premature’  Investment banks may struggle to boost profitability after
regulators instructed them to hold more capital in reserve
against possible losses following the global financial crisis.
Societe Generale said return on equity, a measure of
profitability, was 8.8 percent in the first quarter, compared
with 11.1 percent a year earlier.  Oudea, in the interview, said the company has no need to
raise capital because of its ability to generate profits.  The bank owns 88 percent of Greece’s  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  SA, which
has been unprofitable each year since 2003. Oudea said a debt
restructuring of Greece’s sovereign debt would be “absolutely
premature.”  Yields on Greek, Irish and Portuguese bonds reached euro-
era highs last week amid concern Greece’s debt burden will prove
unsustainable even after a bailout by the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  