-- 
Somali Regional Leader Killed in Attack on Convoy in Southwest

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-05-05T15:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/somali-regional-leader-killed-in-attack-on-convoy-in-southwest.html
A regional leader of Somalia’s
government-allied Ahlu Sunah Waljamah militia was killed in an
attack on a convoy in the country’s southwestern Gedo region, an
official said.  Sheikh Hassan Sheikh Abdi, popularly known as Hassan Qorey,
died in the hospital in Nairobi, capital of neighboring  Kenya ,
from injuries sustained in an ambush, Sheikh Mohamed al-Qaadi, a
spokesman for Ahlu Sunah Waljamah, said in a phone interview
today. The assault took place on May 3 on the road between the
towns of Luuq and Garbahaarey, about 370 kilometers (230 miles)
northwest of the capital, Mogadishu, he said.  The Ahlu Sunah Waljamah militia supports the Western-backed
government of President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, which since
2007 has been battling insurgents seeking to overthrow his
government. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central
administration since the ouster of former dictator, Mohamed Siad Barre, in 1991.  Al-Shabaab, the rebel group accused by the U.S. of having
links to al-Qaeda, claimed responsibility for the attack on the
convoy.  “We have killed many of their officers, including the so-
called chairman of Gedo in an ambush attack during their trip
from Luuq to Garbahaarey,” Sheikh Abdi Aziiz Abu Muab, a
spokesman for al-Shabaab, told reporters today in Mogadishu.  At least eight people died in the attack, Shabelle Media
Network, a Mogadishu-based broadcaster, reported yesterday. On
April 28, Ahlu Sunah Waljamah forces seized control of
Garbahaarey, forcing al-Shabaab militants to withdraw from the
district, according to Garowe Online, a Garowe, Puntland-based
broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 