-- 
Sondheim’s Demon Barber, Human Meat Pies Hit Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-05-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/sondheim-s-demon-barber-human-meat-pies-lure-parisians-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The cannibals keep coming.  After “Tous Cannibales,” an exhibition of contemporary
art at the  Maison Rouge , Parisians are discovering “Sweeney
Todd,” the demon barber of Fleet Street, whose victims end up
in Mrs. Lovett’s meat pies.  It’s the first time  Stephen Sondheim ’s 1979 musical appears
on a Paris stage (in English with French surtitles).  Unlike  New York  and London, Paris doesn’t have a thriving
musical-theater scene. That field is occupied by the Moulin
Rouge, the Lido and other cabarets offering bare-breasted, can-
canning sound-and-light shows.  Even “Les Miserables,” a worldwide hit made in  France ,
had only two short runs in Paris.  Jean-Luc Choplin, since 2006 director of the venerable
 Theatre du Chatelet , is determined to change that attitude. He
has presented “Showboat,” “The Sound of Music,” “My Fair
Lady” and other classics -- to full houses and rave reviews.  Whether he would score such success in a commercial theater
is another question: The Chatelet is heavily subsidized by the
City of Paris, and the number of performances is limited.  “Sweeney Todd” nicely fits into that series of hit
musicals. The 81-year-old U.S. composer, who attended the
rehearsals and was wildly feted on opening night, was
overwhelmed by the generosity of the French taxpayer.  Chamber Orchestra  “When I was a kid,” Sondheim recalls in the program, “30
musicians were normal in a Broadway show. Today, you’re lucky to
get 15.” The  Ensemble Orchestral de Paris , conducted with brio
by David Charles Abell, is a chamber orchestra of no less than
45 instrumentalists.  However, even the lush sounds emerging from the pit can’t
conceal the fact that tunefulness isn’t Sondheim’s strong suit.
The score feels more calculated and cleverly crafted than
inspired.  Lee Blakeley, the director who is a former assistant of
David McVicar, and Tanya McCallin, the set and costume designer,
don’t try to impress us with unconventional ideas. Their staging
is unashamedly old-fashioned; the costumes are gorgeously
Victorian.  The original story of the mad barber, who gives his clients
a closer shave than they had bargained for, was set in the 18th
century.  Christopher Bond, whose 1973 play is the basis for the
musical, moved it forward to the 19th century and gave the hero
a halfway decent motive: He returns to  London  after a long
absence in an Australian penal colony to seek revenge on the
evil judge who wrongfully imprisoned him.  Trap Door  Without getting submerged in knickknacks, the two-level set
conjures up the age of the Industrial Revolution. On the upper
level, factory windows look down on Sweeney’s barber shop with a
trap door through which his victims are dispatched into Mrs.
Lovett’s bakery on the ground floor.  The most amusing idea is the curtain with a map of
Victorian London: After intermission, the Thames is blood red.  Rod Gilfry, who alternates with Franco Pomponi, is a
powerful Sweeney, brooding and scary in his mad despair.
Caroline O’Connor, who took over on short notice, is even better
as the cannibal baker, hilarious in her pragmatic way of killing
two birds with one stone -- to get rid of the bodies and supply
her business with meat.  Among the rest of the cast, David Curry and Rebecca de Pont
Davies stand out.  Curry has a ringing tenor voice and hams it up wonderfully
as Pirelli, Sweeney’s fellow barber, who discovers what he’s up
to and therefore is the first who has to go. De Pont Davies as
the beggar woman who is not what she seems almost sounds like
Richard Strauss’s Queen Clytemnestra, a part she actually sang
on the opera stage.  Rating: ***  “Sweeney Todd” runs through May 21. After May 7, the
Ensemble Orchestral de Paris will be replaced by the  Orchestre
Pasdeloup . Information:  http://www.chatelet-theatre.com  or
+33-1-4028-2840. The sponsors of this season at the Theatre du
Chatelet include the  Fondation Accor ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 