-- 
South Africa Sees ArcelorMittal Securing Iron Ore Supply

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-05T16:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/south-africa-says-there-won-t-disruption-on-steel-price-deal.html
South Africa ’s Trade Minister Rob
Davies said he expects  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  to ensure iron ore supplies continue after an
interim pricing agreement expires in July.  “I am led to believe we are not likely to have the same
disruption that we had last year,” Davies said in an interview
in Cape Town today, where he is attending the World Economic
Forum on Africa. “We want to ensure we get a competitive price
for downstream users” of steel.  In March last year, Pretoria-based Kumba canceled a nine-
year deal that compelled it to supply ore from its Sishen mine
to ArcelorMittal at 3 percent more than the cost of production
after the steelmaker missed a deadline to renew mineral rights.
The steelmaker said the decision could force it to close its
Saldanha mill, cut all exports and fire as many as 4,000
workers.  The companies reached agreement on an interim supply accord
on July 22 under which  ArcelorMittal (MT)  will pay $50 a metric ton
for ore supplied to its Saldanha mill on South Africa’s west
coast and $70 a ton for deliveries to its two inland mills. The
companies are currently in arbitration over the ore supply
contract.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, is the
largest shareholder in the South African company, while Kumba is
a unit of  Anglo American Plc. (AGL)   South Africa’s government also wants to ensure a plan by
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, to buy a 51
percent stake in Johannesburg-based  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) 
“doesn’t have negative consequences for jobs in South Africa,”
Davies said.  The minister reiterated concerns about the strength of the
rand, which has surged 40 percent against the dollar since the
start of 2009.  “We have an overvalued currency driven by flows of
capital,” Davies said. “The over-valued currency is having a
detrimental impact on a number of industrial activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net 
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 