-- 
Soy Premium Rose as Farmers Withheld Supplies; Corn Basis Steady

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-05-05T21:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/soy-premium-rose-as-farmers-withheld-supplies-corn-basis-steady.html
Cash premiums for soybeans shipped in
May to terminals near  New Orleans  rose relative to Chicago
futures as farmers withheld supplies to concentrate on planting
crops. The corn basis was little changed.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for soybeans delivered this
month was 60 cents to 67 cents a bushel above July futures, up
from 58 cents to 67 cents yesterday, U.S. Department of
Agriculture  data  show. The corn basis was 56 cents to 58 cents a
bushel compared with 57 cents.  “There’s not much inventory right now because farmers are
busy planting corn and some soybeans,” said Scott Stoller, a
cash grain merchandiser for Michlig Agricenter Inc. in Manlius,
 Illinois . “Basis on the Illinois river jumped as much as 3
cents for corn and a nickel for soybeans because water levels
are falling,” allowing for increased barge loading after
flooding caused delays, he said.  Soybean futures for July delivery dropped 30.25 cents, or
2.2 percent, to $13.2175 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
the fourth straight decline.  Corn futures for July delivery fell 20.75 cents, or 2.8
percent, to $7.0875 a bushel in Chicago.  Barge-grain movement on the nation’s river system fell 45
percent to 258,350 metric tons from a week earlier, the USDA
said today in a  report . Shipments fell 50 percent from a year
earlier because of flooding and shipping restrictions on parts
of the  Ohio  and Mississippi rivers, the agency said.  “All locks on the upper  Mississippi River  are open and
operational, but barge operators are encountering navigation
restrictions further downriver because of persistent flood
conditions,” the government said in the report. “As the flood
water drains, points on the lower  Mississippi , Ohio, and
Arkansas Rivers are expected to reach record levels over the
next few weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  