-- 
Spain Borrowing Costs Rise as Demand Falls at Debt Sale

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 
2011-05-05T10:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/spain-borrowing-costs-rise-as-demand-falls-at-debt-sale-1-.html
Spain  sold 3.4 billion euros ($5
billion) of five-year bonds at an auction, less than the maximum
target, as its borrowing costs rose and demand declined.  The Treasury said it sold the notes at an average yield of
4.549 percent, compared with 4.389 percent when the securities
were last sold on March 3. The sale fell short of a maximum
target of 4 billion euros as demand was 1.86 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.17 times last month.  Spain, implementing the deepest budget cuts in at least
three decades, is trying to distance itself from the rest of the
euro region’s periphery as neighboring Portugal finalizes the
region’s third bailout, a 78 billion-euro rescue package. While
spending cuts and measures to boost productivity have narrowed
the gap between Spanish and German bond yields, expectations the
 European Central Bank  will continue raising  interest rates  are
pushing up borrowing costs in the region.  “The market probably would have liked to have seen it a
little closer to the maximum of 4 billion,”  Harvinder Sian , a
senior bond strategist Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a
telephone interview from  London . “Compared with  Italy , it just
doesn’t look compelling at these levels.”  Italian Spread  Spanish 10-year bonds yield 57 basis points more than
Italian debt, and that gap narrowed this week to 55 basis
points, the tightest in two weeks. Italy’s budget deficit was
4.6 percent of output last year, compared with Spain’s 9 percent
shortfall, even though its debt is almost twice the size of
Spain’s at 119 percent of gross domestic product.  Spain’s five-year benchmark bond yield rose to 4.577
percent after the sale, compared with 4.546 percent yesterday.
The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 198 basis points from 196 basis points yesterday.  Pushing up borrowing costs across the 17-nation euro region
are investors’ expectations the ECB will signal increases to its
benchmark 1.25 percent rate today after a policy meeting.  The Frankfurt-based bank raised rates last month for the
first time in almost three years after euro-region inflation
breached the ECB’s ceiling of 2 percent. Prospects for higher
rates are strengthening the euro, making it more difficult for
the peripheral countries to spur growth through exports.  Portugal  sold yesterday 1.1 billion euros of bills maturing
in August. The notes were priced to yield 4.652 percent,
compared with 4.046 percent at the last sale of three-month
bills on April 20. The yield was more than four times what
 Germany  pays to borrow for six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Madrid at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  