-- 
Sports Court Upholds Ban Against Soccer Player Over Betting-Gang Links

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-05T16:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/sports-court-upholds-ban-against-soccer-player-over-betting-gang-links.html
European soccer’s governing body was
right to suspend a Debrecen goalkeeper for not reporting he’d
been approached by individuals trying to fix a Champions League
match, the highest sports court ruled today.  Vukasin Poleksic, who also plays for the Montenegro
national team, was banned from all soccer-related activities
until June 30, 2012, by  UEFA  after it alleged he’d been
contacted by match-fixers before his Hungarian team’s 4-3 home
loss to Italy’s Fiorentina in October 2009. Norbert Meszaros,
another Debrecen player, had his suspension, due to last until
Dec. 31, overturned by the Court of Arbitration for Sport.  Some of the investigations into the case were carried out
by police in Bochum,  Germany . A court there is currently hearing
a trial against six men accused of being part of a betting ring
that manipulated 48 matches across  Europe .  “It had been proven to its comfortable satisfaction that
there had been contacts between the player and the members of a
criminal group involved in match-fixing and betting fraud and
that he was obliged to have reported the said contacts to
UEFA,” the Lausanne, Switzerland-based court’s ruling said.  Poleksic had “violated the principles of conduct set forth
in the  UEFA  regulations,” it added.  CAS said it couldn’t sufficiently establish to
“comfortable satisfaction” that defender Meszaros had broken
any rules. It also couldn’t decide whether the match with
Fiorentina had been fixed. Six of the seven goals scored in the
game came in the first half.  Soccer’s governing body has separately opened an
investigation into six match officials that oversaw Bulgaria’s
2-1 win over Estonia and a 2-2 draw between Bolivia and Latvia
in February. The matches were played on the same day on a ground
in  Turkey  and all the goals came from penalties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 