-- 
St James’s Place Revenue Beats Estimates on Unit Trusts

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-05T07:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/st-james-s-place-revenue-beats-estimates-on-unit-trusts-2-.html
St. James’s Place Plc, the wealth
manager majority-owned by Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said first-
quarter sales rose 18 percent on higher demand for unit trusts
and tax-free individual  savings accounts .  Revenue climbed to 156.7 million pounds ($259 million) in
the three months to March 31, from 133.3 million pounds a year
ago, the Cirencester, England-based firm said in a statement
today. That beat the 151.3 million-pound estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by the company.  “An increased tax burden, sustained low  interest rates ,
increased ISA limits, and people conscious of their retirement
obligations and taking care of themselves is creating an
environment” that helps sales, Chief Executive Officer David Bellamy said in an interview.  St. James’s Place, which advises clients with more than
30,000 pounds to invest, is the top performer in the  FTSE ASX
Life Insurance (FALIFE)  Index over the past six months as it raised its
dividend and funds under management climbed. The stock could
rise further once uncertainty over Lloyds’s 60 percent stake in
the firm is resolved, according to analysts including Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon & Co.  Lloyds’s stake is “neither strategic nor core and will be
disposed of at some point in time,” Bellamy said. “The timing
is entirely in Lloyds’s hands.”  Unit trust sales were valued at 360.3 million pounds in the
period, 22 percent higher than a year before. The company’s
overall sales are calculated on an annual premium equivalent
basis, which is adjusted for investments made monthly.  The wealth manager appointed Charles Gregson as chairman,
replacing Mike Wilson, who founded the firm with Mark Weinberg
20 years ago. Gregson, who also chairs  ICAP Plc (IAP) , joined the
board as a non-executive director in January last year and will
become chairman from January 2012.  The stock dropped 0.6 percent to 352.8 pence at 8:08 a.m.
in London trading, valuing the firm at about 1.7 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  