-- 
St. Joe Reports First Quarterly Profit in Three Years on Timber Sale Gain

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-05-05T20:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/st-joe-reports-first-quarterly-profit-in-three-years-on-timber-sale-gain.html
St. Joe  Co., the  Florida  landowner led
by investor  Bruce Berkowitz , reported its first profitable
quarter in three years on the sale of timber.  Net income in the first quarter rose to $14.1 million, or
15 cents a share, compared with a loss of $11.4 million, or 13
cents, a year earlier, the Watersound, Florida-based company
said today in a statement.  St. Joe -- the largest private landowner in northern
Florida, with about 574,000 acres -- reported losses for 11
straight quarters through the end of 2010 totaling $234 million
as the state’s real estate crash drove down prices and forced
the company to write off the value of some developments.  “We were very pleased to close the timber deed sale in
March,” said Hugh Durden, interim chief executive officer.
“Although real estate sales remain sluggish, we experienced
some increased traffic and activity in our real estate
segments.”  Revenue rose in the first quarter to $73.4 million from
$13.3 million a year earlier. The revenue included a pretax gain
of $50.3 million from the sale of a 40,975-acre timber deed, the
statement said.  Expenses increased to $52.1 million from $30.4 million a
year earlier. They included $6.2 million in restricted stock
amortization costs due to changes in control of management and
the board, $5.3 million in legal fees and $4.5 million in
payments to the former CEO.  Board Chairman  Berkowitz, founder of Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
took over as chairman on March 4 after ousting CEO Britt Greene
and criticizing the board’s spending and corporate governance.
Berkowitz’s  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  is St. Joe’s largest shareholder,
with about 29 percent of the stock. Berkowitz, through a
spokesman, declined to comment.  St. Joe dropped an agreement with investment banker Morgan
Stanley to explore “strategic alternatives” and will conduct
the review internally, the company said in a regulatory filing
today. The options include “strategic alliances, joint
ventures, strategic acquisitions, raising additional capital,
asset sales and possible business combinations,” according to
the filing.  St. Joe rose 31 cents to $25.57 as of 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares lost 21 percent in
the past 12 months compared with a 17 percent gain in the Dow
Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 