-- 
Standard Chartered Shies Away From ‘Mega’ African Purchases

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-05-05T15:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/standard-chartered-hasn-t-held-talks-with-nedbank-executive-shankar-says.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank
with operations in 14 sub-Saharan African countries, said it
will pursue organic growth on the continent and has not held
talks with South Africa’s  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  this year about
acquiring a stake in the lender.  “There are no plans to expand beyond the 14 countries and
although we constantly review that, we have an organic growth
strategy,” Viswanathan Shankar, Standard Chartered’s CEO for
the Middle East, Africa, Europe and the Americas, said in an
interview today at the  World Economic Forum  on Africa being held
in Cape Town. “There have been no talks with Nedbank” and
there are no “mega” mergers and acquisitions planned in Africa
this year, he said.  In October last year,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank, abandoned a bid to buy a $7.3 billion stake in Nedbank
which is controlled by  Old Mutual Plc. (OML)  The Sunday Times
newspaper reported on April 2 that Standard Chartered may bid
for Old Mutual’s stake in the lender, without saying how it got
the information.  Standard Chartered raised more than 3.3 billion pounds
($5.4 billion) last year saying it wanted to bolster capital and
not finance takeovers. In March this year the U.K. lender
reported its seventh successive year of record profit.  “The capital we raised is still not a war chest for
acquisitions,” Shankar said, adding that appointing Diana Layfield as the Johannesburg-based regional chief executive
officer of the bank in Africa is a sign of  Standard Chartered ’s
“commitment and belief” in the continent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 