-- 
Cohen’s Landscape Sells for Record $22.5 Million at Christie’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-05T02:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/steve-cohen-s-vlaminck-landscape-brings-record-22-5-million-at-christie-s.html
Christie’s International  sold
$156 million of Impressionist and modern art last night in
 New York , less than half the year-ago total, as collectors
and advisers lamented a scarcity of masterpieces.  “This time around, the auction houses don’t have any
great estates,” said Suzanne Gyorgy, head of Citi Private
Bank’s art advisory service, before the sale. “They don’t
have the iconic great work.”  The tally fell below Christie’s presale estimate of
$162.3 million to $231.9 million, with 10 of the 57 lots
failing to sell.  Leonardo DiCaprio , sitting near the front
of the room with a baseball cap obscuring his face, was
among the onlookers as  Claude Monet ’s 1914-17 floral
painting “Iris mauves” failed to sell.  Estimated to fetch as much as $20 million, it was the
sale’s biggest casualty. DiCaprio declined to comment.  The top lot was a tie. A Maurice de Vlaminck landscape
owned by hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen  fetched a record
$22.5 million, as did Monet’s 1891 painting of poplars,
“Les Peupliers.”  The 1905 Vlaminck canvas, “Paysage de banlieue,” is
a view of the small town of Chatou in the suburbs of Paris.
Yet its palette of bright yellow and deep blue seems more
Mediterranean.  “For Vlaminck it’s a pretty key composition,” said
Michael Findlay, director at  Acquavella Galleries  in New
York, before the sale. “It couldn’t be a better date, it
couldn’t be better colors.”  The seller bought the work from Acquavella in 2002 and
according to Christie’s, Acquavella bought it back last
night.  Records in 2010  In May 2010, Christie’s achieved records for Picasso
and Jasper Johns while auctioning the estates of Frances
Brody and Michael Crichton. Its Impressionist and modern
sale was a $335.5 million spectacle starring a 1932 Picasso
that went for $106.5 million.  “We are seeing a seismic shift,” Matthew Armstrong,
director of Peter Freeman gallery in Soho, said by
telephone yesterday afternoon. “The shift is toward more
contemporary art because great Impressionist and modern
artworks are simply harder to find. We don’t see the same
level of quality as we did at the peak of the market.”  Pierre Bonnard’s 1936 canvas “Le Petit Dejeuner”
fetched $6.2 million last night, just above its low
estimate of $6 million. The painting was part of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art’s 2009 show “Pierre Bonnard:
The Late Still Lifes and Interiors.”  ‘Discerning Market’  Sotheby’s (BID)  Impressionist and modern art sale tallied
$170.5 million Tuesday, the smallest New York evening sale
at the auction house in two years. A quarter of the lots
failed to sell.  “It’s a discerning market,” said Findlay. It “has
responded in an appropriate way to what it’s been
offered.”  Sotheby’s fell $4.01, or 8 percent, to $46 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, its biggest
drop in 10 months. Rommel Dionisio, an analyst with Wedbush
Securities, called Tuesday night’s sale results “mildly
disappointing.”  Cohen’s portrait of actress  Elizabeth Taylor  by  Andy Warhol  comes up for auction on May 12 at  Phillips de Pury 
with an estimate of $20 million to $30 million.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 