-- 
Swedish Government Ready to Shelve Nordea Sale, Norman Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-05T11:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/swedish-government-ready-to-shelve-nordea-sale-norman-says-2-.html
Sweden may shelve a sale of its
remaining shares in  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  after offloading a $3.3
billion stake this year pushed down the lender’s stock,
Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  “It depends on how the company is doing and how we view
demand,” Norman said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm.
“No decisions have been made” to sell more stock, he said.
Asked whether the government has set a deadline to sell before
its term runs out in 2014, Norman said “no.”  Sweden on Feb. 4 sold a 6.3 percent stake in the Nordic
region’s largest lender, which has been earmarked for divestment
since the 1990s, and said it plans to cut the holding further as
it targets a reduction of state debt. Since the February sale,
Nordea stock has lost about 13 percent, amid government pledges
to enforce some of the world’s toughest financial regulatory
standards.  “It’s the taxpayers’ interest that means most,” Norman
said. “We should raise as much money as possible.”  Nordea shares rose as much as 2.7 percent to 69.75 kronor
at 1:04 p.m. in  Stockholm  trading, the biggest jump since April
20, and making the stock the top performer among the 48
companies on the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Service
Index which was down 1.4 percent.  Nordea’s current share price is about 20 percent lower than
the average 12-month target price of 84.53 kronor, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts. The shares closed at 67.90
kronor yesterday in Stockholm. Five of the analysts surveyed
recommend selling the stock.  Curfew Ends Today  “We’re always prepared” to sell, should the right market
conditions come about, Norman said.  Sweden in February sold the Nordea holding at 74.5 kronor a
share, reducing its stake to 13.5 percent. Norman said then the
government plans to keep reducing its stake until the next
election in 2014. A self-imposed 90-day curfew on further sales
ended today.  The February sale price was “bad,” said Peter Malmqvist,
an independent financial analyst based in Stockholm. The
government “is of course getting pressure from quite a few
investors who sit on big positions in Nordea” not to pre-commit
to further sales, he said.  Nordea’s net income rose 15 percent last quarter to 740
million euros ($1.1 billion), as it cuts costs to meet future
regulatory demands, it said April 28. Profit was also boosted by
Sweden’s economic rebound,  Europe ’s fastest. Still, gross
domestic product is set to slow to 2.4 percent next year from
4.4 percent in 2011, according to central bank estimates.  Short Ideas  “With the market view that the Nordic recovery is priced
into Nordea’s shares, investors are waiting for better news from
elsewhere in Europe as a catalyst to switch out of Nordic
banks,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities at MF
Global Ltd. in  London . “Some long-short funds looking for short
ideas may seize on the overhang and be sellers all year long.”  Nordea shares have underperformed other financial stocks
this year. Shares in the Stockholm-based lender have slumped 6.8
percent compared with a 0.5 percent rise in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index.  Norman said the government remains committed to a gradual
reduction of state assets as it targets reducing debt. Sweden’s
government debt will fall to 36.8 percent this year from 39.8
percent in 2010 and decline further to 19 percent by 2015, the
government predicted on April 13. The government will achieve a
0.3 percent budget surplus of GDP this year, it estimates.  The state has had a mandate from parliament to sell all its
shares in Nordea since 1991. The opposition  Green Party  and
Sweden Democrats in March didn’t back a proposal by the  Social
Democrats , the biggest non-government party, to rescind that
mandate.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Johan Carlstrom at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 