-- 
Swiss Re Loss After Japan, New Zealand Earthquakes Beats Analyst Estimates

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-05-05T07:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/swiss-re-reports-smaller-than-estimated-first-quarter-loss-of-665-million.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, posted a second consecutive quarterly
loss after claims from earthquakes in  New Zealand  and Japan.  The net loss of $665 million compares with a year-earlier
profit of $158 million, the Zurich-based reinsurer said today in
a  statement . That beat the average estimate for a loss of $1.03
billion of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares rose.  Swiss Re, which is bidding to regain the AA credit rating
that  Standard & Poor’s  cut in 2009, expects major first-quarter
natural catastrophe pretax losses to be about $2.3 billion after
the temblors in Japan and New Zealand. That may erode the
company’s capital, which exceeded S&P’s AA requirements by more
than $10 billion at the end of last year.  “If we continue to do what we’ve done in the past, I’m
sure the rating change will come,” Chief Financial Officer
 George Quinn  said in a conference call with reporters today.
“The impact of the first quarter’s disasters on our capital
position was relatively small.”  Swiss Re almost tripled its dividend to 2.75 Swiss francs
($3.16) a share last year, after repaying a 3 billion-franc
capital injection by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  The shares rose 2.2 percent to 51.25 francs at 9:07 a.m. in
Zurich. They have gained 7.1 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 18.9 billion francs. Larger rival
Munich Re has dropped 2.3 percent this year.  Risk Management  “Swiss Re’s net loss is better than expected and confirms
its improved risk management and solid balance sheet,” Stefan Schuermann, an analyst with Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich, wrote
in a note to clients.  Spending on claims and costs as a percentage of property
and casualty reinsurance premiums, the so-called combined ratio,
worsened to 163.7 percent from 109.4 percent a year earlier
following the first quarter’s disasters, Swiss Re said.  The first-quarter as well as last year’s natural
catastrophes are expected to “accelerate price improvements,”
Swiss Re said, adding that the April renewals of reinsurance
treaties in  Japan  saw approximately 20 percent to 50 percent
price increases for earthquake coverage and as much as 10
percent higher rates for non-earthquake exposed property
policies.  “We remain committed to our five-year targets and are
confident that we can deliver,” Swiss Re Chief Executive
Officer Stefan Lippe said in today’s statement. “The impact of
natural catastrophe losses in the first quarter creates an
additional challenge but it will also accelerate the market turn
we had previously expected in 2012/2013.”  Earnings Target  Swiss Re  targets  include an average annual increase in
earnings per share of 10 percent over the next five years.  Aon Benfield, an arm of the world’s largest insurance
broker, expects total losses for insurers and reinsurers to top
$52.6 billion in the first quarter compared with $40.6 billion
for the whole of 2010. The disaster in Japan may cost insurers
and reinsurers $21 billion to $34 billion, according to
catastrophe modeler Risk Management Solutions.  Munich Re  said on April 20 it will report a “clearly
negative” first-quarter result. The Munich-based company in
March scrapped its 2.4 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) profit target
for this year as it estimated about 1.5 billion euros in claims
from Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  