-- 
Syrian Army Begins Daraa Withdrawal After ‘Restoring Calm’, State TV Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-05T14:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/syrian-army-begins-daraa-withdrawal-after-restoring-calm-state-tv-says.html
The Syrian army began withdrawing from
the southern city of Daraa, the scene of the most violent
crackdown by military forces since anti-regime protests erupted.  “Army units began to pull out gradually from Daraa after
completing their mission by detaining terrorist elements and
restoring security and calm,” state television reported today.  Syrian forces backed by tanks stormed Daraa on April 25 as
part of a crackdown aimed at crushing protests inspired by
popular revolts in Egypt and  Tunisia  earlier this year. The
demonstrations have posed the most serious challenge to the 11-
year rule of President Bashar Al-Assad. The military cut off
electricity and phone lines in the city as troops clashed with
protesters.  More than 600 people have been killed in the unrest that
began mid-March and the death toll may be higher as many people
are missing, Mahmoud Merhi, the head of the  Arab Organization
for Human Rights , and Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National
Organization for Human Rights , said in telephone interviews
today.  About 105 army and security personnel have been killed
since March 18, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on
its  website  today. Hundreds of people have been detained and
many of them were referred to courts on charges of “harming the
prestige of the state and inciting riots,” it said.  ‘Detrimental’  The interior ministry said 361 people who were involved in
riots had surrendered to the government authorities and were
released after they vowed not to take up any action that is
“detrimental to the security of the state and citizens,” the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported.  Assad has appointed a new government, ended emergency rule
that was in place since 1963 and pledged reforms that have
failed to halt the spread of demonstrations.  European Union foreign ministers meeting in  Rome  today are
likely to discuss proposals to expand sanctions against the
Syrian government. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  has been
pushing the EU to go beyond an arms embargo and impose travel
restrictions and asset freezes on top Syrian officials.  About 3,000 people have been arrested since April 30, with
one third of those detained coming from Daraa alone, Qurabi
said. Syrian security forces arrested about 300 people this
morning in Saqba, a suburb of the capital Damascus, Merhi said.
Security forces conducted sweeps in the past two days in other
suburbs of the capital including Harasta and Douma, he said.
About 100 tanks are positioned between the outskirts of Damascus
and Homs, Qurabi said.  ‘Gradual’ Pullout  He said the army’s withdrawal from Daraa “is gradual, and
not a complete pullout.”  “If they withdrew completely, the situation in Daraa would
return to what it was before,” he said.  Yassin Al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and political
activist, said in a telephone interview that there are
indications that army snipers are still in Daraa.  “The aim of the mission was to weaken the revolt in Daraa
and to some extent that has been achieved given that all the men
between the ages of 15 and 40 have been rounded up,” he said.
“However, I don’t think it will break the resolve of people in
the country.”  The Syrian central bank yesterday took measures aimed at
boosting lending and spurring the economy.  The bank lowered the minimum reserve requirement for banks
to 5 percent from 10 percent, the Syrian Arab News Agency
reported. It also eliminated some  reserve requirements  for funds
intended for investment in industries such as tourism and small
and medium-sized companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  