-- 
Syrian Army Steps Up Raids in Damascus Suburbs After Leaving City of Daraa

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-05T18:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/syrian-army-steps-up-raids-in-damascus-suburbs-after-leaving-city-of-daraa.html
Syria ’s army began a withdrawal from
the southern city of Daraa, the scene of the most violent
crackdown by military forces since anti-regime protests erupted,
and stepped up raids in the capital’s suburbs.  Syrian security forces arrested more than 300 people today
in Saqba, a Damascus suburb, said Mahmoud Merhi, the head of the
 Arab Organization for Human Rights . Security forces conducted
sweeps in the past two days in other suburbs of the capital
including Harasta and Douma, he said.  Khalil Maatouk, a Syrian lawyer who volunteers to help
those arrested, said he couldn’t provide details on those
detained today. About 100 tanks are positioned between the
outskirts of Damascus and Homs, a city north of the capital,
Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for Human
Rights  said.  “It would seem that the general tactic has been twofold:
to send a very strong message violently with moving into Daraa
to scare people against joining the opposition movement, and now
it sort of has evolved into a more practical approach of
rounding up any potential people that would be involved in those
protests,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , said by phone today.  Protests Tomorrow  Protests are likely to take place tomorrow throughout the
country tomorrow except in Daraa because of the crackdown,
Qurabi said.  “This Friday is perhaps more important than in previous
weeks as it will be a test of how successful the regime’s
repression policy has been in stifling dissent,” Phillips said.  “If you have a situation where you get fewer protesters
coming out than in previous weeks, then the message to the
regime is that repression works,” Phillips said. “If, on the
other hand, you get more people on the streets than previously,
then it sends the reverse message that repression, no matter how
hard it is, will not work, and this a movement that can’t be
broken by force.”  Syrian forces backed by tanks stormed Daraa on April 25 as
part of a crackdown aimed at crushing protests inspired by
popular revolts in Egypt and  Tunisia  earlier this year. The
demonstrations have posed the most serious challenge to the 11-
year rule of President Bashar Al-Assad.  “Army units began to pull out gradually from Daraa after
completing their mission by detaining terrorist elements and
restoring security and calm,” state television reported today.  Death Toll  More than 600 people have been killed in the unrest that
began mid-March and the death toll may be higher as many people
are missing, Merhi and Qurabi said in telephone interviews
today.  Syrian security forces and the army are “engaged in
covering up the chilling crimes they committed in cold blood in
Daraa,” Qurabi said.  About 105 army and security personnel have been killed
since March 18, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on
its  website  today. Hundreds of people have been detained and
many of them were referred to courts on charges of “harming the
prestige of the state and inciting riots,” it said.  The interior ministry said 361 people who were involved in
riots had surrendered to the government authorities and were
released after they vowed not to take up any action that is
“detrimental to the security of the state and citizens,” the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported.  Assad’s Efforts  Assad has appointed a new government, ended emergency rule
that had been in place since 1963 and pledged reforms, steps
that have failed to halt the spread of demonstrations.  The Syrian central bank yesterday took measures aimed at
boosting lending and spurring the economy.  The bank lowered the minimum reserve requirement for banks
to 5 percent from 10 percent, the Syrian Arab News Agency
reported. It also eliminated some  reserve requirements  for funds
intended for investment in industries such as tourism and small
and medium-sized companies.  European Union foreign ministers meeting in  Rome  today are
likely to discuss proposals to expand sanctions against the
Syrian government. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  has been
pushing the EU to go beyond an arms embargo and impose travel
restrictions and asset freezes on top Syrian officials.  About 3,000 people have been arrested since April 30, with
one third of those detained coming from Daraa alone, Qurabi
said.  The army’s withdrawal from Daraa is “not a complete
pullout,” Merhi said. “If they withdrew completely, the
situation in Daraa would return to what it was before,” Merhi
added.  Yassin Al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and political
activist, said in a telephone interview that there are
indications that army snipers are still in Daraa.  “The aim of the mission was to weaken the revolt in Daraa
and to some extent that has been achieved given that all the men
between the ages of 15 and 40 have been rounded up,” he said.
“However, I don’t think it will break the resolve of people in
the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  