-- 
U.K. April Services Growth Slows More Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T08:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-k-april-services-growth-slows-more-than-economists-forecast.html
U.K. services growth slowed more than
economists forecast in April as the government’s fiscal squeeze
constrained demand.  A gauge based on a survey of companies fell to 54.3 from
57.1 in March, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said in an e-mailed report in London.
That compares with the median forecast of 56 from 20 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. A gauge of output prices rose to the
highest level in 2 1/2 years.  The  Bank of England  will today hold off raising  interest
rates , according to all 43 economists in a Bloomberg survey, as
policy makers focus on boosting a faltering recovery rather than
seeking to curb inflation. U.K. factory and construction growth
also slowed last month and gross-domestic-product data last week
showed the economy stagnated over the past six months.  “The service sector suffered a sharp loss of growth
momentum at the start of the second quarter,”  Chris Williamson ,
chief economist at Markit, said in the statement. “Companies
also grew increasingly worried about the future, with
expectations for the year ahead running at levels normally only
seen in times of crisis.”  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.6465 as of 9:43 a.m. in London, down 0.1
percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond rose 2 basis points to 3.4 percent.  Price ‘Anxiety’  Markit said the slowdown in services growth in April can be
“largely linked to government spending cuts.” It also said
companies raised prices at a faster pace in April as energy and
fuel costs increased.  “The main source of anxiety is likely to be the sharpest
output-price inflation for 2 1/2 years,” CIPS Chief Executive
Officer  David Noble  said. “This is an inevitable symptom of
rising input costs and decreasing profitability over the past
few months.”  Data released on April 27 showed Britain’s economy is
struggling to regain momentum, with GDP rising 0.5 percent in
the first quarter, barely enough to erase a contraction in the
previous three months. The recovery may be further restrained as
the government cuts spending to narrow the  budget deficit  and
household pay growth lags behind inflation.  Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.’s largest owner of business parks and
warehouses, said on April 28 that it leased 64 percent less new
space in Britain in the three months through March than a year
earlier as economic concerns made customers more reluctant to
expand.  Separate surveys by Markit and CIPS this week showed that
construction growth cooled in April as homebuilding shrank for
the first time this year and manufacturing expanded at its
slowest pace in seven months.  Consumer confidence  slumped last
month to its weakest level since the depth of the recession in
February 2009, GfK NOP Ltd. said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  