-- 
Report on RBS May Be Made ‘Hollow’ by Confidentiality Rules

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-06T13:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-k-report-on-rbs-may-be-made-hollow-by-confidentiality-rules.html
The U.K.  Financial Services
Authority ’s delayed report into the 2008 collapse of the  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  won’t satisfy public demand for
answers because of confidentiality rules, lawyers say.  The FSA can’t reveal information obtained during an
investigation without permission from all parties involved under
U.K. and European financial rules, hampering the regulator’s
attempts to publish a definitive account.  “There’s a risk that what might be released will be too
bland and uninformative,” Ian Mason, a partner at  Baker &
McKenzie LLP’s  London office and a former FSA enforcement
director, said in a telephone interview. “It’s very difficult
to balance transparency against the fact that the information is
confidential.”  The FSA came under pressure from U.K lawmakers to publish
the findings of its probe into the collapse of RBS’s finances
after the regulator cleared former RBS Chief Executive Officer
 Fred Goodwin  and other officials of wrongdoing. Lawmakers
yesterday asked for an independent review of the report.  The FSA had been scheduled to release the report at the end
of March. A legal dispute over confidentiality had already
delayed publication, two people with knowledge of the
negotiations said last month.  The review could delay the publication of the report by a
few months, a person familiar with the situation said.  ‘Hollow Document’  “You can’t simply blank out the names, you have to step in
so it’s not clear which individual said what,” Lindsay Thomas,
a former FSA director and now an adviser at risk management
company Sustainable Risks, said in a telephone interview in
 London . “I suspect they’ve taken so much out of the report now
that people might question whether it’s a rather hollow
document.”  The Treasury Committee of the House of Commons, in
agreement with the FSA, said the independent review would ensure
the report is “seen as a rigorous and transparent account of
the different factors which contributed to RBS’s failure,” the
FSA said in a statement on its website.  Chris Hamilton , spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment
today.  David Walker , former chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
International, and lawyer Bill Knight will review the FSA’s
study. Knight is a former senior partner at  Simmons & Simmons 
while Walker led a review of corporate governance rules
following the financial crisis.  ‘No Conspiracy’  “I think they’ll get this grandee to say there’s no
conspiracy or cover up,” Thomas said.  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment
on how long the report would be delayed by the latest review.  “Producing a high quality account takes time, both because
the causes of RBS’s failure were complex and multifaceted and
because of the need to respect due legal process and
confidentiality constraints,”  Adair Turner , chairman of the
London-based FSA, said in a statement yesterday.  RBS posted the largest loss in corporate history in 2008
and required a 45.5 billion-pound ($74 billion) bailout
following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV. A spokeswoman
for the Edinburgh-based bank declined to comment yesterday.  “It is essential that Parliament gets to the bottom of
this,” the Treasury committee chairman,  Andrew Tyrie , said in a
statement. “We need to know the decisive mistakes which
destroyed RBS, how they came to be made, whether the FSA was
asleep at the wheel and whether we can have confidence that they
are awake now.”  The regulator must “show they’re transparent and at the
same time they have to reveal why the FSA didn’t take any
regulatory action against individuals,” Louise Hodges, a
financial regulation partner at  Kingsley Napley , said in a
telephone interview. “They’re in a difficult position, but I
don’t think the politicians are going to let it go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  