-- 
U.S. Will Push China to Let Yuan Strengthen at Faster Pace

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-05T22:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-will-push-china-to-let-yuan-strengthen-at-faster-pace-1-.html
U.S. officials will press their
Chinese counterparts at a meeting next week to let the yuan
strengthen more rapidly, a Treasury Department official said.  “We are going to press  China  to let its  exchange rate 
adjust at a faster pace to correct its still-substantial
undervaluation,” David Loevinger, the Treasury’s senior
coordinator for China, told reporters in Washington today.
“China continues to intervene massively in foreign-exchange
markets to constrain the appreciation of its currency.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet with Chinese officials
including Vice Premier Wang Qishan and State Councilor Dai Bingguo on May 9 and 10 in Washington. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and China Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
will also participate, Loevinger said.  Geithner has reiterated this week ahead of the meetings the
Obama administration’s position that China should let the yuan
strengthen. The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say
China’s currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage.  The yuan has gained more than 5 percent against the dollar
since June and at an annual rate of about 10 percent when
China’s inflation is taken into account.  The currency was little changed at 6.4937 per dollar as of
the close at 4:30 p.m. on May 5 in Shanghai, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.4892
on April 29, the strongest level since the country unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for East Asia,
said the U.S. will also discuss events in the Middle East with
Chinese officials. A Chinese Foreign Ministry statement
supporting the killing of Osama Bin Laden was “very much
appreciated” by the U.S., he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  