-- 
U.S. Productivity Slowed in First Quarter, Labor Costs Rose

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-05T12:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-productivity-slowed-in-first-quarter-labor-costs-rose.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
slowed in the first quarter and labor costs rose as a growing
economy prompted companies to boost employment.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.6
percent annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a 2.9 percent gain in the
prior three months, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in Washington. Expenses per employee climbed at a 1
percent rate after dropping 1 percent the prior quarter.  Companies may need to keep adding staff and increasing
hours after reaching the cap of how much efficiency they could
extract from their workforces in the early phase of the
recovery. A report tomorrow is projected to show employers in
the world’s largest economy hired 185,000 additional workers in
April.  “We’re moving to the period where companies are starting
to hire more workers as they ramp up output, so productivity
growth is settling down,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re
going to see solid but not spectacular gains in employment” in
coming months, he said.  Economists projected productivity would rise 1.1 percent,
according to the median of 68 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from no change to a 3.1 percent
increase.  Unit labor costs, adjusted for efficiency gains, were
projected to rise 0.8 percent, according to the survey median.  More Claims  More Americans unexpectedly filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week, pushed up by three
factors that normal seasonal variations failed to take into
account, another report from the Labor Department showed today.  Applications for jobless benefits jumped by 43,000 to
474,000 in the week ended April 30, the most since August. A
spring break holiday in  New York , a new emergency benefits
program in  Oregon  and auto shutdowns caused by the disaster in
 Japan  were the main reasons for the surge, a Labor Department
spokesman said as the data was released to the press.  Stock-index futures dropped after the reports. The contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June fell 0.6
percent to 1,334.9 at 8:55 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities 
rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
3.18 percent from 3.22 percent late yesterday.  Today’s productivity report showed output rose at a 3.1
percent rate. The increase was led by a 9.7 percent surge among
manufacturers that was the biggest since 1994.  Hours Worked  Hours worked climbed at a 1.4 percent pace after a 1.5
percent gain in the prior quarter. Compensation for each hour
worked increased at a 2.6 percent annual pace.  Adjusted for inflation, compensation dropped at a 2.5
percent pace last quarter, the biggest decrease since the third
quarter of 2008.  Among manufacturers, productivity increased at a 6.3
percent pace, pushing labor costs down by 3.5 percent.  Compared with the first quarter of 2010, productivity
climbed 1.3 percent, the smallest 12-month gain in two years.
Labor costs rose 1.2 percent from the year-earlier quarter, the
biggest year-to-year increase since the last three months of
2008.  The number of hours worked increased in the first three
months of the year from the previous quarter even as the pace of
economic growth slowed, showing employers found it difficult to
meet demand without more hiring.  First Quarter  The economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace from
January through March, after a 3.1 percent advance in the last
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department reported on April
28.  Signs of sustained demand are prompting companies to expand
investment in capital equipment and take on more workers.  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain by revenue, sought as many as 50,000 workers in
the U.S. during its National Hiring Day event on April 19.  “We do and have continued to hire through some of the
economic downturns, Donald Thompson, chief operating officer at
McDonald’s, said on an April 21 conference call.  The Labor Department may report tomorrow that the U.S.
added jobs in April for the seventh consecutive month, according
to economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate
probably held at 8.8 percent.  While today’s productivity report may show labor costs are
rising, wage pressures are likely to remain contained. Federal
Reserve policy makers after their April 26-27 meeting said “the
 unemployment rate  remains elevated, and measures of underlying
inflation continue to be somewhat low” relative to their goal.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” according to the Fed statement last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  