-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for May 4 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-05T18:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-may-4-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Wholesale natural  gas prices  at market locations in the lower 48
States moved higher this week as cold weather persisted in some
consuming regions. Prices also increased at the beginning of the
report week as the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA)
released data (on April 28) showing the refill of storage
inventories following last winter has proceeded slower than in
recent years. During the report week (April 27-May 4), the Henry
Hub spot price increased $0.24 to $4.59 per million Btu (MMBtu).  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), futures prices
increased during the report week, also likely in response to
lower storage levels. The futures contract for June 2011
delivery increased by 17 cents per MMBtu on the week to $4.58
per MMBtu.  Storage inventories as reported by EIA today (May 5) are still
below the 5-year average for this time of year. As of Friday,
April 29, working gas in underground storage was 1,757 billion
cubic feet (Bcf), which is 1.0 percent below the 5-year (2006-
2010) average, according to the Weekly Natural Gas Storage
Report (WNGSR).  The U.S. natural gas rotary rig count increased last week by 4
to 882, according to data reported by Baker Hughes Incorporated.
However, the number of rigs drilling for natural gas is still
far below the number at this time last year, when producers had
deployed 958 rigs. Although rigs drilling for natural gas
dominated the overall rig count for years in the  United States ,
more recently producers are choosing to target oil formations
because of the higher value of oil relative to natural gas at
current prices. As of April 29, Baker Hughes recorded 926 rigs
drilling for oil in the lower 48.  More Summary Data  Natural gas wholesale prices moved higher this report week as
demand remained elevated relative to previous years and the
refill of storage inventories was slower than in previous years.
Compared with the same time period last year, U.S. natural gas
consumption increased about 10.3 percent, and exceeded 57 Bcf
per day in each of the last three days, according to BENTEK
Energy Services, LLC. Combined consumption in the residential
and commercial sectors was close to 54 percent higher than last
year at an average of 19 Bcf per day during the report week.
Amid this environment of relatively high consumption (although
it was slightly lower than the prior week), prices this report
week increased generally less than 30 cents per MMBtu at markets
in the lower 48 States, with the exception of higher increases
at markets in the Northeast. The  Henry Hub  price increased on
the week by $0.24 per MMBtu, or 5.5 percent, while prices at
other markets in the  Gulf of Mexico  producing region showed
similar increases. Lingering heating-related demand, as well as
increasing demand from electric power generators to meet air-
conditioning needs, has resulted in a strengthening in prices
from late winter, when the Henry Hub price was below $4 for
several weeks. The Henry Hub price has also increased almost 16
percent relative to last year at this time, when it was still
trading below $4 per MMBtu. (On May 4, 2010, the average price
was $3.96.)  Price increases in the Northeast were the highest in the
country, with prices at a number of markets in  New York  and  New
England  ending the report week above $5 per MMBtu. For delivery
in Zone 6 (New England) off Tennessee Gas Pipeline (TGP), the
price yesterday averaged $5.29 per MMBtu, which was 12 percent
higher, or $0.57 more than the previous Wednesday?? price. In
trading yesterday, the Tennessee Zone 6 price was 70 cents per
MMBtu higher than the Henry Hub’s, a significant increase from
the differential of just 37 cents a week prior. The closely -
watched difference in the Northeast price over Gulf of Mexico
regional prices tends to fluctuate with changes in local weather
conditions and availability of capacity on interstate pipelines.
The higher differential in the Northeast this week likely also
occurred owing to maintenance on TGP that required shippers to
balance in the Northeast. Maintenance also began at the Canaport
LNG facility in eastern Canada, which is limiting send-out from
the facility in May. Canaport has provided a steady stream of
regasified LNG into the Northeast market in recent months.  West of the  Mississippi River , price increases ranged between 17
to 33 cents per MMBtu as lingering cold weather likely kept
furnaces on in the Rockies and Midcontinent, at least at night.
The price for supplies at Opal,  Wyoming  increased 22 cents per
MMBtu to $4.35 per MMBtu. Yesterday’s price for natural gas off
of Colorado Interstate Pipeline was $4.35 per MMBtu, which
represented an increase of $0.21 cents per MMBtu on the week.
Similar price increases occurred at markets in  California  and
the Midcontinent.  U.S. net pipeline imports from Canada were significantly lower
during the report week in comparison with the prior week,
continuing a trend since the beginning of the year. According to
BENTEK, which monitors flows on the continental pipeline
network, net imports from  Canada  during the report week
decreased 4.3 percent relative to the prior week and ended the
week below 6 Bcf per day. Both Canadian and liquefied natural
gas (LNG) imports are significantly lower than the prior year at
this time, likely as a result of continuing supply strength from
domestic drilling, particularly in the shale formations.
Pipeline and LNG imports during the report week were,
respectively, 8.2 percent and 73.8 percent lower than last year
at this time.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the contract for June delivery
increased 17 cents per MMBtu during the report week. The price
of the June contract reached as high as $4.70 during the report
week, which was the highest closing price for a near-month
contract since January 2011. While the price of contracts
through the summer experienced similar increases on the week,
prices for next winter declined by slightly less (an average of
14 cents). As of yesterday, the 12-month strip, which is the
average for natural gas futures contracts over the next year,
was priced at $4.90 per MMBtu, an increase of about 15 cents, or
3.1 percent, since last Wednesday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,757 Bcf as of Friday,
April 29, according to EIA’s. The 72-Bcf net injection was
slightly smaller than last year and the 5-year average
injections. Stocks continue to run below the 5-year (2006-2010)
average of 1,774 Bcf despite high domestic production. Stocks
last year at this time were 11.4 percent higher at 1,983 Bcf.  This week saw the largest net builds so far this year in all
three regions. Nevertheless, only the Producing Region build of
24 Bcf was greater than the 5-year average build of 21 Bcf for
the week. The East and West Regions continued to lose ground to
the 5-year average and now sit at 98 Bcf (12 percent) and 41 Bcf
(14 percent) below average, respectively. The Producing Region
is 120 Bcf (17 percent) above average.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending April
28 averaged 59.1 degrees, 2.9 degrees warmer than normal and 3.6
degrees warmer than last year. According to the  National Weather
Service ’s degree-day data, temperatures were above average in
the Northeast and South, mixed in the Midwest, and below average
in the West. Gas weighted heating degree days were 12.7 percent
below normal for the week, but cooling degree days were more
than twice normal. As national temperatures continue to rise,
cooling degree days will begin to have a major impact on natural
gas storage figures, as high power demand is often driven by
high temperatures during the summertime.  Other Market Trends  Natural Gas Marketed Production was at 62.6 Bcf per day in
February. On April 29, EIA released the April “Natural Gas
Monthly”, which includes data through February 2011. Marketed
production fell slightly to 62.6 Bcf per day from its January
level of 63.6 Bcf per day. Compared to February 2010, however,
production was about 3 percent higher. February consumption
dropped somewhat from January levels to 81.4 Bcf per day,
compared with 86.6 Bcf per day in January. Declines in
residential and commercial consumption accounted for most of the
decline in overall consumption. Consumption of natural gas for
electric power fell slightly and industrial consumption
increased slightly. Wellhead prices rose from January to
February, increasing for the third consecutive month, from $4.19
per MMBtu to $4.35 per MMBtu.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  Kinder Morgan ’s Rockies Express pipeline (REX) declared a force
majeure on its Julesburg, Colorado compressor station on May 3.
The force majeure, which remains in effect, was called due to
critical damage to Unit #2’s variable frequency drive
transformer that will require a complete replacement, according
to the pipeline. In a notice update, the pipeline stated that
removal of the damaged transformer has commenced, and its
replacement is in route. Until further notice, REX will be
scheduling down quantities through Segment 240 to 1,550 thousand
decatherms (dth) per day. Due to the reduced level, REX warned
shippers that nominated volumes are at risk of not being fully
scheduled. Estimated return to service of the compressor is
tentatively scheduled for May 8.  Williams Partners announced on May 2 that two expansions on its
Transcontinental natural gas pipeline were placed into service
on May 1. These expansions add a combined 598,500 dth per day of
firm transportation capacity to serve markets in the Southeast.
According to the announcement, the Mobile Bay South II expansion
project adds 380,000 dth per day of southbound firm
transportation capacity on the Mobile Bay Lateral from Transco’s
mainline at Station 85 near Butler,  Alabama , to its interconnect
with Gulfstream Natural Gas System in Coden, Alabama. The second
expansion project placed into serviced added 218,500 dth per
day, and was the second phase of the company’s 85 North
expansion project. This new capacity will serve electric power
generating facilities in  North Carolina . (Phase I of the 85
North expansion went into service July 2010 and added 90,000
dths per days to markets in Alabama.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  