-- 
House Passes Bill Requiring Obama to Speed Up Oil Leasing

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-05-05T19:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-house-passes-bill-to-speed-oil-leases-in-gulf-atlantic.html
The Republican-led U.S. House passed
legislation that would give the Obama administration deadlines
to sell offshore oil leases, a bid to limit a surge in  oil
prices  and cut the nation’s dependence on imported fuel.  The bill sponsored by House Natural Resources Committee
Chairman Doc Hastings, a  Washington  Republican, would give the
Interior Department four months to auction central Gulf of
Mexico leases and a year for leases off the Virginia coast. The
 vote  was 266-149, with 33 Democrats joining Republicans.  The  measure  is a part of the House Republican plan to boost
U.S. offshore oil output 76 percent by 2027 and coincides with a
37 percent jump in gasoline prices in the past 12 months. The
Senate hasn’t considered a similar bill. President  Barack Obama 
dropped plans to allow exploration off the Atlantic coast after
a  BP Plc (BP/)  well blew out last year, causing the worst U.S.
offshore oil spill.  “The pain being felt today has been exacerbated by the
actions of this administration, who for the past two years have
repeatedly blocked, hindered and raised the cost to access to
our American energy resources,” Hastings said during a debate
today in Washington. The bill “is necessary to hold our feet to
the fire, and to ensure that these lease sales move forward.”  Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey Democrat and member
of Hastings’ committee, called the Republican bills “amnesia
acts” because they ignored lessons from the spill, which spewed
4.9 million barrels of oil in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Administration Opposition  The Obama administration  said  it opposed the Republicans’
bills, because they would undercut safety reforms put in place
after the spill.  “The Republicans are debating more drilling without more
safety,” said Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts ,
the top Democrat on the resources panel.  The measure is the first of three that Republicans are
pushing to increase offshore production to 3 million barrels a
day in 2027 from 1.7 million barrels a day in  2010 . Measures
that may be debated next week require the Interior Department to
make decisions on permit applications within 60 days and
establish a domestic oil and natural gas production goal.  Frances Beinecke , president of the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, said it was “misleading and wrong”
to suggest the Republican plan will lower gas prices.  “More drilling only means more profits for the oil
industry,” Beinecke, a member of the  National Commission  on the
BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill, said in a statement.  Petroleum Reserve  Lawmakers debated whether Obama should release oil from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Markey told reporters today oil
prices fell 33 percent in 1991 when President George H.W Bush
released oil from the reserve and 19 percent when President  Bill Clinton  released crude in 2000.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said high
gas prices didn’t warrant a release.  “The same Democrats who voted to close down American
energy production now want to look for a way out of their
problem,” he said. “It’s there for an emergency,” Boehner
said of the reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder at   jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 