-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 3 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-05T12:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-3-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Southeast: While an historic tornado outbreak and areas of
flooding rainfall slammed areas to the northwest and north, the
areas of dryness and drought from  Alabama  eastward to the
central and southern Atlantic coast generally received only
light rainfall, maintaining or worsening conditions. Only parts
of central  Georgia , northern  Florida , and southeasternmost
Florida recorded over an inch of rain, improving D1 to D0 in a
small part of central Georgia. Elsewhere, moderate drought was
extended from the central Carolinas eastward to the Atlantic
coast, and deteriorating short-term conditions led to the
expansion of abnormal dryness and the introduction of an area of
moderate drought in southeastern Virginia. Elsewhere, the status
quo was maintained. Some areas along and near the northeastern
 Gulf coast  have received 12 to 20 inches less than normal
rainfall over the past 6 months, and deficits of 6 to 12 inches
affect many areas farther northeast thru the southern Atlantic
coast into southeastern Virginia.  Plains and Lower Mississippi Valley: Heavy rainfall from last
week’s historic storm system impinged on the northern tier of
the dry areas from eastern Oklahoma through northern Alabama,
with significant precipitation extending as far south as
northern  Louisiana  and northeastern  Texas . As a result, dryness
and drought classifications improved by 1 to locally 2
categories throughout this region. The areas of dryness and
drought that recorded the most rainfall extended from
southeasternmost Oklahoma through most of central and southern
Arkansas and across northern  Mississippi , where totals exceeded
5 inches in many areas. Parts of the adjacent areas farther
south and southwestward through north-central Texas reported
numerous amounts in the 2 to 5 inch range. Many of these areas
also saw drought improvement into the D0 to D2 range, although
D3 was maintained through northern Louisiana and adjacent areas
where dry conditions have been observed for a considerably
longer period of time. Other areas declining into D3 or D4
included relatively small swaths of central and northwestern
Texas, and part of east-central New Mexico. Finally, a dry week
and increasing short-term moisture deficits prompted expansion
of D0 and D1.  The remaining areas along the central Gulf coast westward
through most of Texas and eastern New Mexico, and northward
through the central Plains, reported only light precipitation,
if any. As a result, dryness and drought either persisted or
intensified. Of note, a large area from western Texas into
southeastern New Mexico deteriorated into the most severe D4
category. Most of this region has only received about 10 percent
of normal precipitation over the last six months. In addition,
D4 was introduced in parts of the  Oklahoma  Panhandle and
adjacent areas where again 6-month totals were only about 10% of
normal amounts. Other areas declining into D3 or D4 included
relatively small swaths of central and northwestern Texas, and
part of east-central New Mexico. Finally, a dry week and
increasing short-term moisture deficits prompted expansion of D0
and D1 from central  Kansas  northward through central Nebraska.  Much farther north, recent precipitation eliminated the moderate
drought that had covered parts of the northern Great Lakes
region and northeasternmost  Minnesota , but was insufficient to
affect the extent of abnormally dry conditions.  Rockies and Southwest: Only scattered light precipitation fell
on the region, maintaining or worsening dryness and drought
classifications in the region. D2 and D3 conditions expanded in
the northeast quarter of  New Mexico  and the southeast quarter of
 Arizona  due to slowly declining surface moisture conditions.  Hawaii ,  Alaska , and Puerto Rico: Another week of moderate to
heavy precipitation in the former D0 areas of Puerto Rico
eliminated abnormal dryness throughout the Commonwealth.  Although precipitation has recently been observed across
southern Alaska, continuing deficits on 90-day to 1-year time
scales led to the expansion of D0 throughout southern coastal
regions of the state, including the Panhandle. In contrast, a
re-assessment of conditions farther north led to the removal of
abnormal dryness across the northern tier of the former D0
region.  One to locally over three inches of rain fell along the
southeastern tier of the Big Island, but lesser amounts fell on
other areas of dryness and drought. What rain fell was not
enough to change the classifications of dryness and drought that
persist over the southeastern half of the state.  Looking Ahead: During May 5 to 9, 2011, light to locally
moderate rain is forecast across  North Carolina  and  Virginia ,
the Gulf coasts of Texas and Louisiana, through parts of Kansas
and Nebraska, and across the northern Great Lakes region. None
or very little is anticipated through the remaining areas of
dryness and drought in the contiguous 48 states.  The outlook for May 10 to 14, 2011 brings enhanced chances for
above-normal precipitation through the dry areas in Arkansas and
across the northern Great Lakes, but in most areas of dryness
and drought in the continental 49 states, near or below normal
precipitation is favored.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  