-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for May 5 to July 2011 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-05T12:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-may-5-to-july-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Extreme to exceptional drought
persisted and expanded across the Southwest, southern Plains,
and lower  Mississippi  Valley, worsening particularly across
portions of northern and western  Texas , southern New Mexico, and
the Oklahoma panhandle region. Drought persistence is expected
west of a line from southern Texas through central  Kansas , with
CPC one-month precipitation outlooks indicating enhanced odds of
below-median precipitation during the climatological peak of
spring rains. Further drought development is forecast across
western  Arizona  and the four corners region due to scant snow
water content levels heading into a climatologically dry period.
Across the mid-South and Southeast, in contrast, several rounds
of severe weather brought substantial drought relief to eastern
 Oklahoma  and Arkansas, but also caused widespread flooding and
devastating tornadoes. Drought improvement is forecast across
southeastern Oklahoma and northeastern Texas eastward through
northern Mississippi as monthly tools indicate continued wetness.
Moderate drought returned to portions of the southern Atlantic
coastal Plain following two weeks of below-average rainfall.
Some improvement is expected across much of the Southeast, while
longer term improvement is expected in Florida as the rainy
season commences in late May or early June. In Hawaii, drought
persistence is expected in leeward regions as the summer trade
winds regime begins.  During April and early May, multiple storm systems traversed the
upper South and  Ohio  and Tennessee Valleys, bringing torrential
rainfall and severe weather. April 2011 precipitation values
were more than twice average from eastern Oklahoma northeastward
into upstate  New York . The repeated heavy rainfall events not
only erased drought conditions across  Arkansas , they caused
widespread flash flooding and river basin flooding, particularly
along the Black/Lower White Rivers, where near-record or record
flooding was expected. Across the remainder of the South,
generally below average rainfall was observed, maintaining
drought conditions along the  Gulf Coast . Moderate drought
development occurred across eastern  North Carolina  and the
Virginia tidewater. Although short term drought relief is not
expected across the southeastern U.S., monthly and seasonal
tools do not indicate a continuation of a dry signal into the
summer convective season. Therefore, some improvement of drought
is forecast for most of the Southeast. Improvement is indicated
for drought areas on the North Carolina and Virginia coastal
Plain in reflection of the CPC three month outlook, which has
increased odds of above-median rainfall across the eastern
seaboard from North Carolina northward. Although areas of
extreme drought persist across southern  Florida , with several
large wildfires reported, longer term improvement is expected
across most of the state, as the sea breeze-driven rainy season
typically begins in late May across southern Florida and lifts
northward quickly through June. Forecast confidence for Florida
is moderate to high, and low to moderate across the remainder of
the South.  While drought conditions were quickly overturned to a flooding
situation in Arkansas, areas of severe to exceptional drought
persisted across  Louisiana  and eastern Texas. CPC’s 6-10 day, 8-
14 day, and May outlooks all indicate enhanced odds for below-
median precipitation across the western Gulf Coast. Therefore,
drought persistence is indicated in this outlook. Forecast
confidence for Louisiana and eastern Texas is moderate.  Across the southern Plains and Southwest, widespread extreme to
exceptional drought persisted and expanded during the previous
month, except for a small portion of Texas’s prairies and lakes
region. Little to no rain fell across southern and western Texas
and eastern  New Mexico , while a combination of persistent above-
average temperatures with low humidity and periods of gusty
winds exacerbated the drought impacts. On April 26, Phoenix, AZ
tied its record lowest relative humidity at two percent, with an
air temperature of 87 degrees Fahrenheit and a dew point of -8
degrees Fahrenheit. The CPC 6-10 day, 8-14 day, and May monthly
outlooks all indicate enhanced chances of below-median
precipitation and above-median temperatures persisting across
the southern Plains and Southwestern U.S. Additionally, snow
water content levels across the Southwest are generally below 25
percent of average. Based on these considerations, drought
persistence is maintained and further expansion of drought is
indicated across western Arizona and far southern Utah and
 Colorado . Forecast confidence for the southern Plains and
Southwest is moderate to high.  Heavy La Niña enhanced winter rainfall ended drought conditions
on Kauai and Oahu and eased drought across islands further east.
Drought remains, however, across western portions of Hawaii’s
Big Island and central islands. As the summer trade wind regime
commences, however, the chances of substantial precipitation on
the leeward sides of these islands diminishes. Further drought
reductions, therefore, are not likely, and persistence is
indicated on this outlook. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is
moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  