-- 
Allen Stanford Indicted Again as Prosecutors Drop 7 of 21 Criminal Charges

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-05T17:29:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-obtains-new-indictment-in-allen-stanford-ponzi-scheme-prosecution.html
R. Allen Stanford, the  Texas  financier
accused by U.S. prosecutors of leading a $7 billion investor
fraud scheme, was indicted again and accused of seven fewer
counts than previously.  Prosecutors filed a revised charging document yesterday in
U.S. District Court in Houston. Stanford, who has denied all
allegations of wrongdoing, has been in federal custody since
June 2009 awaiting trial.  Stanford is accused of defrauding investors who bought
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. by misleading them about the nature of
the investments and their regulatory oversight.  “The original indictment was such a mess, I think
prosecutors were just trying to clean up the charges,” Ali
Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal-defense lawyers, said in a
telephone interview today. “I don’t think anything of relevance
has been dropped right now.”  The original indictment contained 21 criminal counts. The
new one contains 14, including conspiracy to commit  money
laundering , obstruction of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation,  wire fraud  and mail fraud.  Two wire-fraud counts were dropped as were five mail-fraud
charges. Stanford, 61, still faces five of each count,
conviction for any one of which could result in a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison.  ‘Reshuffling of Things’  “There’s been a reshuffling of things,” Fazel said of the
superseding indictment. “There’s been  some taking away of
things that were not conduct specific to Stanford, but were more
directed at the other defendants.”  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to immediately comment on the revamped
indictment, citing a judicial gag order in the case.  Stanford is being held at the hospital at the Butner
Federal Correctional Complex in  North Carolina , where he is
receiving treatment for a prescription drug dependency developed
while in prison.  His trial, previously scheduled for Jan. 24, was postponed
pending the results of his treatment.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  