-- 
JPMorgan Wins Request to Move $6.4 Billion Picard Suit to Different Court

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-05T21:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/u-s-judge-accepts-picard-jpmorgan-case-in-district-court.html
A U.S. judge granted  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s request to decide whether the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm has the right to sue the bank for $6.4 billion,
alleging it aided the confidence man’s fraud.  U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon in  New York  set a
briefing schedule for JPMorgan’s argument that the case should
be dismissed, saying she will write an opinion explaining her
decision, according to a court filing yesterday. The bank will
ask her to dismiss the case next month.  McMahon’s decision is the latest challenge to trustee
 Irving Picard , who has filed more than 1,000 suits claiming $100
billion for investors in the Ponzi scheme.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
this week asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  to
dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit against it and so-called feeder
funds, saying Picard isn’t allowed by law to bring such suits on
behalf of Madoff customers.  Taking the HSBC case temporarily, Rakoff agreed with the
U.K. bank that Picard’s lawsuit raised issues beyond the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court where Picard filed the
suit. He said he would decide whether Picard can bring common-
law claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on behalf of
customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff firm.  Bankruptcy Court  Picard, whose firm has sought $175 million for work since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest, has fought to keep his cases in  bankruptcy
court . JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself both from
the thousands of victims of that scheme and from other alleged
wrongdoers” by going to district court, Picard said in a March
filing.  “The issue of JPMC’s misconduct belongs before the
bankruptcy court as the court most versed in the nuances of the
Ponzi scheme and the roles of other, related wrongdoers in that
scheme,” he told Rakoff in the filing in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. “JPMC seeks refuge in this court to escape the
scrutiny of the bankruptcy court.”  Today, a lawyer for Picard, Deborah Renner, said, “We are
confident in the strength of our claims and pleased with the
district court’s decision” to examine the case.  “Judge  Colleen McMahon ’s decision means that the trustee’s
case will move forward on a fast timetable, which will
ultimately help speed recoveries for the victims of the Madoff
fraud,” she said in an e-mail.  Picard sued JPMorgan in December, claiming the bank, as
Madoff’s main lender, aided the fraud and should pay for
investors’ losses in specified years. Denying wrongdoing, New
York-based JPMorgan said it had a right to a jury trial in the
district court.  Picard’s suit raised “unsettled questions” of law beyond
the expertise of a bankruptcy court, the bank said.  ‘Frivolous’ Argument  JPMorgan accused Picard of fighting a “backdoor” class-
action suit and said a bankruptcy trustee generally can’t sue
third parties on behalf of creditors. Calling the argument
“frivolous,” Picard disagreed.  According to Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum
Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky , the  U.S. Congress 
has said district courts should hear cases that involve
“unsettled questions of non-bankruptcy law.”  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
 Ponzi scheme  in history. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  