-- 
UBS Loses Utilities Banking Head Metcalfe to Alinda Capital

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-05T20:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ubs-loses-utilities-banking-head-metcalfe-to-alinda-capital-2-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s global head of power and
utilities investment banking, James Metcalfe, is departing to
join Alinda Capital Partners LLC, an infrastructure investment
firm.  Metcalfe’s position won’t be filled, leaving the power and
utilities group to be jointly led by its regional heads in the
Americas, Europe and Asia, said Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for
the Zurich-based bank.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, has faced management
changes and lost bankers since it cut its bonus pool by 80
percent in 2008 amid the financial crisis. Citigroup Inc. said
yesterday it hired one of the bank’s top advisers to industrial
companies, Kevin Cox. Lee LeBrun, the co-head of mergers and
acquisitions for the Americas, plans to retire to spend more
time with his family.  Other defections to competitors this year include
technology banker Eric Mandl, who went to Evercore Partners
Inc., and metals and mining banker Dieter Hoeppli, who joined
Deutsche Bank AG.  Last year, UBS lost a group of energy bankers led by
Stephen Trauber to Citigroup, and most of its health-care
bankers went to Jefferies Group Inc. in 2009.  The UBS power and utilities team, led in the U.S. by James Schaefer, looks forward to continuing to work with Metcalfe in
his new position, where he will be a potential client, von Alt
said.  Voluntary departures from UBS are lower than pre-financial
crisis levels, she added.  Metcalfe, who joined UBS from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2007, advised  DPL Inc. (DPL)  on its agreement last month to sell to
 AES Corp. (AES)  for $3.5 billion. He also helped advise  Exelon Corp. (EXC) 
on its hostile bid for  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 