-- 
UBS Settlement Marks Widening Criminal Investigation Into Municipal Bonds

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-06T15:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ubs-case-marks-widening-gyre-of-criminal-investigation-in-municipal-bonds.html
A  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker wanted to win an
investment deal with a Rhode Island municipality that was to be
awarded to the highest bidder. Instead of offering the best
price, he secretly split half of UBS’s $1.4 million profit with
another bank to get the rival to back off.  The 2002 transaction with the unidentified municipality,
described in documents tied to UBS’s $160 million settlement
with the U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission this week, shows the expanding arc of a criminal
investigation that has taken more than four years.  “My guess is they’re going to be looking at the other big
banks next,” said Mark Rosman, a partner at the law firm  Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  in Washington and a former assistant
chief of the national criminal enforcement section of the
 Justice Department ’s antitrust division.  UBS followed Bank of America in settling a probe
prosecutors say spanned more than a dozen  Wall Street  banks,
insurers and advisers. Settlement documents and court records
cite several unidentified companies, a sign that more cases are
coming.  ‘Active and Ongoing’  “The investigation is active and ongoing,” said  Christine Varney , the Justice Department’s antitrust chief, in a press
conference May 4. “When every municipality that has been
victimized by this conspiracy receives restitution, we will
conclude.”  The case has revealed that Wall Street, during the same
years when it was sowing the seeds of the financial crisis, was
also cheating cities, states and school districts across the
U.S. and using the unregulated derivatives markets to hide the
kickbacks paid in the schemes.  UBS, whose settlement came after four of its former bankers
were charged in the case. One of them, Mark Zaino, last year
pleaded guilty to fixing prices when brokering municipal-
investment deals by submitting intentionally losing bids at
auctions run by Los Angeles-broker CDR Financial Products. UBS
allegedly entered into separate trades with another bank that
were used to funnel kickbacks to CDR. Zaino agreed to cooperate
in the probe.  The Justice Department also indicted Peter Ghavami, the
former co-head of UBS’s municipal derivatives group and two
colleagues, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty. The three are fighting
the charges.  Returning Money  UBS has been cooperating with the probe and, as part of the
agreement, is returning money to about 100 municipalities in 36
states that were victims of the conspiracy. Bank of America also
agreed to cooperate with federal investigators in exchange for
leniency.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, is also among 16 banks
under investigation by European antitrust regulators, who are
probing whether they manipulated the daily London interbank
offered rate, a benchmark lending rate.  In November, James Hertz, a former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
banker also admitted involvement, and agreed to cooperate. Three
former employees of a  General Electric Co. (GE)  unit are fighting
charges in the case.  JPMorgan, in a quarterly filing today, said it was
cooperating with the bid-rigging investigations by the Justice
Department and SEC, as well as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service
and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The New York-
based bank said it wanted to resolve the probes “on a
negotiated basis.”  Competitive Bidding  The government investigation centers on the investments
that cities, towns and states make with a portion of the $400
billion they raise by selling bonds each year. The investments
allow them to earn a return on the borrowed money until they
need the cash, which reduces the cost of public works projects.  Federal regulations encourage local officials to award the
investment contracts by competitive bidding. Localities rely on
previously unregulated financial advisers to run the auctions.  The Justice Department alleges financial companies paid
kickbacks to advisers to run sham auctions so they could win the
public money to invest at below-market rates. Court records also
show that the banks used the  derivatives market , which at the
time was largely unregulated, to funnel kickbacks to advisers in
return for rigging the bidding.  UBS, which got out of the municipal-bond underwriting
business in 2008, ran auctions for the investment contracts on
behalf of its customers and also bid at auctions run by others.  In one instance described in the SEC’s complaint against
UBS, the bank allowed an investment-contract seller --identified
only as Provider C -- to pick up an additional $100,000 on a
transaction with a Colorado health-care provider.  In return, UBS received an additional fee of $75,000 from
the winner, which a banker described as “some profit sharing,”
according to the SEC complaint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  