-- 
Lufthansa’s Quarterly Loss Narrows on Higher Fares, Freight

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-05T09:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/lufthansa-s-first-quarter-loss-narrows-on-higher-fares-freight.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, said its first-quarter operating loss
narrowed as demand for goods and passenger transport outweighed
higher fuel and tax costs.  The Lufthansa Cargo unit almost doubled profit from a year
earlier to 64 million euros ($95.3 million), and a 5.1 percent
increase in average fares helped earnings at the passenger
divisions, the company said today. The group operating loss
shrank to 227 million euros from 330 million euros.  Passenger traffic grew 6.9 percent in the quarter amid a
continuing recovery in the world economy, helping to lift sales
12 percent to 6.4 billion euros. Lufthansa is seeking to offset
higher fuel costs by shaving expenses elsewhere, Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz told shareholders on May 3 in Berlin.  “It’s a very solid set of numbers, with a strong logistics
business making up for some shortfalls on the passenger side,”
said Jochen Rothenbacher, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet
AG who recommends buying the carrier’s shares.  Lufthansa stock has declined 12 percent this year, valuing
the company at 6.57 billion euros. The shares retreated as much
as 1.8 percent to 14.23 euros and were trading 1.1 percent lower
as of 11:44 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Analysts had predicted a 247 million-euro operating loss,
based on the average of nine estimates. Lufthansa defines its
operating result as profit before interest and tax adjusted for
gains and losses related to assets and financial investments.  Net Loss  The net loss widened to 507 million euros from 298 million
euros after a 292 million-euro reduction in the book value of
hedging options mainly related to fuel purchases.  “This adjustment really doesn’t reflect the economic
reality” Chief Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow said in a
conference call with reporters. “It’s purely an accounting
effect, while in actuality these hedging options are taking a
lot of pressure off our operating result.”  Traffic gains have been held back as unrest in Arab
countries curbed demand on routes served by the Austrian
Airlines and British Midland units and as Lufthansa modified its
Japanese schedule following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “For the whole year, we expect fluctuations in demand, in
particular from the crisis regions,” Gemkow said. Ticket
pricing levels in  Europe  remain “enormously challenging,” he
said.  A German government tax on  air travel , which went into
effect at the beginning of the year, hurt profit at the main
brand and Germanwings low-cost units.  Fuel Squeeze  Margins are also being squeezed by fuel costs, with crude
touching a 2 1/2-year high May 2. Kerosene expenses rose 28
percent to 1.4 billion euros in the quarter, including a
positive effect from hedging activities of 177 million euros.  Still, Lufthansa has cut its forecast for fuel costs this
year to 6.6 billion euros from an earlier estimate of 6.8
billion euros, Chief Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow said,
adding that a weakening US dollar is helping the airline reduce
expenses. It benefits from hedging at an oil price of at least
$92, according to the CFO.  Lufthansa aims to shave 1 billion euros off annual costs
from 2008 through 2011, with at least 350 million euros of
savings due this year, the company said in March. It also plans
to make Austrian Air profitable in 2011, while Gemkow said
British Midland will still suffer a loss.  Austrian Air  Some units may face “short-term adjustments” to lift
earnings, the company said today. The Austrian unit, whose loss
narrowed 3 percent to 64 million euros in the quarter, is
reducing staff at the management level, slashing travel budgets
by 50 percent and placing a ceiling on wage costs, Gemkow said.
British Midland’s shortfall rose 40 percent to 63 million euros.  Lufthansa, which competes with  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA in Europe, last
year reported net income of 1.1 billion euros, the best full-
year result since 2007.  The company today reaffirmed forecasts for an increase in
sales and operating profit this year. It declined to further
quantify the target, citing the events in  Japan  and North Africa
and their effect on the oil price.  Airline earnings will fall by almost 50 percent this year
as higher  oil prices  limit the impact of an economic recovery,
the  International Air Transport Association  predicted March 2.
Air cargo services bucked a trend of slowing traffic growth in
the  airline industry  in March, gaining 3.7 percent after a 1.8
percent increase a month earlier, IATA said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  