-- 
Union Pacific Joins CSX Dividend Boost as Railroads Spread Cash

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-05-05T18:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/union-pacific-joins-csx-dividend-boost-as-railroads-spread-cash.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  joined smaller peer
 CSX Corp. (CSX)  in boosting its dividend, rewarding investors after
more than a year of earnings growth across the nation’s largest
publicly traded railroads.  Union Pacific is increasing its quarterly dividend by 25
percent to 47.5 cents, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said
today in a statement. CSX Corp., the second biggest publicly
traded railroad, announced yesterday that it will boost its
dividend by 38 percent.  The railroads are returning cash to stockholders as
climbing demand for freight shipments propels profit growth.
Union Pacific earnings grew 24 percent to $639 million in the
first quarter, while profit at Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX
climbed 30 percent to $395 million.  Total rail volumes excluding grain and coal shipments rose
7.9 percent to 4.6 million carloads in the quarter ended March
31, according to data compiled by the  Association of American
Railroads  in  Washington . It was the second-highest increase in a
first quarter, following last year’s 9.3 percent rise.  Union Pacific’s dividend is payable July 1 to shareholders
of record on May 31. CSX, which announced a three-for-one stock
split yesterday, said it would pay a quarterly dividend of 12
cents a share, on a post-split basis. Its June 15 payout goes to
shareholders of record at the end of May. CSX also said it would
buy back as much as  $2 billion  in shares.  Union Pacific’s dividend yield, a stock-valuation measure
that compares the yearly payout to the share price, would be
about 1.9 percent over four quarters, according to Bloomberg
analysis. That’s in line with CSX’s yield and follows a pattern
of corresponding yields between the two companies, analysis
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  