-- 
Muslim Brotherhood Calls for Review of Camp David Accord

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-05T20:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/muslim-brotherhood-calls-for-review-of-camp-david-accord-2-.html
The leader of  Egypt ’s  Muslim
Brotherhood  called for the country’s next parliament to review
the Camp David peace accord with  Israel .  “What is left,” Mohammed Badie said, “except for us to
loudly demand to stop the issue of normalization” and “to
review the  Camp David accord  and for it to be reviewed by a
freely elected parliament?” In an e-mailed weekly statement, he
also called for cancellation of “economic interests” such as
natural-gas exports to Israel and industrial zones.  A poll released last month by the  Pew Research Center’s 
Global Attitudes Project found that 54 percent of 1,000
Egyptians surveyed want the government to end the peace treaty
with the Jewish state. The  Muslim Brotherhood , the largest and
best-organized opposition group to former President  Hosni Mubarak , is setting up a political party and said it will
contest up to half the parliamentary seats in September
elections.  Responding to a question about the group’s call to review
the Camp David agreement, Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Menha Bakhoum said today in a telephone interview that Egypt is
committed to all its “international contractual obligations.”  “This is a kind of political and ideological rhetoric and
has little weight beyond that,” Emad Gad, who heads the Israeli
studies program at Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies in Cairo, said of Badie’s call. “It represents an
ideological position that may appeal to large swaths of the
Egyptian population.”  Gaza Border Crossing  Badie also called for working to “permanently” open the
Rafah crossing point with the  Gaza Strip  and “ending the issue
of securing the borders of the Zionists.”  Bakhoum said on April 29 that Egypt plans to open its Rafah
border crossing in what analysts say is a sign of a shift from
Mubarak-era foreign policies. Egypt yesterday hosted a ceremony
celebrating an agreement it brokered that ended an almost four-
year rift between the Palestinian groups Fatah and Hamas.  Under Mubarak, who stepped down in February after 18 days
of mass demonstrations, Egypt cooperated with Israel to impose a
blockade on Gaza that Israel says is necessary to prevent Hamas
and other Islamist groups from importing weapons that could be
used against the Jewish state. The policy has been unpopular in
Egypt.      The U.S. allows goods made in so-called Qualified
Industrial Zones in Jordan and Egypt, using Israeli input, to
benefit from duty-free access to its market. The arrangement
rewarded the two countries for signing peace agreements with the
Jewish state.  The blockade cut off most civilian traffic and restricted
trade with the territory, whose residents say they face goods
shortages as a result.  Egypt also sells natural gas to Israel. Prosecutors on
April 21 ordered the detention of former Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  and five other former officials amid an investigation into
the agreement. Egypt’s opposition has long said that Egypt was
selling the gas to Israel below market price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  