-- 
Vale Posts Record Quarterly Profit on Higher Output, Prices

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-05T23:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/vale-posts-record-profit-on-surging-prices-copper-and-nickel-production.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest  iron-ore 
producer, posted a record quarterly profit as mineral prices and
sales of metals including copper and nickel surged.  Net income increased to $6.83 billion, or $1.29 a share,
from $1.6 billion, or 30 cents, in the year-ago period, Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale said today in a regulatory filing. Vale was
expected to post per-share profit of $1.11 on an adjusted basis,
according to the average of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Vale, which is replacing its chief executive officer later
this month after criticism from Brazil’s government, is
profiting from higher iron-ore prices as China and India
increase demand. Global steel production may rise 7 percent this
year, spurred by demand in the world’s fastest-growing major
economies, Ernst & Young LLP said in a report this week.  “Last year Vale had quite strong figures and cash
generation and this year it will be even higher,” Leonardo
Alves, an equity analyst at Link Investimentos, said yesterday
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. Alves, who rates the
stock an “outperform,” expects Vale to break its record for
revenue and profit this year on higher iron-ore prices and a
larger contribution from the base metals business.  Vale had net income of $17.3 billion last year, which the
company said was the most ever for the  mining industry . Vale is
expected to post annual profit of $27.6 billion on an adjusted
basis this year, according to the average of 16 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner
by market value, had net income of $17.1 billion in the last
calendar year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘High Plateau’  Vale produced 71.5 million metric tons of iron ore in the
three months through March 31, 3.6 percent more than a year
earlier, the company said. Nickel production climbed 78 percent
to 59,000 tons and copper output more than doubled to 70,000
tons, Vale said.  “Given the demand prospects and the tightness in supply,
with no major projects coming on stream in 2011 and 2012, we
expect iron ore prices to remain hovering around a high
plateau,” Vale said in a statement. “Base metals operations
are expected to continue to enhance their contribution to our
financial performance.”  Prices for the iron-ore sold by Vale averaged $126.19 per
metric ton during the quarter, almost double the $64.76
registered last year. The price of ore with 62 percent iron
content delivered to  China  fell 0.4 percent to $182.50 a metric
ton today, according to Steel Business Briefing Commodities
Research.  Project Delays  Total iron-ore sales remained little change at 57.7 million
metric tons while pellet sales rose 32 percent in the quarter to
10.3 million metric tons. Sales of both minerals to China
increased 2.2 percent to 28.2 million metric tons, or about 41
percent of Vale’s iron ore and pellets sales in the period.  Vale’s board approved three projects during the quarter
including the Rio Colorado potash project in  Argentina , which
will require a total investment of $5.9 billion. The company
delayed the start of the project to the second half of 2014,
about half a year later than initially planned, it said today.  Three other projects, including its Totten nickel and
copper mine in  Canada , had their starting date postponed because
of development setbacks, Vale said. “Delays on project
development, civil engineering works and environmental licensing
are causing some rearrangement of the project execution
schedule,” it said.  Shares of Vale in  Sao Paulo  are trading close to their
lowest levels in seven months amid fears of political
interference with the company and a recent plunge in commodities
prices.  Government Pressure  Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira will replace CEO  Roger
Agnelli  on May 22 after the government, which holds direct and
indirect stakes in Vale, repeatedly criticized the company for
not spending more on domestic steel and fertilizer output to
generate jobs. After the ouster, the miner agreed to buy a stake
in the hydro-power project Belo Monte and invest about 2.3
billion reais ($1.4 billion).  Vale may invest more in Brazil because of government
pressure as it did in Belo Monte’s case, Link’s Alves said.
“With the current iron-ore outlook, I don’t think that will
have a big impact on the company,” he said.  Vale’s success is of strategic importance for  Brazil  and
it’s natural that the government should be interested in the
company, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said this week in a
Senate hearing in Brasilia. Mantega said he held several talks
with Vale shareholders during the process of choosing a CEO
replacement and that the change complied with company bylaws.  Agnelli ignored government criticism over job cuts and
requests to invest more in domestic steel to boost exports,
Mantega said May 3.  Vale gained 61 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to close at 44.47
reais in Sao Paulo trading today, reducing the decline since the
start of the year to 8.3 percent. The earnings report was
released after the close of regular trading.  (Vale will host a conference call with investors tomorrow
at 11 a.m. New York time.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  