-- 
Vattenfall Revenue Declines on Sale of German Unit

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-05T10:17:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/vattenfall-profit-drops-on-sale-of-german-transmission-unit-1-.html
Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s
biggest utility, said first-quarter sales fell following the
sale of its German transmission business in 2010 and lower
electricity revenue.  Net sales dropped to 51.9 billion kronor ($8.56 billion),
from 70.7 billion kronor a year earlier, the  Stockholm , Sweden-
based company said in a  statement  today. Profit after tax jumped
to 7.2 billion kronor because of an impairment charge in 2010
related to the sale of 50Hertz Transmission GmbH.  While the company did sell a greater volume of electricity,
prices charged were lower on average. This trimmed operating
profit by about 2.5 billion kronor.  Generation taxes and fees were also higher than a year
earlier, the company said. Electricity generation climbed 4.6
percent during the period to 49.8 terrawatt-hours. Average spot
prices for electricity in  Sweden  were 8.7 percent lower in the
first quarter of 2011.  “The first quarter of the year was overshadowed by the
earthquake and tsunami disaster in  Japan  and the ensuing
accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant,” Chief Executive
Officer Oystein Loseth said in the statement. “The disaster in
Japan and the unrest in the Arab countries have affected prices
of commodities and electricity.”  Vattenfall started valuing its units in “non-strategic”
countries, including Poland, earlier this year. The utility has
12 to 36 months to sell the assets, Loseth said in February.
Core countries include  Germany , Sweden and the Netherlands, the
executive said today.  “No further decisions have been made so far” on divesting
additional assets, Chief Financial Officer Dag Andresen said on
a conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  