-- 
Viacom, Endemol Target Women With Television Channel Starting Up in Poland

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-05-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/viacom-endemol-target-women-with-tv-channel-starting-in-poland.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , the owner of Nickelodeon,
and  MTV , is teaming up with “Big Brother” producer Endemol NV
to start a television channel aimed at women and making its
debut in  Poland  this summer.  The channel, called Viacom Blink!, will target women from
16 to 49 years old and will offer Endemol-distributed shows such
as  “Hot in Cleveland,”  “Fear Factor U.S.” and “Make Me a
Supermodel,” the companies said today.  Viacom Blink! will initially be available to more than 1
million households on pay-TV platforms Multimedia Polska and N
Platform and other local distributors. Viacom and Endemol are
also seeking deals with distributors for the channel elsewhere
in  central Europe , the Middle East and  Latin America .  “This is an opportunity to build out the brand
internationally and we expect to move beyond Poland in the not-
too-distant future,” Bob Bakish, chief executive officer of
Viacom International Media Networks, said in a phone interview.  The focus on female viewers in Europe mirrors efforts by
broadcasters in the U.S to target women through channels such as
 Lifetime , Oxygen and OWN, the Oprah Winfrey Network.  The two companies began working on plans for Viacom Blink!
last year, culminating in a “long-term partnership” that gives
Viacom access to more than 4,000 hours of content for TV and
digital media platforms, the companies said. This guarantees 800
hours of premium premiere hours in the first year and about 650
hours in coming years.  Library of Shows  “We saw an opportunity to create a great entertainment
service for women and enhance our portfolio,” Bakish said. “It
deepens our service offering for advertising.”  Viacom is also in talks with studios to show feature films
on Viacom Blink!  Endemol has a library of shows totaling 24,000 hours, Chief
Executive Officer Ynon Kreiz said in a phone interview. Endemol
will also make original productions for Viacom Blink! in the
future, he said.  “Central  Europe  and eastern Europe is an emerging and
growing region and one of the biggest growth areas for the
company,” he said, adding that while the emphasis on female
viewers “is not a virgin genre, we believe the market is ready
for it.”  Viacom’s Bakish said business at the company’s MTV,
Nickelodeon and Comedy Central channels has been “really
flourishing,” highlighting a “nice strength in ad markets.”  “We’re seeing robust demand and there’s a strong pipeline
of business that’s the best since pre-Lehman,” Bakish said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  