-- 
Vieira, 1998 World Cup Winner With France, Says Laurent Blanc Should Quit

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-05T13:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/vieira-1998-world-cup-winner-with-france-says-laurent-blanc-should-quit.html
Patrick Vieira , a member of France’s
1998 World Cup-winning soccer squad, said his former teammate
 Laurent Blanc  should resign as French coach after revelations of
discussions to impose quotas on players with foreign roots.  “It’s hard to see how those people can stay in their
positions,” Vieira, who was born in  Senegal  but played 107
times for France between 1997 and 2009, and was captain 21
times, said in an interview in Le Monde.  The French Football Federation says that next week it will
release the results of an internal investigation after Internet
site  Mediapart  released a recording of a meeting where Blanc and
others discussed ways to have fewer players with foreign roots
in  France ’s youth-training programs.  Francois Blaquart, the FFF’s national technical director,
was one of the people secretly recorded during a discussion last
November, and has been suspended pending the probe.  Several players, after being trained in the FFF’s youth
set-up, have recently chosen to represent countries where their
parents were born, such as  Morocco ,  Poland , or  Algeria . In the
recordings, Blanc also complains that the predominance of black
players in France has led to an overly physical style of play.  “That some terms, used during a candid work meeting about
a sensitive subject, and taken out of their context, could be
considered ambiguous, I certainly accept,” Blanc said in a
statement April 30. “If I have hurt anyone, I apologize. But I
don’t support being accused of racism and xenophobia, when I am
against all forms of discrimination.”  He said there was never any question of limiting the number
of Arab or African players, “but to tackle the heavy and
difficult question of players with double nationality.”  The FFF has said it won’t comment further until the
investigation is complete.  “Those are very serious remarks,” Vieira said. “No one
was trapped in that conversation. No one was forced into saying
those things, and yet they did. It’s shocking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  