-- 
Vietnam Dollar Bonds Gain the Most in Asia as Dung Wrestles With Inflation

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-06T05:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/vietnam-dollar-bonds-gain-the-most-in-asia-as-dung-wrestles-with-inflation.html
Vietnam’s dollar bonds are posting the
best performance in  Asia  this year as Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung’s efforts to curb inflation reduce the possibility of
credit-rating downgrades.  The debt returned 5.1 percent this year, beating  South
Korea ’s 3 percent and  Thailand ’s 2.8 percent gain, according to
10 dollar-debt indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The bonds
delivered losses of more than 8 percent in the final two months
of 2010 and were the second-worst performer last year with an
8.9 percent return. Pictet Asset Management and Western Asset
Management Co. say they are sticking with the notes as the
central bank raised its repurchase rate to 14 percent this week.  “The reason for the outperformance is the market sees the
correct policies that are coming out of  Vietnam ,” said Wee-Ming
Ting, the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Pictet,
a unit of  Switzerland ’s largest privately held bank for the
wealthy that oversees about $17 billion of emerging-market debt.
“If the policies continue to fight inflation, it’s a good
thing.”  The yield on Vietnam’s 6.75 percent dollar bond due in
January 2020 fell 125 basis points, or 1.25 percentage point,
since the government devalued the dong on Feb. 11 to 6.04
percent today, according to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The yield compares with 4.61 percent and 4.43 percent
for similar-maturity notes from  Indonesia  and the Philippines,
the other two countries in the region whose debt is rated junk,
or below investment grade.  Less Risky  Vietnam’s bonds slumped at the end of 2010 as Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit
rating in December with a negative outlook. Moody’s, which rates
Vietnam four levels below investment grade at B1, cited the risk
of a balance of payments crisis and a drop in foreign reserves
as inflation accelerates and the currency weakens. S&P has
concerns over Vietnam’s banking system and ranks the country at
BB-, the third highest non-investment grade level.  Debt rallied as Dung approved a plan in February to tackle
quickening inflation with higher interest rates while allowing
the market to play a greater role in setting the currency’s
value. Consumer prices rose 17.51 percent in April from a year
earlier, the most in 28 months.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam has doubled its repurchase rate
from 7 percent in early November. Policy makers also devalued
the dong by about 7 percent against the dollar in February, the
most since at least 1993.  Dong Rallies  As confidence was restored, the dong rallied 1.8 percent in
the week ended April 29, its best performance since Bloomberg
began tracking the currency in 1997, after the government
announced it would cut the target for credit growth to restrain
price gains, cap rates payable on dollar deposits and lift
reserve ratios for dollar deposits.  Dong forwards are reflecting bets the currency will weaken
9 percent in a year, less than the 15 percent decline expected
at the start of the year.  The 12-month non-deliverable forward contracts was little
changed at 22,676 as of 1:42 p.m. in  Singapore , while the spot
rate rose 0.2 percent to 20,580, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Forward contracts are agreements to buy an asset at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable forwards are settled in dollars.  “There’s a bit more policy aggression against inflation,”
said Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee $454 billion as the
Singapore-based head of Asian investment at Western Asset
Management, the Pasadena, California-based fixed-income unit of
Legg Mason Inc. “That’s something which is positive for the
full macro-economic situation in Vietnam. We’ve seen some
stability in the currency.”  Default Risk  The cost of insuring the nation’s debt against non-payment
is falling, as five-year credit-default swaps fell 113 basis
points from this year’s high of 409 basis points on Jan. 28 to
296 as of May 5, according to data compiled by CMA, owned by CME
Group Inc. The 28 percent drop is faster than the 9 percent and
16 percent declines over the same period in swaps for the
 Philippines  and Indonesia, which trade at 134 and 137
respectively.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Benign Environment  April’s trade deficit in Vietnam was $1.4 billion compared
with a revised $1.41 billion in March, based on preliminary
figures released by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi on
April 27. Foreign-currency reserves declined 46 percent to $12.4
billion at the end of last year from 2008, World Bank data show.  “Over the past couple of years, Vietnam has depleted its
reserves very quickly,” Pictet’s Ting said. “I don’t see that
problem going away very quickly. The important part is they are
doing the right thing on the inflation front.”  Vietnam is forecasting slower economic growth and expects
inflation to exceed its previously announced targets.  Gross domestic product may expand 6.5 percent this year,
from a December estimate of 7 to 7.5 percent, Minister of
Planning and Investment Vo Hong Phuc told journalists on May 3.
The economy grew 6.8 percent in 2010, the fastest in three
years. Inflation may be 11.75 percent by year-end, compared with
the December estimate of 7 percent and similar to last year,
Phuc said.  “The outlook for 2011 depends critically on whether the
new policy package will succeed in restoring policy credibility,
as well as domestic and foreign investor confidence,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said in an April 28 report.  Vietnam’s bonds are being favored by investors willing to
take more risk as near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Japan 
fuel appetite for emerging-market assets, said  Arjuna Mahendran ,
the Singapore-based head of investment strategy for Asia at  HSBC
Private Bank , part of  Europe ’s largest bank by market value.  “The appetite is there because people are now going on the
assumption that inflation will start receding in the second
half,” Mahendran said. “The rate hikes in Asia will take a
pause and that’s a very fairly benign environment for high
yields. Clearly, Vietnam is a more risky proposition than
Indonesia, Philippines and other high-grade issuers in Asia. I
think these bonds will continue to do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  