-- 
Virgin Australia Aims to Double Its Corporate Travel Share

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-05-05T07:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/virgin-australia-aims-to-double-business-travel-share-in-qantas-challenge.html
Virgin Australia  aims to about double
its share of the nation’s corporate travel market to 20 percent
as it changes its name, cabins and livery to lure business
flyers from  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   The carrier expects to begin seeing the benefits of its
ongoing three-year makeover from 2012, Chief Executive Officer
John Borghetti said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today in Sydney. The airline will spend A$35 million ($37
million) on the plan in the first year, he said.  The airline, backed by billionaire  Richard Branson ,
yesterday ditched its previous name, Virgin Blue, underscoring a
transformation from low-cost airline to full-service operator.
Borghetti, who worked at Qantas for 36 years, is also adding
lounges, revamping inflight menus and fitting leather seats to
challenge his former employer’s about 90 percent share of
domestic business travel.  “Assuming your product and your schedule is suitable and
your pricing is competitive, your capacity to access that
revenue is very real,” Borghetti said.  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) , as the Brisbane-based company is
still officially called, closed unchanged at 28.5 Australian
cents at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading. It’s dropped 34
percent this year compared with an 18 percent decline for
Qantas.  Virgin Brand  The carrier will use the Virgin  Australia  brand on both
domestic and international routes, scrapping the V Australia
moniker now used for long-haul services and the Pacific Blue
brand used on New Zealand routes.  “It does make sense to have one brand name for the total
group,” said Borghetti. “It creates less confusion.”  Branson, who launched the new label in Sydney yesterday
with Borghetti, also backs carriers including Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. and Virgin America.  Virgin Australia is also seeking approval for a venture
with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  on U.S.-Australia routes after an
initial application was rejected by U.S. regulators.  The carrier is hopeful of a “positive response” in the
next couple of months, Borghetti said.  Since taking on the CEO role almost 12 months ago,
Borghetti has scaled back some of the company’s international
routes to instead grow its network through tie-ups, including
accords with Delta, Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways and  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  