-- 
Visa Posts Net Income Increase as Consumer Spending Rises

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-05T21:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/visa-posts-higher-quarterly-profit-as-consumer-spending-rises.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest bank-
card network, said fiscal second-quarter profit rose 24 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, on a pickup in  consumer spending .  Net income for the three months ended March 31 climbed to
$881 million, or $1.23 a share, from $713 million, or 96 cents,
in the same period a year earlier, the San Francisco-based
company said today in a statement. The average estimate of 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.21 a share.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders, 65, is buying
back shares as more people pay with plastic and U.S. consumer
spending rebounds. Household purchases, which account for about
70 percent of the economy, rose at a 2.7 percent pace in the
first quarter, the Commerce Department said last week.  The company posted “double-digit growth in payments
volume, cross-border volume and Visa-processed transactions from
across the globe,” Saunders said in the statement.  Visa fell $1.07 to $78.70 today on the  New York  Stock
Exchange and slid 1.5 percent at 5:08 p.m. in extended trading.
The shares have declined 8.9 percent in the past year, lagging a
15 percent gain for No. 2 network  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , based in
Purchase, New York.  12 Billion Transactions  Worldwide spending on Visa debit and credit cards climbed
13 percent to $861 billion, the company said. Cross-border
volume, a measure of spending by cardholders outside their home
countries, advanced 13 percent. Processed transactions rose 13
percent to 12 billion, compared with the same period a year
earlier.  Net revenue increased 15 percent to $2.25 billion, while
operating expenses rose 3 percent to $862 million.  Saunders is facing investor concern that U.S. caps on
debit-card “swipe” fees, or interchange, may lead to more
regulation and damage Visa’s business model. Visa and MasterCard
set the fees and pass the money to card-issuing banks.  The  Federal Reserve  has proposed capping the fees at 12
cents a transaction, replacing a formula that costs merchants an
average of 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents. The curbs may reduce annual revenue by $12 billion at
U.S. banks that issue Visa and MasterCard debit cards, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   The rule may be delayed or modified. Senator Jon Tester, a
Montana Democrat, has introduced a measure that would delay the
Fed’s rulemaking. Anticipation of such action is pushing Visa’s
shares higher, Tien-tsin Huang, a JPMorgan analyst, wrote in a
May 2 note to clients.  The company bought back about 8.7 million shares in the
quarter valued at $630 million and authorized a new $1 billion
repurchase program, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 