-- 
Yen Strengthens to Most Since March Central Bank Intervention; Euro Falls

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-05-05T11:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/yen-strengthens-to-most-since-march-central-bank-intervention-euro-falls.html
The yen strengthened to less than 80
per dollar for the first time since central banks intervened to
weaken the currency in March, as  oil prices  fell and stocks
declined, stoking demand for the safety of  Japan ’s currency.  The yen appreciated against all 16 of its most actively
traded peers. The euro erased gains versus the dollar and fell
versus the yen after German factory orders unexpectedly dropped
in March. The pound was little changed after the  Bank of England 
kept its main interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  “There’s been some risk adjustment,” said  Neil Jones ,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in London. “The trigger has been the move lower in commodity
prices.”  The yen appreciated as much as 1.3 percent to 79.57 per
dollar, before trading at 79.83 as of 12:30 p.m. in London. The
euro was little changed at $1.4828, after strengthening to
$1.49, within a cent of the most since December 2009. The single
currency weakened 1 percent to 118.40 yen. The pound traded at
89.89 per euro from 89.93 yesterday.  Oil declined for a fourth day in  New York , the longest
losing streak in eight weeks, as a drop in gasoline demand added
to signs of slowing growth in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude consumer. Oil for June delivery lost as much as 2.8
percent to $106.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  European stocks retreated with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
0.8 percent lower. U.S. equity futures also declined.  Noda Comments  “The strength in the yen has coincided with weakness
across a number of asset markets in recent sessions, suggesting
that Japanese retail investors may be closing out some of their
foreign currency positions in response to the recent volatility
in asset prices increasing downside growth risks,”  Stephen Gallo , London-based head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said that today’s
appreciation in the yen is different from the gain on March 18
that prompted the intervention.  “This is different from that day’s moves in that this is
in the context of recent declines in the dollar -- and Japan’s
market is closed,” said Noda, speaking to reporters in Hanoi.
He also said that Japan is closely watching the foreign-exchange
market.  “I won’t comment on a hypothetical situation,” Noda said
when asked whether Japan will intervene if yen gains continue.  German Factory Orders  The euro erased earlier gains after data showed factory
orders in  Europe ’s largest economy dropped led by a slump in
demand for investment goods at home and abroad.  Factory orders in  Germany , adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, slumped 4 percent from February, when they rose a
revised 1.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a
statement today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.4 percent,
according to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The common currency yesterday rose to a 17-month high on
speculation European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
will signal his intention to raise  interest rates  further after
a policy meeting today.  The Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low as signs the recovery is losing momentum kept a
majority of policy makers focused on stimulating growth during
the government’s fiscal squeeze.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held the key rate
at 0.5 percent, as forecast by all 43 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 