-- 
YPF Bond Yields Tumble to Record as Billionaire Eskenazi Increases Stake

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-05-05T15:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/ypf-bonds-yields-tumble-as-argentine-eskenazi-boosts-stake-1-.html
YPF SA (YPFD)  bond yields dropped to a record
low after  Argentina ’s billionaire Eskenazi family paid $1.3
billion to boost its stake in the company to about 25 percent,
increasing control over the country’s biggest oil producer.  Yields on YPF’s 2028 bonds dropped four basis points to
8.09 percent, the lowest level since the company sold bonds in
1998. That compares with a rise of 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, for an index of Argentine bonds compiled by JP
Morgan. YPF Chief Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi signed
the agreement to buy the stake from Repsol  YPF SA (YPF)  yesterday.  Eskenazi is seeking greater control over YPF as he seeks to
limit production declines and develop gas discoveries in
Argentine, where crude and natural gas prices are capped by the
government. The $1.3 billion price was set when the family’s
closely held  Petersen Group  bought about 15 percent of YPF in
2008, with the option to raise it to 25 percent by next April.  “The market probably perceives that a greater presence of
a local group could improve YPF’s position while negotiating
fuel prices,” Marcelo Olguin, chief economist at Grupo SBS,
said in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires .  The sale will reduce Repsol’s stake in YPF to 58.23 percent
as the oil producer seeks to reduce its exposure to mature  oil
fields  in Argentina and focus on crude production at its
developments located offshore  Brazil , site of the largest crude
discoveries in the Western Hemisphere in about three decades.  Petersen, Credit Suisse  Petersen tapped Credit Suisse Group AG, BNP Paribas,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Standard Bank Group
Limited, for a loan to fund 52 percent of the acquisition,
according to Eskenazi, with the remainder from its own funds.   Repsol, based in  Madrid , also approved the sale of an
additional 3 percent of YPF in an offering on the Buenos Aires
stock exchange, a YPF official who cannot be named under company
policy, said by telephone. The price and date of the offering
has not been determined, he said. Kristian Rix, a spokesman for
Repsol in the Spanish capital, declined to comment.  Buenos Aires-based YPF, the country’s largest private
employer, produces and processes about 50 percent of the South
American nation’s oil and controls about the same amount of the
domestic fuel market.  YPF’s American depositary receipts fell 16 cents, or 0.4
percent, to close at $41.09 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday. The stock earlier climbed 1.5 percent to
$41.88 when the stake purchase was announced.  Repsol Stake  Repsol also sold a 15.77 percent stake in YPF in the past
six months through private placements and share offerings. YPF
accounted for about 35 percent of Repsol’s revenue and more than
60 percent of its oil production until last year.  The company is increasingly focusing on its Brazilian unit,
where the company operates the offshore Guara and Carioca
fields, located near Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s Tupi field, one of the largest discoveries in the Western
Hemisphere since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. Last year, Repsol
sold a 40 percent stake in the Brazilian unit to China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. for $7.1 billion.  Repsol bought YPF in 1999 and crude output declined every
year since then except in 2003. In December, Eskenazi announced
a 100 percent annual reserve-replacement ratio for the first
time in 13 years.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.81 to $109.24 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. The contract
surged to $114.83 a barrel on May 2, the highest intraday price
since September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  