-- 
ThyssenKrupp Gains Most in 2 Years on Asset Sales, Spinoffs

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-06T16:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/thyssenkrupp-to-sell-spinoff-some-units-in-plan-to-focus-on-engineering.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, surged the most in two years in  Frankfurt  trading on
plans to sell or spin off units making up about a quarter of its
sales and valued at an estimated 6 billion euros ($8.7 billion).  A proposal to split off stainless-steel operations to focus
on engineering and cut debt also spurred gains in European peers
including Aperam,  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  and  Acerinox SA. (ACX)  ThyssenKrupp
rose 8 percent, the biggest jump since May 04, 2009.  “The spinoff of ThyssenKrupp’s stainless unit not only
affirms the structural challenges in this industry but hopefully
accelerates the needed consolidation of the European stainless
industry,”  Jeffrey Largey , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote today in a note.  Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger is restructuring
ThyssenKrupp, less than four months after taking on the job, to
cut dependence on steel as iron-ore and coking-coal prices rise.
The producer was saddled with debt after building steel plants
in Brazil and  Alabama  to reach U.S. clients and source iron ore
nearer to the largest producer, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA.  ThyssenKrupp will study “all options” for the stainless
operations and sell units including a U.S. iron-casting division
and a Brazilian car-parts producer, the Essen, Germany-based
company said yesterday in a statement. The overhaul includes the
sale or spinoff of units with 10 billion euros in revenue, and
businesses affected employ about 35,000 people, it said.  Most Comprehensive  The plan is “the most comprehensive scenario that the
company could reasonably take to reshape its portfolio,” Ingo-
Martin Schachel, a Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG analyst, wrote
in a research report today. The assets under review may have an
enterprise value exceeding 6 billion euros if the plans go
ahead, with 3 billion euros for stainless and 2 billion euros
for car parts, he said. Enterprise value is the sum of its
equity and debt minus cash and cash equivalents.  ThyssenKrupp advanced to close at 32.22 euros, reversing a
decline for the stock this year to a 4 percent gain. Aperam
increased 2.9 percent, Outokumpu added 4.7 percent and Acerinox
climbed 1.2 percent.  The yield on ThyssenKrupp’s 8 percent notes due June 2014
fell 4 basis points to 3.62 percent, the lowest since November,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Stainless Slump  The cost of insuring the company’s debt against default
dropped 10 basis points to 176, the lowest in four months,
according to prices from data provider CMA. A basis point on a
credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  European stainless-steel producers have struggled to cope
with higher raw-material costs as prices of the metal decline.
Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker,
spun off its stainless unit, Aperam, in January. ArcelorMittal
CEO Lakshmi Mittal said in July “many, many years” of talks
between producers had failed to lead to consolidation.  Prices for stainless steel in  Europe  have slid 13 percent
in the past year, according to data compiled by Metal Bulletin.
Nickel, a raw material used in stainless steel, has risen 12
percent on the London Metal Exchange in the same period.  ThyssenKrupp’s net financial debt rose 54 percent to 5.81
billion euros by  Dec. 31  from the end of the previous quarter,
partly because of an increase in working capital for plants in
Brazil and the U.S.  ‘Additional Flexibility’  The steelmaker is seeking through its proposals to
“provide additional flexibility for the expansion into
strategically promising business activities,” it said
yesterday.  “If you have a war chest and opportunities, that’s good,
but it is important to work on the planned strategy of getting
the company’s finances in order,” said Ralf Doerper, a WestLB
AG analyst who recommends investors add the stock.  Hiesinger, the former head of Siemens AG’s industrial unit,
joined ThyssenKrupp in October as previous CEO Ekkehard Schulz’s
deputy before succeeding him in January.  “The new management was clearly going to put its stamp on
the company’s strategy,” Doerper said. “It is positive that
they’ve been so decisive in saying what they plan to sell in the
automotive area, and there had been speculation about the
stainless business. It probably won’t be done too quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net .
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 