-- 
Zimbabwean Prime Minister Tsvangirai Says Election Won’t Be Held This Year

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-05T16:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/zimbabwean-prime-minister-tsvangirai-says-election-won-t-be-held-this-year.html
Zimbabwean elections, which will
probably be held within the next year, must produce a single
government rather than a coalition, Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  said.  “The next election must produce a legitimate government,
so that we don’t have the losers trying to negotiate their way
back into power through some form of arrangement or through a
coalition, like a government of national unity,” Tsvangirai
told reporters in Cape Town today, where he is attending the
World Economic Forum on  Africa .  Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change and President
 Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
have shared power since February 2009. A year earlier, the MDC
won in a parliamentary election, while failing to gain an
outright win in a presidential ballot. Tsvangirai pulled out of
a runoff vote, citing violence against MDC supporters. The
election wasn’t recognized by parliamentarians from the  Southern
African Development Community  and other observers.  “The outcome must be legitimate, credible and must be
conducted with the satisfaction of both sides, the African
Union, SADC and the international community,” Tsvangirai said.  Mugabe has been pushing to hold elections this year, though
SADC has said the two parties must agree on constitutional
changes and election rules before it can hold polls.  “We want to thank SADC on insisting on the roadmap,”
Tsvangirai said. South African President  Jacob Zuma  is SADC’s
mediator in talks between the two parties in Zimbabwe.  Zimbabwe’s economy can probably expand 9 percent this year
as it rebounds from years of recession, Tsvangirai said. He
called on sanctions imposed by the European Union and U.S.
against top Zanu-PF officials to be removed. A plan by the
government to force companies to sell stakes to locals doesn’t
mean “nationalization and expropriation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  Cape Town  via at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 