-- 
Zurich Financial First-Quarter Profit Drops 32% After Catastrophe Claims

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-05-05T07:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-05/zurich-financial-first-quarter-profit-drops-32-after-catastrophe-claims.html
Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, said first-quarter profit
declined 32 percent after claims from floods in  Australia  and
the earthquake in  Japan .  Net income fell to $637 million from $935 million a year
earlier, the Zurich-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. That missed the $727.6 million average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Zurich recorded total claims of $517 million from the five
natural disasters that hit the Asia-Pacific region in the first
quarter, including the Brisbane floods, the Victoria storms and
cyclone Yasi in Australia, the Christchurch earthquake in  New
Zealand  and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. The insurer
said it will renew its German distribution agreement with
Deutsche Bank AG for another 10 years.  “It was a weak quarterly operational performance, but the
223 percent Swiss solvency ratio and renewal of the bank
agreement with Deutsche Bank are real good news,” said  Fabrizio Croce , a Zurich-based analyst with Kepler Capital Markets.  Shares of Zurich fell 2.6 percent to 237.3 francs as of
9:03 a.m. in Zurich trading, paring this year’s gain to 4.7
percent.  The insurer said it meets the requirements for the new
Swiss solvency rules that were introduced in January, and filed
a solvency ratio of 223 percent to the country’s financial
regulator at the end of last year.  Zurich plans to extend a distribution agreement with
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank until the end of December 2022.
That accounted for about half the insurer’s new business volume
in  Germany  last year, said spokesman Angel Serna.  Catastrophe Claims  The agreement underscores “our determination to deliver on
our strategy,” Chief Financial Officer Dieter Wemmer said on a
conference call from Zurich.  Financial Times Deutschland reported last year that
Deutsche Bank was preparing for the end of the relationship with
Zurich and was seeking several partners to sell insurance
products.  Aon Benfield, an arm of the world’s largest insurance
broker, expects total losses for insurers and reinsurers to top
$52.6 billion in the first quarter, compared with $40.6 billion
for the whole of 2010.  “Results were impacted by the significant catastrophe
events in the Asia-Pacific region during the first three months
of the year,” Zurich said in the statement. “The slow economic
recovery in the U.S. and much of  Europe  also impacted results.”  Combined Ratio  The insurer’s combined ratio, or spending on claims and
costs as a percentage of premiums, worsened to 103.6 percent
from 99 percent a year earlier.  Zurich wants to improve the ratio, a key measure of
profitability in general insurance, by 3 percentage points to 4
percentage points in comparison to its peers. The insurer also
plans to cut costs by $500 million over the next three years
with more than two-thirds of the savings coming from its non-
life business.  Zurich’s business operating profit from general insurance
declined 56 percent to $276 million in the first quarter.  Zurich expects premium income at its Farmers Exchanges
business, which declined 3 percent in the first quarter, to turn
around in the current quarter, Wemmer said.  The company targets a return on equity of 16 percent over
the medium term and plans the release $1.5 billion of capital
from non-core businesses by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  