-- Abe’s Victory Seen Eroding Demand for Biggest Debt
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-12-17T04:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/abe-s-victory-seen-eroding-demand-for-biggest-debt.html
Shinzo Abe’s victory in Japanese
elections gives him a mandate to implement the fiscal and
monetary stimulus plans that have already fueled a slump in 20-
year  government bonds  and the yen.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold 20-year debt
instead of 10-year securities climbed to 99 basis points on Dec.
5, the highest since 1999. That compares with a spread of 68
basis points for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The yen sank
to a 20-month low today and has fallen more than 5 percent
against the dollar since Nov. 15, when Abe called for
“unlimited” monetary easing by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to end
deflation and an increase in public-works spending, fueling
concern the world’s largest debt may expand.  Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party  yesterday won 294 seats in
the 480-member lower house of parliament, while Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s Democratic Party of  Japan  lost three-fourths of
its lawmakers, according to public broadcaster NHK’s vote count.
The LDP returned to power after three years, following a pledge
to achieve nominal economic growth of 3 percent and set an
inflation target with the central bank of 2 percent.  “Japan’s economy is likely to turn to faster growth next
year from the pessimistic atmosphere that we’re in now,” said
Kazuhiko Ogata, Tokyo-based chief economist for Japan at  Credit
Agricole  SA. “The  bond market  will price in that outlook,”
steepening the yield curve, he said.  LDP partner New Komeito won 31 seats, giving the coalition
a two-thirds majority that would enable it to override most
decisions by the upper house, where the DPJ is the largest
party.  Bond Auction  Investor demand for Japan’s longer-term bonds will face a
test tomorrow as the Ministry of Finance sells 1.2 trillion yen
($14 billion) in 20-year bonds. The securities drew bids valued
at 3.67 times the amount on offer at the auction last month,
exceeding the average of 3.28 for the previous 10 sales.  The gap between the 20-year and 10-year yields has widened
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, since Nov. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Abe’s LDP is proposing a “large scale” supplementary
budget to stimulate the economy, according to  election pledges 
posted on its website. He said on Dec. 9 that economic
conditions next year will determine whether Japan will go ahead
with the sales-tax increase that Noda pushed through. The 5
percent tax was due to double in 2015.  Standard & Poor’s  may revise the outlook on Japan’s AA-
rating to stable from negative if the new administration carries
out fiscal reforms, while it might consider a downgrade if the
nation’s debt trajectory is unchanged, the rating company said
in an e-mail today. Fitch Ratings Ltd., which has a negative
outlook on its A+ rating on Japan, said today Abe’s victory has
no immediate ratings implications.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Asahi Glass  Co.,  Tokyo 
Tatemono Co. and Citizen Holdings Co. sold bonds on Dec. 14,
according to brokerages.  Tokyo-based Asahi Glass offered 20 billion yen of five-
year, 0.31 percent notes, while Tokyo Tatemono, a real-estate
developer, issued 10 billion yen of four-year, 0.81 percent
debt, according to separate statements from Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
Citizen, a Tokyo-based watch maker, sold 10 billion yen of five-
year, 0.42 percent bonds, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Japan’s corporate notes have handed investors a 1.4 percent
return this year, compared with the 2.1 percent gain for the
nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Company bonds worldwide have returned 10.5 percent,
the data show.  Finance Minister  Abe told NHK a special parliamentary session to vote him
into office may be held Dec. 25 or 26. He may name former Prime
Minister Taro Aso as finance minister when he picks his Cabinet
as early as Dec. 26,  Kyodo News  reported, without saying where
it got the information.  Japan’s national debt has climbed to 237 percent of its
annual economic output, the most in the world and compared with
171 percent for  Greece , according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. S&P rates Greece’s debt “selective default.”  Abe’s calls for a 2 percent inflation target and more BOJ
stimulus have accelerated losses in the yen, which slid to 84.48
per dollar today, the weakest since April 2011. Japan’s central
bank expanded its fund to buy assets such as government bonds
and corporate debt by 11 trillion yen to 66 trillion yen in
October. Its board will meet Dec. 19-20.  The election “may have some effect on the BOJ policy board
meeting,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign exchange
department in Tokyo at Credit Agricole. “The market may try to
weaken the yen beyond the psychological level of 85” per
dollar, he said.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Japan’s sovereign debt have so far
shown few signs of concern the bond market will worsen.  The cost to insure Japan’s debt for five years rose 1.5
basis points to 76 as of 12:19 p.m. in Tokyo, according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. That compared with 143 basis points at
the end of last year, according to CMA, a data provider owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has climbed about 14 percent
since the middle of last month to 9,869.77 today.  “There are strong market expectations of more fiscal
spending, and that will probably cause stocks to rise and the
yen to weaken toward the year-end,”  Takafumi Yamawaki , Tokyo-
based chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
yesterday. The yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond may
rise toward 0.8 percent, he said.  The 10-year rate ended last week at 0.725 percent and
touched a nine-year low of 0.685 percent on Dec. 6.  Nikkei Forecast  The Nikkei should reach 10,000 in March, Ichiro Takamatsu,
 fund manager  at Bayview Asset Management Co., which oversees
about 150 billion yen, said yesterday. Shares may be sold if the
BOJ doesn’t ease monetary policy this week, he said.  Some investors expressed concern that yields on Japanese
bonds maturing in more than 10 years will rise if the extra
budget for the fiscal year ending March 2013 expands
significantly, according to Ministry of Finance officials at a
briefing on Dec. 14. They spoke after meeting with primary
dealers obliged to bid at government bond auctions.  Additional government outlays “would show the new
administration’s willingness to delay fiscal consolidation,
which of course can be a reason for a rating company to consider
cutting Japan’s grade,”  Mana Nakazora , chief credit analyst in
Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA, said at a media briefing on Dec. 13.
“We should take into account a possible sovereign downgrade,
and such moves will increase funding costs” for Japan, she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  