-- Ajman Bank Advances on Stake Purchase Speculation: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-16T10:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/ajman-bank-advances-on-stake-purchase-speculation-dubai-mover.html
Ajman Bank PJSC (AJMANBAN)  jumped to the
highest level in more than three years on bets an institutional
investor may purchase a stake in the United Arab Emirates-based
Islamic bank.  The shares soared 6.2 percent to 1.20 dirhams at the close
in Dubai, the highest since October 2009, and bringing a rally
so far this quarter to 47 percent. The stock was the second-most
traded and the biggest gainer on Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) ,
which slipped 0.5 percent. The company said Nov. 11 it does not
wish to enter any strategic partnership.  “Some investors are not buying the denial that a strategic
partner is interested in the bank as the volume on the stock is
unusual,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al
Fajer Securities. “The financial performance of the bank during
this year was strong”  Trading volumes on Ajman Bank soared this quarter, rising
above 30 million shares in November, compared with a 12-month
daily average of 1.6 million shares. About 23 million shares
were traded today. The bank is  25 percent owned  by Ajman, one of
seven emirates, including Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , that make up the
U.A.E., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Calls made to
the offices of Ajman Bank’s acting Chief Executive Officer
Mohammed Amiri and Chief Operating Officer Ashraf Shokry weren’t
answered.  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  surged 85 percent in the first quarter
before Abu Dhabi government-controlled Aabar Investments PJSC
raised its stake in the Dubai-based builder to 21.6 percent.  Shares of Ajman Bank, which comprises 1.9 percent of the
DFM General Index, have gained 50 percent in 2012, compared with
16 percent for the gauge. The lender’s  third-quarter profit  more
than quadrupled to 13.5 million dirhams ($3.68 million).  The company has a market capitalization of 1.2 billion
dirhams compared with 800 million dirhams at the end of last
year. Ajman Bank’s 14-day relative strength index surged to 72
today. A reading above 70 indicates to some analysts that a
security is poised to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  