-- Mandela’s ANC Gripped by Power Struggles at Party Meeting
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-12-17T15:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/mandela-s-anc-gripped-by-power-struggles-at-party-meeting.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is meeting this week to choose its leaders and
set policy amid criticism by its own members that the party is
riven by corruption and power struggles.  Once inspired by the vision of former president  Nelson Mandela  to build a non-racial democracy after white-minority
rule, the ANC is increasingly paralyzed by the battle for the
spoils of office, according to branch members such as Noncedo
Cwecwe.  “Long ago there was no money in the ANC, but now there is,
so people are fighting about that,” Cwecwe, 46, said in an
interview in the Eastern Cape province town of Alice. “You can
make money out of any position.”  President  Jacob Zuma , 70, is set to retain leadership of
the party at the national conference that ends on Dec. 20,
positioning him to remain South  Africa ’s leader until 2019.
Criticized for failing to tackle corruption, cut a 26 percent
 unemployment  rate and improve education, the ANC faces the
prospect of losing the support of workers and the poor who
propelled its rise to power in Africa’s biggest economy.  A wave of labor strikes this year hit the agricultural and
transportation industries and shut shafts owned by  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-largest producer of the metal, and platinum
miners Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)  That slowed
economic growth and prompted two credit-ratings downgrades.  Debt Costs  The cost of protecting South African government debt
against non-payment using credit default swaps over five years
has jumped 17 basis points since the start of the mining strikes
on Aug. 10, signaling a deterioration in risk perception. The
rand has dropped 6.7 percent against the dollar during the same
period, the worst performer of the 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The only challenger to Zuma, who won about 70 percent of
the vote during the party’s non-binding nomination process, is
his deputy Kgalema Motlanthe, who’s criticized the way the party
is run.  “We should stop the culture of corruption that is creeping
in within our ranks, corroding our value system and undermining
the memory of thousands of leaders,” Motlanthe said in a Dec.
12 speech.  Deputy President  Motlanthe today declined the nomination to run as deputy
president, paving the way for  Cyril Ramaphosa , one of the
nation’s richest black businessmen, to be appointed to the post.
Human Settlements Minister  Tokyo Sexwale  and ANC Treasurer
Mathews Phosa are also contesting the position.  Allegations of graft have undercut the ANC’s credibility.
 Julius Malema , the former head of the party’s youth wing, was
charged in September with  money laundering , claims that he
denies. Zuma has been accused by opposition political parties of
using more than 200 million rand ($23 million) in state funds to
refurbish his private home in KwaZulu-Natal. The president told
lawmakers last month his family paid for the upgrades on his
home and the government covered the costs of security measures
he hadn’t ordered.  A turning point for many party supporters came on Aug. 16,
when police shot dead 34 miners during a strike at Lonmin’s
Marikana mine.  Marikana Shootings  “There were policemen there in full uniform killing
innocent people; this administration has to be blamed,” Mlamli
Ndabeni, another ANC member in the Eastern Cape, where many of
the victims came from, said in an interview. “It’s very likely
that people will turn away from the ANC and this will give
opposition parties the opportunity to come closer or even take
over.”  Widespread resentment about poor  living conditions  means
the ANC must take action to increase mining taxes and use
greater state intervention in the economy, Enoch Godongwana, the
head of the party’s economic policy committee, said in a Dec. 4
interview.  “Unless we do some radical transformation, we’ll create
fertile ground for an uncontrollable revolution,” he said.  While incomes for black households increased an average 169
percent over the past 10 years, their annual earnings remain at
a sixth of that for whites, according to a census published on
Oct. 30.  The contest for positions in the ANC has often become
violent, with several provincial ANC officials being killed in
the past year. Obuti Chika, the ANC’s regional secretary in
North West province, was shot dead on Dec. 14, according to
police spokesman Thulani Ngubane.  ‘Gang Warfare’  “The state is being used as a point of enrichment, and
because of that there are a series of fights,” Adam Habib, a
deputy vice-chancellor at the University of Johannesburg, said
in an interview. “It’s like gang warfare. People’s lives are
dependent on it.”  Zuma told ANC members at the start of the conference
yesterday to reject factionalism and vote-buying.  “All these tendencies have been creeping into the movement
gradually, and need to be dealt with,” he said.  Internal party disputes are increasingly leading to court
cases. The ANC’s National Executive Committee on Dec. 15
dissolved the party leadership in Bloemfontein’s Free State
province after the  Constitutional Court  ruled it was unlawfully
elected in June. Some ANC members in the North West province
last week sought a court interdict to block the region’s
delegates from attending the conference because they weren’t
elected as representatives by the party branches.  “Poverty, unemployment, pervasive corruption, and failures
in our education system and the rule of law remain serious
challenges for our young democracy,” 33 business leaders,
including  Anglo American Platinum (AMS)  Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith, said in a Dec. 9 advertisement in the Johannesburg-
based Sunday Times newspaper  “Left unchecked, our country is
in danger of unraveling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  