-- Mario Monti’s Resignation May Slow Year of Euro Agreement
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-12-17T08:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/mario-monti-s-resignation-may-slow-year-of-euro-agreement.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
looming resignation may threaten progress in fighting the three-
year debt crisis even as European leaders wrap up the year with
newly won breathing room.  Monti, under pressure from euro-area and business leaders
to enter the Italian election campaign, plans to quit once
parliament passes his budget this week following former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s withdrawal of support on Dec. 6.
The Italian upper house may vote as early as today on the
budget, which then passes to the lower house.  The European Union summit last week closed out a year in
which policy makers bolstered the 17-nation single currency by
setting up fiscal rules for indebted states, a permanent bailout
fund, a central-bank bond-buying program and a road map for
tighter banking and fiscal union. Work was overshadowed this
month when Berlusconi pulled his support and pledged to return
to power for the fourth time, only to backtrack as long as Monti
forms what he called a “coalition of moderates.”  “None of the likely outcomes will derail last year’s
reform process,”  Erik Nielsen , London-based chief global
economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday, referring to the Italian election, which will
probably be held in February. “That said, it requires close
monitoring.”  Euro Climbs  The euro last week climbed to the highest level against the
 U.S. dollar  since May and Spanish  bonds advanced  for a third
week in four on optimism that the turmoil is being contained. EU
policy makers last week made progress in creating a central bank
supervisory body and signed off on the next aid tranche for
 Greece , where the crisis began in October 2009.  EU leaders will be challenged in 2013 as they try to
overcome Franco-German differences on how to forge closer fiscal
ties and as an economic downturn complicates efforts to scale
back debt while buoying employment.  “We still have a stretch ahead and we’re beginning to
sense in  Germany  that we can’t ignore economic growth and
employment in other countries,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said Dec. 15 in a  weekly podcast . “I’m going into the new year
optimistically, but also prudently, because we’re seeing here
that economic growth is slowing a bit.”  Yields Slide  Italy  was on the front line of the crisis this year, when
yields on its on 10-year bonds exceeded 7 percent in January and
climbed again through the summer before sliding to less than 4.5
percent this month under Monti’s premiership. European leaders,
some Italian politicians and even Berlusconi have exhorted the
prime minister to surrender his independence and declare his
candidacy in elections.  Monti won’t be an official candidate in the next election,
though he may endorse a party list,  Corriere della Sera  reported
today, citing a meeting between Monti and Italian President
Giorgio Napolitano late yesterday. The premier may allow a group
to use his name in the election campaign and will outline his
intentions in a speech, the newspaper said.  Monti’s 13-month government wins regular praise from the
likes of Merkel and  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , though the German-backed tax increases and spending
cuts that have helped lower Italy’s borrowing costs have soured
many voters to the idea of a second term.  “While Monti has received a glowing endorsement from the
international community, he’s struggling to convince people on
main street,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at
Glendevon King Asset Management in  London , said in an interview.  Monti Coalition  Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo will hold
a convention with the Union of Centrists and the Freedom and
Liberty for Italy parties on Dec. 20 to form a pro-Monti
coalition to try to entice the premier to join the race.  Polls show Monti, 69 as the country’s most popular
politician. And while having a ready-made party would make it
easier for the premier, he would still need to win over voters
weary from a fourth recession since 2001 and a jobless rate at a
13-year high.  Support for the three-party pro-Monti alliance trails the
pro-union  Democratic Party  under Pier Luigi Bersani, according
to a Dec. 12 SWG Institute poll. Monti’s alliance would jump to
15 percent from 9.3 percent were he to run, still half of the
Democratic Party’s 31.1 percent. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
had 16.5 percent, SWG showed.  Last week Berlusconi stepped back from his pledge to run
again and called on Monti to lead a “coalition of moderates”
into the campaign that would include Berlusconi’s PDL and his
former coalition ally, the  Northern League . Roberto Maroni,
leader of the League, rejected the overture, saying he could
never ally with “the world champion of tax increases.”  Once Monti resigns, Napolitano will dissolve parliament and
must schedule elections within 45 to 70 days. Interior Minister
Anna Maria Cancellieri last week said Feb. 17 would be the
probable election day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  