-- Aussie Apes Franc With 16-Year Low Volatility: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-12-16T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/aussie-apes-franc-with-16-year-low-volatility-australia-credit.html
Buying of Australian dollar debt by
central banks helped cut expectations for swings by the most
among developed currencies this year, cementing a role that led
Morgan Stanley to dub it the South Pacific Swiss franc.  Implied one-month volatility on the so-called Aussie, a
measure used to price options, fell to a 16-year low of 5.63
percent last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It has
plunged 8.6 percentage points this year, almost twice the 4.8
point slide in the JPMorgan Group of Seven Volatility Index.  “My base case is that the Aussie dollar stays relatively
resilient,” said  Gerard Minack , Sydney-based global strategist
at Morgan Stanley, who likened the currency to the franc in an
August report. “Australia continues to offer very high yields.
It remains among a very select group of super AAA countries,”
he said, referring to the seven nations with top rankings and
stable outlooks from the three main ratings companies.  Australian government 10-year bonds are gaining for a
third-straight year as the highest-yielding AAA rated notes lure
investors from the Bundesbank to Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund. Central banks and 
sovereign wealth funds quadrupled holdings of Australian 
government debt in the four years through 2011 to 29 percent of 
the market, the highest proportion for any developed currency, 
International Monetary Fund data show.  Stable Investments  The stability of such investments prompted International
Monetary Fund researchers to conclude  Australia ’s government
bond market sits beside Switzerland as one of the world’s
havens, with the two having the smallest chances of sudden
investor outflows among 24 advanced countries.  Germany, Kazakhstan and  Brazil  are among 15 nations that
hold the Australian currency, according to a Reserve Bank of
Australia spreadsheet created in July and other papers released
in September under a Freedom of Information Act request by
Bloomberg News. The central banks of  Thailand  and the
 Philippines  have since said they hold Australian dollars in
their reserves.  Higher Yields  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield closed at 3.38
percent on Dec. 14, offering 191 basis points more than the
average for top-rated peers. The Australian rate has declined by
227 basis points since the end of 2009.  The cost to insure Australian notes through credit-default
swaps has dropped 43 basis points this year to 40 basis points
on Dec. 13, according to data from CMA.  Indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies show the South Pacific nation’s
sovereign securities due in a year or longer returned 5.5
percent this year, followed by a 3.6 percent advance for Danish
bonds, the highest gains among six countries in the measure that
belong to the AAA club. The gauges don’t track Singaporean debt.  Implied one-month volatility in the Aussie was at 6.02
percent on Dec. 14, within 40 basis points of the level reached
Dec. 13 that was the least since Dec. 2, 1996.  Less Swings  Lower expectations for price swings in the Australian
dollar suggest it may be shielded from declines even as the
Reserve Bank cut rates this month to a half-century low of 3
percent, completing the most aggressive reductions in the
developed world this year.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 84 percent chance officials will lower the cash rate to a
record 2.75 percent by June to bolster growth as the peak in
mining investment approaches.  Reports in the past month showed third-quarter gains in
 gross domestic product  were the smallest this year, while
 consumer confidence  slumped the most in nine months.  Australia’s expansion will slow to 3 percent in 2013 from
3.7 percent this year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said in a survey last week. The RBA may need to
cut its benchmark interest rate further as the local dollar’s
resilience impedes economic growth, according to the OECD.  The South Pacific currency climbed 3.3 percent this year to
$1.0543 as of 5 p.m. on Dec. 14 and closed above parity with the
U.S. dollar on all but 23 days in 2012. It touched a record
$1.1081 in July 2011.  Haven Bids  Foreign central banks and official funds quadrupled their
holdings of debt issued by Australian governments to A$140
billion at the start of this year, from A$35 billion at the end
of 2007, according to a  report  written by Serkan Arslanalp and
Takahiro Tsuda and published this month by the IMF.  The fund said last month the relatively high number of
central banks buying the Aussie indicates it should be added to
a category that includes the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen.  “The IMF’s effective stamp of approval suggests that
reserves demand for the Australian dollar will remain firm as
central banks look to diversify away from the U.S. dollar and
euro,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong based head of currency strategy
at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in an e-mail on Dec. 11.  Credit Agricole, the top Aussie forecaster in the six
quarters through Sept. 30 according to Bloomberg Rankings, sees
the currency at $1.04 at end-2013. It will probably finish next
year at $1.03, according to the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The euro will slide from $1.3095
last week to $1.27 by Dec. 31, 2013, while the Dollar Index will
be little changed at 79.7, separate polls show.  Buoyant Aussie  “The Aussie has been remarkably buoyant and has yet to
approach $0.90 as some people were forecasting,” said Erik Wytenus, Hong Kong-based head of foreign exchange and
commodities at J.P. Morgan Private Bank in Asia. “It’s the only
AAA left with attractive yields and once clients buy the
currency, there are plenty of investment options.”  Apart from sovereign debt, currency buyers may also find
company bonds and state government securities attractive. The
average yield for corporate notes in the local currency fell 174
basis points, or 1.74 percentage points, this year to 4.41
percent on Dec. 13 and touched a record-low 4.31 percent last
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Securities issued by Australia’s six states and two
territories had an average yield of 3.66 percent, down from 4.47
percent on Dec. 31, compared with U.S. municipal debt’s 3.20
percent and a rate of 2.56 percent for notes by  Canada ’s
provincial governments.  Rate Cuts  Even after 1.75 percentage points in rate cuts over the
past 14 months, Australia’s benchmark borrowing cost is still
the highest among advanced economies and compares with a record-
low 0.75 percent in the euro area and near-zero rates in the
U.S. and  Japan .  Federal Reserve officials said last week interest rates in
the world’s biggest economy will stay low “at least as long”
as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent in one or
two years in the future. The U.S. central bank also expanded its
asset purchases, which tend to debase the currency.  Should the U.S. currency environment remain weak, the
greenback may exert an “overpowering influence” on any
movement against its Australian counterpart, according to Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of currency strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd. The bank is among the top five
Aussie dollar forecasters in the six periods through the third
quarter and sees it dropping to 99 U.S. cents by the end of next
year.  “The skew of risks around our forecasts is very much to
the upside,” Attrill said. “It’s not inconceivable that we go
back to the highs of 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  