-- Australian Tax Changes Vital for Government Finances, Swan Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-16T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/australian-tax-changes-vital-for-government-finances-swan-says.html
Australia ’s tax system needs more
reform to ensure sustainable public finances and create
incentives for businesses to invest, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  At least 40 measures have been implemented by the Labor
government since coming to office, Swan wrote in his weekly note
yesterday, ahead of an address to the Council on Federal
Financial Relations today.  Tax reform  is the responsibility of
federal and state governments, he said.  “Many of the changes have been hard fought, but they have
all been absolutely essential to ensure government finances are
sustainable in the long term,” Swan said, citing measures like
cutting back tax breaks for those on high incomes. “A large
proportion of the savings have been delivered through reforms to
the tax and transfer system.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid for a A$44 billion ($46
billion) swing back to a  budget surplus  in time for an election
due next year has been jeopardized by a weaker international
growth outlook, lower prices for commodity exporters and the
high currency.  Gillard’s policy paper on Australia’s future role in  Asia ,
published in October, highlighted tax reform as one way to
ensure workers and businesses benefit from opportunities in the
region, Swan said.  Swan said he’s inviting submissions ahead of next year’s
budget and asking that spending proposals be accompanied by
ideas for equivalent savings to maintain Australia’s “strong”
fiscal position.  Government Debt  Australia’s currency, the so-called Aussie, has averaged
about $1.03 in the past two years, compared with about 73 U.S.
cents in the prior decade, as offshore investors sought the
relative security of Australian government debt, the highest-
yielding debt among the seven nations with stable AAA grades
from all three major ratings companies.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the nation’s central bank,
has cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 1.75 percentage points to
3 percent in the past 14 months in an attempt to revive
industries outside mining, where investment is expected to peak
next year. That’s the level reached between April-October 2009,
the lowest since 1960.  Traders are pricing in a 53 percent chance policy makers
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to a
record-low 2.75 percent at their meeting in February, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg showed Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  