-- Barcelona Goes Nine Points Clear in Spain; Juventus Extends Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-16T23:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/barcelona-goes-nine-points-clear-in-spain-juventus-extends-lead.html
Barcelona beat  Atletico Madrid  4-1
in a matchup of the top two in Spanish soccer’s La Liga as Real
Madrid dropped 13 points off the lead after a 2-2 draw. Juventus
defeated Atalanta 3-0 to go seven points clear in Italy.  Lionel Messi  scored twice in the second half at the Camp
Nou last night to extend his calendar-year record tally of elite
goals to 90. Adriano and  Sergio Busquets  also scored for Barca
after Radamel Falcao put Atletico ahead in the 31st minute.  Barcelona’s 15th victory in 16 league games this season
lifted it nine points clear of Atletico atop the standings with
46 points. Defending champion Real has 33 points after Juan
Albin’s 88th-minute goal earned second-last Espanyol a 2-2 draw
at the Bernabeu stadium.  Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said after the match that it’s now
“practically impossible” for his team, which has already lost
more league games than it did over the whole of last season, to
retain its title.  Mirko Vucinic,  Andrea Pirlo  and Claudio Marchisio scored in
Juventus’s win against Atalanta as the defending champion moved
to 41 points after 17 Serie A matches.  Napoli lost 3-2 at home against Bologna last night, missing
the chance to move above  Inter Milan  into second place. Inter
lost 1-0 at fourth-place Lazio two days ago.  Also yesterday, Fiorentina won 4-1 against last-place
Siena, Luca Toni scoring twice, and AC Milan beat Pescara by the
same score. Roma lost 1-0 at Chievo.  PSG Top  Paris Saint-Germain beat Lyon 1-0 on Blaise Matuidi’s
header in first-half stoppage time last night to go top of
France’s Ligue 1 on goal difference ahead of its opponent and
Marseille, which won 1-0 at Toulouse two days ago.  All three clubs have accumulated 35 points from 18 games.  Bayern Munich  heads into the Bundesliga’s winter break with
a nine-point lead after it was held to a 1-1 home draw by
Borussia Moenchengladbach on Dec. 14, and second-place  Bayer
Leverkusen  beat Hamburg 3-0 two days ago.  Borussia Dortmund  and Eintracht Frankfurt are a further
three points back. Dortmund beat Hoffenheim 3-1 yesterday, while
Frankfurt defeated Wolfsburg 2-0 two days ago.  Seventh-place Schalke fired coach Huub Stevens yesterday
after a 3-1 defeat to Freiburg the previous day. Jens Keller
will take charge for the remainder of the season. The team had
two points from its last six games.  PSV Eindhoven  and  FC Twente  are tied on points atop Dutch
soccer’s Eredivisie after the weekend’s matches, with Ajax one
point back following a 4-2 victory at Willem II.  PSV tied 1-1 at  NEC Nijmegen  two days ago, while Twente
beat Heracles 3-2 on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  