-- Billionaire Ruias Stall Refinery Plan for Debt: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-12-17T05:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/billionaire-ruias-stall-refinery-plan-for-debt-corporate-india.html
Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the Indian refiner
controlled by the billionaire Ruia brothers, will freeze
expansion plans in a bid to cut costs and debt.  The company wants to reduce liabilities to twice its net
worth, a measure of financial leverage, from eight times, in the
next two years, Chief Executive Officer Lalit Kumar Gupta said
in an interview. Essar Oil has  total debt  of 165 billion rupees
($3 billion) and a net worth of about 20 billion rupees, he
said. The Mumbai-based refiner also has to pay about 61.7
billion rupees of  sales tax  in three years after losing a case
against the Gujarat state government to defer the levies.  “There was a plan to expand our refinery further but we
are now completely focused to first generate money from our
refinery and correct our leveraging,” Gupta, 52 said in New
Delhi. “Two good years and we should be able to correct our
leverage. Only once that happens, we have to at some point of
time consider our plans further.”  Essar Oil, founded by Shashi, 68, and  Ravi Ruia , is seeking
to build on its first profit in five quarters after an expansion
enabled it to process a wider variety of crude helping double
refining margin. Turning cheaper oil from countries such as
 Colombia  into fuels will help it generate more than $800 million
of net cash annually, which will be used to cut debt. The
 company  may also raise $1.5 billion in dollar obligations to
refinance more expensive rupee loans.  Essar plans to raise its annual refining capacity to 36
million tons, Essar Global Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said in June last year, without providing a timeline, after
doubling it to 20 million metric tons this year.  ‘Silver Lining’  “They have to reduce their debt and leverage, or else
banks will not let them expand,” Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai,
said Dec. 14. “Demand for fuels in  India  is a silver lining for
Essar as they can sell oil products here. Improving their
finances is the only way they will be able to build up
confidence among investors.”  The Essar group, which started operations in 1969 by
building a barrier to reduce wave intensity in Chennai port, is
revamping $4.8 billion of debt held by its units including Essar
Oil and Essar Steel Ltd. That has helped drive the biggest rally
in Essar Oil’s parent Essar Energy Plc’s convertible bonds since
they were sold two years ago.  The 4.25 percent notes due 2016 surged 18 percent this
quarter, reducing the yield by 510 basis points to 15.69
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Double Impact’  Essar Oil has  risen  36 percent this year, compared with a
25 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The shares
fell 0.6 percent to 68.35 rupees at 10:53 a.m. in Mumbai.  Essar
Energy (ESSR) , which also controls the group’s power plants and coal
mines, has slumped 30 percent in London trading this year.  “As we start generating cash from our refinery, it has a
double impact,” Gupta said. “It increases our net worth and
decreases our debt. Our target is to get the debt to somewhere
around two times our net worth. That’s a healthy debt to equity
ratio.”  Essar Oil reported  net income  of 1.1 billion rupees in the
three months ended Sept. 30, the first quarterly profit since
the period ended June 2011. It earned $7.86 for every barrel of
crude it turned in to fuels in the quarter, compared with $5.07
a year earlier, according to a  presentation  to analysts posted
on its website.  Heavy Crude  “Essar Oil’s refinery benefits from being a large-scale
complex refinery, which gains from improving light-heavy crude
spreads,” said  Niraj Mansingka , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Edelweiss Securities Ltd., who advises investors to buy Essar
Oil shares. “Incrementally, margins will also improve as local
sales of products increases. This will help them improve cash
generation and lower its debt.”  Refineries such as Essar’s and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s
have the capability to process heavier and high-sulfur crude,
which are typically cheaper than lighter varieties.  The refiner is increasing fuel sales to Indian state-run
marketing companies as local demand for oil products including
diesel increases. It sold 64 percent of the fuels it produced in
the quarter ended September to government-controlled companies
including  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) , compared with 51 percent a
year earlier, according to the presentation.  Exports including gasoline and fuel oil dropped to 30
percent from 42 percent, the company said.  “Exports will decline over a period as the demand goes up
in India,” Gupta said. “Selling in India definitely helps our
bottom line because we save on some freight costs.”  Overseas Loans  Diesel consumption in India rose to 5.7 million tons in
October from 4.9 million tons in September, according to oil
ministry data. Gasoline use climbed to 1.3 million tons, the
most since June. India is  Asia ’s second-biggest energy consumer,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data.  Essar Oil, rated BBB+, the lowest investment grade by the
local unit of  Fitch Ratings , generated 12.4 billion rupees of
cash from operations in the year ended March 31, 35 percent less
than the previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company on Oct. 9 said it may raise as much as $1.5
billion in overseas loans after it received approval from
India’s central bank.  Essar Oil last year set aside 40.2 billion rupees as a
“prudent measure” after the  Supreme Court  ordered it to pay
sales tax to the government of Gujarat, where the company’s
refinery is located. The court asked Essar Oil to pay the dues
with a 10 percent interest in eight installments, one every four
months, starting January 2013.  The top court on Jan. 17 said the company isn’t entitled to
a state government incentive to defer payment of sales tax after
missing the Aug. 15, 2003 deadline to start the refinery.  “We have had the setback of sales tax,” Gupta said. “As
of now, we are focused not to do anything beyond running our
refinery the way it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  