-- Boehner Offers Obama Tax Rate Boost If Entitlements Cut
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/boehner-offers-tax-rate-increase-for-entitlement-cuts.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  offered
to raise income tax rates on households earning more than $1
million a year in exchange for containing the cost of federal
entitlement programs, as part of a deal with President  Barack Obama  to cut the federal  deficit , according to two people
familiar with the talks.  The offer, made in a Dec. 14 phone call between the two
leaders, marks the first time Boehner has entertained an
increase in income tax rates in his talks with Obama to avoid
more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and across-
the-board tax increases set to start next month.  Brendan Buck , the Ohio Republican’s spokesman, declined to
comment on the offer, which was first reported yesterday by
Politico. “We have not commented on the content of private
discussions, and we’re certainly not going to comment on
rumors,” he said.  Obama, who has insisted  tax rates  rise on household incomes
exceeding $250,000 a year, didn’t accept the offer, said
one of the persons, who asked for anonymity to talk about the
private negotiations, which are continuing.  Even so, it marks movement in negotiations as they close in
on a Dec. 31 deadline, because Boehner has long insisted that he
won’t accept any increase in income tax rates. The president has
refused to discuss a major overhaul of costly entitlements until
Boehner agrees to include a rate increase on upper-income
taxpayers.  Income Levels  While Democratic leaders united behind Obama’s position
following last month’s election, earlier this year
Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , the House Minority
Leader, and Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the third-
ranking Democrat, both advocated an increase on earners making
more than $1 million a year.  Last week, Obama also reduced his demand for revenue from
tax increases to $1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion as both sides
inched closer to a possible compromise on the biggest stumbling
block to a deal.  Lawmakers have said that the two must reach agreement on a
framework by early this week in order to move legislation
through Congress before the Christmas holiday.  Boehner, in a $2.2 trillion deficit-cutting plan he offered
earlier this month, proposed ways to trim entitlements. They
included a new inflation yardstick -- the so-called  chained
consumer price index   -- to reduce cost-of-living increases in
 Social Security , as well as raising the Medicare eligibility
age. Other Republicans have also advocated means-testing, or
raising premiums or co-payments for wealthier recipients.  Safety Net  Democrats have campaigned as the champions of safety-net
programs for the poor and elderly. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  has repeatedly said that Social Security is off
the table in debt-deal talks.  Boehner and Obama also continue to disagree on whether a
year-end deal should include an increase in the federal
government’s debt limit and fresh programs to boost the economy.  If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates for income at all levels
would rise next month, along with taxes on estates,  capital
gains  and dividends.  Republicans have begun to consider a fall-back plan
designed to force deficit-reduction action early next year, when
the need for congressional approval of a debt limit increase
would put pressure on Obama. The plan would extend tax cuts for
individuals with incomes up to $200,000 a year and married
couples with annual incomes of $250,000, while letting the top
rates rise if no broader deal is reached by year’s end.  Public Support  Sixty-five percent of Americans say Obama’s Nov. 6 election
victory gave him a mandate on his proposal to raise tax rates on
top earners, according to a Bloomberg National Poll of 1,000
adults conducted Dec. 7-10.  As the budget talks dragged on, U.S. stocks had their first
weekly decline in a month. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  fell
0.3 percent to 1,413.58, snapping a three-week gain. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  declined 20.12 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 13,135.01 last week.  The incoming House Rules Committee chairman, Representative
Pete Sessions, said congressional Republicans would be willing
to accept an increase in tax rates for top earners if Democrats
make significant reductions in entitlement programs such as
Social Security and Medicare.  “If it’s a good deal, yes,” Sessions, a Texas Republican,
said in a Dec. 14 interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt .  Sessions is a close ally of Boehner. He said Boehner was
committed to reaching a deal with Obama to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases, which threaten
to tip the economy into a recession.  Boehner met in person for the third time with Obama on Dec.
13 with no public indication that the two were moving closer to
a deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  