-- Cathay Confirms Meeting Invite From H.K. Labor Deptarment
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-12-16T04:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/cathay-confirms-meeting-invite-from-h-k-labor-deptarment.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  received
an invitation to meet with representatives of the Hong Kong
Labor Department and the Flight Attendants Union, it said in a
statement yesterday.  Members of the union, which represents more than 5,800 of
Cathay’s 9,000 flight attendants, last week authorized its
leaders to initiate industrial action after a disagreement over
a proposed pay rise for next year. The labor group had asked for
a 5 percent pay increase, while Cathay offered about 2 percent.
Cathay said in an open letter that employees have seen salaries
go up about 12 percent in the past three years, with an extra
month of annual bonus.  The proposed meeting is planned this week, Liza Ng, general
manager of cabin crew, said in the statement. Flight attendants
may work to rule or refuse to do tasks such as serving food in
the days leading to Christmas, said Dora Lai, the union’s
chairwoman. Workers may go on strike over the New Year or the
February Lunar New Year holiday if Cathay fails to respond to
requests for further pay talks, she said.  “We appreciate the Labor Department’s experience in
resolving issues such as this,” Ng said. “We know many  Hong
Kong  people have travel plans over the peak year-end season and
it is certainly our priority to ensure that our customers are
not inconvenienced in any way.”  Cathay shares  rose 1.6 percent this week to HK$13.86,
boosting the stock’s gain this year to 4.1 percent.  The last time Cathay flight attendants staged a strike was
during the Lunar New Year holiday in 1993 when about 1,000 cabin
crew walked out for 17 days, the longest in the union’s history,
according to Tsang Kwok-fung, a spokesman for the Cathay Pacific
Airways Flight Attendants Union. Since then, there have only
been smaller actions such as working to rule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  