-- Cisco Said to Hire Barclays to Sell Linksys Division
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-17T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/cisco-said-to-hire-barclays-to-sell-linksys-division.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest
maker of equipment for computer networks, has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
to find a buyer for Linksys, which makes routers for home
wireless access, said people with knowledge of the situation.  The unit may attract the interest of TV set makers seeking
a recognized brand and technology, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the process isn’t public. Linksys
is likely to fetch much less than the $500 million Cisco paid
for it in 2003 because it is a mature consumer business with low
margins, the people said.  Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-based
Cisco, and Marc Hazelton, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment.  Cisco wants to sell Linksys as part of its  strategy  to exit
consumer businesses while expanding in corporate software and
technology services. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers 
eliminated 7,800 jobs over the past year and closed businesses
such as the Flip video-camera unit amid a slowdown in  sales
growth  after a foray into consumer technologies backfired.  In addition to Linksys, Cisco also operates in the home
market with its Scientific Atlanta set-top-box unit and with NDS
Group Ltd., a software maker for paid-television channels used
by British Sky Broadcasting Group, Canal Plus and DirecTV. Cisco
bought NDS in July for $5 billion.  Barclays is also advising  Google Inc. (GOOG)  on the sale of its
Motorola Home Business, which sells set-top-boxes and equipment
to cable-television-providers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  