-- Communist Heirs of Havel’s Jailers Mount Czech Comeback
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-12-17T15:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/communist-heirs-of-havel-s-jailers-mount-czech-comeback.html
One year after the death of former
Czech President  Vaclav Havel , a global icon in fighting
dictatorship, his persecutors’ political heirs have national
power in their sight for the first time since 1989.  The  Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia  is riding a
protest wave similar to anti-austerity parties across  Europe 
such as  Greece ’s Golden Dawn and polls show it could form a
majority with the Social Democrats were elections held now.  “In voting for the Communists out of protest, Czechs are
implicitly saying they consider the former regime acceptable,”
said Jiri Pehe, a former adviser to Havel, who died at 75 a year
ago tomorrow.  The party, whose leader eulogized  North Korea ’s Kim Jong-il
after his death last year, is winning support as Prime Minister
Petr Necas cuts investments and raises taxes amid the second
recession since 2009. His government is also struggling to fight
graft, with the nation ranked worse than Georgia and  Rwanda  in
 Transparency International ’s 2012 Corruption Index.  The KSCM, shunned by parties after the 1989 transition to
democracy, finished second in October regional voting and now
co-rules in 10 of 13 regions with the  Social Democrats .  “Much of our work was done by the government,” said  Jiri
Dolejs , 51, the KSCM’s shadow finance minister. “People are
unhappy and don’t trust politicians.”  While former Marxists have held power in neighboring  Poland 
and in  Hungary , the Czechs have the only “unreformed”
communist party in the EU’s east, according to  David Ondracka ,
who heads Transparency International’s  Prague  branch.  Communist Program  The KSCM wants to boost taxes and welfare spending and beef
up regulation of the financial industry, Dolejs said, policies
that are similar to proposals by the Social Democrats. Unlike
them, the KSCM wants to exit the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, he said.  For now, investors are unmoved by the success of the
Communists. The nation enjoys borrowing costs similar to higher-
rated  France , with the yield on the 10-year benchmark bond at
1.958 percent at 4:50 p.m. in Prague, down three basis points
from yesterday. The koruna, which has gained 1.4 percent to the
euro this year, was little changed on the day at 25.232.  At the same time, the Communists “may be more dangerous
than most think,” said  Martin Lobotka , an economist at Ceska
Sporitelna AS in Prague. KSCM measures may boost debt and “set
off alarm bells at major rating agencies” and lead to “Czech
yields rising and the koruna weakening,” he said.  Shunned Party  Havel and other Velvet Revolution leaders rejected banning
the Communists and argued they should be defeated in elections,
Pehe said. Most Czechs weren’t bothered by the KSCM’s regional
success, a Nov. 20 survey by polling company STEM showed.  The Social Democrats, who vowed in 1995 never to govern
nationally with the KSCM, may welcome communist backing for a
government should both parties combine to win a majority in the
next election, Social Democrat head Bohuslav Sobotka said in an
Oct. 15 interview in the newspaper Pravo.  His party and the KSCM would together win a majority in the
200-seat lower house of parliament, according to a Dec. 13
Internet  survey  of 11,739 adults by polling company SANEP. The
Social Democrats would finish first with 115 seats and the KSCM
second with 99, according to the poll, which had a margin of
error of 1.5 percent.  The Civic Democratic party led by Necas, whose term ends in
2014, would claim 36 seats, according to the poll. Necas’s
Cabinet counts on 99 deputies for support and early elections
remain a possibility as he tries to push through additional
austerity measures by year-end.  Uncharted Waters  The KSCM in government would be “uncharted political
waters and could be the trigger for a reassessment of Czech
credit,” Nicholas Spiro, head of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said by e-mail. Still, communists in national office
“would come under enormous pressure, politically as well as
externally, to act responsibly.”  KSCM argues that too-fast fiscal consolidation has choked
domestic demand, which makes up half the economy. The party
would slow the pace of  deficit reduction , invest in projects
with a “multiplying” effect on growth and repeal the overhaul
that partly privatized pensions, Dolejs said. KSCM also seeks an
end to environmental limits on brown coal to boost jobs.  With Czech debt at 45 percent of economic output, less than
half the euro-area level, “markets would generally tolerate a
less hawkish” fiscal policy, said  Neil Shearing , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. Still, repealing the
pension overhaul “could well provoke bond markets.”  ‘New Way’  Last year, KSCM leader Vojtech Filip wrote Pyongyang after
Kim’s death, praising his “sacrifice for the good of his
people.” Lawmaker Marta Semelova has lauded Cold War-era border
guards who shot at fleeing Czechs and urged the party’s
“Bolshevization.” She was among four KSCM deputies to refuse
to join a parliamentary ceremony honoring Havel after his death.  Dolejs sought to downplay such incidents, saying they are
inevitable in a party with 66,000 members.  “We’re not about a return to the past, but finding a new
way forward,” he said.  Last year, thousands of Czechs braved winter’s onset to pay
their last respects to Havel. The playwright, imprisoned for
almost five years by the Soviet-backed regime, once installed a
neon heart over the Prague Castle as a symbol of “love,
understanding and decency.”  Post-1989 communists never followed the “cult of Havel,”
Roman Janouch, editor of KSCM newspaper  Halo Noviny , said in an
interview. They opposed Havel’s embrace of NATO and backing of
 U.S. foreign policy  in  Iraq , and accused him of facilitating the
1993 breakup of  Czechoslovakia , he said.  “I too was once a believer and even had a Havel poster
over my bed,” Janouch said. “I soon threw it away because I
realized this man’s noble words about truth, love and freedom
never matched his actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  