-- Corinthians Beat Chelsea 1-0 to Win Club World Cup Soccer Title
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-16T15:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/corinthians-beat-chelsea-1-0-to-win-club-world-cup-soccer-title.html
Brazil’s Corinthians beat England’s
Chelsea 1-0 in the final of soccer’s FIFA Club World Cup to end
a run of five straight titles for European teams.  Paolo Guerrero got the only goal at the International
Stadium in Yokohama, Japan, as Corinthians won the competition
for a second time. They won the inaugural title in 2000.  Chelsea’s  Gary Cahill  was red-carded in the 90th minute of
yesterday’s game.  The last South American champion was Brazil’s Internacional
in 2006. Since then Barcelona had lifted the trophy twice, with
AC Milan, Manchester United and  Inter Milan  also winners.  “I took a photo with this trophy in 2010,” Corinthians
coach Tite told reporters. “I didn’t know if I would ever hold
it. Now I have it and I am very happy.”  Sao Paulo-based Corinthians secured a spot in the
tournament after winning their first Copa Libertadores title in
South America. The champions of each continent’s soccer
federation compete for the  Club World Cup , with this year’s
seventh participant Sanfrecce Hiroshima, winner of Japan’s J-
League.  Guerrero scored after 69 minutes with a close-range header
after reacting more quickly than Chelsea’s defenders.  Chelsea had opportunities to score late in the game, but
 Fernando Torres  was only able to hit a shot straight at
goalkeeper Cassio with about five minutes remaining.  Cahill was then dismissed following a clash with Emerson,
although the English team continued to press. Torres headed the
ball into the net in injury time only to see his effort ruled
out for offside.  Juan Mata  then tried to score from an acute
angle.  ‘Tough Game’  “We knew it would be a tough game against a good team,”
said Chelsea’s interim manager  Rafael Benitez , who led Inter
Milan to the title in 2010. “I think they had one chance and
they scored and we didn’t take our chances. That was the
difference.”  The defeat halts an improved run of results by Chelsea of
three straight wins in all competitions. The west London team
hired Benitez after firing Roberto Di Matteo last month.  Earlier yesterday, Mexico’s Monterrey defeated Al-Ahly of
Egypt 2-0 in the third-place match. Jesus Corona and Cesar
Delgado got the goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 