-- Croatia Won’t Seek IMF Funding After Rating Cut to Junk
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-17T09:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/croatia-won-t-seek-imf-funding-after-rating-downgrade-to-junk.html
Croatia  won’t seek a loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
country’s sovereign-debt rating to junk, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said.  The credit rating company on Dec. 14 lowered Croatia’s
long-term credit rating to BB+, the highest non-investment
level, saying the country’s structural and fiscal overhaul is
insufficient to promote growth and make government finances more
sustainable. Central bank Governor Boris Vujcic said yesterday
Croatia should continue to borrow both abroad and domestically,
adding there is no need for the release of foreign-currency
reserves to aid borrowing.  “We believe we can do it alone,” Milanovic said on
 private Nova TV  late yesterday. “The situation is difficult,
but not catastrophic, and it will prompt us to look at our
decisions.”  The Adriatic Sea nation is struggling to return to growth
after the economy shrank in four consecutive quarters. The
government on Nov. 19 said the  budget deficit  will widen as the
Cabinet repays debt and begins contributing to EU coffers after
its entry in July 2013. It also cut the 2012 gross domestic
product forecast to a 1.1 percent contraction, citing an
investment drought due to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The kuna was 0.3 percent weaker at 7.54 against the euro at
10:28 a.m. in Zagreb. The yield on the government bond due July
2020 rose to 4.741 percent from 4.631 percent on Dec. 14, the
highest level this month.  Stable Kuna  Vujcic said the kuna will remain stable, “as a devaluation
would deepen the recession and lead to a further decline in
gross domestic product.”  Croatian public debt, estimated at 172 billion kuna ($30
billion) at the end of June, will increase to 55 percent of
gross domestic product next year, while state borrowing will
total 27 billion kuna, according to government figures. The
government expected to sell about $2.5 billion of debt in
January on the U.S. and European markets, with a second round
later in 2013 on Asian markets.  Croatia can probably finance itself next year without a
foreign-currency debt sale even without IMF aid as its financing
needs for 2013 are “quite modest,” with no external bonds
maturing, Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets strategist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , said by e-mail.  “Croatia should have no difficulty borrowing abroad next
year, despite the downgrade, as countries with much worse
fundamentals and considerably lower credit ratings have been
able to borrow in foreign currency this year,” London-based
Ameli-Renani said.  Borrowing Costs  Finance Minister Slavko Linic said after the rating cut
that Croatia may seek cooperation with the IMF and abandon debt
sales abroad next year to avoid rising borrowing costs. The
government won’t cut pensions and public sector wages as that
would further reduce consumption, he added.  “While officials are floating differing views on potential
relations with the IMF, we think a quick clarification of the
policy stance and contingency budget plan must be dealt
promptly,” Hrvoje Stojic, chief economist at Hypo Alpe Adria
Bank d.d., a Croatian unit of  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG, said by e-mail.  “Otherwise, downgrades from two other major rating
agencies within the next two months cannot be ruled out,” he
said.  Short-Term Rating  S&P also cut Croatia’s short-term grade one notch to B. The
ratings carry a stable outlook, indicating that S&P is more
likely to keep them unchanged than cut or raise them.  The downgrade puts Croatia’s credit rating on par with
Romania and  Indonesia .  Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 29 lowered its
outlook for the former Yugoslav country’s debt, which it rates
at the lowest investment grade, to negative from stable. Moody’s
Investors Services on Nov. 19 confirmed an equivalent Baa3
credit rating, with a negative outlook.  “Structural and fiscal reforms implemented so far have
been insufficient to foster economic growth and place public
finances on a more sustainable path,” S&P said in the
statement. “Policy inertia and opposition from vested interests
that benefit from long-entrenched entitlements have contributed
to wage and price rigidities, the low participation rate, and
loss of economic competitiveness.”  Economic Contraction  The  economy  will contract 2 percent this year and stagnate
in 2013, recovering gradually to trend growth of 2 percent by
2015, according to S&P.  The 11-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ,
which has vowed to reduce public spending and remove obstacles
to investment to speed up the sale of state companies, predicts
the budget deficit will widen to 3.1 percent of GDP next year,
while the economy will grow 1.8 percent.  Unemployment in the country of 4.2 million reached 19.6
percent in October, while there were no reductions in the public
sector, which employs about 17 percent of the workforce.  After joining the EU, Croatia will benefit from structural
and cohesion funds from the bloc, along with higher foreign-
direct investment, S&P said. Still, prospects “for major
growth- and competitiveness-enhancing reforms” are limited, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  