-- Denmark Hoards Liquidity as Debt Office Starts 2014 Sales
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-17T10:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/denmark-hoards-liquidity-as-debt-office-starts-2014-prefunding.html
The next time  Denmark  sells bonds,
it will be to cover its borrowing need for 2014 as the debt
office hoards liquidity that Europe’s north-south crisis divide
has left cheaper than ever.  The 102 billion kroner ($18 billion) Denmark sold in 2012
already covered the nation’s entire 2013 financing need, the
debt office in Copenhagen said last week. The 75 billion kroner
in bonds it intends to sell next year will put Denmark more than
a year ahead of its funding plan. And as borrowing costs sink
below zero at the shortest end of its yield curve, Denmark is
also extending maturities to lock into historically low rates
that investors are bestowing on nations untainted by the crisis.  “By implementing that strategy for some years now, we are
in a situation where we have plenty of liquidity,” Ove Sten Jensen, head of the government’s debt management department at
the central bank, said in an interview. “We have liquidity
available for more than one year’s funding need.”  Investors have designated AAA rated Denmark a haven from
the turmoil that’s plaguing southern  Europe , and remained loyal
to the nation’s debt markets even as its economy contracts.
Denmark, which boasts a debt load that’s half the euro area’s
average, pays about 26 basis points less than  Germany  to borrow
over 10 years. The country offers negative yields on its two-
year debt as investors forego returns in the hope of protecting
their principal.  Supply Challenge  Denmark’s challenge now is generating enough liquidity in
its bond supply to keep investors happy. The debt office plans
to do this by cutting back its Treasury bill program, and
funneling more of its issuance into bonds as long as 30 years.  The debt office cut this year’s Treasury bill program by 33
percent to 30 billion kroner “so that we can better support
liquidity in the other papers,” Jensen said. “It is important
for the investors that the papers are liquid over the entire
maturity spectrum.”  In an auction last week, the yield on Denmark’s new 10-year
benchmark bond declined to 1.3 percent, down from 1.33 percent a
month earlier. The bid-to-maturity yield rose in Copenhagen
trading to 1.422 percent from 1.4 percent, at 11:22 a.m.  The debt office sold 4.5 percent bonds maturing in 2039 at
a yield of 2 percent at the same auction, versus 2.13 percent in
October, it said Dec. 11. The yield on 30-year  U.S. government
debt  was 2.9 percent at the end of last week.  Haven Mortgages  Investor appetite for krone-denominated assets has spread
to Denmark’s mortgage market, the world’s third largest for
bonds covered by home loans.  Yields on 434 billion kroner in Danish mortgage bonds sold
in November and December auctions to finance adjustable-rate
loans eased to record lows, the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks said today. The average yield was 0.42 percent with
investors placing bids for three times the amount sold, the
Copenhagen group said.  Denmark’s dwindling economic prospects have done little to
dent its appeal among bondholders. The government of Prime
Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said Dec. 13 gross domestic
product will shrink 0.4 percent this year, matching the pace of
contraction in the 17-member  euro zone . The Nordic nation has
struggled to emerge from dual housing and regional banking
crises that have undermined confidence among its consumers.  Tax Effect  Denmark has a 2013 domestic financing need of 139 billion
kroner, compared with 188 billion kroner for 2012, the  Finance
Ministry  said last week. In addition to its debt issuance plans,
the government plans to draw down its account with the central
bank by 34 billion kroner.  Denmark’s issuance need could shrink even further if
revenue from a capital pension tax overhaul next year exceeds a
minimum estimate.  Though the government’s latest forecast puts the proceeds
at 5 billion kroner, the amount could be as high as 150 billion
kroner, according to Jan Stoerup Nielsen, a senior analyst at
Nordea Bank AB. About 450 billion kroner are held in the
pensions, he said.  “If they get huge revenues, they don’t have to issue bonds
for a very, very long time,” Nielsen said.  According to Jensen at the debt office, “it’s uncertain
how much will be coming in so we’ve put forth a strategy for
2013 which we feel sits whatever happens. It’s important to
avoid a stop-and-go issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  