-- Depardieu Says He’s Paid Enough French Taxes in Letter to PM
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-16T14:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/depardieu-says-he-s-paid-enough-french-taxes-in-letter-to-pm.html
Gerard Depardieu  offered to
surrender his passport after Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault
called his decision to seek tax exile in  Belgium  "pathetic."  “I am leaving because you consider success, creativity,
talent, anything different are grounds for sanction,” the movie
star, known for such classic French roles as Cyrano de Bergerac
and the musketeer Porthos, wrote in correspondence to Ayrault
published today in  Le Journal du Dimanche . “I don’t expect
to be pitied or praised but I reject the word pathetic.”  Depardieu, the latest celebrity to leave France after
Socialist President Francoise Hollande introduced a slew of new
levies since he was elected in May, said he has paid 145 million
euros in taxes over the course of his 45-year working life that
began at age 14. As well as a 75 percent tax on income over 1
million euros ($1.3 million) Hollande has also added new charges
on  capital gains , an increased tax on wealth, a boost to
inheritance charges and an exit tax for entrepreneurs selling
their companies.  The 63-year-old actor, who also played Jean Valjean, the
post-revolution Frenchman convicted for stealing a loaf of
bread, in a television version of “ Les Miserables ,” joins a
wave of departures among entrepreneurs, businessmen and
retirees, according to Philippe Kenel, a Geneva-based tax lawyer
at Python, Schifferli, Peter & Associates.  ‘Totally Scandalized’  “I am totally scandalized,” Culture Minister Aurelie
Filippetti said on BFM-TV today. “Gerard Depardieu is
abandoning the battleground in the middle of the war against the
crisis.”  The actor, who played Obelix in films on one of France’s
most beloved fictional characters, said in the newspaper he paid
tax at an 85 percent rate on his 2012 income.  “Pathetic, you said ‘pathetic?’ It’s pathetic,”
Depardieu’s letter to the prime minister began. “I don’t have
to justify the reasons for my choice, which are numerous and
personal. Who are you to judge me in this way?”  Telephone calls to Depardieu’s home and to his press agent
weren’t returned.  The letter comes after Ayrault last week referred to as
“quite pathetic” news of Depardieu’s plan to move to the
Belgian community of  Nechin , just across the French border.  Depardieu’s departure highlights the need for  France  to
renegotiate a fiscal agreement with Belgium, said Labor Minister
Michel Sapin, condemning the actor’s attitude and defending the
Socialist party’s tax increases.  ‘Extravagance, Exaggeration’  When you give up your French passport “you no longer want
to be part of the mother country,” Sapin said in a radio
interview on Europe 1. “I know him well, he’s a man of
extravagance and exaggeration.”  Depardieu, who was born in the Loire-region town of
Chateauroux, gained famed in the U.S. playing a cigarette-
smoking, wine-swilling French bon vivant who marries a prissy
American played by Andie MacDowell for residency in “Green
Card.”  He was often spotted seated alongside the wife of former
French President  Jacques Chirac  at campaign events for former
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who lost his re-election bid to
Hollande in May.  “I would advise him to keep his passport,” Sapin said.
“It’s a personal comedown that’s hurtful. It’s an attitude that
isn’t fitting for the actor.”  Arnault Criticism  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer
of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for
Belgian nationality in September. While he promised to continue
paying taxes in France, the action prompted fierce criticism
from Hollande and his supporters.  The high-profile moves by wealthy citizens to leave France
“show that we have a just  tax policy ,” Sapin said. Depardieu
“may be going to Belgium so as not to pay a tax on fortunes in
France.”  Depardieu’s exit comes as the French government is seeking
to bolster revenue through taxes on large companies, Internet
startups and private fortunes to make its budget-deficit target
of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year. Hollande, the
first Socialist president in France since 1995, has called on
those “with the most to show patriotism” in tough times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  