-- Deutsche Bank Probes Claims of Deleted E-Mails in Tax Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-16T15:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/deutsche-bank-probes-claims-it-deleted-e-mails-in-tax-inquiry.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose offices were
raided by German police four days ago, said it will investigate
prosecutors’ allegations employees deleted e-mails requested as
part of a tax-evasion probe.  The accusations, which prompted the arrest of five people
for questioning, will be probed by the bank, Christian Streckert, a spokesman for the lender, said by telephone today.  Deutsche Bank Co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen 
called Volker Bouffier, the prime minister of the state of
Hesse, to complain about the impact television pictures of the
raids would have on the bank’s reputation, Der Spiegel said
today. Bouffier replied that it wasn’t his task to intervene in
a prosecutorial probe, the magazine reported.  “We confirm that Mr. Fitschen called Mr. Bouffier,”
Streckert said. “We cannot comment on the contents of the
conversation.” Telephone calls by  Bloomberg News  to Bouffier’s
office today weren’t answered.  Prosecutors had been investigating bank employees for
suspected  tax fraud  involving the sale of carbon-emission
certificates since 2009. The Frankfurt prosecutor said on Dec.
12 the bank may have withheld evidence it was seeking.  After an initial raid in 2010, Deutsche Bank was asked to
hand over information about 40 employees,  Der Spiegel  said.
Deutsche Bank deleted 20,000 e-mails and handed over no e-mails
relating to nine of the employees, the magazine said.  Streckert declined to comment further on the e-mails.  Employees Held  Four Deutsche Bank employees remain in custody while the
probe continues. One was released for health reasons, Guenter
Wittig, a spokesman for the Frankfurt General Prosecutor, said
Dec. 13. In all, 25 Deutsche Bank employees are being
investigated, including Fitschen and Chief Financial Officer
 Stefan Krause , according to prosecutors.  One of the suspects ordered to stay in jail is the head of
litigation at Deutsche Bank, two people familiar with the matter
said on Dec. 14. Two information-technology specialists and
another member of the legal department are among the arrested,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the
details of the probe are secret. Prosecutors are focusing on the
alleged e-mail deletions, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  