-- Don’t Prematurely End Payroll Tax Cut, Jobless Benefits
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-16T23:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/don-t-prematurely-end-payroll-tax-cut-jobless-benefits.html
Almost lost in the fiscal cliff
debate is whether to extend two programs, the payroll-tax
holiday and extended federal  unemployment benefits . They have
helped gird the economy over the past four years by putting more
money in consumers’ pockets. They should be continued, though
perhaps in less-generous form.  Both initiatives will end in January absent congressional
action.  Although their expiration would save the U.S. about
$145 billion next year, allowing the benefits to cease would
shave about 1 percentage point off economic growth in 2013,
according to  estimates  by the  Congressional  Budget office and
others.  The  U.S. economy  is simply too fragile to withdraw support
cold turkey. About 12 million people are  unemployed  and 40
percent of them have been out of work six months or longer. The
Federal Reserve  expects  the 7.7 percent unemployment rate to
decline slightly if at all next year, with the economy growing
just 2.3 percent to 3 percent. Retracting fiscal support now
would slow that growth, push many unemployed workers into
poverty and undermine the Fed’s efforts to juice the economy.  Smaller Scale  A more prudent course would be to continue both programs
for another year, perhaps on a smaller scale. The payroll  tax
cut , for example, could be  scaled back . The U.S. now deducts 4.2
percent from paychecks, down from the standard rate of 6.2
percent. Moving to a 5.2 percent tax would halve the program’s
 estimated  $114 billion annual cost while still allowing workers
to take home more pay.  What would happen if the payroll cut went away entirely?
The move would result in an immediate tax increase of $920 for
more than 122 million workers on average,  according  to the non-
partisan  Tax Policy Center . That financial bite would slow
growth by 0.6 percentage point, according to estimates by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Moody’s Corp. To put it all in
context, this is about the same rate of economic lift the
 Federal Reserve  is trying to achieve through its bond-buying
program. In other words, ending the payroll-tax holiday would
essentially neuter the Fed’s efforts.  Cutting off extended unemployment benefits would be
similarly misguided. States can now bolster their roughly 26
weeks of unemployment benefits with up to 47 additional weeks
through two federally financed programs. Yet the duration of
benefits, which are pegged to a state’s jobless rate, have been
decreasing as the employment situation  improves . Benefits
already have gone from a maximum of 99 weeks to as little as 40
in 10 states.  The number of weeks available will continue to fall in
tandem with the jobless rate and should not be increased. The
 Congressional Budget Office   estimates  that extending federal
insurance another year would cost the U.S. about $30 billion in
2013, down from $159 billion in 2010.  The biggest knock against extending unemployment coverage
is that it provides an incentive to remain out of the workforce.
One economist at the  University of California  at Berkeley  found 
that the jobless rate in December 2010 would have been about 0.2
percentage point lower, absent extended benefits. A  paper  by
economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
concluded that 99-week benefits pushed up the jobless rate even
more -- by as much as 0.8 percentage point.  While extended benefits may dissuade some from taking jobs
or engaging in more intensive searches, the primary driver of
long-term unemployment is a slack labor market. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  has  said  weakness in total demand (in other words,
consumer and business spending and investment) is the
“predominant factor” in persistent long-term unemployment.  Powerful Stimulus  Unemployment benefits are a powerful form of
stimulus: The money is likely to be spent on food, rent, gas and
other immediate needs. Cutting off the program would hurt demand
and slow economic output in 2013 by about 0.35 percentage point,
according to various estimates. (It would also result in 2
million people losing benefits the first week of January. In the
past, benefits have been phased out to avoid such a sudden
financial hit.)  There’s no question that the U.S. needs to spend less, yet
it also needs to be smarter about when it retracts stimulus
spending. It would be folly if lawmakers, in their zeal for
immediate fiscal tightening, eliminated extensions to the
payroll tax cut and  unemployment insurance  only to see the
economy go wobbly again -- and the deficit shoot back up.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 