-- Don’t Mess Up U.S.-Iran Sanctions
-- B y   L e e   H a m i l t o n ,   T h o m a s   P i c k e r i n g   a n d   A n t h o n y   Z i n n i
-- 2012-12-16T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/don-t-mess-up-u-s-iran-sanctions.html
As the  U.S. Congress  prepares to
tighten the vise around Iran with new sanctions, American
leaders need to ask what previous measures have accomplished and
whether additional ones would help or hurt efforts to prevent
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  An amendment to the “must-pass” defense bill being
considered by Congress would blacklist several industrial
sectors in Iran and expand U.S. actions against human-rights
abuses there. With Iran still  refusing to comply  with United
Nations requirements that it assure the world it isn’t pursuing
nuclear arms,  this legislation  may seem justified. Yet, as the
Obama administration has warned, these additional penalties
would undermine efforts to test the effectiveness of existing
sanctions.  In an effort to illuminate the sanctions discussion, we
have signed on to a  new report , “Weighing Benefits and Costs of
International Sanctions Against  Iran ,” along with  35 other
American leaders  from the political, national-security,
business, military and diplomatic communities. As the paper
points out, 30 years of sanctions against Iran have delivered
important benefits.  These actions have demonstrated international opposition to
Iranian policies; slowed expansion of Iran’s nuclear and missile
programs; signaled the U.S. commitment to nonproliferation of
nuclear weapons; weakened Iran’s economy; registered strong
opposition to Iran’s support for Hezbollah and Hamas; shown
commitment to the security of  Israel  and other friends in the
region; and severely hampered Iran’s ability to modernize its
conventional weapons.  Sanctions seem to have caused the Iranian regime to take
more seriously proposals that could lead to a negotiated
settlement of the nuclear standoff. However, they have not yet
prompted Iran to accede to UN Security Council demands to
suspend  uranium enrichment  and cooperate fully with the
 International Atomic Energy Agency.   These measures have also had downsides. Sanctions have
created divisions within the international coalition against
Iran, complicating U.S. policy in Libya and  Syria ; pushed more
of the Iranian economy underground into the control of
autocratic factions; empowered anti-reform voices and reduced
the space for political dissent in Iran; limited the
availability of life-saving medicines and food in Iran; and
contributed to the volatility of  oil prices  globally. Sanctions
may have planted seeds of long-term alienation between the
Iranian people and the U.S. Most dangerously, sanctions have
increased the potential for U.S.-Iran conflict and regional
violence.  The U.S.  sanctions regime  already includes a  matrix  of laws
and executive orders with no clear test for success. Success
could be reducing  human-rights abuses , ending funding for
terrorist groups, limiting  Iran’s nuclear program , or all of the
above.  This spiderweb of sanctions and objectives, wrapped up in
legislative hurdles, could restrict President  Barack Obama ’s
options should he decide to offer incentives for Iran to
cooperate at the negotiating table. If a bilateral meeting were
arranged, American negotiators would need to select what to
offer Iran in exchange for securing U.S. goals, the most
important of which must be a serious reduction of, and greater
transparency around, Iran’s nuclear program. Included in that
offer would surely be some sanctions relief.  Our leaders must weigh the easy and appealing course of
ever-greater sanctions as a way to force a ready-to-deal Iran to
the table against testing the possibility that the existing
sanctions have already done that work. The president should work
with Congress to achieve the right mix of pressure and
engagement to get Iran to negotiate on increasingly urgent and
threatening differences. There should be talks between the
president and senior senators to make sure there is a plan to
strengthen or roll back sanctions as needed to get what we want
from Iran in negotiations.  Theodore Roosevelt  once said, “Nine-tenths of wisdom is
being wise on time.” As our report points out, most past
presidents have ultimately chosen the more-sanctions path.  President Obama now has the opportunity to prove that the
sanctions have worked. He should persist in his efforts to get
the Iranians to the table to get at least a confidence-building
initial deal that would break the standoff. Troubled by the
mounting damage of sanctions on all aspects of society, Iran’s
leadership is likely to be more receptive today to a serious
proposal from the U.S. than ever before. The time is ripe for a
deal and wrong for more sanctions.  (Former U.S. Representative Lee Hamilton of  Indiana  was
vice chairman of the 9/11 Commission. Thomas Pickering was
undersecretary of state for political affairs from 1997 to 2000
and served as U.S. ambassador to  Russia , Israel, Jordan and the
 United Nations . Retired General Anthony Zinni was head of U.S.
Central Command from 1997 to 2000.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Trpickering31@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  