-- Heart Cells Gain Pacing Power in Gene Test of Guinea Pigs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-12-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/heart-cells-gain-pacing-power-in-gene-test-of-guinea-pigs.html
A single gene, inserted into the
apex of the heart, can convert normal cardiac muscle cells into
those that control its electrical function, a study found.  The findings from laboratory experiments and work with
guinea pigs are a step toward creating a “biological
pacemaker” for humans with failing hearts, said Hee Cheol Cho,
director of cellular electrophysiology at  Cedars-Sinai Heart
Institute  in  Los Angeles . Almost 10 percent of muscle cells
exposed to the gene started spontaneously firing, behaving the
same way as the rare pacemaker cells, the researchers said.  It will be years before doctors may be able to use the
approach to treat people with weakened hearts who currently rely
on electronic pacemakers, Cho said. Additional studies in larger
animals are needed to confirm the results and ensure the therapy
is safe and lasting for humans, he said. The findings appear
today in the journal  Nature Biotechnology .  “This is the culmination of 10 years of work in our
laboratory to build a biological pacemaker as an alternative to
electronic pacing devices,” Eduardo Marban, director of the
Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, said in a statement.  Previous work that focused on electrical currents allowed
heart muscle cells to beat, though they didn’t fully behave like
pacemaker cells, the researchers said. Cho compared that
approach to adding an external motor to a bicycle. The addition
removes the need to pedal, though the machine is a still a
bicycle.  Greater Power  “In this study, we discovered that this gene could
reprogram all major parts of the heart muscle cells to those of
native pacemaker cells,” Cho said. “The bicycle transformed
into a Harley.”  The heartbeat starts in the sinoatrial node. It is a small
structure located on top of the right atrium that contains fewer
than 10,000 pacemaker cells, a tiny portion of the heart’s 10
billion cells. When the pacemaker cells fail to generate
electrical activity, either because of age or disease, the heart
muscle cells used to create contractions lapse into inactivity.  Patients typically rely on pacemakers from companies
including  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ)  Pacemakers in general are limited because they run
on batteries that must be replaced, Cho said. Patients can also
develop complications, including breakage, damaged wires that
connect the devices to the heart and infections, he said.  “All these problems could be solved by a biological
pacemaker, which is microscopic in scale and free of all
hardware,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  