-- Hedge Funds Reduce Bullish Bets by Most in a Month
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-12-17T16:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/hedge-funds-reduce-bullish-bets-by-most-in-a-month-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish commodity
bets by the most in a month as the  Federal Reserve  warned the
U.S. budget impasse may damage the economy, increasing concern
about demand just as prices head for the first loss since 2008.  Speculators and money managers decreased net-long positions
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 11 percent to 802,817
 contracts  in the week ended Dec. 11, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Sugar holdings tumbled 68 percent,
the most in five years, and those for wheat dropped to the
lowest since June. Wagers on higher crude-oil prices tumbled 21
percent, the most since May.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
retreated 4.1 percent this quarter, with U.S. lawmakers in a
stalemate on how to avoid about $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts that start next month. The Fed “doesn’t have
the tools” to counter the risks to the economy should there be
no deal, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Dec. 12.  “The fact that the Fed is saying that there’s only so much
they can do spooked people,” said  John Stephenson , who oversees
about $2.74 billion at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in
Toronto. “They basically admitted that they don’t have what it
takes to deal with the fiscal cliff, and it took the shine off
the idea that unlimited money printing will help commodities.”  The S&P GSCI climbed 0.7 percent last week, paring its loss
this year to 1.2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
 equities  climbed 0.6 percent, and the dollar dropped 1 percent
against a basket of six major trading partners. Treasuries lost
0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Fed Forecasts  The Fed lowered its outlook for economic growth next year
to 2.3 percent to 3 percent on Dec. 12, from 2.5 percent to 3
percent in September. Global growth will slow to “near stall
speed” in 2013 as monetary policy becomes less effective in
stimulating expansion, Saumil Parikh, a  fund manager  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in a Dec. 11 report.  U.S. retail sales rose less than forecast in November,
climbing 0.3 percent, Commerce Department figures showed Dec.
13. Economists projected a gain of 0.5 percent, according to the
median of 81 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Confidence among
small businesses plunged last month to the lowest since March
2010, the  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index showed Dec. 11.  China Demand  Rising consumption in  China  and emerging economies will
help support commodities demand, said Kevin Caron, a  Florham
Park , New Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., which oversees about $130 billion in assets.  Chinese manufacturing may expand at a faster pace this
month, according to the preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index released Dec. 14 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. The country is biggest consumer of everything from
cotton to zinc and the U.S. is the top user of oil and corn.  Gold, copper, silver, platinum and palladium will
outperform other commodities next year as central bank stimulus
programs boost demand from investors seeking alternative assets,
Bank of America said in a report Dec. 11.  The Fed said last week it will boost its main stimulus tool
by adding $45 billion of monthly Treasury purchases to an
existing pledge of $40 billion in mortgage debt a month. The
program is its third round of bond buying that has helped spur
an 83 percent gain in the S&P GSCI since 2008.  “Central-bank efforts to stoke inflation are a positive,
and we’re seeing a modest pickup in overall activity, so on
balance we’re constructive on the outlook for commodities for
next year,” Caron said.  Precious Metals  Money managers pulled $147 million from commodity funds in
the week ended Dec. 12, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metals funds outflows
totaled $136 million, he said.  Investors cut bullish wagers on crude oil to 101,871
contracts, the lowest in a month. In the week ending Dec. 7,
 stockpiles  at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest storage hub,
climbed 2.6 percent from a week earlier to 46.8 million barrels,
the highest in more than five months. The funds increased bets
on lower natural-gas prices by 14 percent to 49,582 contracts,
the most bearish since June.  Gold holdings gained 3 percent to 129,865  contracts , the
fourth increase in five weeks. Prices have fallen for three
straight weeks, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Dec. 5 the
metal will peak next year after 12 annual gains. Gold futures
for February delivery climbed 0.1% to $1,699.30 an ounce at
11:55 a.m. on the Comex in New York.  Farm Goods  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods was 9.6
percent lower at 484,088 contracts, the CFTC data show.  Funds cut their sugar holdings to 6,056 contracts, the
lowest since a net-short position in November 2007. Prices in
New York reached a 28-month low on Dec. 13. Supplies will
outpace demand by 10.975 million metric tons in the 12 months
that started Oct. 1, the biggest surplus in five years,
according to Kingsman SA, owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  Bullish wheat bets dropped 67 percent to 11,219 contracts,
the biggest decline since June. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  boosted its forecast for global inventories for a
second straight month on Dec. 11. Thirteen analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg said they expect prices to gain this week, 10 were
bearish and one was neutral. That’s the lowest proportion of
bulls since Nov. 16.  “We’ve got the budget negotiations, and they seem to be
breaking down, and the apparent ineffectiveness of the stimulus
to juice the market overrides the bullishness we’ve seen from
some of the economic numbers,” said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who
helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama . “A lot of investors are reluctant to take
on normal asset-risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  