-- Telecom Italia Said to Hire Morgan Stanley for Grid Spinoff
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-17T09:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/telecom-italia-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-for-network-spinoff.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  hired  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  for advice on spinning off its fixed-line network as the
former phone monopoly seeks to raise capital, according to
people familiar with the situation.  The investment bank has been told to lead talks with state
lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, which may take a stake in
the network, one person said. Discussions are at an early stage,
said another one of the people, who asked not to be identified
discussing a private matter.  Telecom Italia is seeking a separation of fixed and mobile
networks that would be unprecedented among Europe’s formerly
government-owned phone operators amid strict regulation and
stagnant revenue. Earlier this month, its board authorized
executives to begin negotiations with Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment. Francesca Valagussa, a
spokeswoman for Telecom Italia, didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  A split may soften regulatory scrutiny of Milan-based
Telecom Italia while allowing it to focus on faster-growing
mobile data services. The operator owes creditors 30 billion
euros ($39.5 billion), more than its market value. In November
the company reported its second straight quarter of  falling
sales  and a 13 percent decline in profit.  As the owner of  Italy ’s fixed-line backbone, Telecom Italia
must currently inform regulators 30 days ahead of any changes to
broadband offers so the watchdog can assess whether rivals can
match their terms. As a legally separate company, it could avoid
that burden, though the firm has said it will seek to retain a
majority stake in the fixed-line network.  Telecom Italia dropped 1.2 percent to 69.75 cents in Milan
trading as of 9:55 a.m. The stock had declined 15 percent this
year through Dec. 14, while the 23-member  Bloomberg Europe 500
Telecom Services Index (BETELES)  dropped 9.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  