-- Herpes-Afflicted Oyster Industry in France Gets Glimmer of Hope
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-12-16T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/herpes-afflicted-oyster-industry-in-france-gets-glimmer-of-hope.html
Denis Bellocq , an oyster farmer in
Arcachon Bay, the cradle of  France ’s 158-year-old oyster
industry, points with pleasure to stacked red brick tiles
covered in dozens of black specks in the basin’s tidal waters.  It has been a while since his oyster crop looked this rich.
This year’s catch of wild juvenile oysters, table-ready in three
years, is the biggest since 2008, says researcher  Institut
Francais de Recherche pour l’Exploitation de la Mer . That’s
giving farmers like Bellocq hope after a herpes virus slashed
France’s oyster harvest by 40 percent in the past four years.  “We’re starting to be optimistic again,” Bellocq said.
“In three years, we should have more oysters to put on the
market. We have to survive until then.”  France’s 630-million euro ($817 million) oyster industry
has been stumped by a variant of  Ostreid herpesvirus 1 , or OsHV-
1, that first appeared in 2008. The virus can kill most of a
farm’s stock of young shellfish in a day, and has since spread
to the U.K. and Ireland, as well as  Australia  and  New Zealand .  The deadly disease mostly strikes oysters under a year old,
according to marine research by Ifremer. The virus has pushed up
oyster prices ahead of the year-end holiday season, which
accounts for half of the delicacy’s annual sales in France.  “Little by little the growers have raised the price of
oysters, that was necessary to keep our companies afloat,” said
Olivier Laban, head of Arcachon Bay’s shellfish growers’
committee. “Oyster prices are about 30 percent higher compared
to 2008; that’s entirely in line with the  mortality rate .”  Renewal Year  Wholesale prices  for French oysters in October climbed 10
percent from a year earlier and are up 37 percent from the same
period in 2008, data from the  National Institute of Statistics 
and Economic Studies in Paris show.  Bellocq has seen as many as 80 percent of his baby oysters
die before reaching maturity in the past four years. He’s hoping
2012 will mark a turnaround.  Growers in the bay capture floating wild oyster larvae by
submerging tiles or plastic discs to which the juveniles attach
themselves. The young ones are then left to grow in the bay for
about eight months before they’re transferred to oyster parks,
where they’re placed in rows of plastic mesh bags on metal racks
that dry out at low tide. Over a three-year period, the farmers
turn and clean the oysters and move them to bigger wire bags as
the shellfish grow before they are ready to be shucked and
served at restaurants and for year-end celebrations.  Bellocq said he’s collected 500 to 1,000 young oysters per
tile this year, compared with 20 to 50 in past years.  Natural Birthplace  “Let’s say we’re hopeful,” Bellocq said. “As long as we
have 20 percent left in the end, we’d rather have 1,000 per tile
than 50. We’ll probably have the same mortality next year, but
we should have some oysters.”  Arcachon Bay  matters particularly to French shellfish
growers because the basin, which gave birth to France’s oyster-
farming tradition in 1854, produces as much as 70 percent of the
nation’s natural oyster spats, known as “naissains.”  The Pacific oysters grown in the bay, introduced from  Japan 
in the 1970s after disease wiped out the local Portuguese oyster
population, spawn billions of eggs twice a year.  Capture  in the western bay was an average 247 oyster spat
per plastic disc this year, up from 15 last year, while in the
east the count jumped to 228 spat from 8, according to
researcher Ifremer.  The oyster virus first made a noticeable dent in sales in
2010, as French oyster production plunged 38 percent to 80,000
metric tons from about 130,000 tons a year earlier, according to
the country’s shellfish-growers committee.  Virus Hit  With the virus still prevalent along France’s 5,500-
kilometer (3,418-mile) coastline, between 40 percent and 90
percent of France’s young oysters died this year, depending on
 location , according to Ifremer.  The disease starts killing oysters when water temperatures
reach about 16 degrees Celsius (61 degrees Fahrenheit), and
Laban expects a fifth year of die-off starting next spring.  “I don’t see how we can slip through the net,” Laban
said. “There’s a big chance the oysters will be hit at a level
of 60 percent to 80 percent.”  An Ifremer study  published  last year found evidence of
resistance to the herpes virus in some oysters. The study also
showed the virulence of the disease, with all juvenile oysters
becoming infected with OsHV-1 seven days after being placed in
the waters of Marennes-Oleron Bay, north of Arcachon.  Condemned Oysters  “We’re condemned to living with this virus,” Laban said.
“The virus is in the water, in the products and in the animals.
We don’t have a choice, we have to work, selectively finding
oysters that are resistant.”  In Arcachon Bay, 71 percent of juveniles died this year,
according to Ifremer. That’s similar to the 70 percent rate in
2011 and compares with 79 percent mortality two years ago.  French oyster production has bottomed, and 80,000 tons is
the volume that can be produced even with only 30 percent of the
juveniles surviving, according to Laban.  For Bellocq, one of the biggest producers in Arcachon Bay
with 1.5 million euros in annual sales and six full-time
employees, the drop in production has cut profitability.  “Even though you increase the price, you have to pay your
fixed costs, the workers,” he said. “The margins are reduced,
because we have much less product to sell.”  That’s prompted the oyster farmer to find a different way
to resist the virus. He’s set up a shack on the edge of the
sandy peninsula shielding Arcachon Bay from the Atlantic Ocean,
serving oysters and white wine to holiday makers in Cap Ferret,
an upscale summer destination.  “It’s a new way of working in the oyster industry,”
Bellocq said. “The oysters are getting very scarce, so we need
to get to markets with a bit of money. We’re showing people our
job, our oysters. We’re selling dreams now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  