-- Mets’ Dickey Would Join Jays With Extension, Fox Sports Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/mets-jays-trade-for-dickey-hinges-on-extension-fox-sports-says.html
R.A. Dickey will join Toronto as the
centerpiece of a multiplayer trade with the  New York Mets 
provided the National League’s Cy Young Award winner agrees to a
contract extension with the Blue Jays,  Fox Sports said .  The Mets and Blue Jays agreed in principle to the trade and
have a negotiating window that closes at 2 p.m.  New York  time
tomorrow, Fox Sports reported, citing unidentified Major League
Baseball officials. Dickey is under contract for $5 million next
season and has been seeking a two-year contract extension worth
about $25 million, Fox Sports said.  The Mets have agreed to send Dickey, catcher Josh Thole and
a minor-league prospect to the Blue Jays for catchers Travis
D’Arnaud and John Buck, right-handed pitcher Noah Syndergaard
and a minor leaguer, according to the New York Post. Dickey, 38,
had a 20-6 record with a 2.73 earned run average for the Mets
last season, becoming the first knuckleballer in major league
history to win a Cy Young award as his league’s best pitcher.  The trade would be the latest major move for Toronto, which
in November acquired shortstop  Jose Reyes , outfielder Emilio Bonifacio and pitchers Josh Johnson and  Mark Buehrle  from the
 Miami Marlins . The Blue Jays also added free-agent outfielder
Melky Cabrera, an All-Star who batted .346 last season for the
 San Francisco Giants  before being suspended for a drug
violation.  Dickey has a 39-28 record with a 2.95 ERA in three seasons
with the Mets after going 22-28 with a 5.43 ERA over his first
seven years in the majors. He’d join a Toronto starting pitching
rotation that features Johnson, Buehrle, Brandon Morrow and
Ricky Romero.  D’Arnaud and Syndergaard are former first-round draft picks
regarded as Toronto’s top two prospects, Fox Sports said.
D’Arnaud, 23, would fill the Mets’ need for a long-term catcher,
while Syndergaard, 20, would join New York’s group of top
pitching prospects that includes right-handers Zack Wheeler and
Matt Harvey.  It’s not known if the trade would fall apart if Dickey
isn’t able to reach an extension with the  Blue Jays , or if the
teams would incorporate different players into the deal, Fox
Sports said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  