-- European Union, Singapore Complete Free Trade Pact Negotiations
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-16T15:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/european-union-singapore-complete-free-trade-pact-negotiations.html
The European Union and  Singapore 
concluded negotiations on a free-trade agreement after almost
three years of talks, boosting the bloc’s efforts to increase
commerce with Asian nations to revive economic growth.  The EU will eliminate tariffs on all imports from Singapore
over five years, while the island will allow duty-free access
for all incoming shipments from the region immediately, the
city’s Ministry of Trade and Industry said in a statement today.
The deal will help companies from both signatories to bid for
government contracts in the other’s market.  “Both Singapore and the EU will make extensive commitments
guaranteeing access to each other’s services markets,” the
ministry said. The tariff removals “will benefit Singapore
exporters of electronics, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and
processed food products.”  European and Asian leaders last month called for unfettered
commerce and warned against protectionism as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to undermine trade ties between the world’s
fastest and slowest-growing regions. The 27-member EU has seen
talks lag with China,  Japan ,  India  and Southeast Asian countries
since 2007. Negotiations with Singapore began in March 2010.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts the euro area’s
economy will contract 0.4 percent this year, while that of the
developing Asian region may grow 6.7 percent.  The EU suspended in 2009 trade talks with the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a bloc with about 600
million people, and is now negotiating separate agreements with
individual countries such as Malaysia and  Vietnam . Similar
discussions with India that kicked off in 2007 are stalled.  Existing Agreements  Trade in goods between the EU and Singapore was valued at
S$106 billion ($87 billion) in 2011, the Singapore Trade
Ministry said today. Foreign direct investment by the EU into
Southeast Asia was 192 billion euros ($253 billion) in 2011,
according to the European Chamber of Commerce in the city state.
Trade between the two regions has increased 27 percent since
2006 to 161.6 billion euros in 2011, according to the group.  Singapore already has free-trade accords with countries
including the U.S.,  China ,  Australia , Japan and India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  