-- Teva CEO Outlook Leaves Investors Wanting More: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-16T14:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/teva-ceo-outlook-leaves-investors-wanting-more-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
tumbled the most last week in  New York  in 16 months on concern
the strategy Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin unveiled for
the Israeli drugmaker won’t be enough to sustain profit growth.  American depositary receipts of Teva sank 10 percent in the
week to $38.10, the steepest slide since the five-days ended
August 5, 2011. The slump drove the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New York-traded Israeli companies down for
a second week, losing 1.1 percent to 86.57.  Allot Communications
Ltd. (ALLT) , the Hod Hasharon, Israel-based developer of technology to
manage wireless traffic, plunged 12 percent.  Levin, who joined the world’s largest maker of generic
drugs in May, presented his growth plan for Teva on Dec. 11 as
the company seeks to substitute revenue for its best-selling
multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone amid mounting competition.
The CEO said Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva allocated $1
billion to $2 billion per year to “shareholder return,” while
its 2.69 percent  dividend  yield trails  Pfizer Inc.’s (PFE)  3.49
percent and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s 4.1 percent payouts.  “There’s this Copaxone overhang, and people wanted more
details on Teva’s pipeline, and they just didn’t give that,”
Todd Bassion, who helps manage more than $1 billion, including
Teva shares, at Delaware Investments in  Boston , said by phone on
Dec. 14. “Investors were hoping they’d have a higher commitment
for cash returns to shareholders.”  Teva shares traded in Tel Aviv dropped 3.8 percent at the
4:30 p.m. close to 145.5 shekels, or the equivalent of $38.39,
after the ADRs fell to the lowest level since June 22. Israel’s
 TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.9 percent to 1,219.46.  ‘Give More’  Levin, the former senior vice president for strategy at
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said Teva will cut as much as $2
billion of costs in the next five years and focus on small- and
mid-sized acquisitions. The CEO said at the Dec. 11 briefing in
New York that Teva will use 20 percent to 25 percent of  cash
flow  from operations to pay dividends and will  generate  $4.5
billion to $5.5 billion in “organic cash flow” per year until
2017.  Gary Nachman , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
LLP, which rates Teva ADRs neutral, and Delaware Investments’s
Bassion say investors were expecting higher dividends.  “If Teva is not being overly aggressive with acquisitions
and there’s a cost-savings plan in place, why can’t they give
more back to shareholders?” Nachman said by phone on Dec. 14 in
New York. “There are no clear catalysts that might get this
stock moving again.”  Teva’s ADRs  trade  for 7.4 times estimated earnings, the
lowest valuation among the world’s 20 biggest drug companies,
which have an average price-earnings ratio of 13.6, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Dead Wrong’  “Teva is a defensive pharma name trading at a significant
discount to peers,” said Bassion, co-manager of the  Delaware
International Value Equity Fund (DEGIX)  in which Teva is the largest
holding. “The market may be dead wrong about whether Teva can
manage the Copaxone transition.” Bassion’s fund has returned 13
percent this year and has beaten 17 percent of its peers, data
collated by Bloomberg show.  Copaxone faces competition from newer oral medicines to
treat MS and is set to lose patent protection by 2015. The
treatment generated $1.05 billion in sales in the third quarter,
amounting to 24 percent of total revenue.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after China.  Allot Slumps  Allot fell to $17.12 in New York on Dec. 14. The company’s
shares in  Tel Aviv  sank 12 percent today to 64.67 shekels, or
the equivalent of $17.06, the lowest level since Feb. 16.  Wunderlich Securities Inc.  reduced  its recommendation on
the stock to hold from buy on Dec. 13, saying Allot’s profits
will grow at a slower pace in 2013 as wireless providers,
including  AT&T Inc. (T) , invest in networks that may not require
their technology.  The plunge in the shares spurred Needham & Co. to buy more
Allot stock.  “We are aggressive buyers of Allot at these  price
levels ,” Alex Henderson, an analyst at Needham in New York who
has a buy rating on the the shares, wrote in an e-mailed note to
investors on Dec. 14. The company operates in a category “that
is the most insulated from economic conditions -- wireless
services,” he wrote.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , the biggest Israeli maker of gear used to
test televisions and smartphones, was the biggest gainer on the
Israel-US index in the week, adding 5.8 percent to $8.45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  