-- 49ers Beat Patriots; Giants Fall Into Three-Way NFL Division Tie
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-17T06:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/falcons-top-giants-drop-n-y-to-nfl-division-tie-with-redskins.html
The  San Francisco  49ers blew a 28-
point lead before pulling out a 41-34 victory at New England in
a matchup of National Football League division leaders, ending
the Patriots’ seven-game winning streak to seal a playoff spot.  The defending Super Bowl-champion New York Giants were shut
out during the regular season for the first time in 16 years,
losing 34-0 in Atlanta to fall into a three-way tie atop the
National Football Conference’s East division after wins by the
 Dallas Cowboys  and  Washington Redskins .  The  Green Bay Packers  and Houston Texans claimed NFL
division titles with wins yesterday, while the Baltimore Ravens
locked up a playoff berth despite losing to Denver. With the
49ers also guaranteeing themselves a postseason spot with last
night’s win, seven of the NFL’s 12 playoff participants have
been decided with two weeks remaining in the regular season.  The 49ers opened a 31-3 third-quarter lead in Foxborough,
Massachusetts, behind three touchdown passes by Colin Kaepernick. The Patriots then scored four straight touchdowns to
tie the game 31-31 with six minutes, 45 seconds left.  San Francisco answered 12 seconds later, as Kaepernick
threw his fourth touchdown pass -- a 38-yarder to  Michael Crabtree  -- on the 49ers’ first play after a 62-yard kickoff
return by  LaMichael James . The teams traded field goals in the
final two minutes before the 49ers recovered an onside kick
attempt by the Patriots with 38 seconds left to seal the win.  “We knew they had the ability to do that, we just wanted
to keep scoring,” said Kaepernick, who completed 14 of 25
passes for 216 yards.  Wilson’s Touchdowns  The 49ers improved to 10-3-1 and maintained their lead atop
the NFC West over the Seattle Seahawks (9-5), who routed the
Buffalo Bills 50-17 for their third consecutive win. Seahawks
rookie Russell Wilson became the third quarterback in the past
10 years to rush for three touchdowns in a game, joining Cam Newton and Daunte Culpepper.  The Patriots, led by  Tom Brady ’s 443 passing yards and
 Danny Woodhead ’s two rushing touchdowns, fell to 10-4.  Matt Ryan  threw three touchdown passes in Atlanta as the
Falcons avenged their 24-2 loss to the Giants in last season’s
playoffs. The Falcons improved to 12-2, tied with Houston for
the NFL’s best record, while the Giants had three turnovers,
including two interceptions by  Eli Manning , to slip to 8-6.  “Atlanta was very, very good and we were very, very bad,”
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said at a news conference. “We came
out and did exactly what we said we couldn’t afford to do, which
was turn the ball over.”  Redskins’ Streak  The Redskins tied the Giants atop the NFC East by beating
the Cleveland Browns 38-21 behind backup quarterback Kirk
Cousins to extend their winning streak to five games. The
Cowboys also improved to 8-6 by defeating the Pittsburgh
Steelers 27-24 in overtime on a 21-yard field goal by Dan Bailey. Washington, which plays Philadelphia and Dallas to end
the regular season, holds the division lead in a tiebreaker.  Cowboys defensive tackle Josh Brent was on the sidelines in
street clothes for the game in Dallas, one week after being
charged with intoxication manslaughter for a one-car accident
that killed teammate  Jerry Brown . The Cowboys remembered Brown
with a moment of silence before kickoff, while Dallas’s players
wore a decal with Brown’s No. 53 on their helmets.  The Packers (10-4) clinched the NFC North division title
with a 21-13 victory at the Chicago Bears (8-6), who have lost
three straight. The Texans defeated the Indianapolis Colts 29-17
to capture the American Football Conference South division title
for the second straight season.  “It’s a great win for our team, for our city,” Texans
coach  Gary Kubiak  said. “We’ve been working toward that all
year long. To win a 12th game in this league is difficult.”  Nine Straight  The Denver Broncos ran their winning streak to nine games
with a 34-17 victory at Baltimore (9-5), which has lost three in
a row. The Broncos (11-3) had already locked up a playoff berth,
while the Ravens clinched a spot when the Steelers fell to 7-7
with their loss at Dallas.  The  Minnesota Vikings  beat the St. Louis Rams 36-22 as
running back  Adrian Peterson  rushed for 212 yards and a
touchdown. With two regular-season games left, Peterson has
1,812 yards rushing for the Vikings (8-6), 294 short of Eric Dickerson’s NFL record of 2,105 set in 1984.  Elsewhere in Week 15, the New Orleans Saints shut out the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers 41-0 as  Drew Brees  threw four touchdown
passes, while the Miami Dolphins beat the Jacksonville Jaguars
24-3, the Arizona Cardinals topped the Detroit Lions 38-10, the
Carolina Panthers downed the San Diego Chargers 31-7 and the
Oakland Raiders blanked the Kansas City Chiefs 15-0.  Jets-Titans  The Cincinnati Bengals started the Week 15 schedule four
days ago with a 34-13 win at the  Philadelphia Eagles . The  New
York Jets  visit the Tennessee Titans tonight, needing a win to
keep their playoff chances alive.  At 6-7, the Jets are in eighth place in the AFC, a half-
game behind the Steelers. The Colts (9-5) and Bengals (8-6) are
currently  in position  for the AFC’s two wild-card playoff spots.  The Giants’ playoff chances took a hit with their loss in
Atlanta, the first time New York has been shut out during the
regular season since a 24-0 loss to the Eagles on Dec. 1, 1996.  The Falcons, who are 7-0 at the Georgia Dome this season,
had already clinched the NFC South division title.  At 8-6, the Giants currently hold the ninth spot in the
NFC, with the conference’s two wild-card berths still up for
grabs along with the NFC East title. The Giants visit the Ravens
in Week 16 before finishing the regular season at home against
the Eagles.  “We have to win those two games,” Manning said. “What
else happens after that, we don’t know and can’t control.”  Winning Kick  In Arlington, Texas, the Cowboys intercepted the second
overtime pass from Steelers quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger , with
Brandon Carr returning it to Pittsburgh’s 1-yard line to set up
Bailey’s winning field goal. It was the fifth win in six games
for the Cowboys, who hold the NFC’s eighth seed behind Chicago.
Dallas next hosts the Saints before finishing the season at home
against Washington.  “You feel like every game you’re playing in is for your
playoff lives,” Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo  said after
passing for 341 yards and two touchdowns. “Our team has had to
have that attitude. We’ve taken that approach and we’ll continue
to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  