-- Fiji Braces as Deadly Cyclone Evan Approaches Pacific Islands
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-16T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/fiji-braces-for-cyclone-evan-as-australia-offers-aid-supplies.html
Fiji , an island chain in the South
Pacific, is bracing for the arrival of tropical cyclone Evan,
which left two people dead and 3,000 others homeless in Samoa
last week.  The category 4 cyclone was about 50 kilometers (31 miles)
east of the northwestern island of Yasawa-I-Rara at 8:02 a.m.
local time, moving at about 22 kilometers per hour, according to
the Fiji Meteorological Service  website . Winds at the storm’s
center will average 185 kilometers per hour, with some gusts as
strong as 270 kilometers per hour, the agency said.  “I cannot stress how serious this is -- every Fijian will
be affected,” Fiji’s Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “If the weather
forecasters are correct it will affect Fiji in a very damaging
way, bringing about destructive winds and flooding.”  The Australian government said it is monitoring the cyclone
and offered assistance to Fiji and  Samoa . More than 300,000
Australian tourists visit Fiji every year and  Australia  is the
nation’s largest aid donor, according to a statement from
Foreign Minister Bob Carr’s office in Canberra.  Some areas of Fiji were already without power and
experiencing flash flooding, New Zealand website  stuff.co.nz 
reported. Air New Zealand canceled flights today to the nation,
the website reported, citing a spokeswoman.  New Zealand will give NZ$50,000 ($42,335) in aid to Samoa,
including search assistance for missing fishermen, Radio New
Zealand reported on its website.  Fiji is a 332-island archipelago 3,240 kilometers northeast
of Australia. The cyclone season in the South Pacific region
runs from November to April and storms sometimes cause flooding
and landslides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  