-- First Quantum Increases Inmet Offer 2.9% to $5.18 Billion
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-12-17T21:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/first-quantum-increases-inmet-offer-2-9-to-5-18-billion.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , a
producer of copper in  Africa , raised its bid for  Inmet Mining
Corp. (IMN)  for a second time to about C$5.1 billion ($5.18 billion)
as it seeks control of the Cobre Panama project.  It’s offering C$72 in stock and cash for each Inmet share,
Vancouver-based First Quantum said yesterday in a statement.
That’s 36 percent more than Inmet’s closing price on Nov. 27,
the day before the Toronto-based company said it had rejected
two unsolicited offers from First Quantum. The bid is also 2.9
percent more than the prior offer of C$70 a share.  “I don’t see how two dollars gets them over the hurdle,”
John Goldsmith, deputy head of equities at Montrusco Bolton
Investments Inc. in Toronto, which manages C$5.2 billion
including First Quantum shares, said by telephone. “The
thinking originally was that this could go as high as C$75 to
C$80. Is this going to be a series of little increases?”  First Quantum said the deal would create a company capable
of becoming one of the world’s top-five copper producers within
five years. Copper prices have more than quadrupled in the past
10 years as demand at times outpaced supply. Cobre  Panama  is the
second-largest undeveloped copper deposit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and Toronto-based Inmet plans to spend
$6.2 billion developing the mine to produce an average of
266,000 tons a year of the metal.  Shareholder Talks  Inmet said today in a statement that it hasn’t yet received
the offer from First Quantum. Inmet said it will evaluate any
formal bid and and shareholders shouldn’t take any action for
now.  Inmet rose 4.3 percent to C$72.85 in Toronto. First Quantum
dropped 4 percent to C$20.11.  First Quantum said that after the disclosure of its initial
bid, it was approached by some “key” Inmet shareholders who
would support talks between the two companies. Its “clear
preference remains to engage with Inmet,” First Quantum
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Philip Pascall said in the
statement.  “The Cobre Panama project is the catalyst, if you like,
for our interest in Inmet,”  First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said yesterday by phone. “That’s a project we have been
monitoring for a long time along with all of the potentially
available copper projects in the world.”  In addition to its project in Panama, Inmet operates mines
in Finland, Spain and  Turkey .  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , based in
New York, owns 16 percent of Inmet and Temasek Holdings Pte
Ltd.,  Singapore ’s state investment company, has 11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Facility  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Jefferies Group Inc. and RBC
Capital Markets are advising First Quantum, which would fund
about 50 percent of the deal in shares and about 50 percent in
cash. First Quantum said it will use existing cash and is
arranging a $2.5 billion credit facility.  The C$72-a-share offer values Inmet at an enterprise value
7.6 times trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average multiple in four comparable copper deals
valued at $1 billion or more in the past five years is 10.5, the
data show.  A successful transaction would be the third-largest mining
company takeover announced this year, after Glencore
International Plc’s bid for Xstrata Plc and Sesa Goa Ltd.’s
offer for Sterlite Industries India Ltd., according to the data.  Congo Assets  First Quantum, founded in 1996 by Pascall, operates the
Kansanshi copper mine in  Zambia , the Guelb Moghrein copper and
gold mine in Mauritania and the Ravensthorpe nickel mine
 Australia .  In 2009, the Congolese government stripped First Quantum of
rights to the Kolwezi copper project. London-based Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. bought rights to Kolwezi the following
year and First Quantum began legal action against ENRC. The
dispute was settled in January when ENRC agreed to pay First
Quantum $1.25 billion for First Quantum’s share of the Kolwezi
and two other Congolese assets.  First Quantum is the world’s 13th-biggest copper producer
and predicts it will become the sixth-biggest in 2016, it said
in a February presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  