-- Fortescue Starts Talks to Sell Stake in Rail-Port Operations
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-12-17T07:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/fortescue-starts-talks-to-sell-stake-in-rail-port-operations.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the
 iron ore  producer that raised $4.5 billion in new loans three
months ago, started talks to sell a minority stake in its rail
and port infrastructure as it offloads assets.  Australia’s third-biggest iron ore company got inquiries
from strategic and financial parties interested in the assets,
leading to talks with a “small group” of investors, the Perth-
based company said today in a statement.  Fortescue Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said he was
assessing bids for the assets in an interview with Bloomberg
Television this month, days before agreeing to sell part of its
stake in a mine venture for A$190 million ($200 million). A 49
percent stake in the assets may be worth A$4 billion to A$5
billion, according to  Michael Evans , a resources analyst with
CIMB Securities (Australia) Ltd.  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty and offshore pension funds may be interested in
buying a stake, Chris Drew, a Sydney-based analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  said today by telephone. Iron ore producer Atlas
in May this year announced a study to build a railroad with
haulage company  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ)  as it expands production,
while Hancock is currently seeking A$7 billion in funding to
build the Roy Hill iron ore project, which is located close to
the Fortescue railroad.  Fortescue rose 3.7 percent to A$4.47 in Sydney trading, the
highest since Aug. 13.  ‘World Class’  “These investors recognize the world class infrastructure
assets which Fortescue has developed,” Fortescue CEO Power said
in the statement. “This provides an outstanding investment
opportunity.”  Fortescue appointed  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Macquarie Capital Group
Ltd. as financial advisers for the transaction.  The company in September slashed spending and cut jobs
after iron ore prices plunged to a three-year low that month,
before rebounding after China, the biggest buyer, announced
stimulus spending on bridges, roads and subways. Fortescue may
decide to restart an expansion to produce 155 million metric
tons annually by the end of this month, Power said this month.  The average price of  iron ore , Australia’s biggest export
commodity, has declined 24 percent to $128 a metric ton so far
this year compared with last year on slowing demand growth from
China. Prices will average $122 a ton next year, according to
the mean of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  