-- Li Ning Expects ‘Substantial’ Loss on Cost to Revive Growth
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-17T10:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/li-ning-expects-substantial-net-loss-on-cost-to-revive-growth.html
Li Ning Co., (2331)  the Chinese sportswear
retailer whose first-half profit fell 85 percent, forecast a
“substantial” full-year loss on costs stemming from a plan to
revive growth. The stock dropped.  The plan to boost results by reducing excess inventory,
getting newer products into stores and improving the sales
network will cost between 1.4 billion yuan ($224 million) and
1.8 billion yuan, Li Ning said in a statement today. It didn’t
provide an estimate for the full-year loss.  The Beijing-based sportswear retailer, founded by a former
Olympic gymnast of the same name, has battled declining  sales 
amid competition from Nike Inc.,  Adidas AG (ADS) , and  Anta Sports
Products Ltd. (2020)  Li Ning’s  first-half profit  plunged as higher
prices for materials, labor, rent and discounts for distributors
hurt profit margins and the company shut some stores.  “Li Ning’s annual loss will surely exceed analysts’
previous consensus estimates, but I believe the company is
taking decisive measures to tackle the inventory problem at
once.” Jerry Peng, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in
Shenzhen, southern  China , said by phone. “This should help in
improving its operation.”  Peng has a reduce rating on the stock and a price estimate
of HK$3.92.  Analysts expect Li Ning to report a net loss of 120.8
million  yuan  this year, according to the average of 11  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Fall  Li Ning dropped 3.9 percent to close at HK$4.70 in Hong
Kong trading today.  “This is a follow-up to our transformation plan to clear
our inventory,” Jin-Goon Kim, executive vice chairman, said on
a conference call today. “We believe this is the best way to
overcome the problem with a one-time, decisive action to revive
the channel.”  Backlog will be reduced through measures such as inventory
buybacks and by allowing wholesalers to swap old stock for new
products, Kim said. Expenses for the plan will take the form of
account receivable offsets and doesn’t impact the company’s cash
position, he said.  The sportswear company in July announced the departure of
Zhang Zhi Yong as chief executive officer. In January, Li Ning
said it would sell 750 million yuan of convertible bonds to TPG
Capital and  Singapore ’s sovereign fund to raise money for more
stores and product development.  Founder Li Ning was the final torchbearer at the opening
ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. He won three gold,
two silver and one bronze medals in the 23rd Los Angeles Olympic
Games in 1984, and founded the company after retiring from
athletics, according to the company’s annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  