-- Israel Electric to Expand Abroad to Lift Revenue Amid Losses
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-12-16T14:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/israel-electric-to-expand-abroad-to-lift-revenue-amid-losses-1-.html
Israel  Electric Corp. plans to
invest in power projects abroad to boost global revenue 25-fold
in five years as local regulation stifles the loss-making
utility’s efforts to tackle soaring fuel prices.  The state-owned energy provider asked for  government
permission to expand, Executive Vice President Yakov Hain said
in an interview. The Haifa-based company is seeking to emulate
European peers that since the 1990s have invested $62.9 billion
in international acquisitions, primarily in the U.S. power and
gas industries.  Limits on tariff increases in Israel prevented the company
from offsetting higher fuel costs after turmoil in Egypt cut gas
supplies. That contributed to a cash flow crunch and a nine-
month 1 billion-shekel ($356 million) loss this year compared
with a profit of 1 billion shekels a year earlier. The company
has asked domestic banks for a state-guaranteed 2 billion-shekel
loan, a person familiar with the matter said Dec. 13.  “Our plan is to boost annual revenues from international
activities in the coming five years to around 5 billion shekels
from the current 200 million shekels,” Hain said a Dec. 12
interview in  Tel Aviv . “We see growth opportunities by
expanding green energy projects in countries where we can
provide added value and where demand is great, including eastern
 Europe ,  South Africa  and  India .”  Financial Partners  The company, which expects to raise as much as 11 billion
shekels in Israel and abroad next year, said Nov. 29 that it
will bring its cash flow needs in order by the end of 2013. It
has raised 8 billion shekels this year to refinance debt and
cover running costs.  Israel Electric’s 6.5 percent bond maturing February 2015,
which soared to a year-high on Oct. 14, decreased for a third
day slipping 0.1 percent to 130.79 at today’s close in Israel,
according to data from the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange.  The utility’s plans include buying foreign power stations
as well as selling electricity and renewable energy services
abroad, Hain said. “We have the professional expertise to
become a leader in the global energy market and will look for
financial partners to fund projects.”  Israel Electric, which generates virtually all of the
country’s power, said last month that is not able to buy needed
fuels, which account for more than 70 percent of its operating
costs, without government help. The company has been forced to
buy more expensive alternative fuels amid a natural gas shortage
after a stoppage of long-standing pipeline from  Egypt  and a
decline in flows from the off-shore Yam Tethys gas field.  Private Producers  The company has signed a supply agreement for natural gas
from Israel’s offshore Tamar field, expected to start production
by the second quarter of next year. That will result in savings
of as much as 1 billion shekels in fuel costs each month,
according to the company.  Nascent private electricity producers are expected to
generate as much as 18 percent of the country’s electricity by
2014, Israel Electric said in its third quarter report. The
government seeks to have private producers generate 20 percent
of the state’s capacity by 2020.  The utility last month brought forward to this year 2
billion shekels in state-guaranteed debt from 2013 to bridge a
 cash flow  gap of 1.45 billion shekels. The company was reported
Dec. 13 to be seeking 2 billion shekels in government-guaranteed
loans from local banks.  Fierce Regulation  On Dec. 12, the  Finance Ministry  transferred to the energy
provider 435 million shekels confiscated from taxes collected by
the government on behalf of the  Palestinian Authority . Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz said the utility is owed “hundreds of
millions of shekels” for power supplied to Gaza and the  West
Bank .  Global energy companies are able to generate better profits
while Israel’s fierce regulation hampers growth possibilities,
Hain said. The utility is subject to the Electricity Sector Law,
which regulates tariffs and determines the terms and conditions
for entry of private and non-private energy companies into the
industry.  “The development strategy to expand abroad is not
impossible, but premature,” said Mikhail Galkin, head of credit
research at VTB Capital in Moscow. “There are more immediate
issues that need to be fixed, including deleveraging to turn the
company from a cash-burning into a cash-earning machine.”  The company’s aspirations build on its experience over the
past five years as part of engineering and energy project
management contracts with Levallois-Perret, France-based  Alstom
SA (ALO)  and South Africa’s power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.
Other contracts include engineering services, design of solar
plants and power stations in India,  Greece ,  Spain  and  Angola .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  