-- ‘Hobbit’ $84.6 Take Million Propels Studios’ March to Record
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-17T21:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/jackson-s-hobbit-tops-weekend-box-office-with-84-8-million.html
“The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,” part one of a 3-D trilogy based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s
novel, generated $84.6 million in weekend sales at U.S. and
Canadian cinemas, propelling studios toward an annual record.  The film from director  Peter Jackson ,  Warner Bros. (TWX) ’ New
Line Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. set a new weekend mark
for a December opening, topping “I Am Legend,” starring  Will Smith , which had $77.2 million in sales in 2007, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in a statement. It also
outdrew “The Return of the King,” the last of Jackson’s
earlier trilogy from Tolkien’s “Lord of the Rings.”  With films from  Tom Cruise ,  Hugh Jackman ,  Quentin Tarantino 
and Judd Apatow joining “The Hobbit” in wide release by
Christmas, Hollywood looks set to pass the 2009 domestic sales
record of $10.6 billion,  Hollywood.com  said. Reports from Imax
and AMC theaters suggest fans of “The Hobbit” liked new film-
speed technology designed to boost realism and make watching in
3-D more comfortable.  “The high frame rates were the best-performing screen
averages,” Dan Fellman,  Warner Bros . president of domestic
theatrical distribution, said in an interview. “Imax sent me
their breakdown and AMC had very similar results. It looks like
it’s the choice fans are making.”  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” is the first movie
filmed and shown at 48 frames a second, double the usual rate.
While critics such as Kenneth Turan of the Los Angeles Times
urged fans to see conventional screenings, Jackson said the
technology creates a “more immersive, realistic feel” and
eliminates blurring in action scenes in regular 3-D pictures.  Adding Credibility  “Peter Jackson kind of took the first leap with this
technology and definitely lent some credibility to it,” said
 Eric Wold , a B. Riley & Co. analyst in San Francisco. “Whatever
they can do to advance the 3-D experience will definitely make
the consumers more comfortable paying the extra price.”  The film was expected to take in about $75 million over the
weekend, said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s
box-office unit. Ben Mogil, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., estimated $80 million. “The Hobbit” also collected $138.2
million internationally, bringing its worldwide total to $223
million, according to Dergarabedian.  In “The Hobbit,” Bilbo Baggins is recruited by the wizard
Gandalf to join an expedition of dwarves seeking to reclaim
their homeland and a treasure lost to the dragon Smaug. The book
was published in 1937, almost two decades before the first of
Tolkien’s “Rings” novels.  Supplemental Material  Jackson has said he has drawn from Tolkien’s notes and
appendices to provide enough material for three films. “The
Hobbit” stars Martin Freeman as Bilbo. Ian McKellen returns as
Gandalf from the Rings trilogy. His character has a larger role
in the film than he gets in Tolkien’s book.  Andy Serkis again plays Gollum, the slimy, half-naked
creature from the Rings trilogy that features motion-capture
technology. The second movie in the new trilogy, “The Hobbit:
The Desolation of Smaug,” is scheduled for release next year,
according to Internet Movie Database.  Hollywood heads into the final two weekends of 2012 with
$10.2 billion in domestic revenue, up 6 percent from a year
earlier in sales and attendance, according to Hollywood.com.  Christmas Releases  Four films open in wide release this week, including “Jack
Reacher,” a crime drama from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures
with Cruise in the title role. On Dec. 19 Paramount also opens
“The Guilt Trip” with  Barbra Streisand  and Seth Rogen.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar brings back “Monsters Inc. in 3-D the same
day and Comcast Corp.’s Universal Pictures opens ‘‘This Is 40,’’
from ‘‘Knocked Up’’ director Apatow, on Dec. 21.  They’re followed on Christmas Day by three films making
their debut in wide release: Weinstein Co.’s ‘‘Django
Unchained,” directed by Tarantino, Universal’s “ Les
Miserables ,” a musical with Jackman,  Russell Crowe  and  Anne Hathaway , and “Parental Guidance,” a comedy from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox studio featuring Billy Crystal and Bette Midler.  Among returning films, “Rise of the Guardians” had sales
of $7.1 million to place second for the weekend. The film from
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  pits storybook figures such as
Santa Claus, Jack Frost and the Sandman against an evil force
threatening children.  “Lincoln,”  Steven Spielberg ’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, placed third
with receipts of $7 million, bringing its domestic total to
$107.7 million. It was produced by the director’s DreamWorks
Studios and is being distributed by Walt Disney Co.  James Bond  The James Bond thriller “Skyfall” took in $6.6 million
for distributor  Sony Corp. (6758)  and partner Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in
fourth place in its sixth week of release. Global sales to date
total $951 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 18 percent to
$129.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.  “It’s been a pretty broad recovery since the summer,”
Wold said. “The strength has been pretty broad-based in a
number of different titles and dramas, not just in a single
movie.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
14 to Dec. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  