-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed After LDP Reclaims Power
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-16T23:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-after-ldp-reclaims-power.html
Japanese stock futures were little
changed after the  Liberal Democratic Party  reclaimed power in a
landslide weekend election victory. Australian shares fell as
China signaled its new leaders may accept slower growth.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of sales abroad, climbed 0.8
percent. Shares of  Asahi Glass Co. (5201)  may move after the Nikkei
newspaper said the glass manufacturer is likely to miss its
profit forecast. Fairfax Media Ltd., Australia’s second-largest
newspaper company, rose 2.9 percent in Sydney after selling its
remaining 51 percent stake in Trade Me Ltd., a New Zealand
online auction site, for A$616 million ($650 million).  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  were bid in the
pre-market at 9,750 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time compared to
the futures contracts closing level of 9,755 in Chicago last
week and 9,760 in Osaka, Japan. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
slipped 0.1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.2
percent.  There’s a belief “of political change and the prospect of
more radical action from the  Bank of Japan  when current leader
Masaaki Shirakawa steps down in early April,” said  Chris Weston , chief market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne.  Shinzo Abe’s LDP yesterday captured 294 seats in the 480-
member lower house of parliament, while Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda ’s  Democratic Party  of Japan lost three-fourths of its
lawmakers, according to public broadcaster NHK’s vote count.
Abe, 58, is set to replace Noda, returning to the office he left
five years ago for health reasons.  Yen Weakens  The Japanese yen weakened to the lowest level against the
dollar since April 2011 on bets Abe’s party will reshape the
Bank of Japan’s leadership after Governor Shirakawa steps down
in April. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average has gained 12 percent
since Nov. 14, when the ruling party said it would call
elections, with bets an opposition party calling for more
monetary easing would win. Abe, as Japan’s seventh leader in six
years, will inherit a country in recession, still reeling from
the 2011 earthquake and nuclear crisis, and embroiled in a
diplomatic dispute with  China .  China said it will seek a higher “quality and efficiency”
of growth next year, signaling new leaders may accept a reduced
pace of expansion in exchange for a more sustainable model.  There was no mention of seeking “relatively fast” growth,
a policy in place since 2006, in a report yesterday by the
state-run Xinhua News Agency after the annual central economic
work conference in Beijing. Leaders vowed to target “sustained
and healthy development” as they maintain a “prudent”
monetary policy and “proactive” fiscal stance, Xinhua said.  U.S. Futures  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.2 percent today.
The gauge dropped 0.4 percent on Dec. 14, for the first weekly
decline in a month, as budget talks overshadowed the  Federal
Reserve ’s plan to expand bond purchases and better-than-
estimated economic data.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  offered to raise income tax
rates on households earning more than $1 million a year in
exchange for containing the cost of federal entitlement
programs, as part of a deal with President  Barack Obama  to cut
the federal deficit, according to two people familiar with the
talks.  The offer, made in a Dec. 14 phone call between the two
leaders, marks the first time Boehner has entertained an
increase in income-tax rates in his talks with Obama to avoid
more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and across-
the-board tax increases set to start next month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index last week gained 1 percent,
with the gauge capping its longest streak of daily gains since
January 2004. The benchmark equities index rose 17 percent from
this year’s low on June 4 through Dec. 14 as central banks from
the U.S., Europe, Japan and China took action to spur economic
growth. The gauge traded at 14.4 times average estimated
earnings, compared with 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.4 percent to 95.82 in New
York on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  