-- Japan’s LDP Reclaims Power in Landslide With Abe Stimulus
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-12-17T08:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/japan-voters-go-to-polls-with-ldp-forecast-to-topple-noda-s-dpj.html
Japan ’s Liberal Democratic Party won
a landslide victory that returns it to power three years after
surrendering a half-century grip on the government.  Shinzo Abe’s LDP yesterday captured 294 seats in the 480-
member lower house of parliament, while Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan lost three-fourths of its
lawmakers, according to public broadcaster NHK’s vote count.
Abe, 58, is set to replace Noda, returning to the office he left
five years ago for health reasons.  The yen fell to a 20-month low against the dollar and
stocks rose to an eight-month high on expectations Abe will
expand monetary and fiscal stimulus in a bid to defeat
deflation. Japan’s seventh leader in six years, he inherits a
country in recession, still reeling from the 2011 earthquake and
nuclear disaster, and embroiled in a diplomatic dispute with
 China , with an upper house election only seven months away.  “Abe’s popularity will disappear very quickly if he does
something wishy-washy or overreacts and leads Japan into a real
crisis with China,” said Aiji Tanaka, a political science
professor at Waseda University in Tokyo. “If he is calm and
handles the situation well, he can keep up the momentum until
July. The DPJ is now a medium-sized party. They performed very
badly and disappointed almost everyone in Japan.”  A special parliamentary session to vote on the new prime
minister may be held Dec. 26, Abe said today, adding that he had
not decided on any Cabinet appointments yet. Former Prime
Minister Taro Aso may be named finance minister, Kyodo News
reported, without saying where it got the information.  ‘Break Out’  “Japan is currently in a crisis in terms of the economy,
diplomacy, education and recovery from the catastrophe in the
northeast,” Abe said at a press conference in  Tokyo . “The job
we have been given is to break out of this crisis.”  The DPJ, which had 230 lower house lawmakers before the
election, won 57 seats. Noda, 55, said he will step down as
party leader to take responsibility for the loss. Eight Cabinet
ministers lost their seats, including Finance Minister Koriki Jojima and Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura. The party
plans a leadership election on Dec. 22, Kyodo News said.  LDP partner New Komeito won 31 seats, giving the coalition
a two-thirds majority that would enable it to override most
decisions by the upper house, where the DPJ is the largest
party. The Japan Restoration Party of ex-Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara and Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto won 54 seats.  A dozen parties campaigned for the lower house, which is
made up of 300 single-member constituencies and 180
proportionally apportioned seats. Turnout was 59.3 percent, the
worst for a lower house election since World War Two, NHK said.  Personal Comeback  The DPJ, undermined by internal squabbling, retreated from
pledges to shrink the bureaucracy and boost child welfare.
Support for Noda, the party’s third premier in as many years,
fell as he passed a bill doubling the sales tax and restarted
atomic power plants after the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  The LDP victory marks a personal comeback for Abe, who quit
as premier in 2007 after a year in office, citing a stomach
ailment. His economic policies include “unlimited easing” by
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to reach a 2 percent inflation target and
increased public works spending.  “We got a lot of support for our plans during the
election,” Abe said. He added that he expects the BOJ to take
the election results into account and make “appropriate
decisions” at its next policy meeting on Dec. 19 and 20.  Market Reaction  The yen fell to as low as 84.48 per dollar, the weakest
since April 2011, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose .09
percent to close at the highest level since April 3. Japanese
government bonds fell, driving up 10-year yields 1 basis point
to 0.735 percent, the highest since Nov. 26.  A central bank report last week illustrated the challenges
Abe will face, with confidence among large Japanese
manufacturers sliding to the lowest level in almost three years.
The Bank of Japan’s  quarterly Tankan index  fell to minus 12 in
December, the fifth straight release in which pessimists
outnumbered optimists.  The world’s third-largest economy contracted in the  second
and third quarters , meeting the technical definition of a
recession.  The LDP leader has also called for strengthening control
over the islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China,
and has pledged to boost defense spending. Japan’s purchase of
the island chain in September sparked violent demonstrations in
China and damaged the $340 billion trade relationship between
the world’s second-and third-largest economies.  China Ties  “The relationship with China is one of the most important
for Japan,” Abe said, while adding that “we are not in a
situation where we could hold a summit straight away, or where I
could visit China.”  Failure to make progress on the economy or regional ties
could mean Abe loses support as rapidly as his five
predecessors, each of whom was out of office within 15 months.  “In all likelihood, the bloom will be off the rose by next
summer’s upper house election,” said Gregory Noble, a professor
of politics at the University of Tokyo. “The underlying fact is
that the economy is terrible and is not likely to get better
soon, and as a result voters are unhappy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  