-- No Flying Cars, but the Future Is Bright
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-12-16T23:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/no-flying-cars-but-the-future-is-bright.html
It has been 40 years since the last
astronauts left the moon. That anniversary, which passed last
week, has put some prominent technologists in a funk.  “You promised me Mars colonies. Instead, I got Facebook,”
reads the cover of the current issue of MIT Technology Review.
In an  essay  titled “Why We Can’t Solve Big Problems,” editor
Jason Pontin considers “why there are no disruptive innovations”
today.  Technology Review’s  headline , running below the face of
Apollo astronaut Buzz Aldrin, now 82, is a play on another
slogan: “We wanted flying cars. Instead we got 140 characters.”
That one comes from the manifesto of  Founders Fund , a Silicon
Valley venture-capital firm started by PayPal founders  Peter Thiel , Luke Nosek and Ken Howery to invest in “transformational
technologies and companies.” (Among their investments is Space
X, the launch-system business founded by  Elon Musk .)  In speeches, interviews and articles, Thiel decries what he
sees as the country’s lack of significant innovations. “When
tracked against the admittedly lofty hopes of the 1950s and
1960s, technological progress has fallen short in many domains,”
he  wrote  last year in National Review. “Consider the most
literal instance of non­acceleration: We are no longer moving
faster.”  Such warnings serve a useful purpose. Political barriers
have in fact made it harder to innovate with atoms than with
bits. New technologies as diverse as  hydraulic fracturing  and
direct-to-consumer  genetic testing  (neither mentioned by Thiel)
attract instant and predictable opposition. As Thiel writes,
“Progress is neither automatic nor mechanistic; it is rare.”  Vivid Visions  But the current funk says less about economic or
technological reality than it does about the power of a certain
20th-century technological glamour: all those images of space
flight, elevated highways and flying cars, with their promise of
escape from mundane existence into a better, more exciting place
called The Future. These visions imprinted themselves so vividly
on the public’s consciousness that they left some of the
smartest, most technologically savvy denizens of the 21st
century blind to much of the progress we actually enjoy.  “The future that people in the 1960s hoped to see is still
the future we’re waiting for today, half a century later,”
writes Founders Fund partner Bruce Gibney in the firm’s
manifesto. “Instead of Captain Kirk and the USS Enterprise, we
got the Priceline Negotiator and a cheap flight to Cabo.”  He forgets just how exotic airplane travel was for the
typical TV viewer in 1966, when “ Star Trek ” debuted. Today’s
cheap and easily booked flights let a lot more people fly. That
means the average speed at which someone travels over a lifetime
can increase even if, as Thiel laments, the fastest vehicle on
the planet is no faster than it was decades ago. Making an
impressive technology widely available isn’t as glamorous as
pushing the technological frontier, but it represents
significant, real-life progress.  The world we live in would be wondrous to mid-20th-century
Americans. It just isn’t wondrous to us. One reason is that we
long ago ceased to notice some of the most unexpected
innovations.  Forget the big, obvious things like Internet search, GPS,
smartphones or  molecularly targeted cancer treatments . Compared
with the real 21st century, old projections of The Future
offered a paucity of fundamentally new technologies. They
included no laparoscopic surgery or effective acne treatments or
ADHD medications or Lasik or lithotripsy -- to name just a few
medical advances that don’t significantly affect  life
expectancy .  Smaller Innovations  The glamorous future included no digital photography or
stereo speakers tiny enough to fit in your ears. No forensic DNA
testing or home pregnancy tests. No ubiquitous microwave ovens
or video games or bar codes or laser levels or CGI-filled
movies. No  super absorbent polymers  for disposable diapers --
indeed, no disposable diapers of any kind.  Nor was much business innovation evident in those 20th
century visions. The glamorous future included no FedEx or Wal-
Mart, no Starbucks or Nike or Craigslist -- culturally
transformative enterprises that use technology but derive their
real value from organization and insight. Nobody used  shipping
containers  or optimized supply chains. The manufacturing
revolution that began at Toyota never happened. And forget about
such complex but quotidian inventions as wickable fabrics or
 salad in a bag .  The point isn’t that people in the past failed to predict
all these innovations. It’s that people in the present take them
for granted.  Technologists who lament the “end of the future” are
denigrating the decentralized, incremental advances that
actually improve everyday life. And they’re promoting a
truncated idea of past innovation: economic history with
railroads but no department stores, radio but no ready-to-wear
apparel, vaccines but no consumer packaged goods, jets but no
plastics.  “Economic change in all periods depends, more than most
economists think, on what people believe,” observes the economic
historian Joel Mokyr. If a few venture capitalists believe that
“transformational technologies” are worth betting on, we may see
some bold ideas come to fruition. But if they also convince the
general public that the only worthwhile technological
initiatives are splashy ventures that rate mentions in a  State
of the Union  address, we won’t have more technological progress.
We’ll have less.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. Follow her on
Twitter. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 