-- Obama Meets With Families as Town Grieves for Victims
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-12-16T23:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/obama-meets-with-families-as-town-grieves-for-victims.html
As the nation joined a Connecticut
town in mourning the 20 children and six adults killed at an
elementary school, President  Barack Obama  met privately with the
families of the victims and the emergency workers who were first
on the scene of the massacre.  Obama arrived in Newtown, Connecticut, two days after the
tragedy and as authorities were still trying to piece together a
motive for the second-deadliest mass shooting in the U.S.  The president also will address a memorial service at
Newtown High School for the victims of the Dec. 14 killings. It
marks the fourth time during his presidency he has gone to a
city to console families after a lone gunman emptied magazines
of ammunition into unsuspecting victims.  On the day of the slaughter, Obama made an emotional call
for “meaningful action,” signaling that he may be prepared to
push for stronger gun-control laws, an issue that didn’t get
attention in his first term, even after three other high profile
mass shootings. In the days since, members of his party and gun-
control advocates have pressed him for specifics and urged him
to take a concrete stand on the subject.  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , an independent,
faulted Obama for failing to act on an assault weapons ban and
other restrictions, while congressional Democrats promised
hearings and legislation.  Stricter Regulation  Bloomberg, co-chairman of  Mayors Against Illegal Guns ,
urged Congress to renew a 1994 ban on military-style firearms
that expired in 2004. He called for improved databases to trace
gun ownership, stricter enforcement of gun trafficking and more
laws to prevent sales to criminals.  “We don’t need people carrying guns in public places,”
Bloomberg said today on NBC’s ‘Meet the Press’’ program.
“That’s not what the founding fathers had in mind. It doesn’t
add to anybody’s safety. Quite the contrary, it makes us have a
much more dangerous society.”  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and a
member of the Judiciary Committee, said she’ll intensify her
push to renew the assault-weapons ban that expired in 2004.
Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin , who heads the Judiciary
Committee’s panel on the constitution and civil rights, said he
will hold hearings.  For Obama, expressing empathy and providing context in the
midst of tragedy is becoming a familiar role.  Just five months ago, the president sought to comfort
families after a mass shooting that left 12 dead at a movie
theatre in Aurora,  Colorado .  He traveled to Tucson,  Arizona , on Jan. 12, 2011, for a
memorial service after the Jan. 7 attempted assassination of
then-Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , where six were killed
and 13 wounded. In his first year as commander-in-chief, Obama
went to Fort Hood,  Texas , for a memorial service for 13 people
killed there by a U.S. Army psychiatrist.  Obama traveled to Newtown with Connecticut Representatives
Rosa DeLauro and John Larson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  