-- Moody’s Gets No Respect as Bonds Shun 56% of Country Ratings
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-12-17T14:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/moody-s-getting-no-respect-as-bonds-shun-56-of-country-ratings.html
The global  bond market  disagreed
with Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s more often
than not this year when the companies told investors that
governments were becoming safer or more risky.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of the 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s worse than the longer-term
average of 47 percent, based on more than 300 changes since
1974. This year, investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating
and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by S&P.  For national debt, following decisions of the arbiters of
credit risk is less reliable than flipping a coin for
determining borrowing costs. While the companies face legal
proceedings and more regulation after contributing to the worst
financial calamity since the Great Depression, politicians cite
the grades as one reason for austerity when Europe is in
recession and the  Federal Reserve  has cut its growth forecast.  “Policy makers should be more preoccupied with the market
than with the ratings companies, because that’s where the real
costs bear out,” Brett Wander, the chief investment officer for
fixed income in San Francisco at Charles Schwab Investment
Management Inc., which oversees about $200 billion, said in a
telephone interview Dec. 14. “Credit-rating agencies
historically lag the real economic fundamentals, whereas markets
are ahead.”  European Downgrades  Moody’s, which helped start the business of ranking
companies by their ability to repay debt in 1909, has downgraded
6.4 government ratings for every upgrade this year in the U.S.
and Europe, the highest ratio since at least 2002, Bloomberg
data show. S&P has cut 4.3 rankings for every increase.  Even so, European bonds are having their best year since
1998, returning 11.5 percent through Dec. 14, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro Government Index. The best
bonds in the world were Greek securities, which gained 84
percent, and Portuguese notes, up 55 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analyst
Societies.  Yields on all  government securities  declined to a record
low 1.36 percent on Nov. 28, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data going back to 1996. The bonds returned
4.5 percent this year.  Crisis Response  “If ever there was proof positive that ratings were a
lagging indicator, it’s certainly been true with the way the
rating agencies have responded to” Europe’s three-year debt
crisis, Bonnie Baha, the head of global developed credit at Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees more than
$50 billion, said Dec. 12 in a telephone interview. The gap
between Treasury yields and those of other bonds is more
reliable, she said.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note decreased eight
basis points last week to 1.70 percent, as negotiations stalled
between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  to
avert mandatory tax increases and spending cuts. The rate
increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.72
percent as of 9:12 a.m. in  New York .  S&P and Moody’s say they aren’t predicting yields.  “Ratings are really just a rank ordering of our opinion of
relative credit worthiness based on our criteria,” Peter Rigby,
a credit analyst at S&P, the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill
Cos., said Aug. 16 in a telephone interview. “It’s neither an
objective nor goal or intent to determine yields or prices.
Obviously, investors do that using a whole host of information
and different investors have their different valuation
objectives.”  ‘One Objective’  Eduardo Barker, a spokesman for Moody’s, declined to
comment. Richard Cantor, the company’s chief credit officer,
said in May in an e-mail that “we have only one objective,
which is to assign ratings that are indicative of the relative
risk of default and losses.”  S&P, Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings , a unit of Paris-based
Fimalac SA, provided more than 99 percent of rankings of
government, municipal, and sovereign debt and 96 percent of all
outstanding grades last year, according to a Nov. 15 U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission report.  One reason for the divergence between bond performance and
ratings is that investors with the most at stake may act before
Moody’s and S&P.  “I don’t agree that markets don’t care about ratings,”
Peter Palfrey, who helps oversee $182 billion at Loomis Sayles
and Co. in Boston, said Dec. 11 in an interview. Changes are
“largely priced into the market already.” Palfrey is a co-
manager of the Natixis Loomis Sayles Core Plus  Bond Fund (NEFRX) , which
has beaten 98 percent of its peers for the past five years,
Bloomberg data show.  Sovereign Purchases  Central banks’ buying unprecedented amounts of government
securities to pump money into their financial systems and keep
 interest rates  low is also driving the divergence between
ratings and bond performance, according to Jason Brady, a
managing director in Santa Fe, New Mexico, at Thornburg
Investment Management, which oversees $83 billion.  The  European Central Bank  said it will buy bonds of Spain,
which is rated one level above non-investment grade, and Italy
if requested. The ECB has expanded its balance sheet by about
702 billion euros ($924 billion) since November 2011. Europe’s
economy is forecast to shrink 0.14 percent this year and to
expand 0.4 percent in 2013, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Fed Stimulus  In the U.S., the Fed will buy $85 billion a month of
Treasuries and mortgage bonds starting next month after the
 Federal Open Market Committee  reduced its growth forecast for
next year to as little as 2.3 percent from as low as 2.5
percent. The central bank will absorb about 90 percent of net
new dollar-denominated fixed-income assets next year, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Even before the latest stimulus efforts, government
securities were moving contrary to decisions by Moody’s and S&P.
Since the U.S and France were stripped of their top AAA
rankings, their bonds surged.  Rates on 10-year French debt fell to 1.98 percent from 2.07
percent on Nov. 19 when it was cut by Moody’s. Yields on
similar-maturity Treasuries tumbled to a record low 1.379
percent in July from 2.56 percent on Aug. 5, 2011, just before
the U.S. was downgraded by S&P.  After the Treasury Department said S&P made a $2 trillion
error in its calculations, the company switched the budget
projections it was using and proceeded with the downgrade. S&P
denied it made a mistake and said using the government’s
preferred fiscal scenario didn’t affect its decision.  S&P Backed  While 67 percent of 1,031 global investors in a Bloomberg
Global Poll in September 2011 said S&P’s move was justified,
 Warren Buffett , the world’s second-richest person according to
Bloomberg Billionaires Indexes, said the U.S. should be
“quadruple-A.” Buffett is Moody’s biggest shareholder.  Rising borrowing has prompted downgrades. European
government debt climbed to 90 percent of gross domestic product
in the second quarter from 66 percent in December 2007, data
from Luxembourg-based Eurostat show. That ratio in the U.S. is
expected to increase to more than 70 percent by the end of 2012
from about 36 percent at the end of 2007, according to a
 Congressional Budget Office  forecast.  Moody’s said Sept. 11 it may follow S&P in removing the
U.S.’s top rating unless politicians can contain the growing
ratio of debt to GDP. Boehner, a Republican from Ohio,  said  the
warning underscores his contention that rising debt is
imperiling jobs.  France, Finland  France’s downgrade was “strong encouragement,” to pursue
austerity, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said Nov. 20 in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan in Paris.
“Yes, we need to reduce our deficits.”  Finland, rated AAA by the three-biggest ranking companies,
is increasing austerity measures next year even after its
economy sank into a recession in the second quarter. The Nordic
nation has cut spending and increased taxes to keep its top
credit score.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  raised taxes and reduced
outlays in 2010 to save its AAA rating, freezing pay for police,
teachers, nurses and doctors, and capping welfare payments. S&P
lowered its outlook on the country to negative from stable Dec.
13, citing the weak economy.  “Deciding on policy choices is the domain of governments
and their advisors,” S&P said June 22 in a report. “We have
not taken sides in the growth vs. austerity debate.”  Rating companies face increased regulation after a U.S.
Senate panel found they provided inflated grades for risky
mortgage bonds that helped cause the credit crisis in 2007 and
2008 that tipped the global economy into a recession.  Australian Ruling  An Australian judge ruled S&P misled investors by giving
its highest ratings to securities whose value plunged during the
global financial crisis. The company was “misleading and
deceptive” in its grading of two structured debt issues in
2006, Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot said in her Nov. 5
ruling.  The company will appeal, S&P President Douglas Peterson
said Nov. 29 at a conference at  Columbia University  in New York.
“We believe investors are sophisticated and have to read
documents and actually have fiduciary responsibilities.”  Japan’s Financial Services Agency last week said it ordered
S&P’s Japan unit to improve its system for verifying and
updating ratings.  Policy makers have been searching for a way to ensure
credit grades are accurate after the Dodd-Frank law in 2010
instructed regulators to stop relying on the ratings and
increase oversight of the companies that issue them.  Survey Method  The European Union may require the companies to pick three
days a year when they could give unsolicited assessments of
governments’ creditworthiness, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes, a
lawmaker involved in the plans. They may get a chance to issue
reports that haven’t been requested and paid for by clients
outside those dates if they can show regulators that events
warrant them.  Bloomberg compiled data on changes in credit outlook and
ratings along with bond yields for 30 countries as far back as
1974. They are Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, The
Netherlands,  New Zealand , Norway, Portugal, Russia,  South Korea ,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the U.K. and the U.S.  The data measured government bond yields after a month
relative to U.S. Treasuries, the benchmark measure for debt
risk, to allow time for markets to adjust to assessment changes
while minimizing the effects of subsequent unrelated events.  IMF Study  In a January 2012 analysis of Moody’s rating changes,
International Monetary Fund researchers looked at  credit
derivatives  to show prices moved in the expected direction 45
percent of the time for developed countries and 51 percent for
emerging economies. For outlook changes, the ratios were 67
percent and 63 percent.  “Do investors really care about another U.S. downgrade? My
opinion is no,” James Sarni, senior managing partner at Los
Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, which manages $75 billion, said
Nov. 8 in a telephone interview. “It’s part of a larger mosaic
that ultimately determines what happens to rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  