-- Moscovici Says 2013 Will Be ‘Very Difficult,’ JDD Reports
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-16T12:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/moscovici-says-2013-will-be-very-difficult-jdd-reports.html
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said 2013 will be a “very difficult year” of weak
economic growth, according to an interview published in Le
 Journal du Dimanche .  The end of this year will be “especially” difficult, the
minister was quoted as saying by the weekly newspaper.  France 
will still keep its growth and deficit targets and focus on
lowering debt, he said.  The country is targeting gross domestic product expansion
of 0.8 percent next year, which would help reduce the  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of GDP. Business confidence and industrial
production indicators published earlier this month unexpectedly
declined, indicating the economy is on the verge of its second
recession in three years.  Moscovici rejected a claim made last week by  Laurence Parisot , head of business lobby group Medef, that the country is
already in recession, according to the newspaper. Next year’s
economic targets can be met if “uncertainties” surrounding the
euro are lifted and France is able to attract investment and
sustain  consumer spending , he told the  Journal du Dimanche .  French debt compared with growth is “at the limit” of a
level consistent with the country’s AAA rating,  Fitch Ratings 
said two days ago. There is a slightly greater than 50 percent
chance of a French downgrade, the agency said.  President  Francois Hollande  has announced about 27 billion
euros ($35 billion) of tax increases since coming to power
earlier this year as he struggles to cut the deficit and raise
competitiveness. Even so, the government risks missing its 3
percent deficit target as growth disappoints, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Commission have said.  Labor Talks  Talks between employers and unions aimed at making French
employment laws more flexible may lead to an agreement this
week, Labor Minister Michel Sapin told Europe 1 radio today. The
rules will in any case be overhauled to reduce unemployment, he
said.  “All conditions for an agreement” to be signed are
present, he told the radio station. “The government wants a
deep reform.”  The government won’t give an additional increase to the
country’s minimum wage on Jan. 1, Sapin added. An adjustment to
the minimum will be announced tomorrow and it could be further
modified when growth returns to the French economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  