-- Tottenham Beats Swansea in League; West Brom, West Ham Tie 0-0
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/tottenham-beats-swansea-in-league-west-brom-west-ham-tie-0-0.html
Tottenham beat Swansea City 1-0
yesterday to climb to fourth in English soccer’s Premier League,
with West Bromwich Albion missing a chance to join it on points
after being held to a 0-0 home tie by West Ham.  Belgium defender Jan Vertonghen got the only goal for
Spurs, who are behind third-place Chelsea on goal difference.
Tottenham retains its record of never having lost to Swansea at
White Hart Lane.  “I think if there was one team to win this game it was
us,” Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas told reporters. “We
were very patient and persistent in what we were doing and kept
moving the ball well.”  Manchester United tops the standings with 42 points and
Manchester City has 36, with Chelsea and Tottenham on 29.
Everton and West Brom are a further two points back. Chelsea,
which lost 1-0 to  Brazil ’s Corinthians in yesterday’s final of
the FIFA Club World Cup, has played one match fewer than its
rivals.  After a quiet opening spell, Tottenham created a host of
chances in the first half without being able to convert any.
Jermain Defoe had the first clear opportunity after 12 minutes
with a low shot that goalkeeper Gerhard Tremmel easily saved.  Two minutes later, the England striker had a shot blocked
after running onto a pass from Mousa Dembele. Emmanuel Adebayor
was denied moments later by a Chico Flores block.  Clint Dempsey was unable to score with a close-range header
and Aaron Lennon also tested the goalkeeper, while Kyle Walker
hit a powerful 25-yard shot that Tremmel managed to stop with
his shoulder.  Swansea Chances  Swansea also had chances, with Wayne Routledge just failing
to connect with a right-wing cross, and three minutes before the
interval Michu almost beat goalkeeper Hugo Lloris from near the
halfway line.  Early in the second half, Swansea’s Nathan Dyer headed
wide from six yards before Spurs started to apply pressure
again. Tremmel turned a low Adebayor shot wide and collected a
looping header by Vertonghen.  Adebayor limped off the field with a hamstring injury and
soon after his team finally scored. A free kick by Walker was
flicked on in the penalty area and Vertonghen hit a first-time
shot into the bottom corner.  Swansea tried to rally, but was unable to test Lloris in
the final 15 minutes.  West Brom ended a run of three straight defeats, but failed
to score for a third successive game in its stalemate against
West Ham.  James Morrison came closest for West Brom at The Hawthorns,
heading against the bar from a Chris Brunt corner on 74 minutes.  Attacking Threat  The hosts provided the greater attacking threat and pinned
the Hammers back in their half for much of the game.  West Ham did, though, also have opportunities. Carlton Cole
tested goalkeeper Boaz Myhill with a powerful shot on 36
minutes, and Gary O’Neil curled an effort just wide six minutes
into the second half.  “It was a real honest, solid performance from the players,”
West Ham manager Sam Allardyce told Sky Sports. “We defended
very well.”  The Hammers remain 11th in the standings.  Two days ago, Manchester United defeated Sunderland 3-1,
City won 3-1 at Newcastle, and Everton tied 1-1 at Stoke. Queens
Park Rangers recorded its first win, 2-1 against Fulham, Norwich
beat Wigan 2-1, and Aston Villa won 3-1 at Liverpool.  Today, last-place Reading hosts Arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 