-- Tour de France Champion Wiggins Caps 2012 With BBC Sports Award
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-12-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/tour-de-france-s-wiggins-is-bbc-sports-personality-of-the-year.html
Bradley Wiggins was voted the
British Broadcasting Corp. Sports Personality of 2012, capping a
year in which he became Britain’s first Tour de France champion
and also won cycling gold at the London Olympics.  Wiggins, 32, topped the public telephone poll last night
ahead of track and field athlete Jessica Ennis and U.S. Open
tennis champion  Andy Murray , also Olympic gold medalists.  “What a year,” Wiggins, who joins Tom Simpson, Chris Hoy
and  Mark Cavendish  as cyclists to win the BBC accolade, said at
a televised ceremony in London. “To stand on this stage with
the people next to me is incredible. I’d like to thank my
teammates, I wouldn’t be on this stage without them.”  Wiggins won cycling’s biggest race as the lead rider on
Team Sky and clinched the gold medal in the Olympic time trial
10 days later. He’s suggested he may go for the Tour de France
title again in July, having previously said he’d ride as support
for teammate Chris Froome.  The BBC award, which started in 1954, is one of the most
prestigious accolades in U.K. sport. Previous winners include
soccer player  David Beckham , cricketer Andrew Flintoff, Olympic
gold-medal runner Kelly Holmes and boxer Lennox Lewis.  This year featured a shortlist of 12 contenders after
Wiggins’s Tour victory, a record medal haul for host Britain at
the Olympics and Paralympics, and Murray’s Olympic gold and U.S.
Open victory, which made him Britain’s first male Grand Slam
singles champion since 1936.  Other Finalists  In addition, golfer Rory McIlroy won his second major at
the U.S.  PGA Championship , topped the U.S. and European money
lists and helped  Europe  win the Ryder Cup.  McIlroy, Hoy, Nicola Adams (boxing), Ben Ainslie (sailing),
Mo Farah (runner), Katherine Grainger (rowing), Ellie Simmonds
(paralympic swimming), Sarah Storey (paralympic cycling) and
David Weir (paralympic wheelchair racer) were the other
finalists.  Sebastian Coe, head of the organizing committee for the
 London  Olympics, was given a lifetime achievement award. Coe,
the 1,500 meters champion at the 1980 and 1984 games, was BBC
Sports Personality of the Year in 1979.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  