-- Pakistani Forces Strike Militants After Peshawar Airport Attack
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-12-16T19:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/pakistan-thwarts-attack-on-peshawar-airbase-killing-5-militants.html
Five militants involved in an attack
on the  Peshawar , Pakistan, airport died after a three-hour
siege, according to a military statement.  Pakistani forces killed three militants holed up in an
unfinished building and two others blew themselves up, the
military said yesterday.  Another five were killed Dec. 15 when government forces
repulsed an attack on the military section of the Peshawar
airport by Pakistani Taliban armed with rockets, suicide jackets
and hand grenades, according to the military. Four civilians
were killed and 40 others injured, Geo TV network reported,
citing hospital sources. The airbase also serves as the main
airport for the city, with daily international and domestic
flights.  One policeman was killed and another injured in yesterday’s
operation in Pawaka village near the airport, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, the information minister for the province of Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, told reporters.  Pakistani Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied militant groups
regularly attack security and civilian targets in the city in
response to  Pakistan ’s role in the U.S.-led war in neighboring
 Afghanistan . Peshawar is a gateway to the volatile tribal region
on the Afghan border where foreign and local militant groups
have sanctuaries.  Uzbek Attackers  The five killed yesterday appear to have been of Uzbek
nationality the military said. The nationalities of the other
five were still unknown.  The attackers tried to enter the base from three locations,
Pakistan Air Force spokesman Group Captain Tariq Mahmood said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. They failed to cause any damage
to aircraft or other facilities, it said.  “Coordinated joint operations by all security agencies
thwarted the attack,” according to the statement. “The base is
in total control and normal operations have resumed.”  The raid was the third major attack on Pakistan’s military
installations since May last year. Militants stormed Pakistan’s
main air force base near the capital, Islamabad, in August,
sparking a gun battle that killed all nine attackers. The
Pakistani Taliban in Karachi in the same month damaged or
destroyed U.S.-made P-3C Orion surveillance aircraft. The
Karachi attack left 10 soldiers and four Taliban dead after a
16-hour battle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  