-- Peugeot Says It’s Close to Deal to Refinance Banking Unit
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-12-17T14:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/peugeot-says-it-s-close-to-agreement-to-refinance-banking-unit.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, said it is close to finalizing a deal
with a pool of banks to refinance debt at its banking unit,
providing a financial cushion as the debt crisis saps demand.  Talks with lenders are “on track” and should lead to an
agreement by Christmas, Carole Dupont-Pietri, head of  investor
relations  at Peugeot, said in a telephone interview. She
declined to provide details.  Peugeot’s banking unit Banque PSA Finance, or BPF, is
seeking a 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) syndicated loan to
refinance debt, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the proposal.  The self-arranged deal is being marketed to lenders and may
include a five-year  term loan  and a three-year forward-start
revolving credit, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the terms are private. Banks are being asked to
indicate their interest in the deal, which is expected to be
completed early next year, the people said.  The loan package is part of an 11.5 billion-euro funding
target that BPF started raising from its banking pool in
October. These cash facilities are themselves part of a broader
plan announced by Peugeot on Oct. 24 to safeguard the finances
at the bank, which provides loans for consumers and car dealers
and has come under pressure as Peugeot’s sales tumble.  Shares Gain  “This may support the bank’s investment grade,” said
Pierre Bergeron, a credit analyst at  Societe Generale  in Paris.
“But Peugeot’s sales were very bad again in October and
November and this will weigh on the parent company’s rating,
which itself weighs on Banque PSA’s rating.”  Auto sales in the European Union fell 7.6 percent through
November to the lowest level since 1993. Deliveries for Peugeot,
which has struggled to match car-loan rates offered by
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , slumped 13 percent.  Peugeot  advanced  as much as 28 cents, or 5.3 percent, to
5.54 euros and was up 5.2 percent as of 3:47 p.m. in Paris
trading. The shares have fallen 48 percent this year, valuing
the company at 1.96 billion euros.  As part of the plan to shore up BPF, Peugeot received 7
billion euros in guarantees from the French government to issue
new bonds, allowing BPF to raise money at lower  interest rates .  The lender was put on review for a credit-rating downgrade
by Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 14 after Peugeot was cut to
three levels below investment grade. Moody’s rates the financing
unit at Baa3, just above non-investment status.  “What Peugeot needs now it the European Commission to
approve of this state financial help,” said Philippe Houchois,
an analyst at UBS in  London .  Final agreement on the French government’s financial
guarantees is scheduled for Dec. 19, according to the French
National Assembly’s website. The aid may be reviewed by the EU.
David McAllister, the prime minister of VW’s home state of Lower
Saxony, said in an October interview that he may seek to
challenge  France ’s support of Peugeot.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  