-- Russia Missing Opportunity to Boost Trading in Micex Revamp
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-17T15:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/russia-missing-opportunity-to-boost-trading-in-micex-revamp.html
Russia ’s stock exchange is missing
an opportunity to boost trading as it reorganizes its  benchmark
equity  index, according to the asset management arms of OAO
Sberbank,  Alfa Bank  and VTB Group.  The Moscow Exchange will add 20 new stocks to the ruble-
denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  from tomorrow, making its  composition 
identical to the 50-stock  RTS Index (RTSI$) , which will remain priced in
dollars. The move won’t increase  trading volumes , as the Micex
will  remain skewed  toward the biggest companies, according to
Sberbank Asset Management, VTB Capital and Alfa Capital.  OAO Lukoil, OAO Gazprom and Sberbank, the largest stocks on
the Micex, have a combined weighting of about 40 percent,
compared with an average of 26 percent for the three leading
companies in the benchmark gauges of  Brazil (IBOV) ,  India  and  China ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Moscow Exchange should
reduce the number of stocks and rebalance both indexes based on
the liquidity of the shares, Alfa and Sberbank said.  “The changes will hardly be able to boost liquidity and
will barely be noticeable for the current 30 Micex shares,”
Ilya Piterskiy, an analyst at VTB Capital, the investment
banking arm of Russia’s second-largest bank with about 90
billion rubles ($2.9 billion) under management, said by phone
from Moscow on Dec. 14. “Investors may be concerned they’ll
have to follow an index with more illiquid stocks.”  Putin’s Hub  The Micex Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,469.53 by the close
in Moscow. The Micex has gained 4.8 percent this year, while the
 RTS  has climbed 7.9 percent. That compares with a 25 percent
rally in India’s  BSE Sensex 30 Index (SENSEX) , the Brazilian Bovespa
Index’s 5.4 percent gain and a drop of 1.8 percent for the
 Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  The amount of shares traded on the
Micex last month fell 21 percent from a year ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The changes in composition, announced by the stock exchange
Nov. 22, are aimed at unifying the Micex and RTS gauges as
President  Vladimir Putin  pursues his goal of turning Moscow into
a global financial hub. The Moscow Exchange, created in 2011
when the Micex Stock Exchange merged with the RTS Exchange,
offers stock, bond, currency and futures trading.  The Moscow Exchange is working on solving the issue of the
Micex’s weighting toward the largest stocks, Sergey Golovanev,
head of the exchange’s index and market data department, said by
e-mail Dec. 6. While the bourse introduced a rule limiting the
index weighting of the top five stocks to 55 percent in
September, the gauge “reflects the reality” of Russia’s
market, which is dominated by big energy companies, Golovanev
said.  More Liquid  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, receives about
50 percent of federal  budget revenue  from the oil and natural
gas sector.  “The introduction of new stocks into the Micex will make
them more liquid” as a result of demand from  hedge funds  and
asset managers which trade the index, Golovanev said.  The exchange should have reconsidered the index composition
based on the liquidity, free-float and capitalization of each
stock, said Anton Rakhmanov, general director at Sberbank Asset
Management, which oversees about 80 billion rubles in assets.  “The increase in the number of companies in the index
needs to be done in a smart way, the exchange needs to look at
the liquidity of each stock,” Rakhmanov said by phone in Moscow
Dec. 5. “If this is done in a stupid way, just based on a
mathematical model, nothing good will come out of this, because
we’ll just see a skew toward several big stocks.”  ‘Weird Step’  Russia needs to stoke interest in its equity market to
attract investors who are more interested in trading the
country’s stocks abroad. Daily trading volumes for OAO MegaFon,
the last Russian company to sell shares to the public, have
averaged 3.9 million shares in  London  since Nov. 29, compared
with about 23,500 in Moscow, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a weird step on behalf of the exchange,”
Vladimir Bragin, the head of research at  Alfa Capital (ALFCAPE)  in Moscow,
which manages $2.6 billion, said by phone. “While we’re forced
to buy these stocks, their weighting will be very small and even
if they turn a huge profit, we’ll barely feel it. For some
reason, the exchange didn’t focus on these issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  