-- Schwartzel Wins Alfred Dunhill Golf for Second Title in a Week
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-12-16T17:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/schwartzel-wins-alfred-dunhill-golf-for-second-title-in-a-week.html
South Africa’s Charl Schwartzel won
golf’s Alfred Dunhill Championship by 12 strokes in his home
nation today for his second victory in a week.  He scored a final-round 69, 3-under par, in Malelane to end
on 24-under. Kristoffer Broberg of  Sweden  was second. It was
Schwartzel’s eighth victory on the European Tour and earned him
237,750 euros ($313,000).  A week ago Schwartzel clinched his first victory in 20
months at the Thailand Golf Championship, winning by 11 shots.
That was his first title since the 2011 Masters Tournament at
Augusta,  Georgia .  Daniel Popovic scored a 3-under 69 to win the Australian
PGA Championship at Coolum by four strokes today. The rookie
ended on 16-under, with fellow Australians Rod Pampling and
Anthony Brown in second spot.  In Malaysia, Sergio Garcia of Spain scored a final-round
61, 11-under par, to win the Iskandar Johor Open, cut to 54
holes because of storms.  Garcia ended on 18-under, three shots ahead of Jonathan
Moore of the U.S., who also had a 61 in the third round at Johor
Bahru.  In Brunei, Asia beat  Europe  in a playoff to win the Royal
Trophy, a team event initiated by the late Seve Ballesteros six
years ago.  South Korea’s Kim Kyung-Tae and YE Yang defeated Belgian
Nicolas Colsaerts and Italy’s Francesco Molinari in a fourball
playoff at the first extra hole. Colsaerts couldn’t match Kim’s
birdie putt.  Spain’s Jose Maria Olazabal, who captained Europe’s Ryder
Cup team to success against the U.S. in September, was player-
captain for the European team in Brunei. The teams were tied 8-8
after regulation play  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 