-- Singapore Establishment Challenged by Carson Block on Olam
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-12-17T09:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/singapore-establishment-challenged-by-short-seller-block-on-olam.html
When  Carson Block  likened  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM)  to fraud-ridden Enron Corp., he challenged
more than the accounting of the Singapore-based commodities firm.
He also took on Temasek Holdings Pte, the government-owned
investment company whose money has helped build the city-state
into a corporate dynamo known as Singapore Inc.  Temasek is Olam’s second-largest  shareholder , with a 16
percent stake that has lost more than $100 million in value
since Nov. 19, when Block’s Muddy Waters LLC first questioned
the validity of the company’s finances and said it was betting
against the stock. Temasek is also the biggest shareholder in
many of the country’s best-known companies, including  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s largest bank,  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   “Carson Block is putting his whole reputation on this
one,” said Low Chee Keong, associate professor of corporate law
at the  Chinese University  of  Hong Kong . “He’s taking on the
Singapore government, Singapore Inc. here.”  Temasek is standing behind Olam, putting its own reputation
as one of the world’s savviest investors on the line. When Olam
said two weeks ago it would sell as much as $1.25 billion in
bonds and warrants to existing shareholders, Temasek, run by  Ho
Ching , the wife of Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,
agreed to buy any rights not taken by other investors.  ‘Vote of Confidence’  The state investment firm could end up owning as much as 29
percent of Olam if it exercises all the warrants in 2016 at the
earliest, according to Sunny Verghese, Olam’s chief executive
officer. Kewalram Singapore Ltd. is currently Olam’s biggest
investor, with a 20 percent stake. Kewalram will take part in
the rights issue, which is in the best interest of Olam, it said
in an e-mailed statement Dec. 10.  Temasek, asked for comment, referred to a statement it
issued Dec. 3 on Olam’s bond offering. Temasek executives are
“comfortable with Olam’s credit position and longer-term
prospects, and are pleased to have another opportunity to invest
in the company, alongside other shareholders,” David Heng,
senior managing director of investments, said in the release.  “This is a strong vote of confidence we are seeing from
Temasek,” Verghese, 53, said at a press conference in Singapore
after Olam announced the rights issue.  Block declined to comment about Temasek through his
external spokesman, Zach Kouwe, at Dukas Public Relations Inc.
in New York.  Financial Hub  Temasek, whose S$198 billion ($162 billion) in  assets  are a
source of pride for the country of 5.3 million at the tip of
Malaysia, isn’t often second-guessed on investments. The firm
was set up in 1974 to nurture the development of the city-
state’s companies, and its  total return  has averaged 17 percent
a year.  Singapore has emerged as Asia’s center of  wealth management 
and a foreign-exchange trading hub. The city had $512 billion of
private-banking assets in 2010, the largest such pool of money
in the region, according to the latest available figures from
the  Boston Consulting Group . It was the fourth-largest foreign-
exchange center in the world in April 2010 and Asia’s biggest
after Tokyo, according to a triennial survey of 53 central banks
by the  Bank for International Settlements .  The city-state is among only seven countries with a stable
AAA ranking, the highest, from  Standard & Poor’s , Fitch Ratings
and Moody’s Investors Service.  International Focus  Temasek is wholly owned by Singapore’s Ministry of Finance.
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , the city’s sovereign
wealth fund, is entrusted with managing more than $100 billion
of the city’s foreign reserves and most of its investments are
outside of Singapore spread over a mixture of assets, including
equities and real estate. While both are long-term-focused
investors, Temasek tends to be more opportunistic in buying and
selling assets.  The Singapore government doesn’t decide how the two asset
managers should manage their investments, Josephine Teo,
minister of state for finance, said in Parliament earlier this
year in response to queries from lawmakers.  Two-thirds of Temasek’s  portfolio  is now outside of the
country, compared with predominantly Singapore-based holdings in
2002. Banks remain the biggest part of its holdings even as they
make up a smaller portion of the portfolio, with financial
services accounting for 31 percent of assets, down from 36
percent a year earlier, it said in its annual report in July
that covered the 12 months to March 31.  Temasek’s globalization has left it more exposed to
economic turmoil far from home. It suffered a negative return of
30 percent in the year ended March 2009, as the credit crisis
drove losses on its holdings in banks and other financial
companies.  Nigeria Roots  Temasek agreed to invest in Olam in June 2009 and the
commodities trader makes up 0.3 percent of its portfolio. The
investment firm has since increased its energy and resources
holdings to weather Europe’s debt crisis and a tepid U.S.
economic recovery. Its return was 1.5 percent in the most recent
fiscal year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  fell 1.7 percent.  Olam was founded in 1989 in Nigeria by the Kewalram Chanrai
Group as an export company to secure foreign currency, according
to Olam’s website. Today, Olam is the fifth-largest publicly
traded global wholesaler of agricultural products ranked by
revenue, after Bunge Ltd., Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Noble
Group Ltd. and Glencore International Plc, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company supplies agricultural products to 12,300
customers in 65 countries and employs more than 18,000 people,
according to its website.  Accounting Methods  Block, the research director and founder of Los Angeles-
based Muddy Waters, said at a conference in London last month
that Olam is aggressive in reporting gains on assets such as
plantations, crops and cattle. Olam will fail and recoveries for
investors will be “negligible,” Block said.  Olam dismissed claims it faces insolvency, pointing to its
more than S$10 billion of  liquidity , and said the allegations by
 Muddy Waters  are false and misleading. It sued Muddy Waters and
Block in the Singapore High Court on Nov. 21, calling Block’s
remarks malicious falsehoods.  Profit in the year ended June 30 fell 14 percent to S$370.9
million on lower earnings from Olam’s cotton and wood product
businesses. The  stock  is trading at the lowest in almost four
years and has declined 20 percent since Block’s Nov. 19 call and
is down 35 percent this year, the  second-worst performer  on
Singapore’s benchmark index in 2012.  A global accounting standard introduced in 2003 forces
companies every three months to value living things from wheat
crops to cattle, or so-called biological assets. As Olam
branched out from being the world’s second-largest rice trader
and acquired dairy farms and almond plantations, the company
began to apply the rules that accountants themselves say are
riddled with subjective assumptions on future prices, inflation,
production and costs.  Mixed Record  “Companies like SingTel and Singapore Airlines are
strategic investments for Temasek” and Olam isn’t, said Melvyn Teo, director at BNP Paribas Hedge Fund Centre at Singapore
Management University. “They must have seen great prospects in
the company and in the commodities business in general.”  Block, a 36-year-old lawyer, has had a mixed track record.
Tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp. slumped 74 percent
before eventually filing for  bankruptcy protection  in March
after Muddy Waters claimed the company overstated its assets.
Shares of  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  and
 Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  rebounded after initial slumps when
Block questioned their accounting. Both companies have denied
any wrongdoing.  Temasek has shown it’s not afraid to raise its stake in
companies amid signs of trouble. In 2008, it increased its
holdings in Merrill Lynch & Co. and Barclays Plc even after the
value of its initial investments slumped, as it sought to help
the firms replenish capital after credit markets seized up.  Merrill Lesson  Temasek sold its 3.8 percent stake in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
which had bought Merrill Lynch, in the first quarter of 2009 at
a loss that may have been $4.6 billion, based on the average
share price in the period. Temasek has never detailed the size
of the loss or of that on the sale of its stake in London-based
Barclays.  As those losses demonstrate, “Temasek does not have the
ability to dictate market behavior, nor should they even try,”
Michael Dee, a former senior managing director at Temasek, said
in an interview Dec. 7. “The best thing any investor can do is
to determine what the truth is and respond.  Wall Street  is
littered with the roadkill of investors who thought they could
shape the market to their desires and ignore reality.”  The Merrill Lynch investment was hasty because the world
was in the throes of the global financial crisis, said Eugene Tan, assistant law professor at Singapore Management University.
Temasek has learned from that and done its due diligence on Olam,
he said.  Olam Consulted  “Temasek has certainly consulted with Olam and they
understand the story,” said Chong Yoon-Chou, Singapore-based
investment director at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.,
which manages $80 billion in Asia and doesn’t own Olam shares in
its funds. “This is a single-case event where the other party
involved has a track record of short selling. With Merrill, we
had the wider context of the global financial crisis.”  Short sellers borrow shares and sell them, betting a
decline in prices will allow them to buy back at lower costs.  Temasek’s backing of Olam, which handles more than 90
percent of world trade in peanuts and is one of the top six
cotton traders, goes back as far as 2003 when the  investment
company  was one of three investors that bought stock before
Olam’s 2005 initial public offering. Temasek sold that stake for
S$118.6 million in 2006.  “This underlines the long-term nature of its investment
and that it has been an investor since before any of the Muddy
Waters allegations occurred,” Victoria Barbary, senior
researcher at the Sovereign Investment Lab at Milan’s Bocconi
University, said.  Enron Comparison  Olam said it faces no risk of insolvency after Muddy Waters
likened the company to failed energy trader Enron in a 133-page
report Nov. 28. Houston-based Enron, once the world’s largest
energy trader, filed for bankruptcy in December 2001 after
revelations it was using off-balance-sheet vehicles to hide
billions of dollars in losses and inflate its share price.  Olam isn’t another Enron, Dee, now a private investor, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview Dec. 7.  “I completely reject” the Enron comparison made by Muddy
Waters, he said. Olam is “a company that saw a tremendous
business opportunity, to take an existing platform and grow it
on the back of relatively inexpensive debt. And perhaps executed
that a little bit too fast and too far.”  The stock fell for a fifth day today, losing 0.7 percent to
close at S$1.395, below the S$1.60 paid by Temasek for 13.76
percent on June 1, 2009. Shares surged as much as 13 percent the
day Temasek announced its purchase in 2009.  Financing costs for Olam have risen since Block’s Nov. 19
comments. Its 5.75 percent notes due September 2017 yielded 7.86
percent as of 4:32 p.m. in Singapore Dec. 14, according to
prices from Standard Chartered Plc. That’s 132 basis points, or
1.32 percentage points, higher. It reached a record 10.26
percent Nov. 30.  Temasek’s support for Olam is an attempt to protect its
investment and to avoid any domino effect, said Singapore
Management University’s Tan.  “If the investment turns out to be bad, that will be a
severe blow in the eye of the public,” he said. “However,
investors know that there are always hits and misses. The
investment community understands that this is a judgment call
for Temasek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  