-- Smart Money Is on Geithner to Replace Bernanke
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-12-16T23:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/smart-money-is-on-geithner-to-replace-bernanke.html
One of the more amusing parlor games
played after a  U.S. presidential election  is figuring out who
will get what important position in the next administration.  Will Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts -- the best, most
logical choice -- replace  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state,
or will President  Barack Obama  find someone else now that United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  has taken herself out of
contention? Will Obama finally banish the  Wall Street  cronies
from the Securities and Exchange Commission and nominate someone
as chairman who has a track record of rooting out bad behavior
on Wall Street? WillJack Lew, Obama’s chief of staff, slide
over to Treasury to replace  Timothy Geithner , or will Obama make
the bolder, wiser move and select Erskine Bowles, one of the
architects of a smart budget-deficit-reduction plan?  We will probably have to await the new year or an agreement
over the looming $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases
-- whichever comes first -- to hear Obama’s choices for these
plum positions. In the meantime, the leakers, positioners,
spinners and prognosticators are out in full force, pushing
their favorite candidates in the hope that Obama might take
notice.  Shermanesque Demurrals  Most of those candidates are doing their best
impersonations of General William Tecumseh Sherman -- “If
drafted, I will not run; if nominated, I will not accept; if
elected, I will not serve” -- lest they seem overly eager. The
latest Shermanesque statement came from  Jamie Dimon , the
chairman and chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , at
the New York Times’s Dealbook conference on Dec. 12. Asked about
serving as Treasury secretary, Dimon said, “I don’t believe I’m
suited to it” and added that “I don’t believe a Wall Street CEO
could get confirmed.” Of course, he is suited to it and, based
upon his handling of Congress during the “London Whale” hearings
last summer, Dimon would get confirmed in a nanosecond.  Another important position in Washington that stands to be
filled early in Obama’s second term -- but isn’t getting a whole
lot of attention at the moment -- is the one currently held by
 Ben Bernanke , the chairman of the  Federal Reserve . Bernanke’s
second, probably final, four-year term ends on Jan. 31, 2014.
Obama will have to make the nomination of a new Fed chairman a
high priority soon after his Cabinet is assembled.  The usual list of highly qualified candidates to replace
Bernanke -- including  Lawrence Summers , the former Treasury
secretary and Harvard University president;  Janet Yellen , a
current vice chairman of the Fed; and Alan Krueger, the
precocious chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers -- misses the person who probably wants it the most and
continues to have Obama’s ear on a regular basis: Geithner.  While many people -- understandably -- assume that Geithner
worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. before he became Treasury
secretary in 2009, actually he was president of the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  from 2003 to 2009, the critical years
leading up to and including the financial crisis. He has never
worked on Wall Street. By design, the New York Fed has
traditionally been the most powerful of the Federal Reserve
banks, because of its proximity to the powerful Wall Street
banks that it regulates. And Geithner played a major role, along
with Bernanke and then Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , in the
bailouts of Bear Stearns Cos., Merrill Lynch,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and in the decision to allow Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. to go bankrupt.  Crisis Veteran  Although Geithner failed to pull the punch bowl away just
as the party was getting started -- which is what William McChesney Martin, the long-serving Federal Reserve chairman,
said was the chief responsibility of a Fed governor in order to
avoid the kind of financial crisis we experienced on Geithner’s
watch -- he does possess a keen understanding of what went
wrong.  “As is often the case during periods of rapid change, more
significant concentrations of risk were present than was
apparent at the time,” Geithner told the  Council on Foreign
Relations  on March 6, 2008, just days before the bailout of Bear
Stearns. “Banks and investment banks sold insurance against what
seemed like low probability events, but did so at what even at
the time seemed like low prices. And on the assets they
retained, these same institutions purchased insurance from
financial guarantors and other firms that were exposed to the
same risks. The crisis exposed a range of weaknesses in risk
management practices within financial institutions in the United
States and throughout the world.”  Last spring, Geithner told Obama he wanted to leave
Treasury as soon as possible and return to New York so that he
could rejoin his family, while his youngest child was still in
high school. But Obama prevailed on Geithner to stick around
until after the election. And he remains in Washington to help
Obama negotiate a deal on spending and taxes with Congress.  Had Geithner been serious about wanting to leave town, he
probably would have thrown his hat into the ring to become
president of Dartmouth College, his alma mater. But that
position went to Philip Hanlon, the provost of the  University of
Michigan , without Geithner’s name being mentioned. Expect
Geithner to seek a short-term sinecure at a liberal think-tank,
such as the  Brookings Institution , or to return to the Council
on Foreign Relations, or to cash in as an adviser to a hedge
fund (as Summers did at D.E. Shaw & Co. after he left Treasury)
while he awaits the possibility of getting nominated as Fed
chairman. If he is serious about the Fed job, he won’t risk
taking an appointment -- such as the president of Dartmouth job
-- that would be hard to leave after nine months.  The prospect of Geithner and Summers -- two disciples of
 Robert Rubin , the former Treasury secretary and an architect of
the  Citigroup Inc. (C)  debacle -- going head-to-head to replace
Bernanke would be the firefight of the century, and could open
the door wide enough for Yellen, the dark-horse candidate, to
slip through and become the first woman to be Fed chairman.
Obama is comfortable with making history, and appointing Yellen
would be yet another way to do it. But for now, it’s Geithner
who has the president’s ear.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  