-- Spending Probably Rose in U.S., Home Sales Climbed
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-16T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/spending-probably-rose-home-sales-climbed-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  probably rose in
November as Americans set aside the threat of higher taxes next
year while shopping for the holidays, economists said before
reports this week.  Household purchases increased 0.4 percent last month after
declining 0.2 percent in October, according to the median
estimate from 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Dec. 21
figures from the Commerce Department. Other reports may show
home sales and demand for long-lasting goods climbed.  “The economy is holding in,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla,
 New York . “For the household sector, the housing numbers have
been quite good. The labor-market numbers are OK.”  A jump in auto sales last month is among the evidence that
the world’s largest economy is rebounding from the damage caused
by superstorm Sandy. Improving property values and falling fuel
costs are helping brace consumers against the more than $600
billion in tax increases and government spending cuts that will
take effect in January without action from Congress.  “There is a lot of nervousness about the fiscal cliff, so
I think how that gets resolved will be important to what happens
next,” O’Sullivan said.  Retail sales  rose 0.3 percent last month after a 0.3
percent decrease in October, the Commerce Department reported
last week. Ten of 13 major categories showed gains, led by a 1.4
percent increase at auto dealers, a 2.5 percent jump at
electronics outlets and a 0.9 percent pickup at clothing stores.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold in November at a 15.5 million
annual rate, the  fastest pace  since February 2008 and up from
14.2 million in October when Sandy kept East Coast shoppers away
during dealers’ busiest time of the month, data from Ward’s
Automotive Group show.  Limited Brands Inc., the operator of the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain, reported comparable sales rose 5 percent in
November, topping projections for a 3.4 percent gain. The
Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Brands said Sandy, which swept
ashore Oct. 29, reduced its comparable-store sales growth by as
much as 2 percentage points.  From July to September, household purchases contributed 1
percentage point to the economic expansion, which proceeded at a
2.7 percent annual rate. The rate of economic growth for last
quarter will be revised up to 2.8 percent when the Commerce
Department issues updated figures on Dec. 20, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Housing Gains  An improving housing market is supporting the economy.
Residential construction has contributed to growth for six
consecutive quarters, the best showing since 2005, as builders
begin to restore the inventory of new homes.  After three consecutive gains, homebuilding took a breather
in November, according to economists surveyed. Housing starts
fell to 873,000 annual rate after reaching a four-year high
894,000 rate in October, economists project a Commerce
Department report to show Dec. 19. Building permits, a proxy for
future construction, probably rose to an 875,000 annual pace.  Homebuilder shares have been benefitting as a result. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has climbed
17.7 percent so far in the second half of 2012, compared with a
3.8 percent gain in the broader 500 Index.  Healing in the market for new houses is complementing
progress in existing properties, which have benefited from
 mortgage rates  near record-lows and rising home values. Sales of
previously owned homes probably rose to a 4.9 million pace, a
three-year high, economists forecast a report from the National
Association of Realtors will show Dec. 20.  Consumer Confidence  Nonetheless, the government spending cuts and tax increases
that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  termed the
“fiscal cliff” during congressional testimony in February is
starting to show up in some measures of  consumer confidence .  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index decreased in December to a four-month low, a
Dec. 21 report is projected to show. Those figures contrast with
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index which has held within a
narrow range since jumping to a six-month high in mid October.  Fed policy makers last week for the first time linked the
outlook for its main  interest rate  to unemployment and inflation
and said it will expand its asset purchase program in January to
spur the economy.  A tightening in fiscal policy is a “major risk factor”
that is already harming investment and hiring decisions by
causing “uncertainty” or “pessimism,” Bernanke said in a
press conference following the central bank’s announcement. The
Fed “doesn’t have the tools” to offset that event, he said.  There are also signs that companies, which had curbed
 capital spending  in the second half of the year, are looking
past the budget battle. Orders for durable goods, those meant to
last at least three years, climbed 0.5 percent in November for a
second month, a Commerce Department will show on Dec. 21,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  