-- Swiss Watch Boutiques Swap Christmas Trees for Hongbao
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-12-16T18:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/swiss-watch-boutiques-swap-christmas-trees-for-hongbao.html
Even before the Christmas tree went
up at 124-year-old  Bucherer  AG in the lakeside town of Lucerne,
the Swiss watch boutique was already planning decorations for
the year of the snake.  Chinese symbols marking the start of the lunar new year on
Feb. 10 will greet the busloads of Asian shoppers who visit
Lucerne every day and invite them inside to see watches from TAG
Heuer, Rolex and more than 20 other brands.  Less than half of the timepieces bought at the Lucerne
store in December may be for Christmas, according to Joerg
Baumann, Bucherer’s marketing director. That’s a welcome boon as
banks cut jobs and Swiss unemployment hovers at its highest
level in 20 months.  “Other parts of the year have caught up” with Christmas,
Baumann said, “which is good news for retailers because
everyone wants a stable business and not an extremely seasonal
one.”  Asian consumers are easing the Swiss watch industry’s
reliance on Christmas and offsetting Europe’s slowing economy.
While December is still the most important sales period, it’s
diminishing in importance and may be surpassed by the Chinese
New Year within seven years, said Jean-Claude Biver, chairman of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton (MC)  SA’s Hublot watch brand.  “When I started 38 years ago, December and Christmas were
30 percent of the business, but that has weakened as sales have
become more and more constant during the 12 months,” Biver said
in his office overlooking Lake Geneva and the French Alps.
Christmas now accounts for 15 percent to 20 percent of watch
industry revenue, he said.  Triple Taxation  China and  Hong Kong  make up the biggest market for Swiss
timepieces, accounting for 30 percent of exports of the
country’s roughly 200 brands in 2011, according to the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry. Exports to those two
destinations rose 10 percent in the first 10 months of 2012.  Chinese interest in high-end watches remains strong despite
concerns about an easing of economic growth, according to
Digital Luxury Group. The number of online searches for luxury
watch brands in China increased about 40 percent during the
first half of the year, the researcher said.  Purchasing watches abroad allows Chinese consumers to
sidestep three layers of taxes imposed on watches in China: an
11 percent import duty, a 20 percent tax on high-end watches,
and a 17.5 percent value-added tax, according to HSBC.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the maker of Vacheron
Constantin and Cartier watches, said last month that the
weakness of the euro was luring more Asians to take vacations in
Europe, helping boost revenue in the region.  “Local consumption in Switzerland is not bad and there’s
probably even some growth, but the main driver is tourism,”
said Patrik Schwendimann, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank.  Red Envelopes  Bucherer’s six-story flagship in Lucerne gives visitors
from China greeting cards in red envelopes called hongbao that
are supposed to bring luck. A sign at the entrance lists some of
the 20-plus languages spoken by sales staff, while display
cabinets describe watch features in Chinese.  To cope with the steady stream of Chinese shoppers, about
30 of the 200-odd staff speak Mandarin. Bucherer also offers
Chinese-language lessons for employees, as well as training on
how best to interact with Asian shoppers and what the concept of
“face” means for them.  Among the key sales periods for Bucherer, which has more
than 20 stores in  Switzerland ,  Germany  and  Austria , are the week
around Chinese national day on Oct. 1, as well as Chinese new
year in January or February and the Thai new year in April,
Baumann said.  Sales Machine  “The planning starts one year ahead in our themes and how
we decorate the stores,” Baumann said. “People want to know
they’re in Switzerland, but it’s a little gesture so they’re
aware we know it’s their holiday.”  As many as 3,000 Asian tourists a day visit the Bucherer
flagship in Lucerne after sightseeing in the surrounding Alpine
landscape. Sales at the shop could reach 1 million Swiss francs
($1.1 million) daily at peak times, said Rene Weber, an analyst
at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. The store doesn’t disclose revenue.  “It’s like a machine,” he said. “If a Chinese person
goes on a trip to  Europe , they tend to start in  Italy  and end in
Paris or  London . In between, they usually stop in Switzerland
and buy something at Bucherer in Lucerne.”  More than 200,000 visitors from greater China stayed in
Lucerne or surrounding area during the first nine months of this
year, more than double the number during the same period in
2007, according to the town’s tourism bureau.  Phonetic Renderings  The winding streets around Bucherer, lined with ornate,
century-old buildings, show the growing importance of Asian
tourists. At some watch stores in the area Chinese signs are
bigger than those in European languages, and shop windows
sometimes display phonetic renderings of brand names in
Chinese characters.  Outside Bucherer, Zheng Xianjun takes in views of the
bustling town center and lake after spending almost 3,000 francs
on a  Longines  watch for his wife.  “I’m not buying it for any special occasion,” said Zheng,
a 40-year-old mobile phone salesman from  China ’s Guangdong
province. “I don’t go abroad all that much and my wife wanted
me to get her a watch while I was here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  