-- Syria’s Civil War Destined for Stalemate, Vice President Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-16T23:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/syrian-jets-bomb-palestinian-camp-as-rebels-attack-aleppo-base.html
Syrian Vice President Farouk al- Sharaa told a Lebanese newspaper that the nation’s civil war is
destined for stalemate, with neither the rebels nor the military
able to prevail in the conflict.  “The opposition forces combined cannot decide the battle
militarily,” al-Sharaa told the Al-Akhbar newspaper, which
posted the comments to its English-language  website  yesterday.
“Meanwhile, what the security forces and the army units are
doing will not reach a conclusive end.”  The statements are al-Sharaa’s first public comments since
July 2011, the newspaper said. The full interview will be
published today, Al-Akhbar said.  “With each passing day, the military and political
solutions get further away,” al-Sharaa said. “The way events
are heading will lead to an uncomfortable place where things
will definitely go from bad to worse.”  Al-Sharaa said neither the army nor the opposition can
claim to be the “sole legitimate representation of the Syrian
people.” He called for a “historic settlement” that would
include  Syria ’s neighbors and the United Nations Security
Council.  Syrian fighter jets bombed a Palestinian camp in Damascus
as rebels seized an infantry academy outside the northern city
of Aleppo over the weekend.  Aerial Bombardment  The aerial bombardment of the Yarmouk camp in Damascus
killed eight civilians, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said on its Facebook  page . More than 40 combatants
were killed in fighting over the military academy outside of
Aleppo, including 20 government soldiers, the group said.  Forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad are battling to
defend military barracks, heavy weapons, oilfields and roads
across the country against well-armed rebels. Fighters
struggling to topple the government in Damascus have control of
mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the northeastern
outskirts of the capital to the southwest of the city.  “The rebels are gaining ground and grabbing key Assad
strategic and tactical assets,” said Theodore Karasik, director
of research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai.  The conflict, sparked by protests across the Arab world
that led to the fall of leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya, has
claimed at least 40,000 lives, according to the human rights
observatory.  To contact the reporters on this story: Glen Carey in Riyadh at
   gcarey8@bloomberg.net ; Deema Almashabi in
Riyadh at   dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew J.
Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  