-- U.A.E. Delays Rules on Capping Bank Lending to Government
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-16T13:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/u-a-e-delays-new-rules-on-capping-bank-lending-to-governments.html
The  central bank  of the  United Arab
Emirates  postponed new regulations that cap bank lending to
governments and their related companies for further review.  The implementation of the Large Exposure Regulations, that
came into effect in September, has been postponed “until all
items of the regulations are reviewed with banks,” the Abu
Dhabi-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement today.
New liquidity rules scheduled for Jan. 1 will also be delayed.  The postponements come after  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the
U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, and second-ranked  National Bank
of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  did not meet the September deadline to comply
with the new lending rule. The central bank said April 4 that
banks cannot lend more than 100 percent of their capital to
local governments and the same to state-related entities as part
of a plan to reduce so-called concentration risk.  Emirates NBD’s exposure to sovereign and quasi-sovereign
clients is 192 percent of regulatory capital, while that of
National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  is 199 percent, according to
estimates from Deutsche Bank AG in April. National Bank of Abu
Dhabi said in October it was in talks with the central bank to
exclude its portfolio of state-owned company bonds from the cap
on lending to government and state-related companies.  Liquidity Ratios  Under separate rules announced in July, banks were required
to comply with four so-called liquidity ratios to help them
withstand market disruptions and avoid a concentration of debt
payments. The first of these were to be applied from Jan. 1 when
banks were expected to hold 10 percent of their liabilities in
high-quality liquid assets such as cash, central bank
certificates of deposits and federal  government bonds .  The board of the Central Bank of the U.A.E. “reviewed
banks’ comments on the liquidity regulations in terms of the
financial instruments accepted as liquidity tools, their limits,
implementation date and submitting reports” before announcing
the postponement, according to today’s statement.  The central bank said the country’s banking indicators are
considered positive and that banks are insulated from the
current turmoil in financial markets. The central bank also
estimates to earn a profit of 3 billion dirhams ($817 million)
in 2013 compared to 3.7 billion dirhams this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  