-- Two-Party Japan Democracy Undone in 39 Months as DPJ Falls
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-12-17T02:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/two-party-japan-democracy-undone-in-39-months-as-dpj-crumbles.html
It took 54 years for  Japan ’s
politics to produce a viable opposition party, and 39 months for
it to self-destruct after winning power, splintering prospects
for an enduring policy-driven two-party system.  The  Democratic Party  of Japan lost three-fourths of its
seats in parliament’s lower house three years after sweeping the
 Liberal Democratic Party  from a half-century of almost unbroken
rule. An LDP-led coalition won a two-thirds majority in the 480-
seat chamber, according to public broadcaster NHK.  While the DPJ’s leaders came under fire for the response to
the March 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster, the biggest
collapse in public support preceded the crisis. Undermined by a
faction boss who later split and took about 50 seats with him,
the DPJ flubbed its historic chance at the beginning by pledging
to move a U.S. military base off Okinawa, then reneging on it.  “It was a missed opportunity for now to build a true two-
party system,” said Ellis Krauss, a professor of Japanese
politics at the  University of California ,  San Diego . “Japan’s
major challenges, including an aging society and a huge debt
problem, would be manageable if only the political system
weren’t so dysfunctional. I’m fairly pessimistic the political
leadership will confront the problems any time soon.”  The DPJ lost more than 173 of its 230 seats in the lower
house, NHK’s vote count showed, the worst showing of any
governing party since the end of World War II. The Japan
Restoration Party, led by ex- Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara
and Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto, won almost as many seats as the
DPJ, making it the third-largest group.  ‘Couldn’t Deliver’  “They talked big but they couldn’t deliver,” said
Masatsugu Kitano, a 77-year-old company executive in Tokyo,
speaking days before yesterday’s election, referring to the DPJ.
“My trust in political parties is basically zero.”  Voter turnout was 59.3 percent, the lowest since World War
II, NHK reported.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , the DPJ’s third premier in
as many years, said he would quit as party leader. LDP leader
Shinzo Abe, in line to reclaim the office he left in 2007, said
voters “will be looking carefully at the LDP to see if we
fulfill their expectations.”  After governing for all but 10 months since 1955, the LDP
was ousted in 2009 by the DPJ, which vowed to curb bureaucrats’
power, cut public works spending and boost child support.
Instead, the child payments were cut back and Noda this year
pushed through a bill doubling the sales tax to cope with record
debt, fulfilling a decade-long push by the Ministry of Finance.  Okinawa Flip-Flop  Yukio Hatoyama , the DPJ’s initial premier, entered office
pressing a pledge to relocate the Marine Corps Air Station
Futenma. Designed to reduce the burden of American military
operations on the people of Okinawa, the move backfired when it
soured relations with Japan’s top ally, stirring concern among
the nation’s business community.  Hatoyama later reversed course, inciting criticism from
Okinawans who had anticipated the government following through
on its commitments. His approval rating sank below 20 percent,
from 75 percent, and he stepped down after eight months in
office.  Naoto Kan , who yesterday fought to hold off an LDP
challenge for his own seat in the Diet, took over.  “The biggest reason for the DPJ’s downfall was it went
into the election with a manifesto, and said it would carry out
those promises,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, a professor of
political science at Meiji Gakuin University in Tokyo. “Then of
course there was the problem of the Okinawa base, which did in
Hatoyama.”  Socialist Opponent  The LDP, the product of a merger of parties in the postwar
re-establishment of democracy in Japan, governed for decades
with little more than a Socialist opponent that failed to gain
traction with the centrist voters.  With Japan’s rapid development through the 1960s and 1970s,
and the success of its powerhouse automakers, steel producers,
shipyards and electronics companies, the party found its
dominance unchallenged. Support for public works and the
 construction industry  helped seal its hold on power.  A burst property and stock-market bubble undermined the
model in the early 1990s.  Ichiro Ozawa , an LDP lawmaker who was
an acolyte of 1970s Prime Minister and power broker Kakuei Tanaka, helped overthrow the party in 1993. Even so, the
coalition government that resulted proved unstable and lasted
only 10 months.  Koizumi Interlude  Hatoyama and Kan formed the DPJ in 1998 from several small
parties with competing interests and Ozawa’s group merged with
it in 2003, a legacy that hindered unity. As the party started
to build itself, it found its reformist message overshadowed by
that of a leader of the LDP itself --  Junichiro Koizumi , who
served as prime minister from 2001 to 2006.  Once it finally took power in the aftermath of the
2007-2009 global financial crisis that sent Japan’s economy to
its  smallest size  -- unadjusted for prices -- since the early
1990s, the DPJ foundered. Ozawa, who had stepped down as party
leader over a funding scandal in May 2009 while remaining head
of the biggest faction, publicly opposed Hatoyama, Kan and Noda,
before finally leaving the DPJ in July over the  sales-tax 
increase.  Kan’s support for raising the sales tax and the party’s
suspension of Ozawa during the faction leader’s trial for
campaign-finance violations provoked an internal backlash that
hurt the second DPJ prime minister.  Kan had his own campaign funding issues, and was answering
questions over a foreign contribution in parliament on March 11,
2011, when a record 9.0 earthquake struck northeastern Japan,
spawning a tsunami that crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant. The catastrophe saw about 19,000 people killed and
forced the evacuation of 160,000 more.  Earthquake Aftermath  While the government pledged 19 trillion yen ($227 billion)
in rebuilding, and Kan vowed to end Japan’s reliance on nuclear
power, the DPJ and LDP quarreled over the response to the
disaster, sending support for both parties plummeting.  “The DPJ was a victim of bad timing,” UCSD’s Krauss said.
“The Fukushima quake and tsunami was unprecedented in scale.
Kan did as well as he could but it wasn’t enough for the public.
They expect too much in too short a time.”  With Japan’s economy contracting and social welfare costs
rising in the world’s most-rapidly aging society, Abe will be
under pressure to deliver the kind of results he couldn’t last
time. The DPJ remains the biggest party in the upper house of
parliament, and could still rebound in elections for the chamber
in July should the LDP prove a disappointment again.  Stocks Jump  Stocks climbed in the weeks leading up to the election as
investors bet that Abe will follow through on speeches calling
for the central bank to step up monetary stimulus. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average advanced 12 percent in the past month.  Yet Abe will inherit a recessionary economy, with
electronics champions from Sharp Corp. to Sony Corp. struggling
to cope with the yen’s climb in the past half decade and
intensified Korean competition. Public debt has grown by about a
fifth since his last term in office, cut short by intestinal
illness.  Steven Reed, a political scientist at Chuo University,
points out that the Democrats’ 2009 landslide followed a
decisive defeat four years before.  “People said in 2005 that the Democrats would never
recover and after 2009 that the LDP could never recover,” Reed
said. “I think quite the reverse.”  At the same time, the DPJ’s failure, the return of the LDP
and the proliferation of other parties suggests it will take
some time before a stable two-party system is in place. Hokkaido
University political science professor Jiro Yamaguchi, who three
years ago said that “Japan has at last truly become a
democracy,” is now less sanguine.  “I was overly optimistic,” Yamaguchi said. “Japanese
politics has gone back to square one. It’s pathetic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  