-- Yemen LNG Pipeline Attacked for Eighth Time Amid Rising Prices
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-12-16T11:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/yemen-lng-pipeline-attacked-for-eighth-time-amid-rising-prices.html
Yemen LNG said a 38-inch  gas
pipeline  supplying its liquefaction plant was sabotaged,
curtailing supplies amid rising short-term prices for the fuel.  The attack, the eighth since the first sabotage on the line
in October 2011, took place at 12:35 a.m. local time today 173
kilometers north of the liquefaction plants at the Yemeni port
of Balhaf, according to a statement posted on the company’s
website. Yemen LNG, which counts  Total SA (FP)  as its largest
shareholder, operates two plants with a combined annual capacity
of 6.7 million tons.  Today’s sabotage is likely to limit production of the gas,
which is cooled to a liquid for transport by ship, as winter
weather increases demand for heating in Asia and Europe. The
plants resumed operation late last month after an attack on Oct.
30. That attack, along with disruptions at plants in Nigeria and
Indonesia, helped to boost spot LNG prices to about $15 a
million British thermal units from a “high” $12,  Michael
Smith , lead adviser for trading analytics at  BP Plc (BP/) , said in a
Dec. 4 interview.  Yemen, which borders Saudi Arabia and Oman, is struggling
to recover from protests that weakened the central government’s
authority and forced former President Ali Abdullah Saleh from
power last year. Yemen LNG’s 320-kilometer (199-mile) pipeline
network supplying the plant runs through a region that’s home to
al-Qaeda-linked militants.  Three LNG tankers, Marib Spirit, Seri Balqis and Stx Kolt
were heading to Balhaf today, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg. Marib Spirit, located in the Gulf of
Aden, was closest to Yemen LNG’s plants, the data show.  Yemen LNG’s other shareholders include Hunt Oil Co., Yemen
Gas Co., SK Innovation Co.,  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) ,  Hyundai Corp. (011760)  and
Yemen’s General Authority for Social Security & Pensions,
according to the energy company’s website. Customers with long-
term contracts to buy gas from Yemen LNG include  GDF Suez (GSZ) , Korea
Gas and Total, according to the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at   bstanley5@bloomberg.net  