-- U.S. Stocks Gain While Treasuries Drop Amid Budget Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-12-17T22:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/yen-drops-to-weakest-since-april-2011-as-u-s-index-futures-gain.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to an almost two-month high, as
investors weighed prospects for a budget deal in  Washington . The
yen fell to 20-month low as the  Liberal Democratic Party 
returned to power on calls for more monetary easing.  The S&P 500 rose 1.2 percent to 1,430.36 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , its highest closing level since Oct. 22. Ten-year Treasury
yields increased seven basis points to 1.77 percent. Gold erased
earlier losses, while sugar, natural gas, coffee, cotton and oil
led gains in commodities. The yen weakened 0.4 percent and the
Nikkei 225 Index closed at the highest level since April.  President  Barack Obama  is considering a possible budget
concession on Social Security cost-of-living increases after
House Speaker  John Boehner  dropped his opposition to raising tax
rates for some top earners, said two people familiar with the
talks. The two met for about 45 minutes at the White House today
with two weeks remaining to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  “It’s a historic tug-of-war, pulling on one side is the
fiscal cliff, pulling the other side is continued global
monetary easing,”  David Sowerby , a portfolio manager at Boston-
based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a telephone interview. His
firm oversees about $175 billion. “The rhetoric is heightened
in that they will bring us right to the brink.”  N.Y. Manufacturing  S&P 500 futures maintained gains before the open of
exchanges even after manufacturing in the New York region shrank
more than forecast, showing weakness in the industry is
persisting. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index dropped to minus 8.1, the fifth month of
contraction, from minus 5.2 in November. The median forecast of
55 economists in a survey called for minus 1. Readings less than
zero signal contraction.  Compuware Corp. rallied 13 percent after activist investor
Elliott Management Corp. offered to buy the company for $2.3
billion. American International Group Inc. rose 3 percent on
plans to sell as much as $6.5 billion of AIA Group Ltd. shares.
Apple Inc. climbed 1.8 percent after dropping below $500 in
premarket trading for the first time since February.  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. led a decline in stocks of
firearms makers amid talks about  gun control  following last
week’s elementary school shooting that left 20 children dead.
Smith & Wesson slid 5.2 percent and has lost 9.3 percent in two
days.  Budget Debate  The  S&P 500  tumbled as much as 5.3 percent since the Nov. 6
election set the stage for a budget showdown between Obama and
House Republicans. It erased that retreat last week before
turning lower in the final two sessions. The  Congressional
Budget Office  says the U.S. will probably tumble back into a
recession should lawmakers fail to reach an accord on the more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
scheduled to start Jan. 1.  The budget debate is holding stocks hostage, as chief
executive officers prepare to cut  capital spending  for the first
time since 2009 should  Obama and Congress fail to reach an
accord. Expenditures by S&P 500 companies will fall 1.3 percent
in 2013 after three years of growth, according to more than
10,000 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecommunications companies posted the biggest decline of
the 19 industries in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , falling 1.1
percent as a group. Royal KPN NV tumbled 15 percent, its biggest
plunge in more than a decade. The phone operator scrapped its
 final dividend  for 2012 after winning a spectrum auction in the
Netherlands. Vodafone Group Plc fell 1.7 percent, Deutsche
Telekom AG lost 0.3 percent and Tele2 AB dropped 1 percent. The
three also bought frequencies.  Clothing Retailer  Aggreko Plc slumped 22 percent, the most in more than 10
years, after the world’s largest provider of mobile-power
supplies said that profit will drop in 2013 and it will make
provisions of $85 million for bad debts.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) 
gained 3.4 percent after  Europe’s second-largest clothing
retailer  reported better-than-expected November sales.  Telecom and banking stocks are among those being sold today
after being “overperformers of last week,”  Arnaud Scarpaci , a
 fund manager  at Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, who helps oversee
about 60 million euros, said in a telephone interview. “There
is no closure on the fiscal cliff.”  Yearly Returns  The Stoxx 600,  Europe ’s  benchmark gauge , has advanced  14
percent this year amid increased confidence that policy makers
are gaining control over the region’s debt crisis. The S&P 500
has climbed almost 14 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
has risen about 12 percent in 2012.  The yen weakened 0.4 percent to 83.89 per dollar. Three
years after surrendering half a century of control,  Japan ’s LDP
reclaimed power in a landslide election victory yesterday,
calling for more  government spending  and central bank stimulus.  The Japanese currency has lost 12 percent this year, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar declined 3.1
percent in the period and the euro dropped 1.5 percent.  Gold for February delivery gained 0.1 percent to $1,698.20
an ounce. Bullion is headed for a 12th consecutive yearly gain.
Crude oil rose 0.5 percent to $87.20 a barrel in New York. U.S.
natural gas futures rose 1.3 percent to $3.358 per million
British thermal units, rising for the first time in eight
sessions, as revised forecasts showed below-normal U.S.
temperatures that would spur demand for heating fuel.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.3 percent, the first
decline in nine days, as suppliers to Apple tumbled after
Citigroup cut its estimates for iPhone shipments.  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., (2317)  the world’s largest contract maker of
electronics, fell 4.7 percent in Taipei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  