-- Zuma Pushes South Africa Growth Plan Amid Investor Concern
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-12-16T15:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-16/zuma-pushes-south-africa-growth-plan-as-investor-concerns-mount.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
urged the ruling  African National Congress  to back a 20-year
plan to expand the economy and create jobs, downplaying the need
for radical policy changes as concern from investors mount.  The National Development Plan, drawn up by an advisory
panel led by ex-finance minister  Trevor Manuel , sets out the
investment needed in roads and rail projects, health, education
and other services to boost growth in  Africa ’s biggest  economy .
The program calls for a review of  labor laws  to encourage hiring
and create 11 million new jobs by 2030.  “It is easy to lose sight of our vision and strategic
priorities, in favor of short-term solutions,” Zuma said in his
opening speech to the party’s national conference in the central
city of Bloemfontein. “Having a long-term blueprint creates
certainty about where we are going and how we intend to get
there.”  Zuma is running for a second term as leader of Africa’s
oldest political movement and non-binding nomination votes show
he should win easily, with labor unionist-turned tycoon  Cyril Ramaphosa  as his deputy.  At an ANC policy conference in June, Zuma said “radical”
policy changes were needed to address the country’s challenges.
He has since toned down such calls as the government seeks to
revive investor confidence in an economy battered by a wave of
strikes and two credit-rating downgrades.  Mandela Song  “We want to dismiss the perceptions that our country is
falling apart because of the downgrades,” Zuma said today.
“The ANC will continue to provide strong economic leadership
and steer our economy boldly, and we do have a plan to grow the
economy and create jobs.”  Zuma prefaced his speech with a song dedicated to  Nelson Mandela ,  South Africa ’s first post-apartheid president, who’s
been hospitalized since Dec. 8 for a lung infection and to have
gallstones removed. The 94-year-old Mandela was being well cared
for by a competent medical team, Zuma said.  Eighteen years after the end of apartheid, the ANC-led
government is struggling to cut a 25.5 percent  unemployment rate 
and income disparities that rank among the highest in the world.
South Africa’s labor laws are often cited by companies,
including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , as too restrictive,
undermining  job creation .  Mining Taxes  The planning commission recommends that pay increases be
linked to growth in productivity and wage flexibility should be
considered for first-time job seekers, a proposal rejected by
labor unions. The plan sets targets for cutting  unemployment  to
14 percent by 2020 and 6 percent by 2030, increasing the share
of national income earned by the poorest 40 percent of the
population to 10 percent from 6 percent and raising per-capita
income to 120,000 rand ($14,620) from 50,000 rand.  Meeting those goals will require average economic growth of
5.4 percent a year until 2030, the commission estimates. The
central bank forecasts growth of 2.5 percent this year and 2.9
percent in 2013.  Zuma made no mention of a push by the ANC’s youth wing to
nationalize the country’s mines or proposals made in a party-
commissioned study to increase taxes on mining companies.  In a Dec. 4 interview, Enoch Godongwana, head of the ANC’s
economic transformation committee, said the party would back
increased levies because it must ensure the lives of poor black
South Africans improve or risk “an uncontrollable revolution.”  While Ramaphosa today refused to say whether he will
contest the post of deputy president,  Derek Hanekom , a member of
the ANC’s National Executive Committee, told reporters Ramaphosa
had accepted the nomination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  