-- 
‘Mega’ Payments Race Pits Google, Visa Against Phone Operators

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-02-20T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/-mega-payments-race-pits-google-visa-against-phone-operators.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG ,  France Telecom
SA  and other mobile operators, who lost the battle for online
applications stores to  Apple Inc . and  Google Inc ., say they have
a fighting chance of winning the corner convenience store.  The operators, along with Google and credit card providers
including  Visa Inc ., are scrambling to offer so-called near-
field communication payment systems, which will let people buy
everything from milk and butter to clothes with a swipe of their
smartphone. NFC may be the last chance for operators to avoid
being simple conduits of other companies’ electronic commerce.  “Google’s massive, but Google does not have a billing
relationship with 99 percent of its customers,” Deutsche
Telekom Chief Technology and Innovation Officer Ed Kozel said in
an interview last week. “That’s our opportunity.”  The stakes for losing out on this business development are
huge, with NFC payments -- which could potentially replace many
cash registers and credit cards -- likely to account for a third
of the $1.13 trillion global market in mobile transactions by
2014, according to IE Market Research.  Operators, who “were not as good as the Internet players”
for online apps, have an opportunity to get back in the game,
said Philippe Vallee, an executive vice president at SIM-card
maker Gemalto SA. With NFC, “they can become the applications
portal for the secure wallet.”  Mobile Experiments  Deutsche Telekom may buy a payment-processing company for
its NFC project or partner with a financial institution, Kozel
said.  France Telecom , along with other French mobile operators,
in May began an NFC experiment in the southern city of Nice.
Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in December the
Paris-based company is offering new SIM cards for contactless
mobile services and expects to have 500,000 clients this year.  For Google, whose Android operating system is activated by
about 300,000 new users a day, mobile payments are a “mega-
scale” opportunity, CEO  Eric Schmidt  said at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona on Feb. 15.  Google, which got 96 percent of its $29.3 billion in sales
last year from advertising, is seeking other sources of revenue.
The search-engine owner’s flagship Android smartphone, the  Samsung Electronics Co Ltd .-made Nexus S, is one of the first
commercially available devices with NFC technology installed.  Apple recently hired Benjamin Vigier, an NFC expert, from
mobile-payments startup mFoundry, sparking speculation the
iPhone maker also has NFC plans. Apple already has an extensive
billing system through its iTunes entertainment and apps portal.
Still, Apple’s preference for proprietary systems may be a
hurdle, said Deutsche Telekom’s Kozel.  Daunting Investment  “Do you think any company could be successful with a
vendor-specific NFC solution -- Apple terminals, Apple
everything?” he asked. “Do you think they could succeed in the
marketplace? That would be difficult.”  On top of transaction fees, handlers of mobile transactions
will aim to earn revenue from targeted advertising and offers
using discount services like those provided by Groupon Inc.
Credit card, phone, and software companies are also exploring
how to offer easy payments between individuals, or practical
services like dividing restaurant bills between mobile devices.  Still, taking full advantage of the growth of NFC payments
may require a daunting series of investments for any one type of
company. A commercially viable NFC system will require the
physical infrastructure of an entirely new way of paying for
goods -- point-of-sale terminals and NFC equipment in handsets -
- along with software, security, and processing platforms.  The scale of those investments makes it unlikely phone
companies can go it alone, said Bill Gajda, the head of mobile
innovation for San Francisco-based Visa.  ‘Big Job’  “I’d be interested to see if any operator goes as far as
trying to process payments,” he said. “That’s a big job. The
best route forward to operators is to work with banks and
payment companies. At the time of transaction, do you really
want to do dispute resolution, risk, fraud? You don’t. Let the
payment companies do what they do.”  Late last year, U.S. carriers  AT&T Inc .,  Verizon Wireless ,
and Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile unit began efforts to build a
joint national payments network, ISIS. The system will be made
available to all banks and merchants with help from Discover
Financial Services and Barclays Plc -- posing a possible threat
to parallel efforts by Visa and  Mastercard Inc .  The widening availability of NFC-capable handsets is
pushing companies looking for a piece of the market to move more
quickly. In addition to the Nexus S, “many if not most” new
Research in Motion Inc. BlackBerry devices will be NFC-capable
this year, and Apple’s next iPhone model may include the
technology.  No Floodgate  As a critical mass of users builds, operators are pointing
to their experience with secure billing -- and existing access
to customers’ bank details -- as an advantage in the NFC race.  To be sure, a widespread move to universal mobile payment
is far from certain. A “long tail” of merchants may go years
before installing payment terminals, even if major retailers
move to do so in the next two to three years, Visa’s Gajda said.
NFC’s growth may also be limited by the spread of smartphones
capable of handling the technology.  Some similar payment systems have had only slow uptake.
Contactless credit card payments, using existing technologies
such as MasterCard’s PayPass and Visa’s payWave, are “still
pretty niche in terms of usage,” said Pete Cunningham, an
analyst at research firm Canalys in Reading, U.K.  While contactless card payments are slowly becoming more
popular, operators shouldn’t expect a sudden revenue boom from
payments, he added.  “It’s not going to be a floodgate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 