-- 
Anthony Meets With Nets' Prokhorov About Trade, N.Y. Daily News Reports

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-02-20T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/anthony-meets-with-nets-prokhorov-about-trade-n-y-daily-news-reports.html
  Carmelo Anthony  met with New Jersey
Nets owners Mikhail Prokhorov and Jay-Z, who are trying to
convince the  Denver Nuggets  forward to sign a three-year $65
million extension, the New York Daily News reported.  The meeting in  Los Angeles , where Anthony will play today
in the All-Star game, was reported yesterday after Prokhorov
issued a statement saying he had no intentions of meeting with
the player, the Daily News said. The trade deadline is Feb. 24.  “Just to update you, Mikhail has not met with and has no
plans to meet with Carmelo Anthony,” said an e-mail released
yesterday by Ellen Pinchuk, the owner’s spokeswoman. “He is
looking forward to enjoying All-Star weekend. We will have
nothing else to add on this.”  Pinchuk didn’t answer an e-mail seeking comment on the
Daily News’ report.  The Nuggets tentatively had agreed to trade Anthony, 26, to
the Nets if the four-time All-Star accepted the extension, the
Record of Bergen County,  New Jersey , reported last week.  Anthony would be traded to New Jersey with Chauncey Billups,
Shelden Williams, Melvin Ely and Renaldo Balkman, while the
Nuggets would receive Devin Harris, Derrick Favors, Troy Murphy,
Ben Uzoh and four first-round draft picks, the Record said,
citing multiple unidentified National Basketball Association
sources.  Knicks Make Offer  The Knicks also are trying to lure Anthony, who has said
his first choice for a trade would be New York, where he would
join Amar’e Stoudemire, the New York Post reported.  The Knicks offered  Raymond Felton ,  Danilo Gallinari ,  Wilson Chandler , Eddy Curry’s expiring contract and a No. 1 pick for
Anthony and Chauncey Billups, the newspaper said.    New York  is seeking its first winning season in a decade.
At 28-26, it’s second to the Boston Celtics (40-14) in the
Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division.  Anthony is averaging 25.2 points and 7.6 rebounds per game
this season, his eighth since being taken with the third pick in
the 2003 NBA draft.  The Nets are 17-40 this season, 12th in the Eastern
Conference. They play their home games in  Newark , New Jersey,
and are scheduled to move in two seasons to a new arena being
built in Brooklyn, New York, about three miles from where
Anthony was born.  Anthony has averaged 24.8 points and 6.3 rebounds per game
in his seven-year career. The 6-foot-8 forward ranks fourth
among active players in career scoring, and has finished among
the top eight in scoring in each of the past five seasons.  Anthony went pro after leading Syracuse University to the
National Collegiate Athletic Association championship in his
only season at the school. He was selected as the NCAA
tournament’s Most Outstanding Player.  He has led the Nuggets to the playoffs in each of his first
seven NBA seasons. In six of those seven years, the team lost in
the first round.  Anthony is married to actress and television personality
Alani “La La” Vazquez, who also was born in  Brooklyn .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  