-- 
Arsenal Faces Fixture Congestion After F.A. Cup `Disappointment' at Orient

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/arsenal-is-held-to-a-1-1-draw-by-leyton-orient-in-fifth-round-of-f-a-cup.html
Arsenal faces an F.A. Cup replay
after being denied victory at third-tier Leyton Orient on a late
goal, adding to a fixture pileup as the Gunners chase four
trophies.  Jonathan Tehoue tied the game after 89 minutes yesterday
at Orient’s Brisbane Road stadium in London, maintaining the
League One club’s chances of a quarterfinal at Manchester
United. Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , whose team’s last trophy
was the F.A. Cup in 2005, said his team need “a breather.”  “The most negative side of our result is one more fixture
and in fairness that is not what we needed,” Wenger told ESPN.
“Overall it is a disappointment, but we are still in the
competition and will now play at home.”  Bolton secured its spot in the last eight of English
soccer’s oldest knockout competition with a 1-0 win at Fulham,
while Manchester City overpowered Notts County 5-0 in a fourth-
round replay.  Arsenal appeared in control against Orient after Tomas Rosicky’s 53rd-minute goal for the Gunners, who are looking to
tie  Manchester United ’s record of 11 F.A. Cup titles.  Instead, the north London team has to fit a replay into a
schedule that already includes the Feb. 27 League Cup final
against Birmingham and the second leg of its Champions League
last-16 matchup with Barcelona on March 8. Arsenal leads 2-1
from the first game.  The Gunners also remain in contention for the Premier
League and trail leader United by four points.  ‘Breather’  “What people forget is that since the beginning of
December we have played every three days, so sometimes to have a
week where we could give the players a little breather would not
be bad,” Wenger said.  Wenger made a raft of changes yesterday, with only  Alex Song  retaining his place from the team that beat Barcelona four
days earlier. Ignasi Miquel, 18, made his debut in defense.  The Gunners dominated possession, though wayward shooting
left the match scoreless at halftime.  Eight minutes after halftime Arsenal got the breakthrough
when Rosicky hit his first goal in 13 months. The Czech
midfielder glanced the ball into the net after being set up by
Nicklas Bendtner.  With time running out, substitute Tehoue broke clear and
fired a low shot past  Manuel Almunia  to earn his team a replay.  “This is the magic of football,” Tehoue told ESPN. “You
have to keep the belief.”  Ivan Klasnic scored in the F.A. Cup for the second time in
five days to secure Bolton’s progress in the competition against
Fulham at Craven Cottage.  Zamora Returns  Fulham lost even though the team was boosted by the return
of striker  Bobby Zamora  as a substitute after five months out
with a broken leg.  At the City of Manchester Stadium, Patrick Vieira got two
goals for Manchester City to help oust League One Notts County.  Carlos Tevez , Edin Dzeko and Micah Richards also scored.  City is aiming to win its first major title since the
League Cup in 1976. It has claimed the F.A. Cup four times, and
is a four-time runner-up.  Two days ago, Manchester United beat non-league Crawley
Town 1-0, Birmingham defeated Sheffield Wednesday 3-0, and Stoke
won 3-0 against Brighton. Everton defeated defending champion
Chelsea in a penalty shootout in a fourth-round replay. West Ham
hosts Burnley today.  Birmingham will play Bolton in the next round,  Manchester
City  or  Aston Villa  will be at home against Everton or Reading,
and the winner of today’s game is set to play at Stoke.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 