-- 
Bahrain's Rulers Pledge to Ease Tension as Violence Spreads Through Region

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-20T09:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/bahrain-s-rulers-pledge-to-ease-tension-as-violence-spreads-through-region.html
Bahraini protesters were considering
the government’s offer of talks to resolve a conflict now in its
seventh day as a Libyan opposition group warned of a
“bloodbath” at the hands of security forces seeking to crack
down on calls for political change sparked by Egypt and  Tunisia .  Libyan troops used machine guns and large-caliber weapons
on protesters in Benghazi, the country’s second-biggest city, to
dislodge demonstrations against Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi,
the British Broadcasting Corp. reported today. Persian Gulf
shares slumped, sending Dubai’s benchmark stock index down the
most this month, on concern political unrest in the region may
be spreading.  In Bahrain, home to the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet , seven
opposition groups are meeting today to discuss the government’s
call for dialogue, said Ebrahim Sharif, head of the National
Democratic Action Society. Thousands of protesters yesterday
poured back into the central square that has become the focus of
protest in the capital, Manama, after tanks, armored personnel
carriers and riot police withdrew on the orders of Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa. Unions called off a general strike
planned for today in response.  “Calm is required so all parties can put forward their
views and issues in a responsible and productive way,” the
crown prince said on Bahrain TV, calling a day of mourning for
those killed during the protests. The country is entering a
phase “in which we will discuss all our issues sincerely and
honestly.”  The violence rippling across the region poses a challenge
to U.S. strategic interests in Bahrain and  Djibouti , both U.S.
allies, as well as in Yemen, whose government cooperates with
the U.S. on anti-terrorism efforts.  Yemen Strife  Protests were also reported in Kuwait,  Jordan  and  Algeria 
yesterday, while in Yemen gunfire broke out in the capital
Sanaa, leaving one man dead after he was shot in the neck by
government supporters. About 2,000 protesters again took to the
streets in Sanaa today as the strife entered a 10th day. The
crowds are demanding the ouster of Ali Abdullah Saleh, Yemen’s
president for 32 years.  Across the  Gulf of Aden  in Djibouti, where the U.S. has
about 2,000 personnel stationed at its only Africa base, three
opposition leaders were released late yesterday after anti-
government protests turned violent the previous night, leaving
at least four dead and 50 injured, a party head said. The
government has said one protester and one policeman died.  ‘No Explanation’  “They came this morning to arrest me and released me at 6
p.m.,” Aden Robleh Awaleh, leader of the  National Democratic
Party , said by phone. “There was no explanation, no charge, no
problem.”  Ismail Guedi Hared, the president of the Union for a
Democratic Alternative who was also arrested and then released,
said that police had used tear gas and “shot in every
direction.” Former colonial power  France  has 3,000 troops in
Djibouti, which borders the  Red Sea .  U.S. General James Cartwright, the vice chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that the wave of protests sweeping
the region reflects frustration among 18-to 35-year-olds who
can’t get good jobs and see unfair systems.  “It is moving through Northern Africa, the Middle East at
a pace that is just unheard of, and each of those governments
and each of those nations is watching it come, trying to figure
out what’s happening and how they might prevent it,” Cartwright
told the Economic Club of  Florida  in Tallahassee on Feb. 18,
according to the  Associated Press .  Libyan Deaths  In  Libya , at least 104 people have been killed and hundreds
injured in anti-government protests since Feb. 16, Heba Morayef,
a researcher with  Human Rights Watch , said by phone in Cairo
today.  The BBC today reported “intense violence” in Benghazi,
claiming the lives of an unknown number of people, including
children. Libyan special forces stormed a protest camp in the
eastern city yesterday, AP said. Run for 41 years by the anti-
American leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Libya has the largest crude oil
reserves on the African continent.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday that
the British government “is deeply concerned by continuing
reports overnight of unacceptable violence used against
protesters in Libya, Bahrain, and Yemen and the deaths of
protesters.”  Hospital Treatment  At least five people have been killed in Bahrain and more
than 100 people were being treated at the Salmaniya Hospital
after violent clashes two days ago, said Ahmed Jamal, president
of the Bahrain medical society.  Bahrain’s government must show restraint in dealing with
peaceful protests and hold accountable those responsible for
violence, President  Barack Obama  told King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa on Feb. 18, according to an administration statement
issued in  Washington .  King Hamad asked his son the crown prince to try to resolve
the conflict after the violent clashes, the Bahrain News Agency
reported. Protesters in Bahrain are calling for a constitutional
monarchy and a change of government. The prime minister, the
focus of the demonstrators’ demands, has held the office for
four decades.  National Security Adviser Tom Donilon spoke by telephone
with the crown prince yesterday and expressed support for the
steps the government is taking to “show restraint and initiate
dialogue with all segments of Bahraini society,” the White
House said in a statement.  Weeping, Praying  In the Bahraini capital yesterday, men wept and prayed
after riot police firing tear gas retreated from the central
traffic junction known as the Pearl roundabout that has become
the focus of protests. People handed flowers to journalists and
processions of women wearing veils and carrying Bahraini flags
circled the roundabout chanting slogans calling for the
government to resign.  “The trust between the government and the people is
gone,” said Jaffar Mohammed, 42. “I think we will get what we
want.”  Bahrain’s General Federation for Trade Unions, representing
workers in industries including aluminum, oil and transport,
suspended a nationwide strike to protest the government’s
response to demonstrations and said work will resume tomorrow,
according to an e-mailed statement. The strike was suspended
because the government pledged to respect the right to peaceful
protests, it said.  ‘Credit Profile’ Risks    Fitch Ratings  put Bahrain on rating-watch negative on Feb.
17, saying the protests “increase the risks to the sovereign’s
credit profile.”  Swap contracts for  Saudi Arabia , used as a measure of
confidence although the country has no debt to insure, jumped
11.5 basis points to 138 last week, the highest since July 2009,
on concern the unrest may spread to the world’s biggest oil
exporter, which neighbors Bahrain and has a Shiite minority
population in the east, where most of its oil is produced.
statement on its website yesterday.  Algerian authorities surrounded about 1,500 protesters in a
peaceful sit-in in the capital Algiers yesterday. The
demonstrators chanted slogans against the Algerian regime and
called for democracy in the North African country. Police, who
outnumbered the protesters, separated about 50 government
supporters carrying portraits of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika
from the anti-government demonstrators.  In Kuwait, about 300 bedoun again gathered west of Kuwait
City yesterday to demand rights and Kuwaiti citizenship. The
authorities used tear gas, rubber bullets and water cannons to
break up a demonstration by about 1,000 stateless residents
yesterday. The government says there are about 100,000 stateless
people in  Kuwait  and many don’t have access to basic services
such as medical care and education.  Eight people were injured in Jordan in clashes between
government supporters and protesters demanding wider rights and
higher  living standards , Al Arabiya television said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  