-- 
Bank Hapoalim, D. Medical, Kamor, Sapiens: Israel Equity Preview

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-20T07:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/bank-hapoalim-d-medical-kamor-sapiens-israel-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Israeli markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after
company names and prices are from the close unless otherwise
stated.  The TA-25 Index was little changed at 1,334.73 in  Tel Aviv .  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI IT): The board of directors of
Israel’s second-largest bank said it “expresses faith” in
Chief Executive Officer Zion Kenan after  Israel  police
recommended he be indicted on charges of fraud and breach of
trust. Hapoalim declined 1.7 percent to 17.53 shekels.  D. Medical Industries Ltd. (DMDC IT): The developer of
medical equipment to treat diabetes said its NextGen Biomed Ltd.
unit won’t proceed with a planned acquisition of ClearPath Ltd.
and Innosense Ltd. D. Medical fell 1.8 percent to 14.83 shekels.    Kamor Ltd . (KMOR IT): The holding company sold its rights
in a Tel Aviv property for 43 million shekels ($12 million).
Kamor rose 1.9 percent to 8 shekels when it last traded Feb. 15.  Sapiens International Corp. (SPNS IT): The information-
technology company signed a “major” deal with a “leading”
U.S. financial institution to build an operating platform to
manage business decisions. Sapiens dropped 4.1 percent to 14.31
shekels.    Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . (TEVA IT): U.S.
regulators plan to unveil rules for reviewing the first copies
of biologic medicines “very soon,” U.S. Food and Drug
Administration Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  told Bloomberg.
Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic pharmaceuticals,
gained 0.1 percent 188.20 shekels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Ronit Goodman in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  