-- 
Barclays Added as Defendant in Del Monte Shareholders Lawsuit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-02-20T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/barclays-added-as-defendant-in-del-monte-shareholders-lawsuit.html
  Del Monte  Foods Co. shareholders
added Barclays Capital, the company’s financial adviser, to a
lawsuit seeking to stop a $5.3 billion takeover led by KKR & Co.  The shareholders’ law firm, Grant & Eisenhofer, told the
Delaware Chancery Court of the move in a Feb. 18 letter. Also
that day, Del Monte said it will seek takeover offers following
a Delaware judge’s decision to delay the deal. Barclays had a
conflict in handling the auction of the company because it also
helped finance the KKR-led offer, the judge said.  Barclays said in an e-mailed statement that its sale
process included 53 potential buyers for Del Monte and didn’t
yield a higher price. The $19 a share price is 40 percent more
than the average trading price for the three months prior to the
possibility of a sale becoming public, Barclays said.  “We look forward to the opportunity to set the record
straight in court,” Barclays said.   Barclays Capital  was not
named as a defendant when the Delaware Chancery Court made its
preliminary ruling on February 14, and as a result, has not had
the opportunity to provide the court with all of the facts
relating to its work for Del Monte or refute the plaintiffs’
version of events.”  The ruling by Judge J. Travis Laster postponed a
shareholder vote of the KKR deal until March 7. Del Monte was
sued in December by a shareholder seeking more than the $19 a
share offered. A buyout would give New York-based KKR access to
Del Monte’s pet-food business, which has more than doubled sales
in the past four years.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP was hired to canvass potential
bidders, San Francisco-based Del Monte said Feb. 18 in a
regulatory filing.  The case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co . Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 