-- 
Carry Trade, Investment Flows Pressure Yen, Favor Kan, Exports

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-20T19:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/carry-trade-revival-means-weaker-yen-that-kan-can-love-as-exports-increase.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
wish for a weaker yen is coming true as the strengthening global
economy encourages the nation’s investors to send more of their
money overseas in search of higher yields.  The yen has depreciated 8.3 percent from its August peak
against a basket of nine developed-nation peers, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. The lower  exchange
rate  marks a turnaround from early 2010 when global investors
demanding a refuge from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis propelled
it to a 15-year high versus the dollar.  Declines are being driven by the growing gap between yields
on Treasuries and Japanese  government bonds  and the revival of
carry trades, when investors borrow where yields are low, such
as in Japan, to buy assets in higher-returning countries. Kan,
whose approval rating fell to 17.8 percent last month in a Feb.
17 Jiji Press  survey , may benefit from a weaker yen that
bolsters profits at exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp .  “Investors will be seeking higher yields overseas, given
yields are so low in Japan,” said Kei Katayama, leader of the
foreign fixed-income group at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo,
which manages $54.3 billion in assets. “Developing nations are
gaining momentum, and this trend won’t change easily.”  The yen may weaken to 86 per dollar by the end of the
second quarter and 90 by the end of the year, according a
Bloomberg News survey of 40 forecasters. The currency gained 0.3
percent to 83.18 in the week ended Feb. 18.  Treasury Yields  The shift out of the yen comes as Treasury yields rise on
speculation the  U.S. economy  and inflation are accelerating,
boosting demand for assets linked to growth. Gross domestic
product will expand 3.2 percent this year, compared with 2.9
percent in 2010, while the 10-year note yield may rise to 3.94
percent from 3.29 on Dec. 31, according to Bloomberg News 
surveys.  In Japan, 10-year yields are forecast to rise this year to
1.24 percent from 1.13 percent on Dec. 31 as the nation’s
economy grows 1.4 percent, according to Bloomberg News surveys.  Investment flows into Japanese mutual funds that focus on
offshore assets rose 14 percent to 624.6 billion yen ($7.51
billion) in January from a year earlier, according to the
Investment Trust Association. The amount moving into these funds
doubled to 6 trillion yen in 2010 from the previous year.  Last year, the carry trade of borrowing in dollars and
selling the greenback to buy the currencies of  Australia ,  Norway ,  New Zealand  and  Brazil  returned 11.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a loss of 2.8 percent
using the yen as a so-called funding currency.  Carry Trade Reversal  The results have reversed in 2011, with carry trades using
the yen gaining 23.8 percent, compared with 2.8 percent in
dollar-funded trades.  “Investors are increasingly buying higher-yielding assets,
as the worldwide economic recovery is stabilizing more now,”
said Morio Okayasu, chief analyst in Tokyo at FOREX.com Japan
Co., a unit of the online currency trading firm Gain Capital in
Bedminster,  New Jersey . “Yen-carry trades are getting popular,
so the bias is for the Japanese currency to be sold.”  Smaller price swings are also boosting the carry trade. The
JPMorgan Chase & Co. implied volatility index for seven major
currencies fell to 10.18 last week, the lowest since August 2008.
Higher volatility undermines the strategy by making the trade
less predictable.  Currency Intervention  The yen reached 80.22 against the dollar on Nov. 1, the
strongest level since April 1995. Its 15 percent appreciation
last year led Kan to express concern about the currency’s
strength and prompted the government to sell 2 trillion yen in
the nation’s first intervention in the foreign-exchange market
since 2004. Governments and central banks intervene by selling
or buying currencies to influence prices.  As a stronger yen made exports from Japan less competitive,
Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest
carmaker, announced in July it would spend $600 million to
upgrade two Mexican auto plants and increase U.S. production.  When the yen then weakened, exports, which make up about 16
percent of the nation’s economy, rose. December exports rose 13
percent from a year earlier, after a 9.1 percent gain in
November, the  Finance Ministry  reported Jan. 26.  Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, the world’s largest
carmaker, raised its full-year profit forecast by 40 percent on
Feb. 8, as sales in  Asia  and other emerging markets exceeded the
company’s estimates. Net income may more than double to 490
billion yen for the 12 months ending March 31, from 209 billion
yen a year ago and its November estimate of 350 billion yen.  Political Leadership  Tokyo-based Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker,
increased its profit forecast 6 percent Jan. 31.  “The political leadership will be ecstatic if we see a
weaker yen, since it will help boost exports and help make
Japanese goods more competitive,” said Paresh Upadhyaya, head
of Americas G-10 currency strategy in  New York  at Bank of
America Corp., the top euro-yen forecaster in the six quarters
ended Dec. 31 based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yen weakness may be tempered by the nation’s current
account surplus. The broadest measure of trade widened 30.5
percent in December from a year earlier to 1.195 trillion yen,
the Finance Ministry said Feb. 8.  “If you run a current account surplus, you’re creating more
demand for your currency than there is relative to supply,”
said  Robert Lynch , head of foreign exchange strategy for HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York.  While the yield difference between U.S. and Japanese two-
year securities expanded to 62 basis points, or 0.62 percentage
point, on Feb. 8, the most since June, Lynch said it’s still
narrow when compared with pre-financial crisis spreads as wide
as 447 basis points in July 2006. HSBC forecasts the yen will
strengthen to 80 per dollar by year-end.  Benchmark Rates  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa kept the benchmark
interest rate between zero and 0.1 percent at the last monetary
policy meeting on Feb. 15, where it has been since December 2008.
In a Bloomberg News survey last month, 12 of 15 economists
predicted the  Bank of Japan  won’t raise the benchmark rate until
2013 at the earliest, two said it will increase next year and
one predicted no change until 2014.  The  Federal Reserve  will raise rates to 0.5 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues at a Jan. 26 meeting voted to
keep its rate target in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008. The Fed is promoting growth after
the credit crisis that led to an 18-month contraction that was
the longest since the 43-month slump during the Great Depression,
according to the National Bureau of Economic Research.  ‘Quite Skeptical’  “Japanese investors have been quite skeptical about the
U.S. recovery,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Sentiment has shifted so dramatically.”  The yen has declined against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year except for the South African rand. It may
depreciate to above 100 per dollar this year and trade about 95
yen at year-end, said Kenichiro Ikezawa, a  fund manager  in Tokyo
at Daiwa SB.  For the first time since June, futures traders are betting
on a drop in the yen versus the dollar, according to the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 18,548 as of Feb. 15, compared with
net longs of 36,731 a week earlier.  “Dollar-yen seems to have bottomed out at last,” Ikezawa
said. “The U.S. won’t add to monetary easing from here, and
Japan will inevitably lag behind in rate increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  