-- 
Maersk Places $5.4 Billion Order for Mega-Ships as Global Trade Rebounds

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-02-21T15:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/daewoo-shipbuilding-wins-order-for-10-18-000-container-vessels-from-maersk.html
A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, the world’s
largest container line, agreed to buy as many as 30 of the
biggest ships valued at as much as $5.4 billion to counter
rising fuel prices and benefit from expanding global trade.  The deal with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co.
includes 10 firm orders for vessels able to carry 18,000
containers, enough for 18 million flat-panel televisions, the
companies announced at a joint press conference in London today.
Maersk plans to take delivery of the ships by 2014 and will
decide this year whether it will exercise an option for 20 more
vessels, Eivind Kolding, chief executive officer of Maersk’s
container line, said in an interview.  The 400-meter-long (1,312-foot-long) vessels, with a
capacity about 30 percent greater than the largest ships afloat,
will help Copenhagen-based Maersk cut emissions and pare fuel
usage as it contends with  oil prices  that have more than doubled
in two years. Zodiac Maritime Agencies Ltd. and Neptune Orient
Lines Ltd. ordered 10,000-container-plus ships last year as the
end of the global recession revived U.S. and European demand for
Asian-made goods.  “There’s sure to be more orders for large ships,” said
Lee Jae Kyu, a Seoul-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “With fuel prices where they are now, lines need to
find ways to lower costs.”  Shares Jump  Daewoo, the world’s third-biggest shipyard, and larger
rivals Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and Seoul-based Samsung
Heavy Industries Co. will be the main beneficiaries, Lee said.  Daewoo rose 4.8 percent to 35,850 won at the close of
trading in  Seoul . Samsung Heavy jumped 6.4 percent and Hyundai
Heavy gained 1.8 percent. Maersk slipped 0.9 percent to 52,400
kroner at 4:02 p.m. in Copenhagen.  The addition of the 10 vessels corresponds to about one
year’s market growth, Kolding said in London.  “If nothing unexpectedly negative happens, we will most
likely declare option for the first 10,” Kolding said. “The
last 10, we will wait and see and make a decision when the
deadline is up.”  The ships, which will be deployed on trade routes between
Asia and  Europe , will cut costs per container by 26 percent
compared with current vessels, according to Maersk. That
includes savings on fuel we well as port and canal fees, it
said.  Cutting Emissions  The new ships feature engines fitted with a heat-waste
recovery system that will help Maersk pare  carbon emissions  50
percent compared with current vessels on Asia-Europe routes,
Daewoo said.  Maersk hasn’t decided how to finance the ships, Kolding
said. The company sold bonds in 2009 for the first time in its
106-year history.  “Building in Korea, you get the opportunity to draw on  Korea  export-import bank facilities, and we can do that,” the
CEO said. “We’ll simply find the most optimal way of financing
at the time.”  Mediterranean Shipping Co. , the No. 2 container line after
Maersk, is building up a fleet of 21 vessels able to carry about
14,000 boxes each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ships, including the largest in service worldwide, are being
built by Daewoo and Samsung Heavy.  ‘Wind of Change’  “The wind of change in the container-shipping industry has
been set and the trend is now for large ships,” said Lee Sokje,
an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “We could
see a shortage of container ships as early as in 2013 if
shipping lines don’t order now.”  Rebounding trade has prompted container lines to resume
placing orders, which generally take about three years to
execute, following a two-year hiatus during the recession.  The global container market may grow by more than 8 percent
this year, Maersk forecast last month. Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker, has forecast an increase of 9.7 percent.  Maersk lifted its 2010 earnings forecast on Nov. 10, saying
freight rates and volumes will help it post record profits. A
year earlier, the shipping line had a loss as trade volumes
contracted.  The company operates container ships with a total capacity
of 2.2 million 20-foot boxes, or 14.5 percent of the global
fleet, according to  Alphaliner . Geneva-based Mediterranean
Shipping has a 12.8 percent share, according to the maritime-
data provider. Twenty months ago, Maersk had 15 percent of the
market while Mediterranean had 11.4 percent.  ‘Momentous Event’  “This order is a momentous event for the container-
shipping industry,” Daewoo CEO Nam Sang Tae said in a
statement. It “will change the whole landscape.”  The shipyard said in December that it expects to win $11
billion of orders this year, helped by demand for container
ships and offshore projects. The company’s biggest single order
for container ships was in July 2008 when Maersk ordered 16
vessels able to carry 7,450 boxes apiece, for $2.3 billion.  Neptune Orient,  Singapore ’s largest container line, ordered
two ships capable of carrying 10,700 containers each last year
from Daewoo, as part of a $1.2 billion deal. Zodiac Maritime
ordered as many as 10 13,000-box ships, costing about $140
million each, from Jinhae, South Korea-based STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. in October, according to  Clarkson .  Worldwide, a total of 614 ships, with a combined capacity
of 3.87 million containers, were on order at the start of this
month, according to Clarkson. Vessels able to carry 8,000 boxes
or more accounted for 67 percent of the backlog by capacity.  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, rose 0.3 percent to $612.50 on Feb. 18 in Singapore. The
price has more than doubled in the past two years in line with
rising oil costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  