-- 
Delta Jet Lands Safely After Engine Fails on Takeoff

-- B y   E d   D u f n e r   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-02-20T22:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/delta-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-florida-after-engine-is-damaged.html
An engine on a  Delta Air Lines Inc .
jet failed shortly after takeoff today, spewing out small parts,
and was forced to return to Florida’s Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood
International Airport.  Flight 1846, a  Boeing Co . 737-800 bound for Minneapolis,
landed safely, the airline and the Federal Aviation
Administration said. There were no injuries among the 119
passengers and six crew members.  The incident was a so-called contained failure, with pieces
of the engine blown out the back instead of piercing the casing,
said Kathleen Bergen, an FAA spokeswoman, in a telephone
interview. An uncontained failure is considered more serious,
because flying chunks of metal can damage critical systems.  “Deputies with the Broward County Sheriff’s Office
recovered several small pieces of what appears to be parts from
the damaged engine,” Greg Meyer, a spokesman for the county
aviation department, said in a statement.  Delta moved the passengers to another plane, which arrived
in  Minneapolis  about 2:32 p.m. local time, about 3 1/2 hours
later than scheduled, according to industry-data tracker
 FlightAware.com .  Flight 1846 was scheduled for a 7:30 a.m. departure. During
takeoff, the captain received a warning about possible damage to
one of the 737’s two engines and immediately shut it down, said  Anthony Black , a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta.  Engine Replacement  Another engine is being trucked from Atlanta to Florida,
where it will be installed on the 737 tonight so the jet can
return to service tomorrow, Black said. The damaged engine will
be sent to Atlanta for further inspection to pinpoint the cause
of the failure, he said.  There was no evidence of scorching that would indicate a
fire, and the pieces ejected from the engine appeared to be
turbine blades, the FAA’s Bergen said. “Small parts -- nothing
significant,” she said.  Boeing’s 737 is the world’s most widely flown airliner, and
is a workhorse on domestic routes within the U.S. The 737-800
typically seats 162 to 189 passengers, depending on the cabin
configuration, according to  Boeing’s website .  It’s powered by CFM56-7B engines from  CFM International , a
joint venture between  General Electric Co . and France’s  Safran
SA .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner in Dallas at   edufner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 