-- 
Delta Cancels 700 Flights as Minnesota Is Snarled by Snow Now Heading East

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-20T22:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/delta-cancels-700-flights-as-minnesota-is-snarled-by-snow-now-heading-east.html
  Delta Air Lines Inc . canceled more
than 700 flights at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
today as a winter storm snarled travel in the Twin Cities and
other parts of the region.  The National Weather Service said Minneapolis may get as
much as 17 inches of snow through tonight. Blizzard warnings
were issued for much of  South Dakota , part of southern North
Dakota and west-central Minnesota.  Delta flights make up 80 percent of the Minneapolis
airport’s operations, said Melissa Scovronski, an airport
spokeswoman.  “The worst may be to come,” Scovronski said. “A big
question will be what happens tomorrow as it’s a very big travel
day for business travelers.”  Delta said travelers affected by the snowstorm can make one-
time changes to their schedules with fees.  Forecasters said  Milwaukee  may receive as much as 3 inches
of snow, while Detroit may have a total of 2 inches of snow and
sleet by tonight.  The storm is forecast to stretch further east tomorrow.  A band covering the area from central New York through
Massachusetts may get as much as 6 inches of snow through
tomorrow, said Alan Reppert, a meteorologist with
AccuWeather.com Inc.  Northern New Jersey will get ice and snow
late tonight that will change over to rain tomorrow, he said.
Maine may receive as much as 3 inches of snowfall.  The Northeast’s major metropolitan areas -- Washington,
Philadelphia,  New York City  -- may get a dusting of snow, though
“nothing major,” Reppert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart at   dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  