-- 
Diageo Agrees to Buy Turkish Distiller Mey Icki From TPG for $2.1 Billion

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-21T12:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/diageo-said-to-be-close-to-buying-distillery-mey-icki-of-turkey.html
  Diageo Plc  plans to make its biggest
purchase in more than a decade by acquiring Mey Icki in a
transaction that values Turkey’s largest maker of Raki at 3.3
billion Turkish lira ($2.1 billion).  The acquisition from private-equity firms TPG Capital and
Actera furthers Diageo’s aim of expanding in emerging markets
that have “a rapidly growing middle class,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul Walsh said today. Turkey’s gross domestic product
is set to grow 4.6 percent in 2011, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, more than the U.S. and U.K.  “We see the Turkish market having high growth potential
and Mey Icki’s market position is attractive with relatively
high margins,” analysts including Jason DeRise at UBS AG in  London  wrote in a note today before the purchase was announced.  Mey Icki, which Diageo estimates controls 80 percent of the
market for Raki, may not be the last acquisition by the world’s
largest distiller, analysts said. Diageo, the owner of Smirnoff
vodka, aims to make purchases in markets where growth is the
fastest, Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said in an
interview this month, after the company reported first-half
revenue and profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Diageo shares rose 2 pence to 1,202 pence as of 11:28 a.m.
in London. The stock has gained 1.4 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 30.1 billion pounds ($49 billion).  More Acquisitions?  The acquisition of Mey Icki will add 1 percent to Diageo’s
earnings per share in the first year of ownership, the distiller
said in a statement. The deal will be funded through existing
cash resources and debt.  Cost savings from the purchase won’t be significant, Andrew Morgan, Diageo’s European president, said on a call today.
Diageo hopes to settle an unrelated tax issue with the Turkish
government in the next couple of weeks, he said.  Morgan declined to comment on whether the London-based
company would consider further acquisitions.  “They’ve still got at least another 2 billion pounds” for
other purchases, which may include Fortune Brands Inc.’s spirits
unit, which owns Jim Beam bourbon, said Samar Chand, an analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in London. “This doesn’t change the story
of there being more acquisitions in the next 12 to 16 months.”  Diageo had 6.95 billion pounds in total current assets as
of June 30, according to Bloomberg data.  Morgan declined to comment on the proportion of debt used
to finance the acquisition.  Ebitda Multiples  The distiller is paying 9.9 times Mey Icki’s 2010 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Morgan
said. The average multiple paid in the wine and spirits industry
in the past 10 years is 12.7 times Ebitda, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The purchase is Diageo’s biggest since the 2000
acquisition of the Seagram’s liquor business from Vivendi SA.  The multiples paid by Diageo are “undemanding,” said Andy Ford, an analyst at MF Global, who recommends investors “buy”
the shares. “Turkey’s economy is growing rapidly and its
population is young and urban, both of which are positive for
likely future spirits market growth.”  Under Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , gross
domestic product per head rose to $8,600 in 2009 from $3,500 in
2002, according to figures from the Treasury. The government’s
medium-term plans see GDP per person reaching $10,600 this year.
The number of households that earn more than $15,000 a year is
set to grow to more than 60 percent of the population in the
next few years, Morgan said in an interview with Bloomberg.  Distribution Network  Mey Icki has a distribution network that reaches 57,000
outlets and employs more than 650 sales people, Diageo said. The
distribution chain will help Diageo sell international spirits
brands in the country as well as Mey Icki’s existing liquors, it
said. Sales of beverages including Diageo’s J&B and Johnnie
Walker whiskies are growing in the country, according to Morgan.  Diageo has the skills to persuade Turkish consumers to buy
more expensive brands of Raki, an aniseed-flavored spirit, as
well as international spirit brands, Barclays Capital’s Chand
said. Mey Icki’s mainstream brand “Yeni Raki” represents 64
percent of its Raki sales compared with the more expensive
“Tekirdag” brand, which represents about 9 percent of the
market, according to Diageo.  Mey Icki is also  Turkey ’s market leader for vodka, the
fastest-growing alcohol category in the country, Diageo said.
The acquisition may allow Diageo to increase sales of Smirnoff
in the country. Vodka is gaining popularity among younger
drinkers and women, and in bars and restaurants, Diageo said.  Investment Return  UBS AG and HSBC Holdings Plc acted as financial advisers to
Diageo, the company said. The purchase will be completed in the
second half, it said. TPG and Actera were advised by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  TPG returned about 5 times its investment selling Mey Icki
to Diageo, a person familiar with the transaction said.  The buyout firm said today that its “local knowledge” of
the Turkish market and “unique experience in improving and
growing businesses will present other opportunities to invest in
this attractive market.”  TPG this month said it would offer 25 percent of Mey Icki
in an initial public offering. TPG, the Fort Worth, Texas-based
firm run by  David Bonderman , bought 90 percent of Mey Icki in
2006 for $810 million. The seller was a local joint venture led
by an association of beverage sales agents, which paid Turkey’s
government $292 million for the company in 2003. Actera Group,
an Istanbul-based private-equity firm, holds the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  