-- 
Djibouti Opposition Parties to Meet to Plan More Anti-Government Protests

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-20T14:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/djibouti-opposition-parties-to-meet-to-plan-more-anti-government-protests.html
Opposition groups in  Djibouti , the
Horn of  Africa  nation that hosts the only U.S. military base on
the continent, plan to hold more anti-government protests after
a demonstration last week ended in violence.  Opponents of President Ismail Guelleh will meet over the
next two days to discuss a new date for the next protest,
Mohamed Daoud Chehem, head of the Djibouti Party for Development
said by phone from the capital city today.  “We will have another protest for sure,” he said.  At least four demonstrators died and 50 were injured in a
protest on Feb. 18 that led to clashes with police, according to
the opposition National Democratic Party. Government reports say
one demonstrator and one police officer have been killed.  Anti-government protests have spread from  Algeria  to Yemen
since January after popular uprisings ousted the presidents of
Egypt and Tunisia. In Djibouti, Guelleh’s People’s Rally for
Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977. The 63-
year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution
in March to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-year
terms.  Chehem said 20 members of his party, the National
Democratic Party led by Aden Robleh Awaleh and Ismael Guedi Hared’s Union for a Democratic Alternative were sent to Gabode
Prison today after being detained by the authorities since the
start of the protests. Fifteen political activists from the
Movement for Democratic Renewal are also in the jail, he said.  Government Comment  Calls today to chief government spokesman Ali Abdi Farah,
Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef, two numbers for Interior
Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh and other senior members of government
weren’t answered or the officials weren’t available for comment.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  Last month, opposition leader Abdourahman Boreh called for
elections scheduled for April to be delayed by as much as a year
and for international monitors to oversee an electoral roll that
includes 130,000 to 140,000 of the population.  Boreh was the chairman of the Djibouti Port and Free Zone
Authority from 2000 to 2009, when he left the country following
a dispute with the government. He was subsequently given a 15-
year prison sentence following accusations he was involved in a
grenade attack in Djibouti. Boreh denied all charges and said
the case was politically motivated.  “We’re closely monitoring, keeping an eye on developments,
especially as they relate to any forces we may have in the
region,” a Pentagon spokesman, Marine Corps Colonel David Lapin,
told reporters Feb. 18.  The U.S has had a  base  in Djibouti since 2001, while former
colonial power  France  also has a military base and 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts . The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the  Gulf
of Aden  and is seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led
fight against terrorism and piracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 