-- 
Dubai Shares Drop as Mideast Unrest Sparks Risk Aversion; Emaar, Zain Fall

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-20T15:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/dubai-shares-drop-most-this-month-on-growing-mideast-unrest-emaar-falls.html
Middle East shares slumped, sending
Dubai’s benchmark stock index down the most this month, on
concern political unrest in the region may spread.    Emaar Properties PJSC , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, dropped 4.7 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest Shariah-compliant lender, fell the
most since November. The  DFM General Index  retreated 3.7
percent, the most since Jan. 30, to 1,536.45 at the 2 p.m. close
in Dubai. Kuwait’s gauge tumbled 2.5 percent, led by Mobile
Telecommunications Co. as the company’s board rejected all
purchase offers for its 25 percent stake in Zain  Saudi Arabia .  Arab governments are cracking down on pro-democracy
activists as uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt
spread to Libya, Algeria, Yemen and Bahrain. Prince Talal Bin
Abdul Aziz, a member of Saudi Arabia’s royal family, said on
Feb. 17 that the kingdom may see protests unless King Abdullah
Bin Abdul Aziz introduces reforms, according to BBC Arabic TV.  “The spread of the geo-political tension into Bahrain is
causing investors to be risk averse,” said Nabil Farhat,
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “The risk of
spreading is dependent on each country’s situation. If you have
a country with high inflation, an autocratic regime, high
unemployment and a big percentage of the population that is
below the poverty level and young, then the risk is high.”  Credit Default Swaps  Bahraini protesters were considering the government’s offer
of talks to resolve a conflict now in its seventh day as a
Libyan opposition group warned of a “bloodbath” at the hands
of security forces seeking to crack down on calls for political
change sparked by Egypt and  Tunisia .  Bahrain’s credit default swaps climbed 17 basis points to
304, the highest since July 2009 on Feb. 18, according to CMA
prices in  London . The cost of protecting Saudi Arabian debt
against default for five years soared 12 basis points to 138,
also the highest in 19 months. Swaps on Saudi Arabia are used
as a measure of confidence in the country although they reference
no debt. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange 
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should
a government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Emaar dropped to 3.02 dirhams, the lowest since June 16.
Dubai Islamic retreated 3.4 percent, the most since Nov. 7, to
2.25 dirhams.  Zain Slump  Mobile Telecommunications, Kuwait’s biggest phone operator
known as Zain, slumped 7.3 percent, the most since June 9.
Zain’s decision may thwart a bid by Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., or Etisalat, to buy a 46 percent controlling stake in
Zain. Zain’s chief operating officer, chief strategy & business
development officer and an adviser to the chief operating
officer resigned, the company said yesterday. Etisalat dropped
0.9 percent.  Qatar’s  QE Index  decreased 1.6 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index 
fell 1.1 percent, Bahrain’s gauge dropped 0.2 percent and  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index  lost 1.9 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
Tadawul All Share Index declined 0.8 percent. Shares in Egypt
haven’t traded in more than three weeks.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index closed little changed at 1,335.
The country’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due
January 2020 fell, pushing the yield on the 5 percent bond up 3
basis points to 5.06 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  