-- 
Egypt Treasury-Bill Yields Hold at Two-Year Highs as Foreigners Skip Sale

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-20T12:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/egypt-treasury-bill-yields-hold-at-two-year-highs-as-foreigners-skip-sale.html
  Egypt  raised 4.5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($766 million) in treasury bills today, with yields
holding around two-year highs, as the country struggles to
recover from an uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  The average yield on 1 billion pounds of 91-day treasury
bills was 10.94 percent, little changed from last week’s
auction, the country’s first debt sale after the resignation of
Mubarak, according to central bank data on Bloomberg. Yields
were at 10.95 percent last week and 10.97 the previous week, the
highest in two years. The  finance ministry  also raised 3.5
billion pounds of nine-month notes at an average yield of 11.74
percent, the highest since February 2009, the data show.  Foreign investors didn’t participate in the auction, Samy
Khallaf, adviser to Finance Minister Samir Radwan, said in a
telephone interview today from Cairo. The ministry plans to
auction 2 billion pounds in six-month securities and 3.5 billion
pounds in 364-day bills tomorrow, according to central bank data
on Bloomberg.  “There is no concern about covering the issues because the
local banks are very liquid,” Mohamed Rahmy, a Cairo-based
economist at Egyptian investment bank Beltone Financial, said by
telephone. “But as long as there is still uncertainty and until
there is stability the yields will be high and foreign interest
won’t come back.”  Economic Growth  The protests that started last month ended Mubarak’s 30-
year rule. The demonstrations temporarily closed businesses,
scared off tourists and raised the government’s borrowing costs.
Radwan said on Feb. 14 the  budget deficit  will widen to about
8.4 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending
June from 8.1 percent as spending increases and economic growth
slows. The growth rate may drop to 4 percent from 5.1 percent in
the previous year, he said two days earlier.  The turmoil forced banks to close and sent the currency to
a six-year low. Banks were working normally today, Deputy
Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez told state-run television.
The stock market has been closed for more than three weeks.  Egypt’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces dissolved
parliament and suspended the constitution, saying it will rule
for six months or until elections are held. The military council
said that it won’t allow strikes to continue because of their
impact on the economy, state-run television reported on Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  