-- 
Merkel's CDU Loses Power in Hamburg, Suffers Worst Postwar Defeat in State

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-21T14:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/merkel-faces-hamburg-test-in-first-of-seven-state-votes-amid-debt-crisis.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party
suffered its worst defeat in Germany’s richest state since World
War II, the first of seven state elections this year that
threaten to limit her scope to tackle  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The loss in Hamburg, the city-state of Merkel’s birth,
underscores the challenge she faces trying to balance public
opposition to bailouts for debt-wracked states against pressure
from investors and fellow euro countries to lead the way in
stemming the debt contagion. Merkel faces three more state
ballots next month either side of a March 24-25 European Union
summit called to form a comprehensive plan for the crisis.  “It’s a warning to Merkel,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels. “If she has to draw any
lesson, it probably will be to get tougher at the European level
to show something to German voters,” he said. “There is no
room for Merkel to come home from Brussels on March 25 with
anything that could look or smell like a defeat.”  Portuguese  government bonds  declined for a second week
before the vote, leading securities of high-deficit countries
including Greece lower. The 10-year yield dropped 2 basis points
to 7.22 percent at 3:10 p.m. in Berlin today, holding above 7
percent for the 12th trading day in a row.  Peripheral Bond Risk  “There’s a risk to peripheral bonds if Germany is seen not
to be displaying support for the countries that are in
trouble,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment bank
in  London . “The market would have been hoping that a deal would
have been struck already” before the elections.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  took 21.9 percent in
yesterday’s election, its worst result in the port city since
the first postwar vote in 1946 and half its score in 2008,
preliminary results showed. The  Social Democrats , the main
national opposition party, took 48.3 percent, enough to end the
CDU’s 10-year rule in Hamburg and form a majority government
without need of a coalition partner.  “We have to acknowledge that this was a stinging defeat,”
Merkel told reporters in Berlin today. Outgoing CDU Mayor
Christoph Ahlhaus said the results were “painful,” and
congratulated his Social Democratic opponent Olaf Scholz, a
former Labor Minister in Merkel’s first-term government.  ‘Massive Collapse’  The CDU suffered “a massive collapse of support in this
booming city that must set off hand-wringing in Berlin,” said
Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, managing director of Hamburg-based
pollster Psephos. “Merkel will surely be concerned now that
this disaster won’t be repeated in upcoming state elections.”  German state ballots follow in Saxony-Anhalt, Bremen and
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, home to Merkel’s electoral
district, and culminate in Berlin in September. A double-header
looms next month in Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-Wuerttemberg,
the southwestern state ruled by her party for more than half a
century. Both votes are on March 27, two days after the EU
summit, in a “Super Sunday” for Merkel, Brzeski said.  In Hamburg, the Greens  took 11.2 percent  and the Free
Democrats, Merkel’s national coalition partner, 6.6 percent,
enough to win seats in the state parliament for the first time
since 2004. The anti-capitalist Left Party won 6.4 percent.    Greece  Blame  Hamburg was the first electoral test of Merkel’s policy
since her party lost a state election last May, a result that
she blamed on voter anger over bailing out Greece. The defeat
cost her control of parliament’s upper house in Berlin, the
Bundesrat, where regional administrations are represented. The
Hamburg result, if confirmed, would cost the CDU 3 seats in the
Bundesrat, further limiting her ability to pass legislation.  Merkel’s main European policy challenge this year is
getting the EU debt-fighting deal through parliament and “for
her, Baden-Wuerttemberg is the test,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, is already the biggest
country contributor to last year’s 110 billion-euro ($151
billion) bailout of Greece and the rescue fund for debt-stricken
states.  Merkel’s room to maneuver is also curtailed by her FDP
coalition partner as it seeks to counter waning support. The FDP
resists any attempt to top up the rescue fund, make it more
flexible or relax the terms of bailout aid. It also insists that
parliament has a say in any attempt to provide more aid.  While the CDU “can live” with the defeat in Hamburg,
“for the FDP, it’s a good result after some very  weak opinion
polls ,” said Schmieding. “A party less wounded is more able to
make a deal.”  The  Christian Democrats  went into the Hamburg vote after a
spate of negative headlines for Merkel. Axel Weber, her
candidate to be the  European Central Bank ’s next head, dropped
out of the race on Feb. 11 in what the best-selling Bild
newspaper called “a blow to the chancellor and to the euro.”
Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg,  Germany ’s most
popular politician, is denying allegations that he stole parts
of his doctoral thesis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  