-- 
EU May Open to North African Farm Products to Aid Crisis Region

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-02-20T10:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/eu-may-open-to-north-african-farm-products-to-aid-crisis-region.html
The European Union is debating
whether to allow more imports of farm produce from North  Africa 
in a bid to help bolster the crisis-stricken region’s economy.  EU foreign ministers begin talks in Brussels today aimed at
agreeing on aid for southern Mediterranean rim states. While  Germany  backs opening markets to agriculture products,  France 
and southern EU members with large farming industries have
reservations about such a move, a diplomat from the 27-nation EU
said on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to
talk to the media.  “The first priority for North Africa is to get the economy
going,” Shada Islam, an analyst at the Brussels-based  Friends
of Europe  policy advisory group, said in an interview. “The
best move would be for the EU to open its markets. In theory,
the EU is open to the region’s agricultural goods but in
practice they face tariff and non-tariff barriers.”  Popular protests have toppled autocratic rulers of Tunisia
and  Egypt  and dissent has spread to Libya, Africa’s biggest
holder of crude oil reserves, as well as Yemen, a producer of
liquefied natural gas, and the Persian Gulf state of Bahrain,
home to the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet .    Europe  must open its markets for further products from
the region,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in
a  commentary  published Feb. 17 in Berlin’s  Der Tagesspiegel 
newspaper.  EU ministers will agree a package aimed at supporting the
democratic transformation of the region, the diplomat said,
adding that future payouts of European aid funds should be more
closely linked to meeting terms set by the bloc.  Westerwelle said in Tagesspiegel that Germany wants the EU
to back a six-point emergency assistance plan for the southern
Mediterranean focusing on the rule of law, media freedom, free
and fair elections, development of independent judiciaries,
education and economic development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Brussels at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  