-- 
Libyan Protester Deaths Exceed 170 as Bahrain Opposition Prepares Demands

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-20T20:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/libyan-protester-deaths-exceed-170-as-bahrain-opposition-prepares-demands.html
Libyan security forces launched
overnight attacks on anti-government protesters seeking to
emulate the uprisings in Egypt and  Tunisia , increasing the death
toll over five days of unrest to more than 170, Human Rights
Watch said.  The U.S. and U.K. expressed concern about the escalation of
violence. U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  in a call today
told Saif Qaddafi, son of the Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
that the Libyan government’s actions “were unacceptable and
would result in world-wide condemnation,” the Foreign Office in  London  said in an e-mailed statement.    Libya , which has the largest crude oil reserves on the
African continent, became the focal point of protest after
violence flared in Yemen, Djibouti and Bahrain as governments
sought to crack down on calls for reform sparked by popular
uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia. Demonstrations were reported
today in Iran and  Morocco  and analysts warned of the risk of
unrest spreading to Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil
exporter. Persian Gulf shares slumped, sending Dubai’s benchmark
stock index down the most this month, on concern the turmoil may
be widening.  ‘Can’t Ignore It’  “This will be bloody to the last moment but these leaders
are finally aware of what is going on,” Helmy Sharawy, director
of the  African Arab Research Center  in Cairo, said by phone.
“We see it in Yemen, we see emergency meetings in the Gulf.
They can’t ignore it anymore.”  At least 173 people have died in Libya with hundreds
injured in clashes between Qaddafi’s forces and anti-government
protesters since Feb. 16, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said
today. Witnesses in Benghazi put the death toll at more than 200
with some 800 injured.  “Thus far the Libyan police and army have stayed loyal to
Muammar Qaddafi,” U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana
Republican who is the ranking Republican on the Foreign
Relations Committee, said today on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program. “Maybe they will continue to and shoot the
protesters.”  The U.S. issued a travel warning for Libya, citing
“violent clashes” in six cities in the east of the country
including Benghazi.  “We are working to ascertain the facts, but we have
received multiple credible reports that hundreds of people have
been killed and injured in several days of unrest,” Philip Crowley, U.S. State Department spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The full extent of the death toll is unknown
due to the lack of access of international media and human
rights organizations.”  Shares Fall  Middle East shares dropped today, with the DFM General
Index retreating 3.7 percent, the most since Jan. 30, to
1,536.45 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. Kuwait’s gauge tumbled
2.5 percent and Qatar’s QE Index decreased 1.6 percent. Oman’s
MSM30 Index fell 1.1 percent, Bahrain’s gauge dropped 0.2
percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index lost 1.9 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index declined 0.8 percent.  Yemen’s main opposition group rejected an offer for
dialogue with the government as long as protesters are being
attacked by security forces and urged supporters to join in
demonstrations. Earlier today, Yemen’s president of 31 years,
Ali Abdullah Saleh, asked for dialogue with opposition groups.
Five people have been killed in 10 days of protest.    Iran  Protests  In Iran, one protester was shot dead in Tehran as thousands
gathered in main squares in the Iranian capital and clashed with
government supporters, Dubai-based Al Arabiya television said.
Security forces also clashed with demonstrators in the city of
Shiraz, it reported.  In Bahrain, home to the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet , seven
opposition groups were today drawing up demands to put to the
government as they discussed the government’s call for dialogue,
said Ebrahim Sharif, head of the National Democratic Action
Society.  Thousands of protesters yesterday poured back into the
central square that has become the focus of protest in the
Bahraini capital, Manama, after tanks, armored personnel
carriers and riot police withdrew on the orders of Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa. Unions called off a general strike
planned for today in response.  “Calm is required so all parties can put forward their
views and issues in a responsible and productive way,” the
crown prince said on Bahrain TV yesterday, calling a day of
mourning for those killed during the protests.  ‘Real Dialogue’  Hague contrasted the “terrifying response” in Libya with
that of Bahrain’s crown prince, who “is trying to embark on a
real dialogue with the opposition.”  President  Barack Obama  told Bahrain’s King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa on Feb. 18 that the government must show restraint in
dealing with peaceful protests and hold accountable those
responsible for violence, according to an administration
statement issued in  Washington .  The Bahrain protests provoked by discontent among majority
Shiite Muslims risk spilling over to their co-religionists in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter,
analysts said.  The violence rippling across the region poses a challenge
to U.S. strategic interests in Bahrain and Djibouti, both U.S.
allies, as well as in Yemen, whose government cooperates with
the U.S. on anti-terrorism efforts.  Camped Out  In Libya, run for 41 years by the anti-American leader
Qaddafi, thousands of protesters, some who’ve been camping out
since Feb. 17, gathered in front of the  Supreme Court  in
Benghazi demanding an end to Qaddafi’s rule, an eyewitness who
declined to be identified because he feared for his life, said
by phone. Security police have withdrawn from most of the
streets of Benghazi to nearby barracks, the person said.  Qaddafi “has not led the country for the people,” said
Paul Sullivan, a North Africa expert at  Georgetown University  in
Washington. “They are not given the jobs and opportunities that
such a resource rich country should give them. They are fed but
left behind.”  Separately, two naval ships from Iran will pass through the  Suez Canal  and on to the Mediterranean Sea tomorrow, Reuters
reported, citing an unidentified canal official. Ahmed El Manakhly, head of traffic at the waterway, hasn’t received “any
notifications about where they are and when they are requesting
to cross,” he said by phone today.    Djibouti  Protests  Across the  Gulf of Aden  from Yemen in Djibouti, where the
U.S. has about 2,000 personnel stationed at its only African
base, three opposition leaders were released late yesterday
after anti-government protests turned violent the previous
night, leaving at least four dead and 50 injured, a party head
said. The government has said one protester and one policeman
died.  Ismail Guedi Hared, the president of the Union for a
Democratic Alternative who was also arrested and then released,
said that police used tear gas and “shot in every direction.”
Former colonial power  France  has 3,000 troops in Djibouti, which
borders the  Red Sea .  At least five people have been killed in Bahrain and more
than 100 people were being treated at the Salmaniya Hospital
after violent clashes two days ago, said Ahmed Jamal, president
of the Bahrain medical society.  Protesters in Bahrain are calling for a constitutional
monarchy and a change of government. The prime minister, the
focus of the demonstrators’ demands, has held the office for
four decades.    Fitch Ratings  put Bahrain on rating-watch negative on Feb.
17, saying the protests “increase the risks to the sovereign’s
credit profile.”  Swap contracts for Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of
confidence although the country has no debt to insure, jumped
11.5 basis points to 138 last week, the highest since July 2009,
on concern the unrest may spread. Saudi Arabia neighbors Bahrain
and has a Shiite minority population in the east, where most of
its oil is produced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  