-- 
Libya Violence Deepens as Protestors Claim Control of Second-Largest City

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-02-21T18:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/libyan-revolt-widens-as-attacks-on-protesters-draw-condemnation.html
Violence in  Libya  intensified as the
government attacked protesters and rebels claimed control of the
second-biggest city, Benghazi, after Muammar Qaddafi’s son
threatened “rivers of blood” unless the uprising ends.  Security forces stormed “terror and sabotage hideouts”
and urged citizens to help restore security, state television
said, warning against “organized gangs that are destroying
Libya.” Protesters said they had taken over Benghazi after
clashes yesterday, the  Associated Press  said, citing witnesses.
The International Federation for Human Rights said more than 300
people have been killed in the past week. Al Arabiya television
said 160 died in violence in Tripoli, the capital.  In a state television address late yesterday, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi warned of the risk of civil strife with “hundreds of
thousands of dead” if protesters don’t engage in dialogue with
the government. He said the army will “impose security and get
things back to normal, whatever the price,” and warned that the
conflict may drive  oil companies  away. BP Plc halted exploration
and Norway’s Statoil ASA closed its Tripoli office.  Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, is the
latest country in the region to be rocked by protests ignited by
the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and energized by
the fall of Egypt’s President Hosni Mubarak on Feb. 11. Violence
has flared in Yemen, Djibouti, Iran and Bahrain as governments
sought to crack down on demands for change.  ‘It’s Too Late’  “Saif al-Islam is perceived as the reformist face of
Libya, ironically because he is his father’s son at the end of
the day,” Karin Maree, a Libya analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , said in a phone interview today. “I
don’t think he’s going to deliver. It’s too late for that, the
violence has escalated too far now, so I don’t think he can
really offer anything that would satisfy protester needs.”  The Quryna newspaper, based in Benghazi, denied reports by
Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya television that warplanes fired at
protesters in Tripoli.  Al Arabiya  said some army units have
joined the protests.  Libya’s ambassadors in  China ,  India , the U.K.,  Indonesia ,
Bangladesh, Poland and the  Arab League  resigned to protest the
violence used against the demonstrators, Al Jazeera said.  The U.S. State Department today ordered its non-essential
diplomats and their families to leave Libya and urged other
Americans in the country to exercise caution.  Oil Surge  Oil surged to the highest in more than two years in London,
with  Brent crude  for April settlement adding as much as 2.5
percent to $105.08 a barrel. It traded at $104.87 at 5:08 p.m.
in London. Persian Gulf shares extended declines, with Dubai’s
benchmark index dropping to a six-month low.  Protesters in Tripoli’s central Green Square were preparing
for more demonstrations later today, the AP said. Quryna said
they set fire to the People’s Hall. The newspaper also reported
that the country’s top judicial official, Mustafa Abduljelil,
said he resigned to protest the violence against demonstrators.
Libya’s representative to the Arab League quit his post and
sided with the protesters,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News
Agency reported yesterday.  “This is not a regime that will compromise,” said Dirk J.
Vandewalle, an associate professor of government at Dartmouth
University, New Hampshire, and author of “A History of Modern
Libya.” “Whichever way this goes, we can expect a good amount
of chaos and bloodshed. This will be decided very quickly -- I
think 48 or 72 hours at the most.”  ‘Increasing Momentum’  Libya’s credit rating was cut one level by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited an “eruption of political risk evidenced by the
increasing momentum of the popular uprising.” While the country
has no debt and more reserves relative to the size of the
economy than  Saudi Arabia , it has “struggled to translate oil
wealth into higher living standards and create jobs,” Fitch
said, estimating unemployment at 20 percent.  Protesters across the region have focused on the same blend
of economic ills, political repression and unelected rulers in
power for decades.  In Yemen, the poorest country on the Arabian peninsula,
President Ali Abdullah Saleh held a press conference in the
capital, Sanaa, to rule out meeting the demands of protesters
seeking an end to his more than 30 years in office.
Demonstrators took to the streets for an 11th day as Saleh said
their calls for regime change are “not logical.”  No Dialogue  Thousands gathered outside Sanaa University and in the
southern provinces of Aden and Taiz, while followers of the
Shiite Houthi rebel group joined in the protests by holding a
demonstration in the northern Saada province, according to
activists in Sanaa. The country’s main opposition group has
rejected Saleh’s offer for dialogue as long as protesters are
being attacked. At least five people have been killed.  In Bahrain, home to the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet , opposition
groups are drawing up demands and discussing the government’s
call for dialogue, said Ebrahim Sharif, head of the National
Democratic Action Society. Protests have been led by the Shiite
Muslim majority, which says it is discriminated against by Sunni
rulers.  Thousands of mainly Shiite demonstrators are camped in the
central Pearl Roundabout in the capital, Manama, after tanks,
armored personnel carriers and riot police withdrew on the
orders of Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa. Protesters
have set up tents, a media center and stalls serving food and
drinks, and banners called for democracy, regime change and
unity among the Persian Gulf island state’s Shiite and Sunni
communities.  More Protests  Bahrain’s credit rating was cut one level today by Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services, which predicted that protests against
the government will continue. Yields on the country’s 10-year
dollar bonds jumped 16 basis points to a record 6.79 percent.  Several international companies in Libya today announced
evacuations or halted operations.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said it
evacuated the families of personnel in Libya, and Statoil closed
its offices and said it is evacuating expatriate workers. BP Plc
suspended exploration in the Libyan desert. Production at the
Nafoora field, operated by the state oil company, was halted
because of a strike, Al Jazeera reported.  Shares in Italy’s  Eni SpA , which produced 244,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day in Libya in 2009, fell 5 percent at 4:50
p.m. in Milan. The company, which also operates the Greenstream
gas pipeline from Libya to  Italy , said production at Libyan
plants was normal and family of staff were repatriated.  Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said
in a phone interview that he had no information about a halt or
disruption in crude output.  ‘Realms of Freedom’  Saif Qaddafi offered dialogue with the opposition, a
national debate on the constitution, higher wages and
unemployment benefits and legal changes to “open up the realms
of freedom,” and said the army had made errors in handling the
protests.  Thousands of people demonstrating yesterday in Benghazi
were met by gunfire from forces loyal to the regime, New York-
based Human Rights Watch said, citing reports from witnesses.  “Benghazi is always known for resisting tyranny and
diktats, it’s an obstinate place,” said Faraj Najem, a
historian and author of “Tribes, Islam and State in Libya.”
While Qaddafi’s regime has sought to nurture tribal rivalries,
“there won’t be a conflict between east and west,” Najem said.  The leader of the opposition Front for the Salvation of
Libya, Ibrahim Sahad, told ABC television that some army units
in Benghazi had defected to join the protesters and were helping
to protect them.  ‘Appropriate Actions’  The U.S. has received “multiple credible reports that
hundreds of people have been killed and injured,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said. President Barack Obama and aides are analyzing remarks by Qaddafi’s son, pressing
Libyan officials to avoid violence, and considering “all
appropriate actions,” according to a U.S. official speaking on
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private  David Cameron, the U.K. prime minister, denounced violence
against Libyan protesters as “appalling and unacceptable”
during a visit to Egypt today, where he was the first Western
leader to visit since the fall of Mubarak. Cameron used the
visit to encourage Egypt’s army, which is running the country,
to stand by pledges of a transition to democracy.  Cameron is also seeking to boost U.K. trade with the
region. His government has revoked arms export licenses to
Bahrain and Libya in recent days as security forces used
violence. Britain was the second-biggest supplier of arms to
Bahrain in the five years through 2009, behind the U.S.,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute , which monitors the weapons trade.  Saudi Risk  Analysts including the Eurasia Group, a New York-based
company that assesses political risk, have warned of the risk of
unrest spreading to Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil
exporter.  Saudi Arabia neighbors Bahrain and has a Shiite minority
population in the east, where most of its oil is produced. It
was the lowest-ranked Middle Eastern country in the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index, which classified all
Gulf nations as authoritarian regimes.  Swap contracts for Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of
confidence although the country has no debt to insure, rose 5
basis points to 144 today and have almost doubled since the end
of January, according to CMA prices. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul
stock index fell for a seventh day today, dropping 0.6 percent.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks fell 0.4 percent to a
four-month low.  “Perception of risk is only increasing,” said Alia Moubayed, senior economist at London-based  Barclays Capital .
“Investors will not take any sort of half solutions to be
enough for calming their sense of  risk aversion .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 