-- 
Iceland's Voters Get Final Say on Repaying British, Dutch Depositor Debt

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/iceland-president-blocks-bill-guaranteeing-5-billion-u-k-dutch-deposits.html
Iceland’s President Olafur R. Grimsson will give his country’s voters the final say on
repaying about $5 billion in debts owed to the U.K. and the  Netherlands  to cover depositor claims.  Grimsson’s announcement yesterday that he won’t sign a
depositor accord struck between the three countries’ governments
in December follows lawmaker approval of the bill. He told
reporters he was responding to popular demand for a referendum
after more than 42,000 of Iceland’s 318,000 inhabitants signed a
petition asking him to block the accord. Forty-four of the
Reykjavik-based parliament’s 63 lawmakers voted for the bill on
Feb. 16.  “There is support for the view that the people should once
again, as before, act together with the parliament as the
legislator in this matter,” Grimsson said.  Yesterday’s announcement marks the second time Grimsson has
rejected an agreement designed to compensate the U.K. and
Netherlands for depositor losses stemming from the October 2008
failure of Landsbanki Islands hf. His Jan. 5, 2010, refusal to
sign a prior accord prompted  Fitch Ratings  to cut Iceland’s
credit grade to junk. Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s give Iceland’s debt the lowest investment grade.  Grimsson’s decision threatens to sour relations with the
U.K. and Netherlands after Iceland’s government persuaded the
two countries to negotiate a new deal following last year’s
rejection of the previous accord.  “We have taken note of the decision, negotiations are over
and an initialled agreement is on the table,” Niels Redeker, a
spokesman at the Dutch Finance Ministry, said by phone
yesterday. “We expect the Icelandic government to consider the
new situation and to contact us about what will follow.”  Clarification Sought  The U.K. Treasury said it also has “noted” Grimsson’s
decision to block the latest agreement and that it looks forward
to “clarification of the Icelandic position in the coming
days,” in an e-mailed statement.  The latest so-called Icesave accord, named after the high-
yielding accounts offered by Landsbanki, would cost the state
about 47 billion kronur ($404 million), while the remaining debt
will be covered using the proceeds of Landsbanki assets, the
negotiating committee representing Iceland said in December. The
British and Dutch governments bore the initial cost of backing
the depositor claims.  Though the December Icesave accord is “significantly
improved,” it still carries “significant risk,” according to
Valdimar Armann, an economist at Reykjavik-based asset manager
GAMMA. A slide in the krona, currently shielded by  capital
controls , could as much as triple the final cost, he estimates.  Tapping Markets  The central bank has said it plans to start easing capital
restrictions, in place since the end of 2008, sometime after
March. The government has also indicated it wants to tap
international debt markets as early as this year as 713 million
euros ($976 million) of debt falls due by December.  The government will now have to rethink its plans to sell
Eurobonds this year, Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson
said in an interview yesterday.  “We’ll obviously have to stop and evaluate the position
and see what the next days and weeks -- five, six weeks -- will
bring us,” Sigfusson said. “It’s clear that this means that
we’re not completing the matter in the next few days and that
we’ll have to re-evaluate many of things we had been
preparing.”  Credit default swaps, which fell below those of  Spain  last
week, may rise as investors demand more to insure against the
risk of an Icelandic default, according to Armann. CDS on five-
year debt dropped as low as 223 basis points on Feb. 15,
compared with 252 on same-maturity Spanish debt the same day,
according to CMA data available on Bloomberg.  CDS Market  “The uncertainty that follows the decision could mean that
investors will demand higher premiums against covering for an
Icelandic default,” he said.  A referendum on Icesave will be held as soon as possible,
Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir said yesterday. The
previous bill was rejected by 93 percent of voters in March last
year. According to a January poll, 56.4 percent of the 800
voters polled backed the December Icesave agreement,
Frettabladid reported on Jan. 25. The newspaper didn’t give a
margin of error.  It is unclear whether the British and Dutch will be willing
to resume talks should the bill be voted down in a referendum,
Sigfusson told reporters shortly after Grimsson announced his
decision. Sigfusson said yesterday he was planning to contact
his counterparts in the two European Union members the same day.  Depositors  More than 350,000 British and Dutch Icesave account holders
risked losing their savings when Landsbanki collapsed along with
the rest of Iceland’s over-leveraged banking system in 2008.
Moody’s,  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch indicated last month they
would consider raising their ratings on the island’s debt should
Icesave be approved.  The 2008 failure of Landsbanki, Glitnir Bank hf and
Kaupthing Bank hf led to the collapse of the currency and forced
Iceland to go to the IMF to get a $2.1 billion loan, with a
further $2.5 billion pledged by Nordic nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  