-- 
Time Warner’s ‘Unknown’ Tops Box Office With $26 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-21T19:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/time-warner-s-unknown-is-no-1-movie-in-theaters-update1-.html
The action film “Unknown” from  Time Warner Inc . finished as the top film with ticket sales of
$25.6 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters over the four-day
Presidents Day weekend.  The animated “Gnomeo and Juliet” took second place with
$24.8 million for  Walt Disney Co ., edging out the science-
fiction thriller “I Am Number Four” from Disney and DreamWorks
Studios, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Sales rose compared with a year ago, reversing 14 weeks of
decline. The year-to-year comparison excludes estimates for
today’s U.S. holiday, which occurred a week later this year.
Until this past weekend, new releases had been overshadowed by
the performance last year of “Avatar,” the top-grossing film
in history with $2.78 billion in worldwide ticket revenue.  “The 2011 box office is starting to show signs of life,
which is a tribute to better product,” said  Brandon Gray ,
president of Box Office Mojo, an audience-reporting service.
“‘Unknown’ had a solid opening, and was somewhat of a surprise
No. 1.”  U.S. schools, government offices and some businesses are
closed today for Presidents Day, adding a day to weekend sales.  “Unknown” stars  Liam Neeson  as a botanist who wakes up
from a coma to find that another man has stolen his identity,
job and wife. His fear and confusion are compounded when
assassins try to take his life. January Jones and Aidan Quinn
co-star.  ‘Gnomeo & Juliet’  “Gnomeo & Juliet” rose to second place from third in its
second week. The family film, about romance among garden gnomes,
features the voices of James McAvoy, Emily Blunt and Maggie Smith. It generated $19.2 million in sales for the first three
days, benefiting from today’s holiday to overtake “I Am Number
Four” for the four-day weekend.  “I Am Number Four,” which sold $22.6 million in tickets
over four days and $19.4 million over three, stars Alex Pettyfer
as a teenager who goes on the run after discovering that he
possesses extraordinary powers. Timothy Olyphant co-stars. The
film was produced by  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks Studios and
distributed by Burbank, California-based Disney.  Gray said “I Am Number Four” had a larger promotional
campaign and more “hype” than “Unknown.” “Moviegoers just
weren’t attracted to the story,” he said.  “Just Go With It,” starring  Adam Sandler , dropped to
fourth from first with $21.7 million over four days. In the  Sony
Corp . movie, Sandler portrays a plastic surgeon who is attracted
to a younger woman. He enlists his assistant, played by  Jennifer Aniston , to help cover up the lies he tells.  ‘Big Mommas’  The weekend’s other new release, “Big Mommas: Like Father,
Like Son,” from  News Corp ., was fifth with $19 million. The
film is the third in the series starring Martin Lawrence as an
FBI agent who goes undercover as an overweight, middle-age woman.  In the new film, he dons his disguise at an all-girls
school to investigate a murder. Model Brooklyn Decker co-stars
as the new love interest. The first two movies generated $312.2
million in worldwide sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  Domestic box-office sales this year total $1.39 billion,
down 22 percent from a year earlier. Attendance is off 23
percent. Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend was $129.4
million, a 5.9 percent increase from the year-ago period,
according to Hollywood.com.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
18-19 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  