-- 
Japan's Bond Futures Approach Two-Month Low Before Tomorrow's 20-Year Sale

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 
2011-02-21T06:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/japan-bonds-may-fall-for-first-time-in-three-days-before-auction.html
Japanese bond futures fell toward a
two-month low on speculation primary dealers cut their debt
holdings to prepare for a 1.1 trillion yen ($13.2 billion) sale
of 20-year securities tomorrow.  Ten-year bonds dropped for the first time in three days
before a U.S. report tomorrow forecast to show a gauge of  consumer confidence  in the world’s largest economy was near a
three-year high, reducing the allure of government debt.
Japanese inflation swaps surged last week as traders increased
bets that deflation is being beaten.  “The market is likely to remain soft before the auction of
20-year debt,” said Makoto Yamashita, chief rate strategist in
Tokyo at Deutsche Securities Inc., the brokerage unit of
Deutsche Bank AG. “Investors aren’t inclined to buy with 10-
year yields at around 1.3 percent.”  Ten-year futures for March delivery fell 0.05 to 138.97 at
the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The contracts fell
to 138.32 on Feb. 9, the lowest level since Dec. 15.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond climbed one basis
point to 1.305 percent as of 3:29 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.2 percent
security due December 2020 dropped 0.086 yen to 99.086 yen. The
20-year yield was unchanged at 2.045 percent.  Demand may wane at tomorrow’s auction as the extra yield
offered by 20-year bonds over 10-year debt has narrowed to 73.8
basis points from this year’s high of 83 basis points last month.  ‘Narrowing Spread’  “The narrowing spread between 10-year bonds and 20-year
debt prompts some caution before the sale,”  Akihiko Inoue ,
chief market analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., wrote
today in a note to clients.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an auction in
case prices decline before they can pass on the new securities
to investors. Deutsche Securities and Mizuho Investors are among
the 24 primary dealers.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence
was 65 this month, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s report. The reading was 65.6 in January, the highest
level since March 2008. U.S. financial markets are shut today
for a holiday.  “Confidence in the economic recovery is strong, especially
in the U.S.,” said Shuntaro Take, deputy general manager for
corporate investment at  Tokio Marine  & Nichido Life Insurance
Co., which manages the equivalent of $40 billion in assets.
“There are few catalysts that prompt investors to buy bonds.”  Middle East  Five-year inflation swaps, which allow investors to
exchange fixed interest rates for returns equivalent to Japan’s
consumer price index, jumped 81 percent on Feb. 18, the biggest
gain since October 2008. The breakeven rate, a gauge of
inflation expectations derived from the spread between yields on
nominal and index-linked five-year bonds, was at 0.4 percent
that day, compared with a low of negative 1.5 percent in May.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said today the economy is showing
signs of escaping from more than a decade of deflation.  The decline in bonds was tempered on speculation widening
unrest in the Middle East will spur demand for safer assets.  Arab governments are cracking down on pro-democracy
activists as uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
spread to Libya,  Algeria , Yemen and Bahrain.  Libya ’s Saif al- Islam Qaddafi called on protesters to engage in dialogue or face
a civil war that risks “hundreds of thousands of dead,” as a
widening revolt posed the most serious challenge to his father’s
41 years of rule.  “With unrest unfolding in oil-producing countries, there
is a risk that  oil prices  will rise,” Tokio Marine’s Take said.
“It should be a positive for Japanese bonds, as I see a chance
that the world’s economy will cool.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Nobuyuki Akama in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 