-- 
Jordan Government Forms Committee to Probe Attacks on Protesters

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-02-20T18:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/jordan-government-forms-committee-to-probe-attacks-on-protesters.html
Jordanian Justice Minister Hussein al-Majali said he has formed a judicial committee to probe
assaults that left four protesters injured.  The five-member committee will carry out a “serious”
investigation to bring the assailants to justice, al-Majali said
in remarks published by the state news agency Petra.  The demonstrators were beaten by assailants wielding sticks
during a protest in Amman after they were confronted by pro-
government activists chanting slogans in allegiance to  King Abdullah , General Security spokesman Mohamad al-Khatib said Feb.
18.  Islamic and other opposition groups in Jordan have held
demonstrations every Friday since a revolt in  Tunisia  forced
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile on Jan. 14. Pro-
democracy protests have spread to  Egypt ,  Libya , Bahrain and
Yemen since Ben Ali’s ouster.  Jordan’s King Abdullah dismissed his government and formed
a new one earlier this month that was tasked with starting a
“genuine political reform process.”  Opposition leaders, including Islamist Leith Shbeilat and
political activist Muaffaq Mahaddeen, held a press conference
after the attack to denounce the assault, which they said was
carried out by “thugs” sponsored by state security forces.  They vowed to demonstrate to mark a “day of rage” on Feb.
25 to draw attention to the assault and pursue demands for
political and legislative changes, better  living conditions  and
anti-corruption measures.  They’re seeking a law that would guarantee more
representative elections and a prime minister that is elected
instead of being appointed by the king.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the Middle East,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to finance its budget and current-account
deficit.  Like Egypt, Jordan is an American ally that has signed a
peace treaty with  Israel  and is one of the biggest Middle
Eastern recipients of U.S. aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 