-- 
Home Sales Probably Fell, Durables Rose: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-20T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/home-sales-probably-fell-goods-orders-rose-as-factories-head-u-s-economy.html
Home sales probably fell in January,
while orders for long-lasting goods climbed, a reminder that
housing lags behind manufacturing as the U.S. recovery
strengthens, economists said before reports this week.  Combined purchases of new and existing homes fell 2 percent
to a 5.5 million annual pace, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Durable-goods bookings
increased 3 percent last month, the survey showed.  Unemployment hovering near 9 percent means foreclosures may
keep rising, adding to a glut of inventory that is depressing
property values, hurting builders and homeowners. Growing
exports, combined with increasing profits and tax incentives
signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in December, will
probably keep orders flowing to companies like  Caterpillar Inc .  “Housing is basically flat on its back, and manufacturing
is growing very fast, probably the biggest contrast in the
economy,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts .   Home prices  are
still on the way down.”  Sales of existing homes fell 1.5 percent to a 5.2 million
annual pace, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
National Association of Realtors will report Feb. 23. Commerce
Department figures the following day may show demand for new
homes dropped 8.8 percent to a 300,000 rate, the survey showed.
Purchases reached a record low 274,000 pace in August.  More Orders  Orders for durable goods rose in January after a 2.3
percent decline the prior month, economists forecast the
Commerce Department will report Feb. 24. Excluding demand for
transportation, which is often volatile, bookings may have
climbed for a third month.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession may gain a second wind from a new tax provision that
was part of Obama’s compromise with congressional Republicans.
Companies will be able to depreciate 100 percent of investments
in capital equipment this year.  Demand from abroad is also growing. Exports in December
rose to the highest level since July 2008.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is projecting 2011 sales will top $50 billion after
coming in at $42.6 billion last year.  “Sales are improving in every region, and are at or near
records in the developing world,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at Caterpillar, said on a Jan. 27
teleconference. “Over the past quarter, we’ve become somewhat
more positive about economic growth in the developed economies
of  North America ,  Europe , and Japan.”  Fed Views  Federal Reserve policy makers noted the dichotomy in their
Jan. 26 policy statement.  “Business spending on equipment and software is rising,”
they said. At the same time, they said housing remained
“depressed” and falling home values continued to stymie the  consumer spending  that accounts for about 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy.  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market since the middle of last year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder index of 12 builders has gained 24
percent since June 30, compared with a 30 percent increase for
the  S&P 500 Index . The S&P Machinery Supercomposite Index is up
58% during that time.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent in December from the same month in 2009, the biggest
12-month decrease in a year, economists surveyed forecast the
group will say Feb. 22.  Industry projections reinforce the concern about housing.
The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller, said last month.  Underwater Mortgages  At the end of last year about 15.7 million mortgaged
single-family homes, or 27 percent, were worth less than the
amount of loans outstanding, according to Zillow Inc., a
Seattle-based real-estate information company. It was the
highest share in data going back to the first quarter of 2009.  Higher borrowing costs may further hurt sales. The average
rate on 30-year fixed mortgages exceeded 5 percent for a second
week in the period ended Feb. 11, the first time that’s happened
since April, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said last week.
Rates have climbed from a record low of 4.21 percent in October.  While  consumer confidence  has been climbing, it remains
below pre-recession levels. The Conference Board’s sentiment
index decreased to 65 this month from a revised 65.6 in January
that was the highest since March 2008, economists forecast the
New York-based private research group will report on Feb. 22.  The Reuters/University of Michigan final confidence index
for February may rise to 75.4 from a preliminary reading of
75.1, and 74.2 at the end of January, economists forecast the
group will report on Feb. 25.  Lastly this week, the second report on gross domestic
product for the fourth quarter, due Feb. 25, may show the
economy grew at a 3.3 percent rate, faster than the 3.2 percent
originally estimated, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  