-- 
Cyclone Bears Down on Australia’s Ore, Oil Region, Shuts Ports

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-21T08:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/port-hedland-harbor-shutting-down-as-weather-system-approaches.html
Tropical Cyclone Carlos, bearing
down on  Australia ’s iron ore, oil and gas producing Pilbara
region, has shut ports used by  BHP Billiton Ltd . and  Rio Tinto 
Group and  oil fields  operated by  Woodside Petroleum Ltd .  Carlos, which earlier brought heavy rain to the city of
Darwin, may  strengthen  to a Category Two cyclone from Category
One at 5 a.m. local time tomorrow, according to the Bureau of
Meteorology. Ships are being sent out to sea,  Port Hedland  Port
Authority Harbor Master Lindsay Copeman said by phone. The port
will be closed by 4 p.m.  A La Nina weather system may boost the number of tropical
storms in Australia, the bureau said this month. The cyclone
season typically runs from November to April. Cyclones sometimes
disrupt mining production in Pilbara, the home of 12  iron ore 
mines operated by Rio and seven by BHP.  Winds stronger than 125 kilometers (77 miles) an hour may
strike the coast of the region, the bureau said, as another
storm further to the south, Cyclone Dianne, may cause flooding
in the Goldfields region. Rio Tinto, the world’s second-largest
iron-ore exporter, closed its operations at the port of Dampier
in Pilbara today.  “Rio Tinto iron ore will review the impact on stock levels
and shipping schedules as a result of the conditions,” the
London-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. It had
earlier suspended iron ore train services to Dampier on Feb. 17
after a derailment, the company said. Iron ore output in the
current quarter will be reduced by the weather, it said.  BHP, Fortescue  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, “is closely
monitoring the situation,” Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for the
Melbourne-based producer, said today, declining to provide any
further information.  “Any significant impact as a result of wet weather will be
included in the company’s next quarterly production report,”
she said. BHP and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd . both ship iron ore
out of Port Hedland. Fortescue is following Port Hedland Port
Authority’s orders, it said.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. shut its Cossack Pioneer field on
the North West Shelf early today because of Cyclone Carlos,
Laura Hammer, a Perth-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. The Enfield project remains shut after halting output
on Feb. 16 in response to cyclone Dianne, she said.  Apache Evacuation    Apache Corp . is evacuating non-essential staff from the
Varanus Island gas plant and has shut production at oil fields
because of the approaching storm, Perth-based spokesman David Parker said by telephone. Output is shut at the Stag field and
personnel are leaving the platform, he said. The Dampier Spirit
floating production, storage and offloading vessel, also known
as an FPSO, will depart the field today, he said.  Production is shut at the Van Gogh field, from where the
Ningaloo Vision FPSO vessel will sail “this evening,” Parker
said. Gas processing continues at the Varanus Island facility,
he said.  Tropical Cyclone Dianne, which threatened Western Australia
last week, is moving further offshore and no longer poses a
threat to coastal communities, the bureau said today. There may
be flooding in the state’s Goldfields region over the next two
days.  St Barbara Ltd . has interrupted operations at its Gwalia
mine and may resume within a week, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  