-- 
Republican Lawmakers Say They Don’t Seek Government Shutdown

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 
2011-02-20T19:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/republican-lawmakers-say-they-don-t-seek-government-shutdown.html
Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman
of the House Budget Committee, said Republicans aren’t seeking
to force a shutdown of the federal government and are willing to
negotiate on reducing spending.  “We’ll have some negotiations, with short-term extensions
with spending cuts in the interim, is my guess,” Ryan, a
Republican from Wisconsin, said today on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program. “We’re not looking for a government
shutdown.”  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives   voted 
235-189 yesterday to slash at least $61 billion from current
spending, setting the stage for a fight with Democrats that
threatens to bring government to a standstill after March 4 when
the current continuing resolution expires. Senate Democrats have
balked at the cuts and President Barack Obama’s budget office
has threatened a White House veto.    Senator Lindsey Graham , a Republican from  South Carolina 
and a member of the Budget Committee, told NBC’s “Meet the
Press” he hopes the two parties can find ways of cutting
spending and called for a passage of a continuing resolution
while negotiations proceeded.  Still, he said, “I won’t support a CR (continuing
resolution) unless it has some spending cuts.”  Boehner’s Promise  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said on
Feb. 17 that he won’t accept a short-term extension of the
government’s current spending authority without cuts.  “I am not going to move any kind of short-term CR at
current levels,” Boehner told reporters in Washington.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , accused
Boehner of using talk of a government shutdown as leverage in
the budget battle.  “Many Republicans have said a shutdown is a good thing,”
Schumer said today on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “One thinks
they want to use the shutdown to get their way.”  The $1.2 trillion spending bill approved by the House
yesterday would ban funds for President Obama’s health-care
overhaul and for Planned Parenthood, which provides abortions.
It also would scrap “net neutrality” Internet rules and block
regulations on  greenhouse gases  and for-profit colleges.  The legislation seeks to fund the government for the
remaining seven months of the current fiscal year, which expires
Sept.30. Current spending authority ends March 4, and without
continuing resolution the government will shut down.  Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Senator Claire McCaskill,
a Democrat from Missouri, said the Republicans have taken a
“weed-whacker” approach to spending cuts, especially in
education. She said she is willing to approve some reductions in
current spending in order to get agreement.  Bipartisanship Needed  Senators  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat and assistant
majority leader, and Republicans Graham and  Tom Coburn  of   Oklahoma  agreed on the need to work together to avoid a 
shutdown.  “I hope we’ll find a way to resolve this by reducing
spending in a bipartisan fashion,” Graham said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  Durbin said on the same program that any shutdown of the
government would be “an absolute, utter failure” and urged
both parties to “sit down” and negotiate an accord.  “I don’t think we are” faced with a government shutdown,
said Coburn, who served on Obama’s deficit panel along with
Durbin, on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I think nobody
wants that to happen, and I think everybody realizes that we
have to make some significant cuts.”  Conrad’s Warning  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said his
Democratic-controlled chamber will reduce this year’s budget by
about half what House Republicans are demanding. The North
Dakota Democrat has warned that the federal government may grind
to a halt if Boehner won’t negotiate.  The Republican plan “will not be successful in the Senate,
even though I think virtually everybody understands we’ve got to
cut spending,” Conrad said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  Ryan said on “Face the Nation” that Republicans will
propose “serious solutions” to reducing the deficit. “We
can’t keep borrowing, can’t keep spending and making empty
promises to people.”  Appearing on the same program, Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the ranking Democrat on the budget panel,
said the economy needs to be “fully in gear” before the
government can make the dramatic cuts proposed by Republicans.  Risk to Recovery  “Our view is: Put together a plan now for serious deficit
reduction, including serious spending cuts, but don’t risk the
fragile recovery,”  Van Hollen  said.  Obama sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget last week for
fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. The document projects the
federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for the fourth straight
year in 2012 before falling to lower levels by the middle of the
decade. The deficit for the current year is forecast to hit a
record $1.6 trillion, or 10.9 percent of gross domestic product,
up from the $1.4 trillion the administration previously
estimated.  The Republican plan for the current fiscal year, subject to
more than 90 hours of debate prior to yesterday’s vote, would
kill more than 100 programs and cut funding for hundreds more.  It would make cuts in programs affecting education, the
environment, health care, energy, science and the arts. The
Peace Corps budget would be cut by 20 percent and the maximum
Pell college tuition grant would be slashed by 15 percent. The  Social Security Administration  said it would have to furlough
employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  