-- 
Republicans Aren’t Seeking Shutdown, Budget Chair Ryan Says

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 
2011-02-20T22:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/republican-lawmakers-say-house-majority-isn-t-seeking-government-shutdown.html
Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman
of the House Budget Committee, said Republicans aren’t seeking
to force a shutdown of the federal government and would
negotiate a stop-gap accord with Democrats that includes
“interim” spending cuts.  “We’ll have some negotiations, with short-term extensions
with spending cuts in the interim, is my guess,” the Wisconsin
Republican said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“We’re not looking for a government shutdown.”  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives   voted 
235-189 yesterday to slash at least $61 billion from current
spending, setting the stage for a fight with Democrats that
threatens to bring government to a standstill after March 4 when
the current continuing resolution expires. Senate Democrats have
balked at the cuts while Republicans are saying they will agree
to a temporary extension of spending authority only if it
includes reductions in funding.  “I won’t support a CR (continuing resolution) unless it
has some spending cuts,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a Republican
from  South Carolina  and a member of the Budget Committee, told
NBC’s “Meet the Press,” echoing House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
remarks of last week.  “I am not going to move any kind of short-term CR at
current levels,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters on
Feb. 17.  ‘Decent Chance’ of Shutdown    Peter Morici , a professor of business at the  University of
Maryland  in College Park, said there is a “decent chance” of a
partial government shutdown, as occurred in late 1995 and early
1996 during  Bill Clinton ’s presidency.  “There’s no way the Democrats are going to pass in the
Senate a continuing resolution acceptable to House Republicans,
or vice versa,” said Morici. “Each side is going to try to
blame the other,” he said.  Following the previous shutdown, which pitted Clinton
against Republican House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , the Republicans
lost support. “After the shutdown, Gingrich was unable to hold
his caucus together,” said Morici. President  Barack Obama  “is
gambling that centrist Republicans will spin off.”  Shutdown as Leverage  Senator Charles Schumer, a Democrat from  New York , today
accused Boehner of using talk of a government shutdown as
leverage in the budget battle.  “Many Republicans have said a shutdown is a good thing,”
Schumer said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “One thinks they
want to use the shutdown to get their way.”  The $1.2 trillion spending bill approved by the House
yesterday would ban funds for Obama’s health-care overhaul and
for Planned Parenthood, which provides abortions. It also would
scrap “net neutrality” Internet rules and block regulations on  greenhouse gases  and for-profit colleges. The White House has
threatened a presidential veto.  The legislation seeks to fund the government for the
remaining seven months of the current fiscal year, which expires
Sept. 30. Current spending authority ends March 4, and without a
continuing resolution the government will shut down.  Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Senator Claire McCaskill,
a Democrat from  Missouri , said the Republicans have taken a
“weed-whacker” approach to spending cuts, especially in
education. She said she is willing to approve some reductions in
current spending in order to get agreement.  Bipartisanship Needed  Senators Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat and assistant
majority leader, and Republicans Graham and Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma  agreed on the need to work together to avoid a
shutdown.  “I hope we’ll find a way to resolve this by reducing
spending in a bipartisan fashion,” Graham said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  Durbin said on the same program that any shutdown of the
government would be “an absolute, utter failure” and urged
both parties to “sit down” and negotiate an accord.  “I don’t think we are” faced with a government shutdown,
said Coburn, who served on Obama’s deficit panel along with
Durbin, on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I think nobody
wants that to happen, and I think everybody realizes that we
have to make some significant cuts.”  Conrad’s Warning  Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad said his
Democratic-controlled chamber will reduce this year’s budget by
about half what House Republicans are demanding. The North
Dakota Democrat has warned that the federal government may grind
to a halt if Boehner won’t negotiate.  The Republican plan “will not be successful in the Senate,
even though I think virtually everybody understands we’ve got to
cut spending,” Conrad said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  Ryan said on “Face the Nation” that Republicans will
propose “serious solutions” to reducing the deficit. “We
can’t keep borrowing, can’t keep spending and making empty
promises to people.”  Appearing on the same program, Representative Chris  Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the ranking Democrat on the budget panel,
said the economy needs to be “fully in gear” before the
government can make the dramatic cuts proposed by Republicans.  Risk to Recovery  “Our view is: Put together a plan now for serious  deficit
reduction , including serious spending cuts, but don’t risk the
fragile recovery,” Van Hollen said.  Obama sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget last week for
fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. The document projects the
federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for the fourth straight
year in 2012 before falling to lower levels by the middle of the
decade. The deficit for the current year is forecast to hit a
record $1.6 trillion, or 10.9 percent of gross domestic product,
up from the $1.4 trillion the administration previously
estimated.  The Republican plan for the current fiscal year, subject to
more than 90 hours of debate prior to yesterday’s vote, would
kill more than 100 programs and cut funding for hundreds more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  