-- 
Republican Budget Cuts at Heart of Medical Research: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-02-20T16:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/republican-science-cuts-imperil-u-s-prominence-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for
“investments” in education, infrastructure and science and
health research is dismissed by most congressional Republicans
as a fig leaf for more big-government spending.  That underlies the House’s decision Feb. 19 to slash $61
billion from an array of discretionary spending programs in the
current fiscal year budget.  This may make proponents feel good, yet, as almost all
budget experts acknowledge, these measures have little to do
with addressing America’s fiscal challenges. That would require
focusing on entitlements, taxes and defense spending.  If all domestic discretionary spending, about 12 percent of
the budget, was eliminated -- no Department of Education, no FBI
agents, no air-traffic controllers -- there still would be a
deficit of more than $1 trillion this year.  And some of the  cuts  entail risks.  These range from slicing  foreign aid  even as China is
expanding its assistance and influence; cutting the staffing at
the Securities and Exchange Commission when it has new
regulations to enforce and is striving to thwart the next  Bernard Madoff ; reducing nutritional support for low-income
pregnant women and their babies, which demonstrably reduces
future health-care costs.  NIH Funding  There is no more telling illustration than the  National
Institutes of Health , the center of U.S. medical research and
the largest such institution in world. House Republicans want to
cut NIH funding for the current year by more than $1 billion, to
$29.5 billion. Obama proposes a small increase in NIH funding.  While this 5 percent reduction is less severe than other
proposals in the Republican budget, it reverses a 15-year
bipartisan effort to support medical research. The NIH budget
has almost tripled over the last decade and a half.  This was achieved with considerable support from
Republicans such as John Porter, who served 21 years as a
congressman from  Illinois .  “America’s economic destiny depends upon maintaining and
enhancing our lead in technology, innovation, science and
research,” says  Porter , now chairman of Research! America, an
advocacy group in Alexandria, Virginia.  He is horrified by what House Republicans want to do to
NIH. “These are blind cuts that take us exactly in the wrong
direction; they are wrong-headed and short-sighted,” he says.  ‘Spending Spree’    Paul Ryan , the chairman of the House Budget Committee,
demurs; a spokesman for the Wisconsin Republican says the agency
has received substantial funding increases in recent years, that
the Democrats’ “spending spree” must stop and that priorities
need to be set.  With the economy as a priority, says the legendary investor
Peter Lynch, health-research spending should be at the top of
the agenda. “The NIH has been one of the great elements of our
economy,” says Lynch, who managed Fidelity’s Magellan Fund from
1977 to 1990, when assets grew 630-fold. “We should be
expanding, not reducing this investment.”  If funding were doubled over seven years for most
government programs or agencies -- such as the Pentagon or
health or housing projects -- there would be enormous
inefficiencies and fraud as they tried to absorb such a rapid
escalation. Almost every serious analysis says the NIH did this
without these abuses. More than 70 percent of its budget is
devoted to peer-reviewed research grants, of which only about
one in five qualified applications are approved. For every
dollar of public funding for scientific research, the drug
industry gets a $3 return, according to one study.  Fighting Cancer  And the progress in battling disease, especially in recent
years, has been noteworthy, with the U.S. leading the way. Heart
disease and deaths from strokes are decreasing. For the first
time, in 2007,  cancer deaths  declined. Much of this is owed to
the NIH.  “NIH-funded research has revolutionized how we think about
cancer,”  Francis Collins , the agency’s director, has said,
noting that much treatment has gone from reactive to proactive.  Congressman Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, made an
impassioned plea on the House floor last week to restore this
funding, warning of subsequent health-care costs if research is
slowed in areas like Alzheimer’s. The Markey proposal was ruled
out of order on procedural grounds.  The House Republicans tend to duck if asked about cutting
research for cancer, or Alzheimer’s, or Parkinson’s. Yet it
would be very difficult to cut 5 percent from the NIH budget
without taking some from the $5.1 billion received by the
National Institute on Cancer, or the $1.1 billion for the
National Institute on Aging, or the $1.96 billion for the
 National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
Diseases .  ‘Absolutely Indispensable’  Future advances in areas like brain science are especially
threatened. NIH research is “absolutely indispensible” to
breakthroughs in neuroscience, says Guy McKhann, the founding
director of the Mind/Brain Institute at  Johns Hopkins University 
in Baltimore and the former chairman of the department of
neurology at the university’s medical school.  McKhann, who once worked at  NIH , says young researchers
would be most affected by any cuts. “They have excellent
training and are ready to start serious research on their own,
but there’s not enough money and there’s already pressure for
them to go into private practice; there is no replacing them,”
he says.  Scientists in Exile  Lynch says that if there are cutbacks these young
researchers would have another option that “endangers”
America’s lead in this economically critical area: They can go
to places like Singapore and  China , which are ambitiously
expanding health research.  The House action reflects the breakdown of bipartisan
support for battling diseases that know no political boundaries.
The NIH commands universal respect, as does Collins, its
director. He led the Human Genome Project and has been called
one of the most accomplished scientists of our time.  This is only the first volley in the budget wars; the
Senate, with Republican support, is likely to restore most of
the NIH cuts. If Congress subsequently deals with the real
deficit issues -- contrary to conventional wisdom, a “grand
bargain” involving entitlement cuts and tax increases may
evolve -- the meat-axe approach to medical research can be taken
off the table.    Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 