-- 
Trichet Says `Capacity to React' Needed in ECB's Successor to Presidency

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/trichet-says-capacity-to-react-needed-in-ecb-s-successor-to-presidency.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said being ready to act in exceptional
circumstances and having a long-term view are key job
qualifications for the candidate to replace him in November.  “All presidents of central banks, governors of central
banks, need, at the same time, a long-term sense -- because
we’re asked to insure price stability in the long term,”
Trichet told  Europe  1 radio yesterday when asked to describe the
qualities needed for his successor. They also “need a sense of
direction and the capacity to react in exceptional
circumstances,” he said.  Bargaining among the euro region’s 17 leaders rather than
qualifications alone will determine who replaces the Frenchman
when his non-renewable eight-year term concludes at the end of
October. The race for a successor was thrown open this month
when Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , the front-runner,
announced his resignation on Feb. 11 after seven years as  Germany ’s top central banker.  Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi , a former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. vice chairman, is the favorite to replace Trichet,
according to Paddy Power Plc. Other potential choices on the
current ECB Governing Council include Finland’s Erkki Liikanen,
Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands,
the bookmaker says.  While Finland hasn’t put Liikanen forward as a candidate,
“the situation could change,” Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki
Katainen told Helsinki-based broadcaster YLE1 on Feb. 19. “I’ve
discussed this with Liikanen and we’ve agreed to monitor the
situation and not get ahead of ourselves.”  ‘Broad Experience’  Katainen said that’s “it’s great that  Finland  has people
who are so highly regarded” as Liikanen. “He has such broad
experience spanning politics, diplomacy, the European Commission
and central banking.”  According to the 1991  Maastricht Treaty,  the ECB president
must be from the euro area and boast “recognized standing and
professional experience in monetary or banking matters.”  Weber told Bloomberg News in August that “it’s not so
important” for a central banker to be a diplomat. His advocacy
of central bank independence and aversion to inflation led him
to object to last year’s ECB bond-buying program aimed at
staunching the debt turmoil.  Paddy Power on Feb. 16 offered odds of 4 to 9 on Draghi
getting the job. That means a gambler betting 9 euros ($12)
would win 4 euros and their stake back if Draghi were picked.
Liikanen was second favorite on 2 to 1, and the bookmaker
offered odds of 8 to 1 on Mersch and Wellink. Klaus Regling,
head of Europe’s bailout fund, was a 20 to 1 outsider.  Financial Crisis  Trichet has steered the  17 year-old  central bank through
the financial crisis and then Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
When the turmoil erupted in August 2007, he won praise from
economists and academics for averting a greater meltdown by
issuing emergency loans to banks. The acclaim turned to
impatience as Trichet refused to immediately follow other
central bankers in cutting  interest rates .  “I’m proud the governing council was the first to take
very difficult decisions” that “never put into question the
long-term direction,” which is that of  price stability , he said
in the interview yesterday.  Trichet vowed again that the Frankfurt-based central bank
will maintain inflation in line with its 2 percent ceiling over
the next decade.  “There’s permanently an inflation risk,” he said. “What
counts is to take the necessary measures so they don’t induce”
an increase in “second-round effects” in terms of increasing
wage demands, he said.  Asked if his tenure as president could be extended, he
cited the treaty: “I have an eight-year non-renewable term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  