-- 
Road King Pays Record Dim Sum Yield Yet Saves: China Credit

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-02-21T05:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/road-king-sells-dim-sum-debt-at-record-yield-and-still-saves-china-credit.html
  Road King Infrastructure Ltd ., the
toll-road operator with 15 projects spanning seven Chinese
provinces, paid the highest yield on record to sell yuan bonds
in  Hong Kong  and still saved on what it would have paid
borrowing in China or in U.S. dollars.  Road King sold 1.3 billion yuan ($198 million) of three-
year notes yielding 6 percent, according to a person familiar
with the offering. While that is 0.75 percentage point more than
the record 5.25 percent paid this month by PCD Stores Group Ltd.,
it’s less than the 8.6 percent that Road King’s $200 million of
May 2014 notes yielded on Feb. 18, ING Groep NV prices show.
Three- to five-year money in China costs 6.45 percent, People’s
Bank of  China  data show.  “China’s infrastructure spending needs are huge, and in
the context of funding costs the interest on this  bond issue  is
lower,” Prakash Gopalakrishnan, a credit strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone interview from
Singapore. “Road King has an acceptable credit profile within
the high-yield universe, and while there are better options for
U.S. dollar investors, this is aimed at those who are long
Chinese yuan in Hong Kong.”  Road King is reaping the benefits of raising debt in Hong
Kong, where interest rates are pegged to the dollar. It’s also
paying a lower yield than it would in the U.S. market for sub-
investment grade debt, as the world’s fastest-growing major
economy expands its 65,000 kilometers of expressways to
accommodate the more than 18 million cars added last year.  While China has raised borrowing cost three times in four
months to combat inflation, the  Federal Reserve  is keeping rates
close to zero to aid economic recovery.  Hopewell, Caterpillar  Speculative-grade corporate debt yields in the U.S. have
averaged 7.52 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index, which tracks
the performance of more than 2,000 dollar-denominated securities.
Speculative-grade, or junk, bonds are rated BB+ or below by
Standard & Poor’s and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service.    Hopewell Highway Infrastructure Ltd ., controlled by Hong
Kong billionaire Gordon Wu, paid a 2.98 percent coupon when it
raised 1.38 billion yuan from two-year notes in July, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc ., the world’s biggest maker of construction
equipment, sold 1 billion yuan of 2 percent December 2012 notes
last year. Those securities rose to a high of 101.7 cents on the
dollar to yield 1.031 percent as of 12:34 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to UBS AG prices.  Acquisitions  Road King’s latest sale of bonds will help repay loans,
fund working capital and finance the acquisition of expressways,
including a potential project in China’s Shanxi province,
according to a company  statement  filed with Hong Kong’s stock
exchange Feb. 17.  Arien Sy, an investor relations official, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News last week, saying the
company was prevented from discussing the matter while marketing
the bonds to investors.  Almost 40 percent of Premier Wen Jiabao’s $586 billion
economic stimulus package in 2008 went into infrastructure
spending as China strives to build 3 million kilometers (1.86
million miles) of expressways and highways by 2020, according to
Chicago-based research firm  Thomas White International Ltd . The
nation’s 65,000 kilometer expressway network is the second-
longest in the world after the U.S., the company wrote in an
 August 2010  report.  Sales of new cars in China totaled 18 million last year and
may grow by as much as 15 percent this year, figures from the
 China Association of Automobile Manufacturers  show.  Yuan Expectations  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong rose fivefold in 2010 to a
record 314.9 billion yuan as the city’s residents, who are
restricted from investing directly in mainland China, bet on a
currency that is forecast to gain 4.3 percent this year, the
most among those of the so-called BRIC emerging economies.    India ’s rupee is expected to gain 3 percent, while  Brazil ’s
real and  Russia ’s ruble are forecast to fall, according to
median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  The yuan advanced today to a 17-year high on speculation policy
makers will let the currency gain to help tame inflation which
reached 4.9 percent last month. The yuan rose as much as 0.1
percent to 6.5658 per dollar earlier today, the strongest level
since China unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The spot rate traded at 6.5664 per dollar as of 12:45
p.m. in  Shanghai .  Sovereign Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps on Chinese government debt
have risen 5 1/2 basis points this year on concern that the
fight to curb inflation may threaten growth that’s averaged
about 10 percent over the past five years. The central bank
raised  reserve requirements  for lenders on Feb. 18 just 10 days
after boosting interest rates. The contracts fell 2 1/2 basis
points to 73 basis points last week, CMA prices in New York show.  Credit-default swaps are used to insure debt against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An
increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness
and a drop shows improvement. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The yield on China’s 2.68 percent government bond due in
November 2013 fell five basis points to 3.348 percent last week,
Chinabond prices show. One-year interest-rate swaps, or the
fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase
rate, rose eight basis points to 3.93 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They were four basis
points higher at 3.97 percent as of 12:56 p.m. in Shanghai, the
data show.  Full Impact  “With a low coupon rate relative to dollar offshore bonds,
Road King’s yuan bonds will lower the company’s funding costs
and improve its debt maturity profile,” said Peter Choy, a
senior vice president at Moody’s. “The full impact of the lower
interest rate and debt repayments will be reflected in 2012.”  The Hong Kong-listed company has total borrowings of
HK$8.86 billion ($1.1 billion) and cash of HK$5.69 billion,
according to its Feb. 17 statement. The stock has gained 23
percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 15 percent
increase in Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  With a dividend of 30 Hong Kong cents a share forecast by
Bloomberg data, its gross dividend yield will be 7.14 percent
compared with 4.29 percent for Hong Kong-listed Jiangsu
Expressway Co. and 2.81 percent for Shenzhen Expressway Co.  “Management tries to adhere to a progressive dividend
policy which means the dividend in absolute terms should
increase over time,” Kaiser Choi, an analyst with South China
Research Ltd., said in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “I
prefer the equity to debt as share prices are pretty depressed
and now is a good time to accumulate if you are a long term
investor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  