-- 
Bayne Becomes Youngest Daytona 500 Winner as Nascar's Past, Future Unite

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-21T05:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/rookie-trevor-bayne-wins-nascar-s-daytona-500-from-carl-edwards.html
Nascar’s past and future united to
produce the youngest Daytona 500 champion for the oldest team.  Trevor Bayne crossed the finish line yesterday at stock-car
racing’s marquee event in first place a day after his 20th
birthday. The win was the fifth in the  Great American Race  for
Wood Brothers Racing, which is in its 61st year of competition.  “How cool is it to see the Wood Brothers back in Victory
Lane?” Bayne said in a televised interview. “It’s
incredible.”  It was Bayne’s second  Sprint Cup  series race for the team,
which claimed its first Daytona 500 title since David Pearson
won it in 1976. Bayne’s drive to victory in the No. 21 Ford also
ended a 10-year Sprint Cup winless streak for the team.  Wood Brothers Racing, which has always raced Ford cars, was
begun by former driver Glen Wood in 1950. The team won in its
superspeedway debut, at  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , on Oct. 16,
1960, and logged its second win at Daytona three years later,
according to the team’s  website .  Yesterday, Bayne held off Carl Edwards and David Gilliland,
who finished second and third, over the final two laps to finish
the 208-lap race in 4 hours, 2 minutes, 59 seconds. He’s the
only driver to win the Daytona 500 on the first attempt since
Lee Petty at the inaugural edition in 1959.  The previous youngest winner was Jeff Gordon, who was 25
when he triumphed in 1997.  Dale Earnhardt Jr., on the 10th anniversary of his father’s
death on the final lap of the race, crashed out six laps from
the end. Earnhardt Jr., who won the race in 2004, had to start
from the back of the grid after taking the pole position a week
ago because he wrecked his race car during practice this week.  Earnhardt Tribute  Racegoers at the  Daytona Beach ,  Florida , track commemorated
the Feb. 18, 2001, death of Dale Earnhardt Sr. by standing in
silence while raising three fingers during the third lap of the
race. Earnhardt, who raced the No. 3 car, died from head
injuries following the final-lap crash.  Known as “The Intimidator,” Earnhardt Sr.’s 1998 win at
Daytona was one of 76 in his career. His seven championships are
tied for the all-time record with Richard Petty.  In addition to Bayne’s records, the 53rd Daytona 500 set
new marks for the most cautions and lead changes, at 16 and 74
respectively.  The 2.5-mile (4 km) track was repaved for the first time
since 1979. That created the spectacle of pairs of cars hurtling
around nose to tail at speeds approaching 200 mph (322 kph) in a
tactic known as bump drafting. Last year, the race was twice
stopped for a total of almost 2 1/2 hours to repair a pothole.  ‘Stupidly Insane’  Such drafting maneuvers -- which increase the risk of
engines overheating in the trailing car because of restricted
air intake -- led to a series of crashes.  Kurt Busch headed the 43 cars going into the tribute to
Earnhardt Jr. and a lap later his younger brother Kyle Busch
spun off after being pushed from behind by Michael Waltrip.
Busch called Waltrip’s maneuver “stupidly insane” on his in-
car radio before rejoining the race.  On lap 30, David Reutimann’s Toyota spun while being pushed
from behind, also by Waltrip. That caused a 15-car collision
that forced Jimmie Johnson, who’s seeking a sixth straight
Sprint Cup title, back to his garage for repairs to his  Chevrolet . The melee left Johnson 20 laps behind the leaders,
while Waltrip failed to rejoin the race.  Matt Kenseth slammed into an outside wall and out of the
race with 66 laps remaining in another drafting incident, and
seven laps later Greg Biffle’s Ford clipped Juan Pablo Montoya’s
Chevrolet to bring up the 11th caution.  Safety Car  The record-setting 12th appearance for the safety car began
with 42 laps to go after Travis Kvapil’s Ford struck a wall.
Racing stopped after another drafting error with four laps to go,
as Kurt Busch slammed into the back of Regan Smith’s car,
sending it spiraling into the outside wall and taking three
other cars with him.  When racing resumed on lap 202, Earnhardt Jr. spun into the
wall after Ryan Newman swerved into Martin Truex Jr. before
striking the same barrier.  After the safety car left the track for the final time,
Bayne weaved to stay ahead of Edwards, Gilliland, Bobby Labonte,
who was fourth, and Kurt Busch, who finished fifth.  “I thought that maybe Gilliland and I had enough steam
that we could go to the outside of Trevor and get him, but I
didn’t,” Edwards said in a televised interview. “Trevor’s car
was fast. That’s a wild Daytona 500.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in New York at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  