-- 
Sabic to Cooperate With EU Probe Into PET Dumping

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-02-20T18:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/sabic-s-ibn-rushd-faces-charges-for-dumping-plastics-into-eu.html
  Saudi Basic Industries Corp ., the
world’s largest petrochemical maker, said it will cooperate
fully with a European investigation into Saudi and Omani
companies selling a material used in plastic bottles below cost
after getting government subsidies.  The European Union opened probes on Feb. 16 into whether
Saudi and Omani makers of the material, polyethylene
terephthalate, or PET, get trade-distorting government aid and
sell below cost, a practice known as dumping. The European
Commission started the investigation following a complaint from
the Committee of PET Manufacturers in  Europe .  “Sabic and its affiliated company Ibn Rushd are studying
the complaint and will coordinate with the Saudi government, in
preparing their response,” Samir al-Abdrabbuh, Sabic’s vice
president for Corporate Communications, said an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg News today. “Sabic and Ibn Rushd will
cooperate fully with the European Commission investigation.”  They “are committed to complying with their obligations
under international laws and treaties,” he said.  The affiliate, Arabian Industrial Fibres Co., known as Ibn
Rushd, 47.2 percent of which is owned by Sabic, is the sole PET
producer in  Saudi Arabia .  Sabic didn’t say whether it’ll halt exports of plastics to
the EU until the investigation is over, as it did during the
anti-dumping investigation by  India  into Sabic’s polypropylene.  Sabic is expanding the capacity of the plant in the Red-Sea
port city of Yanbu. After the expansion, Ibn Rushd’s PET
capacity would rise to 750,000 tons per year from 330,000 tons
per year currently, Sabic’s chief executive officer Mohamed al- Mady announced last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Kohbar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  