-- 
Sapporo May Spend $1.5 Billion on Acquisitions, Partnerships

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-02-21T06:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/sapporo-may-spend-1-5-billion-on-acquisitions-partnerships.html
  Sapporo Holdings Ltd ., the Japanese
brewer seeking to expand in  North America , plans to spend as
much as 125 billion yen ($1.5 billion) on acquisitions and
partnerships over a four-year period.  The Yebisu and Sleeman maker aims to expand in North
America, Southeast Asia and Japan, where it can build on
existing businesses, incoming President Tsutomu Kamijo said in
an interview in Tokyo. “More and more wealthy people are
emerging in  Southeast Asia ,” he said. “There is no doubt that
Vietnam will expand.”  Sapporo, which plans to spend the amount between 2012 and
2016, is among Japanese brewers turning to overseas markets as a
shrinking population dims domestic prospects. The 134-year-old
company agreed this month to raise its stake in  Pokka Corp.  to
increase sales of non-alcoholic beverages and reduce reliance on
alcoholic drinks, which generate almost 80 percent of revenue.  “Japanese companies should plant seeds overseas to develop
growth drivers while they can still generate cash in their home
market,” saidKenichiro Katahira, an analyst at Tokyo-based
Rating & Investment Information Inc. “Sapporo’s soft-drink
business may become another pillar for earnings with the Pokka
partnership.”  Vietnam, Canada  Sapporo, whose soft-drink division accounts for less than
10 percent of sales, rose 0.3 percent to 383 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 4.1
percent this year, trailing the 8.4 percent climb by the broader
Topix index. The stock had an annual decline in each of the last
three years.  Japan’s fourth-largest brewer by volume “will consider all
acquisitions that can increase our profit,” Kamijo said at
Sapporo’s head office, without elaborating.  The company plans to open a brewery in  Vietnam  this year
and is considering boosting production capacity at its  Sleeman
Breweries Ltd.  unit in Canada, Kamijo, 57, said in the interview
on Feb. 16. Sapporo is still seeking to buy a premium beer brand
in the U.S., he said, after first announcing that plan in July.  “It’s sort of different from the situation in Vietnam, but
we can’t ignore the fact that the  U.S. population  is increasing
by 3 million people every year,” said Kamijo, who is Sapporo’s
managing director and will be promoted on March 30.  Sapporo will pay 21.3 billion yen to companies including
Meiji Holdings Co. and Advantage Partners LLP to increase its
Pokka stake fourfold to 85.5 percent, and will merge its
operations in April 2012, the brewer  said  Feb. 10.  Deep-Fried Pork  Pokka sells Aromax canned coffee and flavored tea drinks in
Asian markets including  Singapore  and also runs the Tonkichi
chain of  deep-fried pork-cutlet restaurants  in the city.  “Pokka will open up our opportunities in Southeast Asia as
we can also offer soft drinks and not just beer,” Kamijo said.  Sapporo aims to improve the companies’ operations in Japan
through joint product development and new restaurant formats as
well as cutting production and distribution costs, he said.  The company that sells Black Label beer and  Ocean Spray 
cranberry drinks in Japan set aside 65 billion yen for the two
years ending December 2011 to fund its growth strategy,
including buying rivals, it said in February 2010.  The brewer forecasts sales to increase 24 percent to 482
billion yen this year. It estimated net income to drop 44
percent to 6 billion yen after a one-time gain of 16.6 billion
yen last year.  Rivals’ Acquisitions  Sapporo targets net income of 8 billion yen and revenue of
519.5 billion yen next year. The figures exclude amortization of
1.4 billion yen for the Pokka stake acquisition, the company
said Feb. 10.  Japan’s population has fallen since 2006 and may decline to
about 125.2 million by 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.    Asahi Breweries Ltd . said Feb. 8 that it may spend 400
billion yen on acquisitions by 2012 to spur overseas sales.
Asahi last year agreed to pay A$364 million ($368 million) for
Australian soft-drink maker  P&N Beverages , and Kirin paid S$1.34
billion ($1.1 billion) for Temasek Holdings Pte.’s 14.7 percent
holding in Fraser & Neave Ltd., the owner of  Tiger Beer .  Sapporo trails Asahi, Kirin Holdings Co. and Suntory
Holdings Ltd. by domestic sales volume for Japanese brewers. The
country’s beer market has contracted by about 20 percent since
its peak in 1994, according to data provided by the companies.  Sapporo had a 0.4 percent share in the North American beer
market last year, helped by a 4.7 percent share in  Canada  with
its Sleeman unit, according to Euromonitor International.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  