-- 
HSBC Recommends Avoiding China Stocks Until Second Half 2011

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T08:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/hsbc-says-avoid-china-s-equities-until-second-half-on-inflation-measures.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc  recommended
investors avoid China’s stocks until at least June because the
government will announce more policy measures to cool inflation.  “We wouldn’t advise buying equities until we’re clear of
signs of inflationary pressure and that probably won’t happen
until the second half,” Garry Evans, a strategist at HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in a Feb. 18 phone interview after the central
bank ordered lenders to set aside more money as reserves for the
second time this year. “We have been pretty cautious on Chinese
equities for a year now and we still think there is a risk of
more increases in reserve requirements and  interest rates .”  The People’s Bank of China announced following the close of
markets on Feb. 18 that reserve ratios will increase half a
percentage point from Feb. 24, draining cash from the financial
system after lending surged in January, inflation quickened and
new  home prices  rose in all but two of 70 cities monitored by
the government. The central bank has boosted  reserve
requirements  eight times since the start of last year, while
increasing interest rates three times.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index has rebounded 4.4 percent this
year, after sliding 14 percent in 2010, amid speculation the
Chinese economy will withstand the tightening measures. The
measure gained 1.1 percent to 2,932.25 at the 3 p.m. close today,
erasing an earlier decline of as much as 0.5 percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc., ranked first by Institutional
Investor magazine in its All-China Research Team poll last year,
turned “bullish” on China’s stocks on Feb. 15, citing
“inexpensive” valuations and growth in  money supply . The
Shanghai Composite’s 930 companies trade at an average 18.5
times reported earnings, compared with an historical average of
34.5 times since 1990, quarterly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Limited Reaction  Even with a 0.9 percent drop on Feb. 18, the Shanghai
Composite gained 2.6 percent last week, the most since the five
days to Nov. 5, as exports in January exceeded estimates. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund ,
an exchange-traded fund that holds Chinese stocks, both ended
0.2 percent higher after the China reserve-ratio increase. The
Bank of New York Mellon China ADR Index slipped 0.1 percent.  “Markets have whispered about this RRR hike since
yesterday, so the RRR hike is not a surprise,” Ting Lu, an
economist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit wrote in
a Feb. 18 report. The effect “should be quite small.”  The Shanghai Composite dropped 1.3 percent on Jan. 14,
before the last increase in reserve requirements was announced.
The gauge has risen 3.9 percent since then.  The government will increase interest rates at least four
more times this year, causing the rally in stocks to falter,  Andy Xie , an independent economist who previously worked for
Morgan Stanley, said in a phone interview on Feb. 18.  ‘Inflation Challenge’  ‘It will be difficult for the market to go higher as the
government seeks to reduce liquidity,” Xie said. “China is
facing a huge inflation challenge.”    Zhou Xiaochuan , the nation’s central bank governor, said
reserve requirements are just one tool to curb price gains in
the fastest-growing major economy.  “We can’t really say that it’s the only method that we’ll
use to battle inflation, it’s about using all means including
rates and currency,” he said in a Feb. 18 interview. “One
method doesn’t exclude the other,” said Zhou, who was attending
a Group of 20 nations summit in Paris.    China ’s inflation accelerated to a 4.9 percent annual pace
in January, exceeding the government’s 2011 target for a fourth
month. Banks extended 1.04 trillion yuan ($158 billion) of new
loans, more than double December’s level, according to central
bank data on Feb. 15.  HSBC’s Evans expects inflationary pressure to ease in the
latter part of the year, spurring gains for the nation’s stocks.  “We could have a strong rally,” he said.  --Allen Wan. With assistance from Zheng Lifei and Zhang Shidong.
Editors: Darren Boey,  James Regan .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 