-- 
Shanghai, Guangzhou Limit Home Purchases as Government Intensifies Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T02:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/shanghai-guangzhou-limit-home-purchases-as-government-intensifies-curbs.html
  Shanghai  and Guangzhou joined  China ’s capital, Beijing, in announcing restrictions on home
purchases, responding to property curbs imposed by the central
government aimed at preventing a housing bubble.  The two cities will ban local residents who own two or more
homes from buying more property and non-local homeowners from
making additional purchases, according to the state-run Xinhua
News Agency and the Guangzhou Daily on Feb. 19. Other cities
with similar plans include Nanjing and Harbin, Xinhua reported.  China extended property curbs last month, including raising
the minimum down payment for second-home purchases and
introducing taxes on residential properties in Shanghai and
Chongqing. The People’s Bank of China announced after the close
of markets on Feb. 18 that banks’ reserve ratios will increase
from Feb. 24. More cities are expected to follow Shanghai and
Guangzhou’s measures in the “near term,” Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a report today.  “We expect this round of curbs to have far-reaching impact
on the  property market  as the restrictions on home purchases
have been extended almost nationwide,” said Shen Aiqin, an
analyst at GF Securities Co. in the southern city of Guangzhou
who rates the property industry “neutral.” “Transactions will
probably fall by between 10 percent and 20 percent this year.”  Property Stocks Fall  The measure tracking property stocks on the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.5 percent as of 9:57 a.m. to the
lowest in more than a week. China Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest publicly traded developer, lost 1.1 percent to 8.26 yuan,
and rival Poly Real Estate Group Co. dropped 0.9 percent to
12.87 yuan.  China’s January new home prices rose from a year earlier in
68 of the 70 cities monitored by the government, defying the new
property curbs, the statistics bureau said on Feb. 18. The
central bank has boosted  reserve requirements  eight times since
the start of last year and raised  interest rates  on Feb. 8 for
the third time in four months.  The Shanghai and Guangzhou measures follow similar rules in
Beijing, where the municipal government added a requirement for
non-residents to provide five years of tax documentation to buy
apartments in the capital. Families who aren’t residents of
Shanghai can’t buy property without showing they paid taxes for
at least a year, according to the Xinhua report on Feb. 19.  January new home prices advanced 6.8 percent from last year
in Beijing and climbed 1.5 percent in Shanghai, the statistics
bureau said. Haikou had the biggest gain, surging 21.6 percent,
and 10 cities had increases exceeding 10 percent.  The “new set of property prices showed little impact from
administrative measures and tightening policy moves since last
year,” Suan Teck Kin, an analyst at United Overseas Bank Ltd.,
said in a report today. “This would harden the resolve of more
tightenings ahead.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to curb property
speculation and add more affordable housing in his Feb. 1 Lunar
New Year speech. The country needs to “resolutely control the
property market” and keep prices stable, he said.  --Chua Baizhen in Beijing and Zhang Shidong in Shanghai, with
assistance from Weiyi Lim in  Singapore . Editors: Linus Chua,
Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  