-- 
Singapore Finance Minister Said to Be Favorite to Head IMFC

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-02-20T16:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/singapore-finance-minister-said-to-be-favorite-to-head-imfc.html
Singapore Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  is the leading candidate to become the next
chairman of the body that steers work of the International
Monetary Fund, a Group of 20 official said.  Tharman would replace  Youssef Boutros-Ghali , who resigned
from the International Monetary and Financial Committee earlier
this month. Boutros-Ghali, who served as chairman of the panel
since October 2008, stepped down after he was replaced as
Egyptian finance minister in a Jan. 31 cabinet reshuffle amid
the political unrest that then unseated President  Hosni Mubarak .  Shanmugaratnam, 53, won the backing of most of his peers at
the G-20 meeting in Paris on Feb. 19, said the official, who
declined to be identified because the decision hasn’t been
finalized. Though not part of the G-20 club, Singapore was among
three guest nations invited to the Paris gathering.  The minister served as chief executive officer of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, the city state’s central bank
and regulator, and entered politics in 2001, according to the
government’s website. He was education minister for five years
and took up his current post in 2007.  Shanmugaratnam is currently also a member of the Group of
Thirty, an international economic and monetary affairs advisory
group, according to the government website. He sits on the
boards of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, as
well as the Monetary Authority and the National Research
Foundation.  The IMFC sets the work of the IMF and helps shape the
international monetary and financial system. It monitors global
liquidity and monitors potential disruption the global monetary
and financial system. The 24-member panel of central bank
governors and finance ministers meets twice a year. Other former
chairmen of the IMFC include  Gordon Brown , who stepped down when
he became U.K. prime minister in 2007.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  