-- 
Andy Roddick Secures 30th ATP Title With `Best Shot'; Soderling Wins Again

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-21T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/soderling-recovers-to-beat-cilic-in-marseille-open-victory-for-wozniacki.html
  Andy Roddick  joined  Roger Federer 
and Rafael Nadal as the only active tennis players with at least
30 ATP World Tour titles, outlasting Milos Raonic in three sets
at the Regions Morgan Keegan Championships in Memphis.  Roddick won 7-6 (9-7), 6-7 (11-13), 7-5 after  Canada ’s
Raonic saved three match points in the second-set tiebreaker.
Roddick clinched the victory on his fifth match point with
diving forehand pass that left him with a grazed arm and the
crowd on their feet.  “That’s the best shot I’ve ever hit in my life,
considering the circumstance,” Roddick, 28, said in comments on
the ATP website. “I don’t really remember much else besides the
fact that I went for the ball, I hit it, I didn’t really think
much of it. Then I heard people cheering. I was like, ‘No,
there’s no way that went in.’ I guess it did.”  Roddick, who’s ranked eighth in the world, has now won an
ATP tournament for 11 straight years, tied with Federer for the
best streak among active players. Federer has 67 ATP titles.  “Winning tennis tournaments I don’t ever take for
granted,” Roddick added. “I’ve won 30 of them now, but I think
every one of them is just as exciting. I get just as much joy
today as I did my first one.”  Raonic, 20, was denied a second straight title after last
week’s win in  San Jose ,  California  -- the first by a Canadian on
the men’s circuit in 16 years. Raonic is projected to climb to
37th, a Canadian best, in the new ATP rankings to be published
today. Greg Rusedski was ranked 41st in 1994.  Robin Soderling of Sweden clinched his third title of the
year with a 6-7 (8-10), 6-3, 6-3 victory over Marin Cilic of
Croatia in the Marseille Open.  World No. 4 Soderling dropped a set for the first time at
this year’s event before recovering to complete the victory,
helped by 12 aces. It follows his previous titles in  Brisbane ,
where he beat Roddick, and Rotterdam.  Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki  beat  Svetlana Kuznetsova  of
Russia 6-1, 6-3 in the final of the Dubai Open for her 13th WTA
singles title. Wozniacki will reclaim her No. 1 ranking today
from Kim Clijsters of Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  