-- 
Spain Rules on Capital to Provide Boon for IPO Bankers, Lawyers

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-02-20T23:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/spain-s-tougher-rules-on-capital-to-provide-boon-for-ipo-bankers-lawyers.html
  Spain ’s decision to force lenders to
meet stricter capital rules or risk state ownership will provide
a boon to bankers and lawyers helping them raise funds with
stock market listings and asset sales.  Spanish banks may raise as much as 20 billion euros ($27.3
billion) by selling stock in initial public offerings and
reducing their stakes in publicly traded companies in the next
two years, according to bankers working on the plans. That’s
after stock sales across all industries in Spain raised about 13
billion euros in the past two years, Bloomberg data show.  “It is going to be a heap of work for a few legal firms
and investment banks to do,” said Pablo Bieger, a partner in
banking and finance at  Clifford Chance  LLP’s offices in Madrid
who has assembled a force of 23 lawyers to work on business
resulting from the rules. “There’s going to be a kind of
bottleneck.”  Finance Minister Elena Salgado  confirmed  on Feb. 18 that
lenders without a stock exchange listing will have to boost core
capital levels as high as 10 percent. She provided some leeway
by giving them until the end of the first quarter of 2012 to
carry out IPOs, after stating last month that the banks would
have to meet the capital rules by “autumn.” The savings bank
association pushed for more time.  Salgado is seeking to convince investors the country’s
banking system can absorb losses from the property crash without
overburdening public finances. The rules require publicly traded
banks to have core capital, a measure of financial strength, of
at least 8 percent.  Transparency on Loans  “At this point, being transparent about the quality of
loans and real estate seems much more important than setting
rules on capital that may be difficult to meet from a practical
point of view,” said Luis de Guindos, a former deputy finance
minister in the government of Jose Maria Aznar and a professor
at Instituto de Empresa business school in  Madrid .  Even with the extra time, the rush to complete mergers
between many of the savings banks, known as cajas, reorganize
them into commercial banks and persuade investors they are
attractive investments may prove difficult.  Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, which provides advice
on management, aims to increase its team in Madrid to about 55
people from 40 at present to handle consulting work it expects
from cajas seeking capital, said  Ricardo Wehrhahn , a partner.  “There’s going to be a lot of activity that will start
immediately,” he said in a phone interview.  200 Lawyers  Bieger at Clifford Chance, the No. 3 legal adviser on
Spanish mergers in the past decade, estimates there are about
200 lawyers in Spain qualified to take on the looming work of
helping cajas with their IPOs, enough to form about 20 teams to
work on the transactions. Each IPO would need a separate legal
team for the seller and the investment bank, meaning there’s a
risk resources may get stretched, he said.  Investment banks are already working with cajas on aspects
of the reorganization. Nomura Holdings Inc. advised Caja de
Ahorros del Mediterraneo in a four-way savings bank merger, as
well as Caja Murcia, which combined with Caja Granada, Caixa
Penedes and SA Nostra.  International securities firms are poised to take leading
roles having dominated the market for stock sales over the past
two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. firms  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .,  Morgan Stanley  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . were
the top three underwriters in the period, ahead of another eight
foreign firms, the data show.  Morgan Stanley ranks first among merger advisers in Spain
for 2009 and 2010, followed by  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s
biggest bank, and  Deutsche Bank AG .  Call of Capital  Cajas are already responding to the call to boost capital.
Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, the lender formed from the merger
of seven savings banks led by  Caja Madrid , said last month it
would seek a stock market listing after recognizing 9.2 billion
euros of impairments. In a Feb. 17 statement, the company said
it might hive off assets to make itself more attractive to
investors.    La Caixa , based in  Barcelona , decided in January to turn
its publicly-traded holding company into a bank.  Banca Civica, a grouping of four savings banks, said on
Feb. 8 that it would seek to sell as much as 40 percent of the
company. Banca Civica was among five Spanish lenders that failed
European stress tests last July.  Merged lenders may sell off assets to raise money, seek
funds in the debt markets and retool insurance agreements, said
a banker pitching for business in Spain.  Bancaja, a savings bank that pooled its assets with six
cajas to form Banco Financiero, said last week that it was
selling its 5 percent stake in natural gas transporter Enagas
for 189 million euros.  The “real activity” will start now that the government
has laid down the rules, said Bieger at Clifford Chance.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  