-- 
Sri Lanka, New Zealand Open Cricket World Cup Campaigns With Lopsided Wins

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-02-20T22:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/sri-lanka-beats-canada-by-210-runs-in-cricket-world-cup-group-a-match.html
  Sri Lanka , the last team before
three-time defending champion Australia to win the Cricket World
Cup, opened its bid for a second title with a 210-run thrashing
of  Canada . New Zealand routed Kenya by 10 wickets.  Mahela Jayawardene hit the fastest World Cup century by a
Sri Lankan yesterday on his way to 100 from 81 balls and captain
Kumar Sangakkara struck 92 to lift their team to 332-7 from 50
overs in Hambantota. Canada was bowled out for 122 in 36.5
overs.  “Always the first game is going to be a bit nerve-
wracking,” man-of-the-match Jayawardene said at the post-match
presentation ceremony. “The guys gave us a good start. We just
needed a bit of a momentum shift in the middle and that’s what I
did. It was a good start for the  World Cup .”  Sri Lanka, the 1996 champion and runner-up to Australia
four years ago, is hosting cricket’s four-yearly world
championship with India and Bangladesh. The Australians, who
also won the trophy in 1987, start their title defense today
against Zimbabwe in Ahmedabad,  India .  Jayawardene reached three figures from 80 balls before
getting out on the next delivery. His 13th century in one-day
internationals was the fourth-fastest in World Cup history.  Opening batsman Tillakaratne Dilshan scored 50 runs for Sri
Lanka, while Rizwan Cheema led Canada’s reply with 37. Nuwan
Kulasekara and Thisara Perera each took three Canadian wickets.  Kenya in Chennai  Also in Group A, fast bowler Hamish Bennett took 4-16 and
Tim Southee and Jacob Oram each took three wickets as  New
Zealand  beat Kenya by 10 wickets in Chennai after bowling out
the African team for 69.  Black Caps openers Martin Guptill and Brendon McCullum
needed just eight overs to reach the victory target, finishing
on 72-0.  “We did not expect to win this easily, but it helps us
going into our next game against Australia,” New Zealand
captainDaniel Vettori said in comments on the International
Cricket Council’s website.  The top four from each of the seven-team groups advance to
the quarterfinals after a round-robin competition.  India opened the 49-match tournament two days ago by
beating Bangladesh by 87 runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 