-- 
St. John's Upsets No. 4 Pitt as Hardy Hits Layup in Final Second of Game

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-02-20T00:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/st-john-s-upsets-no-4-pitt-hardy-hits-layup-in-final-second-of-game.html
Dwight Hardy made an underhanded
flip for a basket in the final second to lead  St. John’s 
University to a 60-59 upset over fourth-ranked  University of
Pittsburgh  in a college basketball Big East game.  In other games today, the University of  Nebraska  defeated
second-ranked University of Texas 70-67;  West Virginia
University  routed No. 7 University of  Notre Dame  72-58; and
Syracuse University triumphed over Rutgers University 84-80 in
overtime.  St. John’s (17-9, 9-5 Big East) is seeking a bid from the
National Collegiate Athletic Association’s tournament selection
committee for the first time in a decade. This season, the
unranked Red Storm have defeated Georgetown, then ranked No. 13;
Notre Dame, then-No. 9; then-No. 3 Duke; and then-No. 10  Connecticut .  Hardy, with a team-high 19 points, hit three free throws to
give St. John’s a 58-56 lead with 27 seconds remaining in the
game at  New York ’s Madison Square Garden. Travon Woodall made a
3-point shot 13 seconds later to put the Panthers ahead 59-58.
After a Pittsburgh timeout, Hardy got the ball and scored the
game-winner.  “Once I couldn’t make my initial move, I just had to go
with my instincts, not think, and I had a layup with reverse
spin, made the shot and no one was on my side,” Hardy said.
“When I saw that, I elevated as quick as I could so no one
could come over, and block it.”  Justin Burrell had 15 points for the Red Storm followed by
D.J. Kennedy with 11.  Ashton Gibbs had 26 points for Pittsburgh, which had a 27-
26 halftime lead.  Coach Steve Lavin, in his first year coaching St. John’s,
has foregone his tie and shoes for more casual clothes and
sneakers since the Coaches vs. Cancer weekend when all college
coaches dressed down.  “We’re 6-1 with sneakers that started to bring attention
to a great cause,” Lavin told reporters. “But it struck me in
terms of comfort, without the shoes and without the tie, I’m
doing a better job of teaching. Everything’s been at a higher
level without a tie on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  