-- 
Strauss-Kahn Says EU Must Convince Investors on Debt Crisis Before Summits

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t ,   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 
2011-02-20T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/strauss-kahn-says-eu-must-convince-investors-as-summits-loom.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said European Union leaders must
convince investors that they can fix the region’s debt crisis
and he’s “confident” they will do so by the end of next month.  “Markets aren’t everything, but markets are important,”
Strauss-Kahn said in a Bloomberg Television interview with David Tweed in Paris. “You have to do something that will be seen,
not only by markets, to work.”  After rescuing  Greece  and Ireland, EU leaders are now
seeking to overhaul the governance of the 17-nation euro area
and create a permanent system to offer members financial
support. While talks continue as governments prepare for two
summits in Brussels next month, the EU’s decision-making process
has sometimes slowed a resolution to the crisis that began more
than a year ago.  If a solution “comes too late, you’re always behind the
curve,” Strauss-Kahn said in an interview after meeting with
Group of 20 officials in Paris. “Talking with the most
important leaders in  Europe , I think they understand well the
need to have a comprehensive approach” and “I’m rather
confident they’ll come up with something rather comprehensive by
the end of March.”  Political resistance to transferring funds between
different countries could yet derail the plan.  Government bonds 
in Greece and Portugal dropped this week as Germany sought to
tie EU efforts to overhaul the 440 billion-euro ($597 billion)
European rescue fund for indebted states to measures aimed at
increasing competitiveness.  German Elections  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government may bear the
greatest burden in a bailout mechanism. She is negotiating a
comprehensive EU plan to stem the debt contagion that has driven
bond yields for some nations to euro-era highs as her party
fights elections in seven of  Germany ’s 16 states. The ballots
begin Feb. 20 in Hamburg, the richest state of all.  “Don’t expect me to say elections are a bad thing,”
Strauss-Kahn said, when asked whether he was concerned that
politics could prevent an agreement. “The more you have
domestic political concern, the less you’re able to have a
statesmen’s view.”  Euro-region finance ministers shifted the focus away from
the near-term  crisis management  with a decision last week that
the permanent said mechanism to be set up in 2013 will be able
to lend 500 billion euros ($675 billion), twice the amount of
the fund set up in the wake of Greece’s near-default last year.
As with the current mechanism, the IMF will contribute 50 cents
for every euro from European governments.  Message for  Portugal   Strauss-Kahn wasn’t alone today in stepping up pressure on
EU governments. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told the region’s leaders that it’s up to them to retain
the confidence of bond investors.  “We call all governments in Europe without any exception”
to “apply the plan they have as rigorously and as
convincingly” as possible, Trichet said at a press conference
in Paris after the G-20 meeting.  “We have a very strong
message for Portugal as well as for others. It’s up to countries
to be convincing” and make their case to the markets.  Strauss-Kahn, who repeatedly shows up in polls as the most
popular potential candidate for  France ’s 2012 presidential
election, also emphasized the need for euro-area governments to
reduce their indebtedness in the years ahead. In his view, the
easiest way to do that would be to increase the growth rates of
their economies.  Need for Growth  “We just can’t continue to function with debt” equivalent
to 100 percent of gross domestic product, Strauss-Kahn said at a
press conference. “But the most important thing” isn’t budget
cuts, “it’s growth. It’s finding the keys to growth again.
Because without growth, you can do what you like on deficits and
debt, but the European economy won’t recover.”  At his press conference, the 61 year-old also discussed the
need to boost employment and reduce inequality in remarks which
could be aimed at the French electorate. The former Socialist
finance minister, who was nominated for the IMF post by Sarkozy
in 2007, featured on the cover of two of the three national news
magazines last week. His wife, Anne Sinclair, was quoted in Le Point weekly magazine saying she does not want him to stay in  Washington  at the IMF.  Strauss-Kahn’s approval-rating lead over President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is widening among French voters, according to an Ifop
poll for Paris Match magazine published Feb. 16. Asked whether
they “prefer” Strauss-Kahn or Sarkozy, 64 percent of those
surveyed said they favored Strauss-Kahn while 33 percent opted
for Sarkozy, Ifop said today. The 31-point gap compares with a
lead of 29 points in July and 21 points last March, Ifop said.  In the Bloomberg Television interview, Strauss-Kahn brushed
off questions about whether he intends to run.  “I have my kids here, the more I’m in France, the better
it is,” he said. “I like restaurants here and I like to walk
in the streets,” though “frankly, I have a job. I have no time
to think of something else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;  David Tweed  in Paris at  dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  