-- 
Ugandan President Heads for Landslide Election Victory

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-20T12:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/uganda-president-museveni-leads-election-as-vote-counting-nears-completion.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
headed for a landslide victory in the country’s Feb. 18 vote, as
international observers criticized the electoral process and the
country’s opposition leader said he rejected the results.  Museveni won 68.28 percent support, while  Kizza Besigye ,
his closest rival took 26.12 percent, Badru Kiggundu, chairman
of  Electoral Commission of Uganda , told reporters today in
Kampala, the capital. Six other contenders, as well as null or
spoiled ballots, accounted for the remainder. Ballots have been
tallied at 23,418 of the 23,968 polling stations, he said.  A victory for Museveni, in power since 1986, would keep him
in control of an economy on the cusp of an oil boom.  Tullow Oil
Plc  will probably start pumping crude and gas from the Lake
Albert Basin in 2012. Uganda has an estimated 2.5 billion
barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels already proven,
according to Tullow.  European Union observers said the vote was “marred by
avoidable administrative and logistical failures, which led to
an unacceptable number of Ugandan citizens being
disenfranchised,” according to a statement handed to reporters.
Commonwealth election monitors had “serious concerns” that there
wasn’t a level playing field in the run-up to polling, mission
leader Dame Billie Miller told reporters today in the city.  Call for Protests  Besigye, leader of the Inter-Party Cooperation, a coalition
of four opposition parties, said he hasn’t ruled out calling for
protests over the election results. Talks are planned to
determine what steps should be taken next, he said.  “We have resolved to consult other political actors,
religious leaders, civil society and the public to determine how
to bring an end to the illegitimate government that may be
installed there by bringing the country back to the path of
constitutional rule,” Besigye said. “We will keep the country
informed.”  Nicholas Sengoba, a Kampala-based independent analyst, said  Uganda ’s opposition would be reluctant to incite violence
because of concern that they may suffer the same fate as alleged
leaders of post-election clashes in neighboring  Kenya  in 2008
and face possible prosecution by the  International Criminal
Court .  The Hague-based ICC is considering cases against six
Kenyans, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , on
allegations of crimes against humanity in the fighting that left
1,500 people dead. They all deny the charges.  ‘Ethnic Violence’  “Many people are fearful of rising up in case the violence
turns ethnic, and goes the Kenyan way,” Sengoba said. “If you
entice people and then lose control, you could still be held
responsible and that may end up at the ICC.”  The Commonwealth observer mission said in its interim
report on the vote that the electoral process was compromised by
the use of “vast amounts of money.” Monitors from the  East
African Community , Common Market for Eastern and Southern  Africa 
and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development said in a
joint statement handed to reporters yesterday that the vote was
“conducted in conformity with minimum international benchmarks
for free elections.”  Museveni expects crude output to help lift Uganda to
middle-income status by 2016, almost  doubling  annual per capita
gross domestic product to $800. The International Monetary Fund
 forecasts  that growth in Africa’s largest producer of robusta
coffee will accelerate to 6.1 percent this year from 5.8 percent
in 2010.  Oil Revenue  A lack of transparency over how oil revenue will be managed
raised concern that the new-found wealth may be misused,
according to analysts including Yvette Babb at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. Uganda, which ranks 127th out of 178
nations on the Berlin-based  Transparency International’s 
corruption perceptions index, has kept oil contracts secret.  Tullow said last year that it plans to partner with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  once a tax dispute with
the government is resolved. Uganda has five production-sharing
contracts: one each with  Dominion Petroleum Ltd . and  Tower
Resources Plc ; and three with Tullow, Bill Page, a partner at
Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Ugandan unit, said by e-mail on Feb. 11.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of  Libya ,  Zimbabwe ’s Robert Mugabe
and until earlier this month,  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak .  The final results of the election are scheduled to be
announced by 5 p.m. today. The outcome of a parliamentary vote
also held on Feb. 18 is being unveiled individually at the
district level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via the Johannesburg newsroom at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 