-- 
Ugandan President Re-Elected in Vote Rejected by Opposition

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-21T08:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/uganda-s-president-museveni-wins-re-election-opposition-rejects-outcome.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
secured a fourth term in office in a presidential election
criticized by international observers and rejected by opposition
parties who said it was marred by voter intimidation and fraud.  Museveni, a 66-year-old former guerrilla commander who came
to power in 1986, was re-elected with the support of 68 percent
of voters, Badru Kiggundu, chairman of  Electoral Commission of
Uganda , told reporters yesterday in Kampala, the capital. Kizza Besigye, Museveni’s main rival, got 26 percent. Besigye said he
hasn’t ruled out calling for protests over the outcome of the
Feb. 18 vote.  “The situation is not likely to turn into a popular
uprising like Tunisia and  Egypt ,” E.J. Hogendoorn, Horn of
Africa project director with  International Crisis Group , said by
phone from  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi. “Museveni is still very
popular. There is a perception that he has certainly helped the
economy and that he still has a fair amount of legitimacy among
the people, certainly more than these other autocrats.”  Museveni’s victory keeps him in control of an economy on
the cusp of an oil boom.  Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K.-based energy
company, will probably start pumping crude and gas from the Lake
Albert Basin in 2012. Uganda has an estimated 2.5 billion
barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels already proven,
according to Tullow.  ‘Rejects Outcome’  The four-party coalition Inter-Party Cooperation led by
Besigye “categorically rejects the outcome of the elections,”
it said in a statement before the final results were announced.
Besigye had warned he may organize demonstrators if it emerged
the election was unfair. Talks are under way to determine what
steps should be taken next, he told reporters yesterday in
Kampala.  On the streets of the capital late yesterday, groups of
people wearing yellow T-shirts, the color of Museveni’s party,
paraded through the city center, beating drums and cheering,
while other supporters gathered at roadside bars to celebrate.
Security officers wearing military and police uniforms and
carrying automatic weapons were on patrol across Kampala.  European Union observers said the vote was “marred by
avoidable and logistical failures, which led to an unacceptable
number of Ugandan citizens being disenfranchised.” Commonwealth
election monitors had “serious concerns” that there wasn’t a
level playing field in the run-up to polling, mission leader
Dame Billie Miller told reporters yesterday.  ‘Lacks Credibility’  The African Union observer mission said there was an
“urgent” need to improve electoral laws in  Uganda  before the
next election. Citizens of the country believe the  electoral
commission  “lacks credibility,” Gitobu Imanyara, the head of the
mission, told reporters today in Kampala.  “The biggest fault in the electoral process was the conduct
of the electoral commission,” he said.  Nicholas Sengoba, a Kampala-based independent analyst, said
Uganda’s opposition may be reluctant to incite violence because
of concern that they may suffer the same fate as the alleged
leaders of post-election clashes in neighboring Kenya in 2008
and face possible prosecution by the  International Criminal
Court .  The Hague-based ICC is considering cases against six
Kenyans, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , on
allegations of crimes against humanity in the fighting that left
1,500 people dead. They all deny the charges.  Ethnic Violence  “Many people are fearful of rising up in case the violence
turns ethnic, and goes the Kenyan way,” Sengoba said yesterday.
“If you entice people and then lose control, you could still be
held responsible and that may end up at the ICC.”  Museveni, the leader of the ruling  National Resistance
Movement , has taken credit for delivering steady economic growth
and bringing stability to a country once threatened by rebels
including  Joseph Kony ’s Lord’s Resistance Army. Expansion in
East  Africa ’s third-biggest economy, after Kenya and Tanzania,
is expected to accelerate to 6.1 percent this year from 5.8
percent in 2010, according to estimates from the  International
Monetary Fund .  Museveni expects oil production to help lift Uganda’s
economy to middle-income status by 2016, almost  doubling  annual
per capita gross domestic product to $800, while adding as many
as half a million jobs every year.  Analysts including Yvette Babb of Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg said the government’s policy of keeping oil
contracts secret raised concern that the expected windfall
revenue may be mismanaged. Uganda ranks 127th of out 178 nations
on  Transparency International ’s graft perception’s index.  Cnooc, Total  Tullow said last year that it plans to partner with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  once a tax dispute with
the government is resolved. Uganda has five production-sharing
contracts: one each with  Dominion Petroleum Ltd . and  Tower
Resources Plc ; and three with Tullow, Bill Page, a partner at
Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Ugandan unit, said by e-mail on Feb. 11.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of Libya, Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe
and, until earlier this month, Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via the Nairobi newsroom at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 