-- 
Uganda’s Museveni Wins Vote; Opposition Rejects Result

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-20T16:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/museveni-extends-25-year-rule-in-uganda-election-opponents-reject-result.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
won the East African country’s Feb. 18 election, extending his
25-year rule, as the opposition rejected the result and said any
government he formed would be “illegitimate.”  Museveni, a 66-year-old former guerrilla commander who came
to power in 1986, won a fourth term with the support of 68.38
percent of voters, Badru Kiggundu, chairman of  Electoral
Commission of Uganda , told reporters today in Kampala, the
capital. His closest rival,  Kizza Besigye , got 26.01 percent.
About 59 percent of 14 million eligible voters cast a ballot.  The four-party coalition Inter-Party Cooperation led by
Besigye “categorically rejects the outcome of the elections,” it
said in a statement before the final results were announced.
European Union observers said the vote was “marred by avoidable
and logistical failures, which led to an unacceptable number of
Ugandan citizens being disenfranchised.”  Museveni’s victory keeps him in control of an economy on
the cusp of an oil boom.  Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K.-based energy
company, will probably start pumping crude and gas from the Lake
Albert Basin in 2012. Uganda has an estimated 2.5 billion
barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels already proven,
according to Tullow. "  Besigye said he hasn’t ruled out calling for protests over
the election result. Talks are planned to determine what steps
should be taken next, he told reporters today in Kampala.  ‘Illegitimate Government’  “We have resolved to consult other political actors,
religious leaders, civil society and the public to determine how
to bring an end to the illegitimate government that may be
installed,” Besigye said. “We will keep the country informed.”  Commonwealth election monitors had “serious concerns” that
there wasn’t a level playing field in the run-up to polling,
mission leader Dame Billie Miller told reporters today in the
city. Observers from the  East African Community , Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa and the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development said in a joint statement handed to
reporters yesterday that the vote was “conducted in conformity
with minimum international benchmarks for free elections.”  Nicholas Sengoba, a Kampala-based independent analyst, said
Uganda’s opposition may be reluctant to incite violence because
of concern that they may suffer the same fate as the alleged
leaders of post-election clashes in neighboring  Kenya  in 2008
and face possible prosecution by the  International Criminal
Court .  Crimes Against Humanity  The Hague-based ICC is considering cases against six
Kenyans, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , on
allegations of crimes against humanity in the fighting that left
1,500 people dead. They all deny the charges.  “Many people are fearful of rising up in case the violence
turns ethnic, and goes the Kenyan way,” Sengoba said. “If you
entice people and then lose control, you could still be held
responsible and that may end up at the ICC.”  Museveni, the leader of the ruling  National Resistance
Movement , has taken credit for delivering steady economic growth
and bringing stability to a country once threatened by rebels
including  Joseph Kony ’s Lord’s Resistance Army. Expansion in
East  Africa ’s third-biggest economy, after Kenya and Tanzania,
is expected to accelerate to 6.1 percent this year from 5.8
percent in 2010, according to estimates from the  International
Monetary Fund .  Middle-Income Economy  Museveni expects oil production to help lift Uganda’s
economy to middle-income status by 2016, almost  doubling  annual
per capita gross domestic product to $800, while adding as many
as half a million jobs every year.  Analysts including Yvette Babb of Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg said the government’s policy of keeping oil
contracts secret raised concern that the expected windfall
revenue may be mismanaged. Uganda ranks 127th of out 178 nations
on  Transparency International ’s graft perception’s index.  Tullow said last year that it plans to partner with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  once a tax dispute with
the government is resolved. Uganda has five production-sharing
contracts: one each with  Dominion Petroleum Ltd . and  Tower
Resources Plc ; and three with Tullow, Bill Page, a partner at
Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Ugandan unit, said by e-mail on Feb. 11.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of  Libya , Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe
and until earlier this month,  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak .  “When Museveni took power, Uganda was a failed state,” said
Amama Mbabazi, secretary general of the NRM party and the
country’s security minister, in an interview today in Kampala.
“Museveni has a track record and he’s not only performed but
gained the trust of people. People want that stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kampala at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via the Nairobi newsroom at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 