-- 
Vedanta Default Risk, Yields Dip on Bets Cairn Deal May Fail

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-02-21T11:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/vedanta-default-risk-yields-slump-on-bets-cairn-deal-may-fail.html
  Vedanta Resources Plc ’s bond yields
and credit default swaps signal the U.K. miner’s plan to buy  Cairn Energy Plc ’s Indian exploration unit may collapse, helping
avert a debt downgrade on the $9.6 billion acquisition.  Bondholders oppose the deal and are confident the purchase
will be called off as the companies await approval from the
Indian government, according to Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd.
and Erste Sparinvest KAG. The yield on Vedanta’s dollar bonds
maturing in January 2014 touched a five-month low last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring
the company’s debt against default dropped to a nine-month low.  “From bondholders’ perspective, it would be positive if
the deal with Cairn doesn’t go through,” said Peter Varga, who
helps manage about $200 million of emerging market corporate
debt in Vienna at Erste Sparinvest, and holds Vedanta bonds.
“Their capital expenditure plans will already ensure higher
leverage in the coming years.”  Vedanta, the largest copper producer in India, agreed to
borrow $6 billion from a group of eight banks for the
acquisition. That will add to its existing $7.3 billion of debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The financing
arrangement prompted Fitch Ratings to cut London-based Vedanta’s
creditworthiness in August and  Standard & Poor’s  said Nov. 26 it
may follow suit should India approve the acquisition of  Cairn
India Ltd ., the operator of the country’s biggest onshore
oilfield.  Emily Dimmock, a spokeswoman for Vedanta, declined to
comment when Bloomberg News contacted her by phone in London.  ONGC Demand  The Vedanta proposal hit a hurdle when state-owned Oil &
Natural Gas Corp., Cairn India’s partner in the field in
Rajasthan state, said it wants to alter the contract on royalty
payments.  India ’s oil ministry supports ONGC’s demand, while
Vedanta and Cairn Energy oppose the change.  Vedanta’s 8.75 percent note due 2014 yielded 5.84 percent
on Feb. 15, the lowest since Oct. 7, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rate was 5.98 percent today. The cost of
insuring the company’s debt against default dropped to 464.8
basis points on Feb. 18, the lowest since May 12, from as high
as 670 points reached on Aug. 31, according to data provided by
CMA  London .  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point
equals $1,000 a year on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt for five years.  ‘Large Debt’  “Bondholders now believe the deal may not go through,”
said Pierre Faddoul, a credit analyst at Aberdeen Asset
Management, which manages about $282 billion globally and
doesn’t own Vedanta debt. “The deal would mean taking on large
debt and bondholders wouldn’t like that.”  Cairn Energy spokesman David Nisbet said in an e-mail Feb.
18 the company continues to work with India’s government to
secure approvals to complete the transaction by April 15.  Cairn India’s shares have declined 4.2 percent to 318.95
rupees in Mumbai since the Aug. 16 announcement. The premium of
Vedanta’s bid price to  Cairn India ’s current share price widened
to 27 percent from 22 percent. Vedanta offered Cairn Energy 405
rupees for each share, including a non-compete fee of 50 rupees.  Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta, which operates copper
and zinc mines and smelts aluminum, has no experience in oil and
gas exploration and production. The government said in September
that the technical capability of Cairn India’s parent is
guaranteed in the production-sharing contracts and would have to
be examined in any proposal that brings a change of parent.  ‘Execution Risks’  Vedanta “is trying to diversify, but that brings with it
uncertainty, execution risks, larger debt and higher leverage,”
said Erste Sparinvest’s Varga.  S&P rates Vedanta’s debt BB, two notches below investment
grade. Moody’s Investors Service ranks Vedanta’s debt Ba1, a
level below investment grade, and said Aug. 17 it was reviewing
the rating for possible downgrade.  Fitch Ratings  cut Vedanta to
BB+ from its lowest investment grade of BBB-.  “The rating review reflects Moody’s concern that this bold
acquisition, in what will be a new business for the group and
likely be majority debt-funded, will weaken Vedanta’s overall
credit profile,”  Alan Greene , senior credit officer at the
rating company, said in an Aug. 17 statement.  Vedanta has an $8 billion plan to increase its aluminum
smelting and refining capacity sixfold. The company also intends
to spend $20 billion in India over four years on mines and power
plants, it said in 2008.  Open Offer  The miner’s planned purchase of as much as 60 percent of
Cairn India includes an open offer by unit  Sesa Goa Ltd .,
India’s biggest iron-ore exporter, for a 20 percent stake from
minority shareholders. The final number of shares sold by Cairn
Energy will depend on the results of the open offer.  ONGC owns a 30 percent stake in the Rajasthan field and
also pays royalty on behalf of its partner as an incentive
offered by India to attract overseas  oil companies  before the
government started auctioning fields in 1999. Royalty should be
added to the project cost, which the partners are allowed to
recover from sales, ONGC says.  Indian oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy supports ONGC’s claim
and said Feb. 18 the cabinet may meet in three weeks to take up
Vedanta’s proposal. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  sought
early approval of the deal, he said.  “While such pressures are normal, we have to address our
own concerns,” Reddy told reporters in  New Delhi . “We can’t
sacrifice our positions completely just to facilitate a deal. We
will see what view the cabinet will take.”  Cameron Letter  Cameron pressed Indian counterpart  Manmohan Singh  for a
prompt decision, the Financial Times reported Feb. 18, citing a
letter by the British leader. Cameron wrote to the Indian Prime
Minister to stress the need for greater transparency in the
country’s business environment, the newspaper said.  The Indian explorer estimates Cairn India’s share of
royalty is 140 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) through the life of
the field.  “We have made our stand clear and the ministry is taking
up our case,” ONGC Chairman A.K. Hazarika said by telephone
Feb. 18. “We have nothing more to add.”  Cairn Energy won’t go back to shareholders to extend the
April 15 deadline, Chief Executive Officer Bill Gammell told
reporters in New Delhi after meeting with minister Reddy Feb.
18.  Cairn India’s board of directors said any condition linked
to the transaction that can negatively affect the company’s
valuation cannot be accepted, according to a statement Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  