-- 
Stokes Combines Seven Media, West Australia Newspapers in $2 Billion Deal

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-02-21T07:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/west-australian-newspaper-agrees-to-buy-seven-media-group-capital-raising.html
Billionaire Kerry Stokes will
combine  West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd . with Seven
Media Group in a $2 billion takeover, creating the nation’s
biggest media company with the top-rated TV network and more
than 25 magazines.  West Australian will acquire Seven Media for A$1.98 billion
($2 billion) from Seven Group Holdings Ltd. and buyout firm KKR
& Co., the companies said today. Including assumed debt, the
A$4.09 billion offer would make it the biggest ever purchase of
Australian media assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The publisher of Perth’s sole daily newspaper will add TV
stations across  Australia ’s five largest cities and the
country’s second-most visited Internet portal in its purchase of
Seven Media. The move follows more than A$400 million of
investments announced by rival tycoons  James Packer , Lachlan Murdoch and Gina Rinehart since October as advertising sales are
projected to grow to a record A$13.9 billion this year.  “This deal is happening in the backdrop of the improving
economic environment for the media in Australia where people are
willing to employ and willing to spend,” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages about $93 billion. “These guys will do whatever they
can to get into the online business, which is a major, major
threat to their traditional business models.”  Biggest Media Company  The purchase will help West Australian post net income of
A$304.7 million, triple the profit it had estimated excluding
Seven Media, for fiscal 2011, it said. Earnings-per-share growth
will be limited to 6.8 percent because of the new stock to be
issued, it said.  Seven Media’s magazines include Men’s Health, In Style and
Management Today. Channel Seven’s ‘Packed to the Rafters’ is the
country’s most-watched drama, according to its website.  West Australian’s market value will likely increase to
A$3.5 billion, making it the biggest Australian-domiciled media
company, according to the newspaper publisher.  The enterprise-value offer for Seven Media is 11 times
estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the year ended June, according to an investor
presentation. That’s in line with the average multiple offered
in Australian media acquisitions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The implicit price of the Seven assets appears
reasonable,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million
at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney, including Seven shares.
“This action also simplifies the exit for KKR who then avoid
the prospect of seeking to sell a part share in an asset.”  Expanding Market  Stokes, 70, is Australia’s tenth-richest person, with a
fortune of $1.9 billion, according to Forbes magazine. After
being adopted at three years of age, struggling with dyslexia
and sleeping on the streets at 15, he began building his wealth
with property investments, he told  STM magazine  in a 2008
interview.  Rinehart, Australia’s richest person with a $9 billion
fortune estimated by Forbes, has acquired 10 percent of third-
ranked broadcaster Ten Network Holdings Ltd. and a stake in
Fairfax Media ltd.  Packer is worth $4.4 billion according to Forbes and last
year teamed with  Lachlan Murdoch , son of News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , to buy 18 percent of Ten Network.  West Australian shares were halted from trading after
closing at A$6.34 on Feb. 18. Seven Group shares rose 2.3
percent to close A$9.30 in Sydney.  The nation’s advertising market will probably expand 6.5
percent this year, led by a 17 percent growth in Internet
spending and 7 percent increase in TV expenditures, according to
estimates last month at Morgan Stanley. Overall spending rose 10
percent in 2010 after shrinking the previous year, according to
the broker.  Capital Raising  West Australian will issue A$1.08 billion of stock, A$250
million of convertible preferred stock and repay A$650 million
of  Seven Group Holdings Ltd .’s debt. O’Sullivan Partners is the
financial adviser to West Australian News while  JPMorgan Chase &
Co . and UBS AG will jointly underwrite and manage the
entitlement offer.  Seven Group, which last year acquired Stokes’ private
company Westrac Holdings for about A$1 billion, will own as much
as 34 percent of West Australian News and KKR will have about a
13 percent stake, according to the statement.  “We expect existing West Australian Newspapers
shareholders will be frustrated -- but should not be surprised -
- by the requirement to finance another ‘Stokes’ related party
transaction,” Justin Diddams, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. said
in a note to clients today.  M&A Revival  Stokes’s Seven Media was formed when Seven Group’s
predecessor Seven Network Ltd. sold its television and magazine
assets into the venture with KKR in 2006, when changes to the
nation’s media ownership laws led to deals valued at more than
A$10 billion, including Packer’s sale of his television and
magazine assets to a venture with CVC Asia Pacific Ltd. and
Fairfax Media’s A$2.7 billion purchase of Rural Press Ltd.  Seven Media’s magazine titles include New Idea and the
Australian edition of Marie Claire and half of Australia’s
second-most visited web portal through a venture with Yahoo Inc.
West Australian also owns 21 regional publications in  Western
Australia  and nine  radio stations .  Seven Group owns Westrac, the sole Caterpillar Inc. dealer
in Western Australia, New South Wales, Australian Capital
Territory and north east region of  China . It owns 24 percent of  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd ., which has a 25 percent holding
in Australia’s biggest pay television operator Foxtel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 Sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  