-- 
Saleh Rejects Yemen Protesters' Demand for Regime Change in Offer of Talks

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-02-21T10:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/yemen-protesters-rally-in-sana-a-seeking-president-s-resignation.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
ruled out meeting all the demands of protesters who took to the
streets for an 11th day of demonstrations calling for an end to
his government.  “We have responded positively to them but their demands
have increased and they are now demanding the departure of the
regime,” he said at a press conference in Sana’a today. “Some
of the demands are not logical.”  Saleh yesterday offered to open talks with the opposition
as thousands of protesters gathered in the capital insisting on
an immediate end to his three-decade rule. He said the
government is willing to listen to “legitimate” demands and
that political change should come though the ballot box and not
protests.  Yemen’s main opposition coalition rejected Saleh’s offer
for dialogue, saying it won’t hold talks as long as security
forces are attacking protesters. At least five people have been
killed in 11 days of protests inspired by the popular uprisings
that overthrew the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .  Saleh, 68, became leader of North Yemen in 1978, and has
ruled the Republic of Yemen since the north and south merged in
1990. He has received support from the U.S. to fight al-Qaeda
militants based in the country.  The European Union said it “strongly condemns the use of
violence against peaceful protesters” and called on Saleh to
“reach out to the peaceful protesters and respond to the
legitimate aspirations of the Yemeni people,” according to an
e-mailed statement late yesterday.  Self-Defense  Saleh today said police have been instructed to fire only
in self-defense. He said on Feb. 2 he won’t seek to extend his
term when it expires in 2013 and that his son won’t succeed him
as president. He also called for the formation of a national
unity government.  Thousands of protesters gathered outside the gates of
Sana’a University today, as well as in the southern provinces of
Taiz and Aden. Protesters formed checkpoints around the
demonstrations to prevent weapons from entering. One
demonstrator held a blank red card, similar to those used in
soccer as people around him chanted “Red card to Ali.”  Adham Ahmed al-Hemry, who identified himself as a soldier
with the Yemeni military, said he joined demonstrators today and
addressed the crowd using a loudspeaker calling for an end to
Saleh’s “corrupt” regime.  Rebel Group  Yemen’s Shiite Houthi rebel group said it will take part in
efforts to change the country’s leadership, the online newspaper
 News Yemen  reported yesterday, citing a speech by Houthi leader
Abulmalik al-Houthi. The Houthis have been fighting the
government since 2004, saying they face discrimination from
majority Sunnis. Authorities accuse the rebels of seeking to
reinstall the rule of Shiite religious leaders who ran the
country before 1962.  Organizers of the protest in Sana’a said thousands of
protesters took to the streets of Saada province in the north,
the main Houthi stronghold, after the call for solidarity by the
Houthi leadership.  Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace ranked Yemen
15th of 60 countries on their 2010 Failed States Index, saying
only Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among
nations in  Asia  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Cairo at  vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  