-- 
Zain Drops Most Since June on Concern Purchase by Etisalat May Not Occur

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-20T13:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-20/zain-drops-most-since-june-on-concern-purchase-by-etisalat-may-not-occur.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co., the
phone operator known as Zain, fell the most in eight months
after its board rejected purchase offers for its 25 percent
stake in Zain Saudi Arabia and three executives resigned.  Zain, Kuwait’s biggest phone company, also received
commitments from banks for a $1.2 billion loan, Chief Financial
Officer Ossama Matta said in Kuwait City today. The shares lost
7.3 percent, the most since June 9, to 1,280 fils at the 12:30
p.m. close in  Kuwait City .  Etisalat, as  Emirates Telecommunications  is known, is in
talks with Zain shareholders to buy a majority in the Kuwaiti
company and has said Zain needs to sell its stake in the Saudi
unit in a “timely fashion” for the deal to proceed. Etisalat’s
due diligence process to buy 46 percent of Zain will not be
extended beyond the end of the month, said National Investments
Co. The company is arranging the transaction for Al-Khair
National for Stocks & Real Estate, which holds a stake in Zain.  “As the due diligence deadline approaches and the vital
part of the jigsaw in the form of Zain Saudi still seems to be
missing, the market is now pricing in the deal falling apart,”
said  Julian Bruce , director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. “There has been a precedent set on Zain-
related deals not succeeding but investors really thought this
one had a chance.”  Paris-based Vivendi SA said in July 2009 it halted talks
with Zain about buying a majority stake in Zain’s African
telecommunications assets after the two sides failed to agree on
the price. Zain sold most of its African assets last year to
Indian billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Airtel Ltd. for $9
billion.  Resignations  Riyadh-based  Kingdom Holding Co . today said it will not
change its offer to buy the stake after Zain rejected it.
Bahrain Telecommunications Co., Bahrain’s largest phone company,
said Feb. 9 it submitted an offer to acquire Zain Group’s stake
in Zain Saudi. Zain also received an offer from Riyadh Group and
its partners, the company said Feb. 15.  Etisalat retreated 0.9 percent to 10.9 dirhams. Zain Saudi
dropped 2.6 percent to 7.55 riyals in Riyadh trading.  Zain Group expects four more officials to leave the company
after three executives resigned, Chief Executive Officer Nabeel Bin Salamah said.  Zain Loan  “The resignation of three top executives is impacting the
stock price more than the happening or non-happening of the Zain
Saudi deal,” said Chandresh Bhatt, an analyst at Global
Investment House KSCC.  Chief Operating Officer Barrak Al-Sabeeh, Chief Strategy &
Business Development Officer Haitham Al-Khaled and Salah Al-
Fouzan, an adviser to the chief operating officer, resigned, the
company said yesterday. The resignations will not affect Zain
and are due to personal reasons, Bin Salamah said.  Seven banks are arranging Zain’s loan, CFO Matta said
today. “It requires some documentation only” and the company
would be happy to raise as much as $1.5 billion, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in  Kuwait  at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  