-- Bankers Deluged as Debt ‘Party’ Turns to Revamp: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-01-02T04:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/bankers-deluged-as-debt-party-turns-to-revamp-corporate-india.html
Supratim Sarkar, head of structured
finance at SBI Capital Markets Ltd., receives as many as three
requests every week from companies to restructure debt. He’s so
busy he rejects more than half of them.  SBI Capital, a unit of  State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest bank, may revamp 500 billion rupees ($9.1 billion) in
loans in the year ending March 31. That’s a 15-fold jump from 33
billion rupees of debt the firm helped renegotiate two years
ago, he said in an interview in Mumbai. The investment bank did
not revamp any loans in the 12 months to March 31, 2010.  Restructured debt, which give companies a moratorium on
payments, longer maturities or lower  interest rates  to avoid
defaults, more than doubled in the year ended March 2012 to 2.2
trillion rupees, according to Moody’s Investors Service, as an
economic slowdown and the highest funding costs among the major
Asian economies forced companies including  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  to delay repaying debt. Borrowings more than doubled in
2010 when rates were near a record low of 4.75 percent.  “We have come full circle from the party days of 2009-10,
when advisory firms were arranging big-tickets loans, loans the
borrowers had no means of servicing and for which they did not
have the proper collateral,” said Saurabh Mukherjea, head of
equities at Mumbai brokerage Ambit Holdings Pvt. “Excesses of
the years gone by are extracting a price.”  Companies borrowed $52.5 billion in the year ended March
31, 2010, compared with $21.3 billion in the previous financial
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The figure surged to
$82.1 billion in the 12 months ended March 31, 2011, the data
show.  India ’s benchmark stock index  crashed  25 percent in 2011,
the biggest drop in three years, prompting companies to tap the
 debt market .  Debt Burden  SBI Capital has so far helped mobile-phone tower provider
 GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI)  and Bharti Shipyard Ltd. ease their debt
burden. IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd., a unit of state-run
IDBI Bank Ltd., is also advising as many as 35 companies, said
Managing Director Abhay L. Bongirwar. GTL exchanged 35 percent
of its $319 million of convertible debt for shares and swapped
the remaining for fresh convertible bonds due 2017.  In 2010, SBI Capital helped Kingfisher controlled by liquor
tycoon  Vijay Mallya , revamp 77.2 billion rupees of debt. In
October, Kingfisher grounded planes amid call by lenders for
Mallya to raise at least $1 billion of fresh funds. The
company’s operating license lapsed yesterday.  Convertible Bonds  Wind-turbine maker Suzlon Energy Ltd. defaulted on $209
million of debt in October, the biggest on convertible bonds by
an Indian company. Suzlon was among nine local companies that
defaulted on a combined $777 million of convertible debt last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Kingfisher’s  shares  have plunged 95 percent from a record
on Dec. 16, 2007. They rose 2.8 percent to 14.85 rupees at 9:57
a.m. in Mumbai. GTL Infrastructure gained 2 percent to 4.18
rupees, while Suzlon was unchanged at 18.8 rupees.  Indian companies’ gross non-performing loans totaled 1.4
trillion rupees on March 31, up 46 percent from a year earlier,
Moody’s said in Nov. 5 report. Restructured debt accounted for
4.7 percent of gross loans, compared with 3 percent in 2010,
according to the report.  Distressed Borrowers  The increase in the volume of restructured debt is luring
financial-services companies to the space, with advisers also
offering to arrange working capital for distressed borrowers in
addition to securing better terms for their loans, said  Sumedha
Fiscal Services Ltd. (SMFS) ’s Director Rajesh Kumar Gupta.  Kolkata-based Sumedha, which had revenue of 107 million
rupees in the year ended March 31, is working on a dozen
proposals and has seen a 50 percent jump in in earnings from the
segment in the past 18 months, according to Gupta.  Centrum
Capital Ltd. (CECA)  is working on four cases, having advised eight
companies since entering this business a year ago, said adviser
Shashi Kalloor.  “There is a huge ability to add value in terms of
innovative structures,” said IDBI Caps’ Bongirwar. “The most
important element is to convince lenders that other than timing
and environment, there was nothing wrong with the company.”  Competition is intensifying as brokers such as  Edelweiss
Financial Services Ltd. (EDEL) , which posted its lowest profit since
listing in 2007 in the September quarter, enter the segment.
Some consultants are slashing fees, said Kalloor, squeezing
margin in a business that deals with cash-strapped companies
with little or no money to pay their lenders.  ‘Relationship Building’  Still, with interest rates in  Asia ’s third-largest economy
set to drop, the debt-restructuring business may slow.  Reserve
Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Dec. 18 signaled
higher odds of an interest-rate cut after a record 13 increases
since March 2010. The central bank kept the rate at 8 percent on
Dec. 18.  “It is a relationship building exercise,” SBI’s Sarkar
said. “We help them out in distress times and they will
hopefully remember us in the good times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  