-- Britons More Optimistic on Housing
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/britons-more-optimistic-on-housing.html
Britons became more optimistic about
the housing-market outlook in December compared with two months
earlier as more people predicted price increases, according to
Halifax, which said it expects a stable market in 2013.  A gauge of the outlook for property prices rose to 20 from
15 in October, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc
said in a report in  London  today, citing a survey. Thirty-eight
percent of those questioned in December expect prices to rise in
the coming 12 months, compared with 35 percent in October.  U.K. home values are little changed over the past 18 months
as a lack of property for sale supports prices and a squeeze on
mortgage lending and a weak economic recovery deter buyers.
Housing-market forecasters are mixed on the outlook in 2013,
with Hometrack Ltd. predicting a 1 percent decline and Rightmove
Plc and the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors both
projecting a 2 percent increase.  House-price stability “has probably been a key driver of
the improvement in sentiment regarding the outlook for  house
prices  over the coming year,” Halifax housing economist  Martin Ellis  said in the report. Still, “ongoing concerns over  job
security  and the challenges in raising a deposit are likely to
constrain housing demand and activity. Accordingly, we expect
continuing broad stability in house prices nationally in 2013.”  The survey, for which 1,927 consumers were questioned
between Nov. 30 and Dec. 10, also showed the proportion of
people who said it was a good time to buy a home fell to 53
percent in December from 56 percent in October. An index of
concerns about employment security rose seven points to 58 last
month, Halifax said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  