-- China Manufacturing Index Shows Third Straight Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-01T05:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/china-manufacturing-expands-for-third-straight-month-pmi-shows.html
A gauge of  China ’s manufacturing
showed a third month of expansion, adding evidence that the
recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy will extend into
the new year.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.6 in December, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compares with the
51.0 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 analysts
and 50.6 in November. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Today’s report, along with a separate manufacturing gauge
yesterday showing the fastest expansion in 19 months, reflects
increased infrastructure spending that’s helping drive a rebound
from a seven-quarter slowdown as a new generation of Communist
Party leaders takes the nation’s reins. Li Keqiang, set to
succeed Wen Jiabao as premier in March, is championing
urbanization to put economic growth on a more sustainable path.  “Most data points, especially the industrial earnings,
have been pointing to an impressive recovery,” Lu Ting, chief
Greater China economist at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong,
said in a note today. At the same time, “investors should be
wary of getting too optimistic in coming months,” he said.  The final December reading of a purchasing managers’ index
released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was
51.5, the highest in 19 months, after a 50.9 preliminary reading
and a final 50.5 in November. The  HSBC index  focuses more on
smaller businesses.  Gauge Unchanged  The fact that the official gauge was unchanged from
November reflects that the “recovery is still relatively
weak,”  Zhang Liqun , a researcher with the state-run Development
Research Center, said in the federation’s statement. “China’s
economy is entering a stable growth zone with a growth rate
hovering between 7 and 8 percent.”  The statistics bureau said the PMI for large enterprises in
December was 51.1, down 0.3 from November; the level for mid-
sized companies rose 0.2 to 49.9; and the index for small
businesses advanced 2.0 to 48.1.  China’s economic growth probably accelerated to 7.8 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a three-year
low of 7.4 percent in the previous period, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 analysts last
month. The government will release its report Jan. 18.  Profits at Chinese industrial companies rose for a third
month in November, statistics bureau data showed on Dec. 27.  ‘Sustainable’ Growth  China will “step up efforts to promote strong, sustainable
and balanced growth in the world economy,” President Hu Jintao
said in a New Year’s Eve address broadcast by state radio and
television. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan , in a
separate statement yesterday, said the nation will maintain
“prudent” monetary policy and deepen financial reforms in 2013.  South Korea’s exports unexpectedly fell for the first time
in three months, government data showed today, suggesting that
tepid global demand and gains in the won are sapping economic
momentum as a new president prepares to take office.
Overseas shipments dropped 5.5 percent in December from a
year earlier, according to the Gwacheon-based Ministry of
Knowledge Economy.  South Korea in October surpassed  Japan  as China’s top
supplier of imports, according to Chinese data.  Iron ore prices have rallied the most in about two years as
analysts predict that China will import a record amount in 2013
with steel demand picking up. The rebound will boost earnings
for suppliers and Vale SA, the biggest exporter, is expected to
report a 19 percent increase in profit this year, analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Machinery Demand  Not everyone is benefiting from the economic rebound.
 Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) , which makes and sells wheel loaders and
other infrastructure machinery in China, said Dec. 28 that its
financial results in 2012 may decline “significantly” because
of weaker demand for its products.  The nation’s budget deficit may widen to 1.2 trillion  yuan 
($193 billion) in 2013, including the sale of 350 billion yuan
of bonds to fund local governments, Bloomberg reported on Dec.
27, citing a person who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are not public. A bigger gap may help pay for tax
cuts and measures to boost urbanization and consumer demand.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  