-- DiDonato, Lauder, Fleming Tartan Up for Met Opera Gala
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-02T02:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/didonato-lauder-fleming-tart-up-for-met-opera-gala.html
Soprano  Elza van den Heever  gave away
souvenir locks of her own hair at the  Metropolitan Opera’s  gala
after triumphing as Queen Elizabeth I in a new production of
“Maria Stuarda.”  Van den Heever, a South African making her Met debut, had
shaved her head to better channel the historic queen.  Donizetti imagines a dramatic encounter between Elizabeth
and the woman she keeps caged in her Tower, Mary, Queen of Scots.
Van den Heever and Joyce DiDonato provided the necessary
intensity, with the soprano looking especially formidable in
Elizabeth’s bright red wig and alabaster makeup.  Guests equipped with noise makers gave them a big welcome
when they arrived in the grand tier for the New Year dinner.  The tables, bedecked with tartan tablecloths, bore the
names of Scottish cities. The hearty meal included smoked
haddock and rack of lamb served with multiple offerings of
Scotch.  General manager  Peter Gelb  said that the strong spirits
were intended to get his guests “feeling Scottish or nothing at
all.” He dined with the production’s director  David McVicar  and
conductor Maurizio Benini.  Leonard Lauder  “Would you buy lipstick from a guy who looks like this?,”
asked Estee Lauder chairman emeritus Leonard Lauder, wearing
kitschy 2013 sunglasses.  He hammed it up with opera star Renee Fleming, in green
Gianfranco Ferre with a sweeping train.  They were joined by actress  Tyne Daly , “The Good Wife’s”
Christine Baranski, pianist  Jean-Yves Thibaudet , Philipp Hensler,
head of distribution of Oppenheimer Funds Inc., and some 350
guests.  In honor of Mary’s Scottish roots, gala chairman Adrienne Arsht encouraged guests to wear plaid. She found a tartan Oscar
de la Renta gown after an exhaustive search. Many of the male
revelers wore kilts.  After dessert, guests gathered on the dance floor where
Gelb did a countdown to midnight. At the dawn of the New Year,
fireworks exploded outside the opera house doors.  “To come here more often,” Lauder said of his 2013
resolution.  The gala raised $850,000 for the opera company at  Lincoln
Center .  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  New York  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 