-- Hewlett-Packard Says It May Dispose of Units Not Meeting Targets
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/hewlett-packard-says-it-may-dispose-of-units-not-meeting-targets.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said it’s
evaluating the disposition of businesses that don’t meet goals
more than a year after Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman said
she didn’t plan to spin off the personal-computer division.  “We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of
assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our
objectives,” Hewlett-Packard said in a Dec. 27 10-K  filing  with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That language
wasn’t included in the document a year earlier.  CEO since September 2011, Whitman is working to turn around
Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard after five straight
quarters of declining  sales  and years of botched deals,
management tumult and strategic missteps. An $8.8 billion
writedown of the acquired software company Autonomy Corp. in
November renewed calls on Wall Street for Hewlett-Packard to
realize shareholder value by shedding certain businesses, such
as PCs and printers.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s  largest maker  of personal
computers and printers, discussed the evaluation in the “Risk
Factors” section of its regulatory filing, saying that any
disposal would have possible drawbacks.  “When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may
encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit
strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could
delay the achievement of our strategic objectives,” Hewlett-
Packard said.  Justice Investigation  Hewlett-Packard also said in the filing that the U.S.
Justice Department had opened an investigation relating to
Autonomy. Hewlett-Packard accused the software company of
misrepresenting its performance before being bought in 2011.  The disclosure that Hewlett-Packard is evaluating disposing
of assets or businesses came 14 months after Whitman said she
would keep the company’s PC business  in house . Her predecessor,
Leo Apotheker, had explored a spinoff of the unit, which had
$35.7 billion in sales in fiscal 2012, or 29 percent of the
total.  Whitman instead unified the PC and printer groups’
management under Executive Vice President Todd Bradley last
year. The printer unit accounted for $24.5 billion in fiscal
2012 revenue, or 20 percent of total sales.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, declined
to comment beyond the filing.  Hewlett-Packard’s filing said it may “dispose of a
business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we
had anticipated.” In addition, “the impact of the divestiture
on our revenue growth may be larger than projected,” according
to the filing.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard gained 4.2 percent to $14.25 at
yesterday’s close in New York. The  shares  declined 45 percent in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  