-- Focus on Health-Care Costs Causes More Spending
-- B y   D a v i d   G o l d h i l l
-- 2013-01-01T23:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/focus-on-health-care-costs-causes-more-spending.html
In 1983, the Ronald Reagan
administration enacted one of the most significant cost reforms
in Medicare’s history. The prospective payment system switched
inpatient hospital reimbursement from open-ended fee-for-service
to fixed fees paid per diagnosis.  In theory, this would give hospitals the incentive to treat
patients as quickly and economically as possible.  The new rules did drive big changes. Since 1983, the total
number of days spent by  Medicare  patients in hospitals has
fallen 40 percent, even as the number of Medicare enrollees has
risen 60 percent. The average inpatient stay is now just over
five days, down from 10.  But even an improvement in efficiency of such magnitude
failed to slow the cost train. As the number of hospital days
declined, the daily charge to Medicare rose to $1,800, from
$300.  The prospective payment system is only one obvious example
of a long trend. Most major developments in health care --
higher doctor productivity, diagnostic scans, new
pharmaceuticals, minimally invasive surgery -- could be
described as increasing health care’s productivity. None of
these achievements has lowered prices.  Cost Fallacy  Why not? Strange as it seems, cost is only mildly relevant
to the price of care. In the world of health care, cost control
is based on the fallacy that there is a fixed amount of care we
need. Presumably, the more efficiently it’s performed, the
cheaper it will be. This ignores how providers actually respond
to changes in their business. By focusing relentlessly on the
cost of care, we actually drive it up.  To understand why this is inescapable, ask yourself, What
would you rather pay for the items you buy: whatever price a
retailer charges or a small amount -- say 5 percent -- above the
retailer’s cost? Take your time; it’s a trick question.  The cost-based pricing seems like the better deal. We
imagine going into a store, learning that the merchant paid $10
for a sweater, and buying that sweater for only $10.50. But this
assumes that, once you opt for cost-based pricing, the costs
will stay the same. In reality, the cost-plus-5-percent system
will change the merchant’s economic incentives -- so that the
next sweater the store buys will “cost” far more than $10.  Imagine the impact cost-plus would have on the world’s
simplest business. Your daughter sets up a lemonade stand
outside your house and charges a dollar a cup. (That number just
seemed right to her.) She sells 50 cups to people passing by
each day.  One day the mayor comes along. He’s running for re-
election, and he wants to buy a cup of lemonade every week for
all 1,000 residents of the town. He doesn’t want to pay $1,000 a
week, though, so he suggests paying your daughter a “fair”
profit of 50 percent. He knows each cup contains about 10 cents
worth of lemons and sugar, so he figures he’ll be paying 15
cents a serving.  The moment your daughter agrees to this deal, however, she
will try to increase her costs, because higher costs mean bigger
profits. She is better off with more expensive lemons and sugar,
larger cups (maybe even glasses), an assistant to run the stand
and a new Lemonada 5000 mixer, which guarantees a perfect mix of
sugar and lemon in every glass.  The mayor is no idiot. He sees what is happening, so he
renegotiates his deal. From now on, he’ll pay her costs plus 5
cents a cup. Unfortunately, this also creates perverse
incentives. Your daughter can make more money by reducing the
size of each cup. Or she can cut back on customer service,
hygiene or speed. Or she can cut side deals with her vendors:
The lemon seller can raise his price -- passed on to the mayor -
- and share the proceeds with your daughter.  Manipulation’s Cost  Bizarrely, a cost-based pricing structure actually adds a
new major cost: the effort it takes to track, manipulate and
justify costs. In a $2.5 trillion industry such as health care,
these activities are a big reason that administrative costs
exceed $300 billion a year.  An Economist article on dialysis perfectly  illustrates  the
inflationary impact of cost-plus pricing. Because U.S. clinics
are paid on a cost-plus basis, they prefer expensive drugs to
cheaper ones. In fact, many appear to order drugs in units that
exceed what a standard dosage requires, because they can charge
the government for the waste. The article noted that many
clinics preferred an injected drug with a price of $4,100 a year
over the identical drug in oral form, priced at only $450 a
year. Not surprisingly, the manufacturer of the oral drug
responded by increasing its price above that of the injected
version to make it more competitive.  Our entire health-care system suffers from what I call the
cost illusion -- the idea that a service has a long-term fixed
cost. But every cost is merely someone else’s price. And over
time, costs themselves are also determined by prices.  What is the cost of orthopedic surgery? It is the sum of
all the costs of the underlying components -- the surgeon,
anesthesiologist, nurses, hospital, device, tests and drugs. But
how are these costs determined?  Let’s look at the orthopedic surgeon. We may believe there
is some objective way to measure the cost of her time -- a fair
return on her years of education or training, say. In reality,
the cost of the surgeon’s time depends on the value of
orthopedic surgery to patients. If more patients need it, the
surgeon’s time becomes more valuable. In a free market, there
are two ways the cost of her time could decline: more orthopedic
surgeons fighting for business or patients benefiting less from
orthopedic surgery.  Protected Costs  In an administered market such as health care, on the other
hand, our surrogates -- insurers and Medicare -- substitute
their calculation of cost for the workings of supply and demand.
This has the strange effect of preventing costs from ever
falling. Let’s say Medicare sets the reimbursement rate for a
hip replacement at $15,000. Now say a new drug is invented that
makes hip replacements less useful. In a free market, the price
would decline. But in an administered system, these prices are
viewed as costs, and once set, there is no mechanism to lower
them. A hip replacement still takes the same amount of time from
surgeons of the same degree of expertise, so the cost must still
be $15,000.  In health care, our system is designed to shield patients
from even knowing the prices. Unfortunately, a world without
prices is also one that can’t achieve the purpose of prices: the
allocation of resources to match what consumers want.  Five weeks after  my father died  from a hospital-borne
infection in the intensive-care unit of a  New York  City
hospital, my mother received a bill for his treatment --
$635,695.75! The bill was broken down into 17 items. Had I
booked Dad a room at the most expensive hotel in town for the
five weeks of his illness, filled the room with a million
dollars’ worth of hospital equipment leased for $15,000 a month,
given him round-the-clock nursing care, and paid a physician to
spend an hour a day with him (roughly 50 minutes more than at
the hospital), it would total roughly $150,000.  That leaves $500,000 left over for, say, drugs (billed at
$145,431), oxygen ($41,695) and blood ($30,248).  This comparison with actual prices is absurd, of course,
because it assumes that the prices on my father’s bill were real
prices. No one was actually supposed to pay that bill. The
prices didn’t even bear a relationship to the exchange of funds
for Dad’s treatment. The hospital billed my mother for her share
($992), which she wisely didn’t pay and the hospital wisely
didn’t try to collect. Medicare paid the hospital according to
its concept of the hospital’s cost. Of course, there’s no
question what the competitive price would be for the service of
killing my father: zero.  Prescription Costs  A stunted price system also distorts investment in new
treatments. U.S. pharmaceutical companies spent roughly $67
billion in 2010 on research to develop new drugs. But many of
these new drugs target conditions for which perfectly good drugs
already exist. It is the lack of consumer prices that explains
their me-too approach.  Once a new drug is approved, it enters the marketplace at a
high reimbursement rate, compensating the manufacturer for its
expensive research. So what’s the punishment for entering a
crowded market? Very little. Furthermore, even with a promising
new entrant, the prices of the existing drugs don’t decline;
they have already been set to compensate for their “costs.” In
any normal market, a new entrant would bear not only the risk of
being rejected but also the risk of a price war.  Administered pricing also explains why our health-care
industry has spent far too little on information technology.
Your dry cleaner computerized his inventory system because
losing a shirt may mean losing a payment or even a customer. But
a doctor who invests in state-of-the-art patient data management
can’t charge higher prices; insurers won’t pay. Nor is there a
market mechanism to force hospitals that use paper records to
accept lower prices -- they don’t benefit from being more
efficient. So the investment is never made.  If we, the consumers, saw and paid prices, we would be
looking at a very different industry. My guess is that many of
us would pay only for doctors who spend more time talking to us,
providers who invest in computerized records, genuinely better
treatments rather than me-too drugs for chronic conditions, and
hospitals that kill fewer patients.  (David Goldhill is the president and chief executive
officer of the cable TV network GSN. This is the first in a
series of three excerpts from his new book, “Catastrophic Care:
How American Health Care Killed My Father -- and How We Can Fix
It,” to be published Jan. 8 by Alfred A. Knopf. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Goldhill at  dgoldhill@gsn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 