-- Manchester United Routs Wigan to Maintain Premier League Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/fulham-beats-west-bromwich-albion-2-1-in-english-premier-league.html
Robin van Persie  and  Javier Hernandez 
each scored twice as Manchester United won 4-0 at Wigan to
maintain its seven-point lead over Manchester City in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Van Persie and Hernandez scored once in each half yesterday
as United improved to 52 points through 21 games. Defending
champion City defeated Stoke 3-0, ending the Potters’ 10-match
unbeaten run.  “There’s 17 games left and we have a seven-point lead,”
United manager  Alex Ferguson  said on his club’s website. “It’s
not what I would say is a healthy lead, but it is a lead and it
gives us something to kick on with.”  Tottenham rallied to beat Reading 3-1 and move into third
place, West Ham defeated Norwich 2-1, Fulham won 2-1 at West
Brom, Swansea drew 2-2 with Aston Villa, while Southampton moved
out of the three relegation spots at the bottom of the standings
by drawing 1-1 with Arsenal.  Chelsea hosts last-place Queens Park Rangers in one of
three matches today, when Everton travels to Newcastle and
Liverpool faces Sunderland.  At DW Stadium in Wigan, Manchester United continued its
domination of the Latics by winning for the 15th time in 16
Premier League meetings between the teams.  Hernandez opened the scoring in the 35th minute by putting
in the rebound after Patrice Evra’s shot was knocked away by
goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi.  Van Persie  doubled the lead eight
minutes later by curling a right-foot shot into the top corner.  United went 3-0 up in the 63rd minute when van Persie’s
free kick hit the wall and bounced to Hernandez, who shot past
Al Habsi from inside the area. Van Persie closed the scoring in
the 88th minute with his league-best 16th goal of the season.  ‘Game by Game’  “We have to look at it game by game but everybody wants to
be champions,” Van Persie said on United’s website. “I feel
that I’m surrounded by champions. They know how to win and that
makes it easy for me.”  Manchester City kept pace with United by beating Stoke at
home for the fifth straight time. Pablo Zabaleta gave City the
lead just before halftime, with Edin Dzeko and  Sergio Aguero 
scoring after the break.  Michael Dawson ,  Emmanuel Adebayor  and  Clint Dempsey  scored
as Tottenham won for the seventh time in nine league games to go
one point ahead of Chelsea, which has played two fewer matches.  Goals from Alex Kacaniklic and Dimitar Berbatov gave Fulham
its second win in 13 league games, while Mark Noble and Joey O’Brien scored in West Ham’s home victory over Norwich.  Danny Graham ’s goal in second-half stoppage time earned
Swansea the home draw with Aston Villa, which had taken the lead
on Christian Benteke’s 84th-minute penalty kick.  Southampton’s home draw lifted it above Wigan in the
standings on goal difference. Gaston Ramirez put the Saints in
front in the 34th minute before an own goal from teammate Guly
Do Prado tied the score seven minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 