-- Indian Bond Yields Drop to Two-Year Low as Debt Auction Deferred
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-01T12:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/indian-bond-yields-drop-to-two-year-low-as-debt-auction-deferred.html
India ’s 10-year bonds jumped, sending
the yield to a two-year low, after the government deferred a
debt auction previously scheduled for this week. The rupee
strengthened the most in more than three weeks.  Benchmark yields slid after the  finance ministry  said in a
statement yesterday that it will offer 120 billion rupees ($2.2
billion) of notes in February instead of this week. The sale is
part of a record 5.7 trillion rupee federal borrowing program
for the year ending March 31. Bonds gained after the central
bank said in a separate statement that it plans to purchase 80
billion rupees of debt at an open-market auction on Jan. 4.  “The sense investors are getting is that the government
won’t exceed its borrowing plan,” said Killol Pandya, Mumbai-
based head of fixed-income investments at the local unit of
Daiwa Asset Management Co. “Along with open-market operations,
it’s a happy situation. I doubt these levels can last as the 10-
year yield can’t be below overnight rates for long.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 dropped
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. It
earlier touched 7.90 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 28,
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  overnight  interbank borrowing rate was at 8 percent
today, after averaging 8.03 percent in December.  Interest Rates  The 10-year yield  fell  52 basis points last year, the first
annual decline since 2008, on speculation  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will cut  interest rates  to support a
slowing  economy . The monetary authority has held its repurchase
rate unchanged at 8 percent since April, when it was lowered by
50 basis points in the first reduction since 2009. Eleven of 20
analysts surveyed in a Bloomberg survey forecast a 50 basis
point decrease by March 31.  The government cut its estimate for economic  growth  in the
year through March to as little as 5.7 percent, the least in a
decade, on Dec. 17. Subbarao said a day later that policy
makers’ focus needs to shift toward supporting the economy from
curbing inflation. The next policy review is due on Jan. 29.  “Indian markets are positioning for a rate-cutting cycle,
given the shift in RBI’s focus to growth from inflation,”
Nagaraj Kulkarni, a Singapore-based strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in an interview yesterday. “We expect a 25
basis point reduction in the repo rate this quarter.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell two basis
points today to 7.59 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It fell 14 basis points last year to 7.61 percent.  Rupee Strengthens  The rupee gained after the  U.S. Senate  passed a budget deal
to avert $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts,
boosting demand for riskier assets.  The Senate bill, passed 89-8, would make permanent the tax
cuts for most households that expired at midnight, continue
expanded  unemployment benefits  and delay automatic spending cuts
for two months. The vote early today in  Washington  shifts the
pressure to House Speaker  John Boehner , who hasn’t said if he’ll
accept the agreement or change it.  The rupee rose 0.6 percent today to 54.6850 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It declined 3.5
percent last year, the worst performance after  Indonesia ’s
rupiah among  Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen.  Overseas funds bought $24.5 billion more Indian shares than
they sold last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, was unchanged at
10.10 percent. The measure decreased 190 basis points in 2012.  Three-month onshore forwards traded at 55.73, compared with
55.68 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 55.54 versus 55.70. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  