-- India Losing Iron Ore Market as Courts Shut Mines
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-02T09:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/india-losing-iron-ore-market-as-courts-shut-mines-commodities.html
Ambar Timblo has no work. For the
first time in six decades his family’s iron ore mines in  India ’s
western state of Goa are idle. A court-imposed ban on production
drove away his biggest buyers in China and  Japan .  “It will take me a decade to win back market share as
there is tremendous uncertainty about supplies from India,”
said Timblo, a  London  School of Economics graduate and a former
national badminton player. “Our loss has been a gain for our
rivals from other countries.”  Fomento Resources Pvt. , set up by Timblo’s grandfather in
1957 when Goa was a Portuguese colony, is among companies that
together own 93 mines that were shut in the state after a probe
found that mining had contaminated ground water and led to
illegal logging.  The ban is the second by India’s Supreme Court following
one in 2011 in southern Karnataka state that began eroding the
nation’s credibility as a supplier, shoring up prices for the
ore and handing additional sales opportunities to companies such
as  Rio Tinto Group Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP) , Australia’s two
biggest iron ore exporters to China.  “The drop in supplies from India has tightened the market
and provides support to iron ore prices,” said  David Radclyffe ,
managing director of equity research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London. “Because of uncertainties in India, low-cost miners
like Rio are clearly finding a bigger market share.”  The spot iron ore price at China’s Tianjin port climbed 67
percent to $144.90 a ton as of Dec. 31 after dropping to a
three-year low in early-September.  Market Share  Shares of BHP Billiton rose 2 percent to A$37.84, the
highest in 11 months, at the close in Sydney today, while Rio
climbed 2.4 percent to A$67.62, its best price in 10 months.
Fortescue Metals Group, Australia’s third-biggest exporter of
the ore, jumped 5.8 percent to A$4.92, its highest level in more
than five months.  Australia  supplied 318 million tons, or 47 percent of
 China’s imports  in the first 11 months of last year, up from 43
percent in 2011 and about 35 percent in 2007. India exported
33.1 million tons in the first 11 months, for a 4.9 percent
market share, down from 11 percent in 2011 and 21 percent in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rio Tinto spokesman David Luff declined to comment on its
sales or the drop in output from India. BHP Billiton spokeswoman
Fiona Hadley said the company wouldn’t comment on sales to a
specific region.  ‘Unstable Supplies’  “Indian supplies are often unstable with the export bans
imposed by the government,” said Chen Shuangye, an iron ore
purchase manager at Shanxi Jincheng Steel Holding Group Co., a
steelmaker in China’s northern province of Shanxi. “We bought a
lot from India in 2008-2009, now we use Australian and Brazilian
supplies instead.”  The shortage hit several steelmakers.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,
India’s third-biggest producer of the metal, cut output to 30
percent of capacity at its biggest plant in 2011. It has since
increased production to 70 percent after the court allowed
auctions of stockpiled ore.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Steel Authority
of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the nation’s two biggest producers, have their
own iron ore mines.  JSW’s  profit  in the year ended March 31 was the lowest
since fiscal 2009, which saw the fall of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and a worldwide economic crisis that lead to a
slump in commodity prices. With improved ore supplies and the
low base of 2012, this year’s profit is forecast to jump three-
fold.  ‘Judicial Activism’  The travails of Timblo, Fomento’s 36-year-old managing
director, reflect the political climate in India where a series
of corruption scandals have rocked Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government.  That has prompted the judiciary to take on a more activist
role, according to Rajiv Kumar, the former head of the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. In
February, the Supreme Court stripped phone operators, including
the local venture of  Telenor ASA (TEL) , of 122 licenses following a
state auditor’s report that said the government may have lost
$31 billion after allocating airwaves without an auction.  “We are seeing a rise in judicial activism in India
because the government’s regulatory oversight is compromised and
the industry does not adopt any initiative for self-
regulation,” said Kumar, now an independent economist. “We
have to find the right balance between growth and sustainable
industrial practices.”  Illegal Mining  Investigations by the Justice M.B. Shah Commission of
Inquiry, appointed by the federal mines ministry, said companies
in Goa exported about 350 billion rupees ($6.4 billion) of
illegally mined ore. The companies, including  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED)  unit  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , deny the charges. They say mining
accounts for about 25 percent of the state’s economy, the most
of any industry including tourism, and employs 90,000 people.  Claude Alvares, director at  Goa Foundation , a group of
environment activists who sought the ban, declined to comment as
the matter is in court.  The Supreme Court, which began hearing the Goa government’s
plea to lift the ban on Dec. 7, will likely resume proceedings
at the end of January. The case may drag on for more than a year,
as did a similar one in adjacent Karnataka state, Timblo said.  As supplies from India fall,  China ’s demand continues to
grow. The country’s iron ore imports, estimated at 718 million
tons in 2012, may climb to 770 million tons this year, said Hu Yanping, chief analyst with researcher Custeel.com.  Expanding Probe  The Shah Commission is now broadening its probe, surveying
mines in Odisha, where a concerned state government has stopped
issuing transport permits for mines that produce ore for trading,
H.C. Daga, group executive president at  Essel Mining &
Industries Ltd. , said in a phone interview. That has led to
mines stopping work and supply shortages for steel mills, Daga
said.  Karnataka and Goa, two of the three biggest iron ore
producers in India, accounted for 37 percent of the country’s
peak output of 218.6 million metric tons in the year ended March
2010. Production fell to 169.7 million tons last fiscal, the
lowest in six years.  The bans are forcing India, which has enough iron ore
reserves to meet its needs for at least four decades, to import
the material.  Imports may reach a record 5 million tons in 2012 as
companies such as JSW Steel and Essar Steel Ltd. seek supplies,
said Gunjan Aggarwal, senior consultant at commodity research
firm  CRU Group .  Sesa Goa, India’s largest exporter of the ore, is
considering imports to keep its pig iron plant in Goa running,
Managing Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said. The company’s
iron ore operations in Goa and Karnataka are shut.  Meanwhile, Timblo’s only hope rests with the government of
Goa’s representation before the Supreme Court to argue the
miners’ case. The state may lose 40 billion rupees in revenue
this fiscal year because of the halt, the Indo-Asian News
Service cited Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar as saying on Dec.
13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  