-- Kingfisher Air Loses License After Failing to Give Funding Plan
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-01T11:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/kingfisher-air-loses-license-after-failing-to-give-funding-plan.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that halted flights because of a cash crunch, lost its
operating license after failing to provide a funding plan for
its revival, an aviation ministry official said.  The permit, issued in August 2003, lapsed today, said the
official, who declined to be identified citing the ministry
policy. Kingfisher can seek to renew the license within two
years, the official said in a telephone interview.  A revival plan the airline last week submitted to India’s
aviation regulator wasn’t backed by details of financing,
according to Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh. Kingfisher’s
parent UB Group will provide the funds required to restart
flights, Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for the carrier, said in
an e-mail last night. Mirpuri didn’t respond to two calls to his
mobile phone today.  Shares of Kingfisher fell 3 percent to 14.45 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark BSE  India  Sensitive
Index gained 0.8 percent. The stock declined 29 percent last
year after plunging 68 percent in 2011.  The regulator suspended Kingfisher’s permit in October
following flight disruptions caused by strikes triggered by
unpaid wages. Employees later agreed to resume work after
management pledged to pay salaries.  The airline is in the process of procuring some documents
that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has sought,
Mirpuri said in his e-mail. Kingfisher “is confident of
securing approval from the DGCA on the restart plan,” he said.  Kingfisher has been seeking cash for more than two years
and said it’s in talks with possible investors, including Etihad
Airways PJSC. The carrier, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , has piled up  debt  of 85 billion rupees ($1.6 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  