-- Kim Signals Warmer North Korea Ties With South
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-01-02T07:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/north-korea-picks-stronger-economy-south-ties-as-top-2013-tasks.html
North Korea ’s Kim Jong Un named
improving the economy and better relations with  South Korea  as
top policy goals for his second year as leader, signaling he may
ease his country’s confrontational approach toward Seoul.  “The building of an economic giant is the most important
task that comes to the fore in the present stage of building a
thriving socialist country,” Kim said yesterday in a New Year
address carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
“The reunification of the country is the greatest national task
that brooks no further delay.”  Kim departed from the past year’s saber-rattling against
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  as Lee’s successor Park
Geun Hye prepares to take office Feb. 25. Park has repudiated
Lee’s hard-line North Korea policy, expressing her willingness
to talk to Kim and help the North join global organizations to
thaw ties.  “Kim’s speech mentioned the importance of the economy at
far greater frequency than the military,” Cheong Seong Chang,
senior research fellow at the Seoul-based Sejong Institute, said
in an e-mail yesterday. “The success of the Dec. 12 missile
launch has given Kim enough confidence to not have to rely on
his father’s military-first policy to garner support.  ‘‘The urgency of economic issues also compounds to the
North’s need to better ties with South Korea, which makes it
likely that Pyongyang will aggressively engage in efforts to
resume dialogue,” Cheong said.  Better Lives  Kim delivered the 4,112-word address, his sixth public
speech since taking power, for about 25 minutes on state
television and radio, South Korea’s Unification Ministry said
yesterday on its website. It was the first New Year speech by a
North Korean leader since that delivered by state founder  Kim Il Sung  in 1994, the ministry said.  “Kim Jong Un is trying to imitate Kim Il Sung and promote
a similar image,” said the ministry, which also noted Kim’s
emphasis on the need to increase coal and metal production over
last year’s call to boost electricity supply.  “We should develop coal-mining, electric power and
metallurgical industries and rail transport on a preferential
basis and provide a firm springboard for the building of an
economic giant,” Kim said yesterday. The success of economic
construction will be gauged by betterment of people’s living
standards, which also requires an increase in agricultural and
consumer goods output, he added.  China Reliant  North Korea’s economy is about one-fortieth the size of
that of its southern neighbor. Chronic food insecurity and
malnutrition affects about two-thirds of the country’s 24
million people, Jerome Sauvage, then-UN resident coordinator in
the North Korea capital of Pyongyang, said in June. Heavy rains
and floods in July compounded food shortages, leaving almost 600
people dead or missing and 212,000 homeless, KCNA said in
August.  The North is reliant on its neighbor  China  for diplomatic
and economic support, with bilateral trade amounting to $5.63
billion in 2011, 70.1 percent of the North’s total commerce that
year, according to an annual report by South Korea’s national
statistics office, Statistics Korea. North Korea does not
release its economic data.  The number of North Koreans defecting to South Korea has
more than halved since Kim Jong Un became leader, according to
the Unification Ministry. As of October 2012, a total of 1,203
defectors had entered the South while 2,706 arrived in 2011,
 data  on the ministry’s website showed. A total of 24,308
defectors now reside in South Korea, the ministry said.  Diplomatic Shield  China serves as North Korea’s diplomatic shield at the
 United Nations Security Council  because it sees potential in
North Korea’s cheap labor and its rich mineral reserves. As a
veto-wielding permanent member of the  Security Council , China
has resisted efforts to impose fresh sanctions against the North
over its missile launch last month that demonstrated a
heightened ballistic capability.  South Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin and Unification
Minister Yu Woo Ik have warned against the North possibly
conducting a third nuclear weapons test in follow up to the
December launch.  North Korea has more than 250 long-range artillery
installations along the world’s most fortified border. South and
North Korea technically remain at war after their 1950-1953
conflict ended without a peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  