-- Molycorp Deal Seen as Rare-Earth Play at Value: Real M&A
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-01-02T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/molycorp-deal-seen-as-rare-earth-play-at-value-real-m-a.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) ’s plunge below the
value of its net assets is turning the owner of a  rare-earth 
supply that’s unmatched in the Western hemisphere into a
takeover target.  The owner of the biggest U.S. deposit of metals that go
into everything from smartphones to solar panels and hybrid cars
handed investors  losses  of 61 percent in 2012 amid a slump in
rare-earth prices, cost overruns at its  California  mine, a
regulatory probe and the departure of its chief executive
officer. Even after the shares rebounded from a record low in
November, Molycorp is trading at a 19 percent discount to its
book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Molycorp’s low valuation and the chance to lock in rare-
earth resources could spur manufacturers from  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
to  Siemens AG (SIE)  to make a bid, according to Byron Capital Markets
Ltd. After expanding its refining and processing operations with
last year’s purchase of Neo Material Technologies Inc., the $1.3
billion company may even appeal to private-equity firms, Robert
W. Baird & Co. said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. projects that
Molycorp could fetch $15 a share in a takeover, a 59 percent
premium to its Dec. 31 close.  “At this point, Molycorp is definitely in play,” Luisa Moreno, an analyst at Euro Pacific Capital Inc. in Toronto, said
in a telephone interview. “It would be a very good target for
companies that are interested in being in this space if they
recognize the rare-earth space is important and they have the
cash to take Molycorp and make it a real producing company.”  Rare Earth  Jim Sims , a spokesman for  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based
Molycorp, declined to comment on the potential for a takeover of
the company.  Molycorp owns the biggest U.S. deposit of rare earths, 17
chemically similar elements including cerium and lanthanum that
are used in a range of products including Apple Inc.’s iPads and
Tomahawk cruise missiles made by Raytheon Co. It paid C$1.1
billion ($1.1 billion) last year to acquire Toronto-based Neo
Material, adding plants that process rare-earth ores into magnet
powders and alloys, and is set to finish work on a refining
plant at its Mountain Pass mine in California’s Mojave Desert.  Since the deal closed June 14, Molycorp shareholders have
lost more than $600 million amid a decline in rare-earth  prices ,
as some buyers began using substitute materials. The stock,
which peaked at $77.54 in May 2011, ended at $9.44 on Dec. 31,
the last trading session.  Today, Molycorp shares gained 10 percent to $10.39, the
biggest advance in the Russell 1000 Index.  Record Low  The shares first  tumbled  below Molycorp’s book value, or
assets minus liabilities, in August after it posted a  surprise 
second-quarter loss and said it needed to pursue financing for a
“substantial portion” of its remaining 2012 capital
expenditures.  On Nov. 15, six days after Molycorp said it was being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
the accuracy of its public disclosures, the stock closed at
almost half the value of its net assets, its lowest  valuation  on
record, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company took more
than two months to disclose the probe, which began in August.  Molycorp asked  Mark Smith  to step down as CEO last month,
and said the departure wasn’t related to the SEC investigation.  “That was the nail in the coffin as far as the last CEO
was concerned,” Ben Kallo, a Baird analyst in  San Francisco ,
said in a phone interview. “They lost a lot of credibility
under” Smith, he said.  While Molycorp has had its issues in the past year, it’s
still an attractive takeover candidate for a variety of suitors,
according to Kallo. If anything, it’s now cheaper, he said.  Value There  Molycorp shares still valued the company at 0.81  times  the
company’s book value on Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares with Lynas Corp., the Sydney-based developer
of a rare-earth mine in  Malaysia , which trades at a price-book
multiple of about 1.8 times.  “Definitely you’d have people looking at it as an
acquisition target at these levels,” he said. “There could be
a range of buyers -- anyone from private equity to specialty
chemical companies to mining companies. There is value.”  An automaker is “an obvious candidate” to be a Molycorp
acquirer, said  Jonathan Hykawy , an analyst at Byron Capital
Markets in Toronto.  Japan ’s Nissan or  South Korea ’s  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , for instance, could pursue a Molycorp takeover to
ensure access to materials used in magnets that help make
lighter, more efficient electric motors.  China , the world’s biggest supplier of rare earths, has
curbed output and exports in recent years, in part to conserve
material for its own industry.  Secure Supply  “I’ve heard from so many critical materials buyers at
larger corporations that they want security of supply,” Hykawy
said. “And security of supply to them includes avoiding Chinese
supply at all costs because they got fooled once, they don’t
want to get fooled again.”  The same logic might prompt a manufacturer of electricity-
generating wind turbines such as Siemens to purse Molycorp, he
said. Rare earths are used in wind-turbine motors.  David Reuter, a spokesman for Nissan’s North American unit,
said he’s “not aware of any plan” involving Molycorp, while
Frank Ahrens, a spokesman for Seoul-based Hyundai, declined to
comment. Guenter Gaugler, a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Japanese or Korean electronics manufacturers that use rare-
earths also may be interested, said Euro Pacific’s Moreno.  “Folks in  Asia  have a better understanding of the rare-
earths space in general, especially the Japanese and Korean
groups,” Moreno said. “They are also significant consumers”
of the materials.  Molymet Stake  A mining company would be best positioned to finish
developing Molycorp’s Mountain Pass mine, Moreno said. Chile’s
 Molibdenos y Metales SA (MOLYMET) , known as Molymet, the world’s biggest
processor of the steel-hardening element molybdenum and
Molycorp’s largest  shareholder , could even seek to increase its
holding, Moreno said. Nicolas Donoso, a spokesman for Santiago-
based Molymet, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Still, while the Mountain Pass mine is Molycorp’s main
asset, mining companies may not be as eager to pursue Molycorp,
now that it has expanded into processing and refining rare
earths, Baird’s Kallo said.  Any potential acquirer may hold off on a purchase of
Molycorp because the company’s new plant at Mountain Pass is
employing a refining technique that differs from most mining
companies, said Michael Gambardella, a New York-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Not Now  “The likelihood of a sale in my opinion is very remote,”
Gambardella said in a phone interview. “Given the timing, is
someone really going to want to come in, in the midst of a
startup, using a processing technology that’s never been
commercially introduced?”  What’s more, even as Molycorp and  Lynas (LYC)  both plan to
increase rare-earth production, growth in demand for the metals
outside of China is expected to be “flat,” Gambardella said, a
further deterrent to a buyer.  Still, Goldman Sachs in a Dec. 16 report initiating
coverage of Molycorp said the company “could have strategic
appeal given its ownership of a large-scale and commercially
viable rare-earths resource outside of China.” The New York-
based firm said there’s a 15 percent to 30 percent probability
of a takeover.  Right Time?  With Molycorp’s free cash flow  projected  by at least one
analyst to turn positive by next year, and with rare-earth
materials still in demand by an array of manufacturers, Laurence Balter of Oracle Investment Research says pursuing the company
at its current low valuation may be just the right strategy for
a private-equity firm or other buyer. The stock is one of his
“best picks” for 2013.  “If Molycorp was ever going to be taken out, it would have
to be right now and not when the stock price is three times
higher than it is now and the outlook is rosy,” Balter, who
helps manage $100 million, including Molycorp shares, said in a
phone interview from Fox Island,  Washington . “A buyer would
have to act when the stock is  weak , value has been destroyed,
management is in a shuffle and they are about to turn a corner.
It is the time for someone to come write a big check.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  