-- How the Jones Act Blocks Natural Disaster Relief: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-01T23:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/how-a-disaster-called-the-jones-act-blocks-disaster-relief-view.html
To get gasoline flowing in the  New
York  area after  Hurricane Sandy , President  Barack Obama 
temporarily suspended the Jones Act, a statutory relic of the
post-World War I era that bars foreign ships from carrying
freight between U.S. ports.  Within days of the president’s action, gasoline prices
declined and filling-station lines, which had required police
patrols to keep the peace, soon disappeared.  That raises a question: Should the Jones Act still be on
the books?  The answer is no.  Enacted in 1920, when memories of American ships being
torpedoed off the East Coast were fresh, the Jones Act was
designed to ensure that the U.S. had a fleet of loyal merchant
ships in times of national emergency. The  law , formally known as
the Merchant Marine Act, required all vessels carrying goods
between domestic ports to have been built in the U.S., as well
as owned and crewed by Americans. Other provisions granted crew
members the equivalent of health and disability protection.  By shutting out foreign competition, the law limits
shipping capacity and inflates U.S. freight rates. Like most
forms of protectionism, it benefits a few to the detriment of
many. One analyst estimated that shipping oil from the Gulf
Coast to the Northeast on foreign vessels would cost $1.20 a
barrel versus $4 on U.S. ships. Although no one is quite sure of
the overall economic burden imposed by the act, a 1999  study  by
the U.S. International Trade Commission found that ending it
would save more than $1.3 billion a year.  Hawaii’s Costs  U.S. islands such as Puerto Rico and  Hawaii , along with the
state of  Alaska , feel the effects of the Jones Act more than
most localities. Some of Hawaii’s political and business leaders
have long complained that the restrictions mean all goods
shipped from the U.S. mainland must go via the two carriers
serving the state. By some estimates, this makes goods in Hawaii
a third more expensive than they otherwise should be.  In November, a group of businesses in Hawaii sued to
overturn the law. The higher freight costs paid by the state’s
businesses, their suit says, are evidence of monopolistic
pricing and in violation of the Constitution’s  Commerce Clause .  The courts will decide the legal merits of the suit, but
the economic case is clear: The Jones Act interferes with the
normal functioning of the market. This is one reason the federal
government keeps resorting to temporary waivers, such as the one
signed by Obama. President George W. Bush, for example,
suspended the law after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast in
2005, letting foreign ships ferry fuel to the region.  The law has many supporters, mainly labor unions and
inefficient U.S. shipbuilders, which by  some accounts  charge
more than double the rates of overseas builders. Rail and
trucking companies don’t mind the Jones Act because it tends to
shift freight from transport on waterways to land.  Jones Act defenders also say the law is necessary for
security reasons in our post-Sept. 11 world. Yet thousands of
foreign ships engaged in international trade enter U.S. ports
every year without incident, as Senator John McCain, a national-
security hawk and long-time opponent of the Jones Act, has
pointed out.  Two parts of the Jones Act should be dismantled.  Obsolete Fleets  First, the U.S. should abandon the requirement that ships
used in domestic trade be built in the U.S. Because American
shipyards have been shielded from international competition,
they have failed to modernize and adopt the innovative
production methods used overseas. The higher costs of building
in the U.S. have deterred domestic cargo carriers from upgrading
and their ships are less efficient and twice as old, on average,
as international fleets.  Then, the U.S. needs to allow foreign shippers to compete
in U.S. coastal waters.  To be sure, ending the Jones Act shouldn’t be a unilateral
move. Dozens of other nations have similar protectionist laws,
and the U.S. should only allow competition from ships that are
registered to nations that agree to reciprocal rollbacks.
Foreign freight carriers must be required to comply with U.S.
labor and workplace protections. Furthermore, countries that
offer unfair subsidies to builders should be barred from selling
to U.S. shipping companies.  With those provisos, the Jones Act needs to go. It was
designed to help the U.S. deal with national emergencies, yet
presidents have had to suspend it in two major crises to
accomplish just that. We aren’t likely to get better evidence
that the law is outdated and counterproductive.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  