-- Pakistan Frees Former Taliban Officials to Promote Afghan Peace
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-01T04:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/pakistan-frees-former-taliban-officials-to-promote-afghan-peace.html
Pakistan  released eight more members
of Afghanistan’s Taliban movement, including former regional
governors and ministers, as it bids to help create conditions
for substantial negotiations with insurgents.  Those freed from detention included Abdul Bari, former
governor of southern Helmand province, ex-justice minister
Nooruddin Turabi, and Mullah Daud Jan, former governor of Kabul,
the foreign office said in a statement last night. U.S. forces
ousted the Taliban government led by Mullah Mohammad Omar in
2001. Omar is believed is based in Pakistan. Former deputy
leader and top military commander Abdul Ghani Baradar, detained
in 2010 in Karachi, was not among those released.  Afghanistan and Pakistan are pursuing a new peace
initiative that would permit members of the Taliban to be
removed from the United Nations terrorist list to join
negotiations and hold Afghan government posts. The push for
talks has become more urgent as the U.S.-led international
coalition prepares to pull its combat troops out of  Afghanistan 
by the end of 2014.  The five-step blueprint, entitled “Peace Process Roadmap
to 2015,” was initiated by Afghan President Hamid Karzai in
coordination with Pakistan and formally presented to Pakistani
officials in November, according to the chairman of
Afghanistan’s High Peace Council, Azizullah Din Mohammad, a
senior council member.  Quetta Base  The plan may not attract hard-line Taliban leaders who have
demanded the withdrawal of all foreign troops as a key condition
to start negotiations and have previously refused to deal with
Karzai’s administration, according to analysts, including
Islamabad-based Talat Masood, a retired Pakistan army lieutenant
general.  Pakistan freed 18 Taliban prisoners in November, according
to yesterday’s statement.  The Afghan government has long considered Pakistan a
hindrance to peace because the Taliban and other militant
Islamist groups have bases there and receive financing from the
Persian Gulf and elsewhere through Pakistani channels.  The U.S. and Afghanistan have long sought Pakistan’s help
in facilitating talks with the Taliban, whose leadership they
allege is hiding in and around the southwestern Pakistani city
of Quetta in Baluchistan, a province that borders Afghanistan.
Pakistan denies charges that its military protects senior
insurgent commanders in a bid to maintain influence over
Afghanistan’s future and oppose  India ’s growing role there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  