-- Pakistan NGO Teacher, Health-Worker Attack Kills 7 in Northwest
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-01T16:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/pakistan-ngo-teacher-health-worker-attack-kills-7-in-northwest.html
Gunmen killed seven staff of a non-
government organization, including five female teachers, in
 Pakistan ’s northwest today in the latest violence against
foreign-funded projects involved in health and education.  Two unknown attackers ambushed a van carrying eight workers
of  Support With Working Solution , killing seven employees and
critically wounding the van driver, Javed Akhtar, executive
director of this organization, said in a phone interview from
Swabi, a town in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.  Five primary school teachers were killed with two health
workers, Akhtar said. They were returning home from a primary
school and adjoining health center. Projects are funded by
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund and other foreign aid groups,
he said.  Taliban, al Qaeda and their allied groups that oppose
Pakistan’s alliance with the U.S. in neighboring  Afghanistan 
regularly attack schools and other civilian targets. Malala
Yousufzai, a 15-year-old activist who was shot in the head by
Taliban gunmen in October, comes from the same province.  Pakistani Taliban, who claimed responsibility for the
attack on Yousufzai, blame NGOs for spreading secular thoughts
in the insurgency-hit province where last month seven polio
vaccination workers were also killed.  In a separate incident in the country’s south today, at
least two people were killed and 40 others injured in a bomb
blast in Pakistan’s commercial hub Karachi, Geo television
reported, citing rescue workers it didn’t identify. The bomb,
which was fitted in a motorcycle, went off in the area where
people were dispersing after political rally, the network said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  