-- Pound Advances for Fourth Year Versus Euro on Demand for Haven
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-01-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/pound-advances-for-fourth-year-versus-euro-on-demand-for-haven.html
The pound strengthened for a fourth
year in 2012 against the euro as investors seeking a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis pushed the currency higher, even as the
 Bank of England  raised its so-called quantitative-easing target.  U.K. gilts advanced for a third year, pushing yields on
British two-, five-, 10- and 30-year bonds to the lowest on
record, as the financial turmoil in the euro area and the Bank
of England’s asset-buying program boosted demand. The pound
advanced for the first time in three years against the dollar
and extended its longest run of annual gains against the euro
since the 17-nation currency’s introduction in 1999.  “I don’t buy into the euro-positive story and ultimately
sterling will be better placed against the euro,” said  Neil Mellor , a foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  in  London . “You can’t look at any euro-zone country and
conclude that 2013 is going to be a positive year.”  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to 81.52 pence per euro
as of 1:41 p.m. London time yesterday, after climbing 0.5
percent on Dec. 28, the biggest increase since Dec. 6. It has
gained 2.2 percent against the common currency in 2012. Sterling
was little changed at $1.6176, having risen 4.3 percent in 2012.  The pound strengthened 1.6 percent last year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro declined 0.9 percent and
the dollar fell 2.8 percent.  Gilts Gain  Gilts held their biggest weekly gain in a month yesterday
as U.S. lawmakers debated ways to prevent automatic spending
cuts and tax increases that risked triggering a recession. The
pound strengthened for a second day against the euro after data
showed U.K. executives’ confidence for 2013 improved last month,
indicating the risk of a triple-dip recession may be receding.  A rising pound shows the challenges new Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney , who takes over from  Mervyn King  in July,
will face as he tries to boost an economy weighed down by
recession in the euro region. The central bank increased bond
 purchases  to 375 billion pounds from 275 billion pounds last
year, a move that usually debases a currency.  Italian elections in February and  Spain ’s deliberations
over whether to seek a bailout will provide investors enough
incentive to maintain the pound’s haven status even after the
 European Central Bank  took steps to reduce the threat of a euro
breakup,  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said last month.  Bank of England policy makers decided to pause their
program of quantitative easing in November.  Bond Returns  Gilts returned 2.8 percent in the year through Dec. 28, set
for a third year of gains, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds gained 4.5 percent and Treasuries earned
2.4 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 1.82 percent
yesterday, after dropping six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
points, last week, the biggest decline since the period ended
Nov. 30. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 traded at
99.41. The 10-year rate fell to 1.407 percent on July 23, the
 lowest  since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1989.  The gilt market was scheduled to close at 12:15 p.m. in
London yesterday and will resume trading tomorrow.  That yields have remained “near those record lows reflects
both that domestic monetary policy has been effective in capping
yields and that the euro crisis has been supportive too,” said
 Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
London. “Heading into 2013 it is expected that low and stable
yields will continue to be an important part of the slow
recovery. If there is any threat to this status quo it wouldn’t
be too surprising to see expectations of more QE grow.”  The pound will end 2013 at 79 pence per euro and at $1.60,
according to the median forecasts of analysts in Bloomberg News
surveys. The 10-year gilt yield will rise to 2.38 percent,
according to a separate survey.  “Sterling is one of the more difficult currencies to try
and pin down,” Bank of New York Mellon’s Mellor said. “Our
working presumption is that it’s going to remain trapped
somewhere between the euro and the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  