-- Proven Reforms Help Beat Homelessness Even in Tough Times
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-01T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/proven-reforms-help-beat-homelessness-even-in-tough-times.html
Remarkable developments are embedded
within an otherwise humdrum  announcement  last month by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, which said that the
number of homeless people in the U.S. declined slightly in 2012,
according to a count on a single night last January.  The slight dip, a drop of 0.4 percent to 633,782, continues
a  trend of improvement  now lasting five years. In that time, the
U.S. has reduced homelessness by 5.7 percent even as the  poverty
rate  grew by 20 percent.  The decline shows that the country has learned something
about how to address homelessness. The solution, it seems, lies
not in publicly sheltering the homeless for sustained periods
but in ensuring that they quickly secure their own places to
live.  This approach was first applied to the  chronically
homeless , who made up 16 percent of all cases in 2012. These
individuals almost always have disabilities such as mental or
physical health problems or addictions. As a result, they fare
poorly in conventional homeless programs, which may require
compliance with the rules of an emergency shelter -- such as
sobriety -- before allowing them entrance to a transitional
shelter. Further compliance, including treatment for substance
abuse, for instance, may be required before they can qualify for
permanent housing support.  The alternative strategy places the chronically homeless
directly into permanent housing while also connecting them to
services to address their other challenges. Most will need this
support, at government expense, for life. Yet such comprehensive
assistance is probably cheaper than leaving the chronically
homeless on the streets, because they often end up in hospitals,
detox centers or jails, all on the taxpayer’s dime. Those
services cost the public $2,897 per individual per month,
according to one study in Los Angeles County, versus $605 for
supportive housing.  In localities with less generous public services, the
differential is generally smaller. Still, it’s clear that the
strategy works. Having increased the number of permanent
supportive housing units by 86,000, or 46 percent, since 2007,
the U.S. has reduced chronic homelessness over that period by
19.3 percent.  New approaches are also being applied to the situationally
homeless -- families and individuals who’ve slipped into
homelessness because of misfortune such as a job loss, personal
turmoil or a costly illness. Traditionally, they have gone from
an emergency shelter to a transitional one, where they might
spend months working to save the money for moving expenses, a
deposit and the first-month’s rent on an apartment. Under a new
program, authorities instead grant that money upfront, getting
the household out of shelter quickly or sometimes even
preventing a lapse into homelessness.  Once assisted, people tended to stay housed.  Numerous
studies  showed that only about 3 percent of households served
were homeless again within 12 months. Plus, costs per household
were much less.  A report  on efforts in seven states concluded
that rapidly rehousing a family costs $5,775 on average,
compared with $18,776 for an average stay in transitional
housing. Officials expected the national program would serve
750,000 individuals; it served 1.3 million.  HUD devoted $1.5 billion in stimulus money over three years
to the program. (The agency annually spends about $2 billion on
 homelessness assistance .) Trouble is, the stimulus money ran out
in September. A new  HUD program  is expected to spend about $126
million a year on rapid rehousing and prevention. A similar
program for veterans and their families is adding $200 million
to its budget. That leaves overall spending at about 65 percent
of the previous level.  Just as it’s clear that rapid rehousing works well for the
situationally homeless, it’s also clear that long stays in
expensive transitional shelters do not. Accordingly, HUD should
allocate more to rapid rehousing and less to shelters. Local
governments, which have considerable leeway over housing
spending, needn’t wait for the department to reallocate; they
can redirect general HUD funds they receive.  Experience over the past five years demonstrates that
homelessness is not an insurmountable challenge. With the right
measures, significant progress is possible.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 