-- Saudi Shares Rise Most in 3 Weeks on U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-02T06:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/saudi-shares-rise-most-in-three-weeks-on-u-s-senate-budget-deal.html
(Corrects to include Oman trading in final paragraph of
story first published yesterday.)  Saudi Arabian shares rose the most in
three weeks after the  U.S. Senate  passed a bipartisan budget
deal to prevent the potential economic harm from tax increases
and spending cuts.  Al Rajhi Bank, the kingdom’s largest by market value, rose
the most in two weeks.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO)  climbed to
the highest level in a week.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.6 percent to 6839.53
at 1:03 p.m. in Riyadh. The Arab world’s biggest stock exchange
gained 7.2 percent last year, compared with the  Dubai Financial
Market ’s gain of 20 percent.  The U.S. Senate reached an after-deadline deal to undo the
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that may have
slowed economic growth in the world’s biggest economy. The vote
early today in Washington shifts the pressure to House Speaker
 John Boehner , who hasn’t said if he’ll accept the agreement or
change it. He will face difficulty mustering Republican votes
for any bill with higher taxes for 2013 than they were in 2012.  “The Saudi market now reacted positively to the news about
the new agreement reached, even though it isn’t final,” said
Mohammed Al-Omran, financial analyst and president of the Gulf
Center for Financial Consultancy in Riyadh. “We don’t know the
reaction of the House. If it rejects the agreement,  capital
markets  will go back to square number one.”  Export Demand  U.S. stocks surged on the last day of the year by the most
since 1974 before the Senate reached the deal. The  S&P 500 
rallied 1.7 percent to 1,426.19 in New York. The benchmark index
finished the year with a 13 percent gain, its best annual
performance since 2009.  Saudi Arabia, whose $727 billion economy expanded 6.8
percent in 2012, is the biggest oil exporter in the world. The
economy, which derives about 90 percent of revenue from oil
sales, has a “sensitivity to the international economy that is
a little bit high,” Al-Omran said.  “The news is positive because of the size of U.S. demand
for exports from the region,” Turki Fadaak, head of research
and consultancy at Albilad Investment Company, said in an e-
mail. “Petrochemical companies should benefit from the news.”  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI)  gained 1.2 percent to 65.75 riyals, while
Saudi Arabian Fertilizer climbed 1.5 percent to 154.5 riyals.  Saudi Arabia and Oman are the only stock markets trading in
the Persian Gulf today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  