-- Shell, Coast Guard Seek to Salvage Grounded Alaska Rig
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-02T19:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/shell-s-diesel-filled-rig-grounded-on-alaska-island.html
The U.S. Coast Guard and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  were fighting 70 mile-per-hour winds and 40-foot
swells as they tried to assess damage to a floating oil drilling
ship that ran aground on a remote Alaskan island.  Authorities haven’t been able to board people onto the
Shell rig Kulluk because of the challenging conditions and are
still watching the weather, said Jason Moore, a spokesman in
Anchorage,  Alaska , for the Unified Command, a response group
that includes the Coast Guard and industry representatives. The
Coast Guard was observing the rig overnight, he said in a
telephone interview today.  “It was rocking a little bit, so it is responding to wave
action,” he said. “It is stable. No sheen of any kind.”  The rig was stranded on the coast of Sitkalidak Island,
about 60 miles (97 kilometers) southwest of the town of Kodiak,
according to a Coast Guard statement yesterday. Environmental
groups yesterday called for a halt to the company’s efforts to
drill in Arctic waters. Opponents had previously sued Shell to
prohibit drilling off Alaska.  The rig went ashore at 8:48 p.m. Alaska time on Dec. 31.  Grounded Rig  The Kulluk has approximately 139,000 gallons of ultra-low-
sulfur diesel and 12,000 gallons of combined lube oil and
hydraulic fluid on board. Shell owns the vessel while  Noble
Corp. (NE) , a rig contractor, provides crew members and manages its
drilling operations, John Breed, a spokesman for Geneva-based
Noble, said today in a telephone interview.  An initial Coast Guard helicopter flight over the grounded
rig didn’t detect any visible sign of a spill. More inspections
were planned, while the approximately 250 people involved in
response efforts were hampered by the winds and high seas,
according to the statement.  “The weather is a little bit better today, but still
difficult conditions,” Moore said. The earliest that salvage
teams can go out is after daylight, which has been happening
between 9 and 10 a.m. Alaska time, he said.  The state of Alaska will continue to monitor the rig site
for environmental damage, Steve Russell, an official with the
Department of Environmental Conservation, said yesterday. There
are potential impacts to wildlife and native Alaskans, Russell
said. The land on the coast near the rig site is owned by the
Old Harbor Native Corp., he said.  ‘No Match’  Shell and its contractors are “no match” for Alaska’s
weather and sea conditions, Lois N. Epstein, Arctic program
director for The Wilderness Society, said in a statement posted
on the group’s website. The group called for the federal
government to stop Shell’s drilling in the  Arctic Ocean .  Shell released a statement last night saying that the
incident didn’t involve drilling operations and that there was
no threat of a crude oil release.  “We quickly mobilized experts to respond to this
situation,” Shell said in its statement. “The Shell emergency
response assets and contingencies that were deployed over the
last four days represent the best available in the world.”  Shell has invested $4.5 billion in offshore leases and
equipment and fought at least 50  lawsuits  from environmental
groups to begin drilling in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas last
year, the first wells in U.S. Arctic waters in about 20 years.  Noble Discoverer  The other Arctic drilling vessel used by Shell last year,
the Noble Discoverer owned by Noble, was held by the Coast Guard
in Seward, Alaska, in November after it lost propulsion and
inspectors found safety discrepancies. That ship will be towed
to  Seattle  for repairs, a Coast Guard spokesman said.  Shell expects to resume drilling once sea ice melts later
this year,  Curtis Smith , an Alaska-based Shell spokesman, said
in a telephone interview Dec. 30. The Hague-based company was
forced to cancel drilling off Alaska in September because of
damage to a dome designed to capture any underwater spill.  The Kulluk was en route to Seattle for repairs after
drilling in the  Beaufort Sea  off the Alaska coast. The rig had
been adrift and then was temporarily brought back under control
before it went aground. The Kulluk’s crew were evacuated Dec. 29
as a precaution, Smith said.  Tows Adrift  The Coast Guard dispatched a cutter and rescue helicopters
Dec. 28 after the Shell towing vessel Aiviq reported that its
line to the Kulluk was separated in heavy seas, the Coast Guard
said in a  statement . Aiviq recaptured the barge, then went
adrift itself when all four  diesel engines  quit because of
contaminated fuel, Smith said.  A second Shell ship, the Nanuq, had joined the 360-foot
Aiviq in towing the drilling rig south. The Nanuq is equipped to
contain any  oil spill , according to a Shell fact sheet. The
company has also dispatched a tug, the Guardsman, and the
Klamath, a 47-foot (8.3 meters) skimming vessel, to help in the
recovery.  Both the Coast Guard and Shell will investigate why the tow
boats lost control of the Kulluk, authorities said during a
telephone news conference yesterday.  “There will be an investigation into the cause of this
incident once we have the situation under control,” said Sean
Churchfield, Shell’s Alaska operations manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  