-- SM Investments Surpasses PLDT as Biggest Philippine Stock
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-01-02T09:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/sm-surpasses-pldt-as-biggest-philippine-stock-southeast-asia.html
SM Investments Corp. (SM)  leapfrogged
 Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  to become the nation’s
most valuable stock, as Southeast Asia’s fastest economic growth
prompted a shift in consumer spending to property and leisure.  SM Investments, the holding company of the country’s
richest man  Henry Sy , rose 0.2 percent on Dec. 28, boosting its
market capitalization to 549.5 billion pesos ($13.4 billion),
 compared  with a value of 546.6 billion pesos for Philippine Long
Distance, or PLDT. The Philippine stock market was shut on Dec.
31 and Jan. 1 for holidays.  “This change isn’t a fluke,” Alex Pomento, strategist at
Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Manila unit, said in a phone interview.
“This is an inevitable change of the guards and it is a
reflection of the nation’s consumer spending pattern.”  Shares of SM Investments rallied 51 percent last year,
outpacing the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index’s (PCOMP)  33 percent gain,
as the fastest economic expansion since 2010 boosted profits at
the company’s retail, property and banking ventures. PLDT, the
nation’s largest phone company, trailed with a 0.5 percent drop
as rising competition and a shift from calls and  text messages 
to social media offered by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.
squeezed earnings.  Manila-based SM Investments closed 2 percent higher at 900
pesos today, while PLDT gained 1.2 percent to 2,560 pesos. The
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index added 0.8 percent.  SM Investments owns the nation’s biggest grocery and
department store operators. It also controls  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) ,
the biggest bank by assets, and  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , which
runs 51 shopping mall centers in the  Philippines  and  China . It
also holds stakes in companies that are building a Manila-casino
resort with Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd.  Consumer Confidence  SM’s milestone is “indicative of the growing confidence in
the nation’s consumer market,” said Rico Gomez, who helps
manage $2.2 billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. “Both companies rely on consumer spending but PLDT is in
a struggling sector while SM is in industries that are viewed
very positively at the moment.”  The $225 billion Philippine economy  expanded  7.1 percent in
the third quarter of last year, the fastest pace in  Southeast
Asia . The nation’s central bank has cut its benchmark rate four
times in 2012, falling to a record low 3.5 percent in October,
to boost growth and has said it has room for more reductions.  The economy may grow as much 7 percent in 2012 and
accelerate to 7.5 percent in 2014 as the government increases
spending to a record and lures investments to upgrade the
nation’s infrastructure, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Dec. 18.  Record Remittances  Consumer spending, which accounts for three-fourths of the
Philippine economy, is getting a boost from record remittances
sent home by Filipinos living and working overseas. For every
peso Filipinos spent in the third quarter, about 4.8 centavos
went to communications while 50.9 centavos went to food, drinks,
clothes and home appliances, according to data compiled by the
government.  Communications as a percentage of total  consumer spending 
was 4.8 percent in the third quarter, down from 5.3 percent in
2010. The share of spending on food, drinks, clothes and
appliances, leisure, restaurants and hotels increased to 58
percent from 57 percent over the same period.  Nine-month  profit  at SM Investments rose 14 percent to 16.1
billion pesos from a year ago, the company said in a statement
on Nov. 8. PLDT’s net income slid 6 percent to 28.7 billion
pesos as rising competition triggered price cuts and customers
preferred communicating over the Internet instead of sending
mobile text messages.  Profit Growth  PLDT’s revenue from short-messaging services, or SMS, fell
2 percent to 32.5 billion pesos in the first nine months of
2012, it said in a statement on Nov. 6. Revenue from voice calls
declined 7 percent as volumes dropped. Wireless broadband sales
rose 3 percent, it said.  SM Investments may beat its annual  profit growth  target of
as much as 14 percent in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Jose Sio
said on Nov. 9. The company’s profit is forecast to rise 15
percent in 2013, according to seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. PLDT’s net income is expected to rise 4.9 percent,
according to a Bloomberg poll of 14 analysts.  “SM Investments is in a growth path while earnings at PLDT
has stagnated due to competition and investments it had to make
for future growth,” Pomento said. Macquarie has an outperform
rating on SM Investments and a neutral call on PLDT.  Sio didn’t respond to text messages sent to his mobile
phone for a comment. Philippine Long Distance Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  couldn’t be reached in his office for a comment
because of the holidays.  More Kick  SM Investments closed at 882 pesos on Dec. 28, 4.5 percent
higher than the average 12-month share price estimate of 844
pesos forecast by nine analysts in a survey by Bloomberg. PLDT
closed at 2,530 pesos, 9.4 percent lower than the 2,793 pesos
average target price of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit at PLDT, jointly owned by  Hong Kong ’s First Pacific
Co. and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp., tumbled 21 percent
in 2011 after reaching a peak of 40.2 billion pesos in 2010.  PLDT will need more time to reach its 42 billion peso
profit forecast for 2014,  Chris Young , chief financial adviser,
told analysts in a Nov. 7 conference call.  “SM Investments has a broader Philippine exposure,”
Pomento said. “It’s investments in mining and gaming, both
rising industries, also provide SM Investments with more kick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  