-- Urjit Patel Said to Be a Candidate for RBI Deputy Governor Post
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-01T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/urjit-patel-said-to-be-a-candidate-for-rbi-deputy-governor-post.html
India is considering economist  Urjit
Patel  as one of three candidates for deputy governor at the
nation’s central bank, a government official with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The other candidates are World Bank economist  Kalpana
Kochhar  and  Subir Gokarn , with a decision probable today, the
official said, asking not to be identified before an
announcement. Gokarn was one of four deputy governors and was in
charge of the monetary policy department until his three-year
term ended on Dec. 31 after a one-month extension.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has taken charge of that policy
unit until further notice, the  Reserve Bank of India  said
yesterday. The central bank has so far resisted calls from
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram for cheaper credit,
while signaling it may cut  interest rates  in coming months to
help revive economic growth as inflation eases.  Patel is an adviser to the  Boston Consulting Group , a non-
resident senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution , an ex-
International Monetary Fund economist and a former adviser to
the  Reserve Bank , according to the Brookings website.  He didn’t answer questions when reached on his mobile phone
and didn’t pick up subsequent calls. Gokarn didn’t answer calls
to his office and home phones. Kochhar’s e-mail and phone number
weren’t immediately available.  The economic and policy research and statistics units will
also report directly to Subbarao following the reallocation of
responsibilities, the central bank said in its  statement .  The RBI said it expanded the portfolios of the three
continuing deputy governors.  K.C. Chakrabarty will look after the Deposit Insurance and
Credit Guarantee Corporation, the department promoting the use
of Hindi in banking and finance, and the Right to Information
Division. Anand Sinha was given the communication and risk
monitoring divisions, and Harun Rashid Khan the financial
markets department.  Subbarao has left the  repurchase rate  at 8 percent since a
50 basis-point cut in April. Inflation exceeding 7 percent for
most of last year curbed his scope to lower the benchmark to
spur  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  