-- When Lawmakers Behave and Prosecutors Do Not
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-01T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-01/when-lawmakers-behave-and-prosecutors-do-not.html
Writing about the fiscal cliff is
futile, especially now that we’re over it. Who wants to spend
time with a group of people who voluntarily set up a drop-dead
event to force them to act and then decided that, actually,
they’d rather drop dead -- and take the country with them?  Instead, I have opted for a satisfying detour into things
that matter. (All-purpose disclaimer: I’m not saying that my
usual subject, politics, doesn’t matter. Just that this week it
matters less than usual.)  A year ago I  wrote about  Ammaria Johnson, a first-grader in
Chesterfield,  Virginia , who ate a peanut at recess, broke out in
hives immediately, went into anaphylactic shock within minutes,
and died after being rushed to the hospital. What could have
saved her was right at hand: a relatively inexpensive device
called an  EpiPen . Because it was prescribed to another child,
however, the school nurse couldn’t use it.  The Virginia legislature sprang into action. In April it
passed  legislation  that corrected the rules that prevented
school officials from treating Ammaria on the spot. Local school
boards now must keep EpiPens on hand that can be used on any
student. Other states have passed similar laws, and U.S.
Senators Richard Durbin and Mark Kirk, a Democrat and Republican
from  Illinois ,  have introduced  a bill in Congress to get all
states to follow suit.  Prosecutorial Misconduct  As rare as it is to find a responsive legislature, it’s
sadly easy to find  prosecutorial misconduct , despite
prosecutors’  sworn duty  “to seek justice, not merely to
convict.”  In 2008, Senator Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican, was put
on trial for not reporting gifts, mostly renovations to his
modest house. He was so convinced of his innocence -- he’d paid
$160,000 to contractors for their work, far more than experts
would testify it was worth -- that he asked for a quick trial to
remove the cloud over his head before the election in November.  Instead, justice took a back seat to ambition. If you
indict a sitting senator, you had better convict a sitting
senator. Stevens was found guilty just days before voters went
to the polls, largely because the prosecutors let their crucial
witness lie on the stand and hid evidence. Stevens lost re-
election by about 1 percent of the vote.  The verdict was eventually overturned, and a court-
appointed special counsel issued a damning report indicting
prosecutors for premeditated “concealment of significant
exculpatory evidence, which would have independently
corroborated Senator Stevens’s defense and his testimony, and
seriously damaged the testimony and credibility of the
government’s key witness.”  Stevens never got the satisfaction of reading that report.
He was killed in a plane crash in August 2010. There was another
casualty: Prosecutor Nicholas Marsh hanged himself at home
shortly after the report was released.  If a senator can’t stand up to ambitious prosecutors, think
how hard it is for the rest of us. Or just go see the new
documentary “West of  Memphis ,” about one of the worst cases of
prosecutorial misconduct in U.S. history. It was a case that no
one wanted to touch -- including former presidential candidate
and Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee. It took 18 years, three
prior documentaries and attention from celebrities to get three
men out of prison for murders they did not commit.  Wrongful Convictions  After three 8-year-old boys were killed in 1993 in West
Memphis, Arkansas, passions were high, and the police and
prosecutors wanted a conviction. The trial was riddled with
perjured testimony, ignored alibis, shoddy forensic work,
suppressed evidence, a forced confession, an inept judge and
incompetent defense lawyers. One man, Damien Echols, was
sentenced to death as a result of the trial, while two others,
Jason Baldwin and Jessie Misskelley, received life sentences.  Appeals were unsuccessful. Even when DNA tests exonerated
the men in 2007, the state stood by its conviction. (Many of the
officials involved in the trial had won judgeships or, in one
case, a seat in the  Arkansas  State Senate.) In 2011, having
attracted talented and prominent defense lawyers, the men were
finally released.  Two of the most tired cliches in politics are that
prosecutors are well-intentioned and legislators are lazy. The
good news, and the bad news, is that neither is always true.
Most of the time, maybe, but not always.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 