-- 
‘One Arm’ Boxer Turned Hustler Reveals Early Williams: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/-one-arm-boxer-turned-hustler-reveals-early-williams-review.html
Tennessee Williams completed his
sexually raw short story, “One Arm,” in the summer of 1945,
shortly after “The Glass Menagerie” opened on Broadway.  Moises Kaufman, whose “Laramie Project” remains a landmark
of testimonial drama, has adapted the tale for the stage, in a
perfectly meshed collaboration between his  Tectonic Theater
Project  and  The New Group .  Kaufman endows the story of a mutilated hustler’s final
days on death row with the playwright’s palpably mournful mix of
yearning and need, transforming a third-person narrative into a
dimly lit naturalistic tone poem.  Set in the prison where sailor Ollie Olsen (Claybourne
Elder, in a powerful and sensitive performance) will soon be
sent to the electric chair, “One Arm” unfolds in flashbacks as a
narrator (Noah Bean, impeccably reserved) sets the scene.  We will see Ollie with one arm strapped to his side, he
tells us. After boxing his way to light heavyweight champion of
the Pacific Fleet, a car crash robbed him of the limb.  Ollie sets out on a journey that takes him from shadowy
corners of  New Orleans  to Times Square and eventually to a yacht
off the Florida coast. He discovers that his maimed body gives
him a special allure and he becomes a midnight cowboy, living by
selling his body and his time to needy older men.  When he can take his degradation no more, he lashes out in
the violent act that sends him to his death.  Sexual Identity  Williams may have couched his sexual identity in his early
plays, but he exercised no such restraint in his fiction, where
familiar themes of alienation, loss and hunger for love are
given full measure. (He later tried, unsuccessfully, to turn the
story into a screenplay.)  Kaufman and his designers, Derek McLane (set), David Lander
(lighting) and Clint Ramos (costumes) capture that grim
landscape on a spare set whose chief components are a bed and
the piles of letters from former liaisons who have seen Ollie’s
picture in the newspapers and furtively expressed sympathy.  A last-minute visit from an equally lonely divinity student
(Todd Lawson, another finely wrought performance) offers Ollie a
redemption of a kind that eluded Williams his entire life.  Through July 2 at 410 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-239-
6200;  http://www.thenewgroup.org 
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 