-- 
‘Super 8’ Opens as Top Film With $37 Million in Ticket Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-06-12T19:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/-super-8-is-top-weekend-movie-with-37-million-x-men-prequel-is-no-2.html
“Super 8,” the science-fiction
thriller from  Steven Spielberg  and  J.J. Abrams , was the top film
at U.S. and Canadian theaters, debuting with $37 million in
ticket sales for  Paramount Pictures .  “X-Men: First Class,”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s fifth film about
mutants with super powers, and starring  James McAvoy  and Michael
Fassbender, dropped to second place from first with $25 million
in its second weekend,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Super 8” was expected to generate $32 million in ticket
sales, according to the forecast of  Box Office Guru  editor
Gitesh Pandya. The film cost about $50 million, according to
researcher  Box Office Mojo . Paramount is a unit of  New York- 
based  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and is leading all studios with receipts so
far this year of $726.4 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  The financial performance of “Super 8” will be
“determined in the second weekend,” said  Brandon Gray ,
president of  Box Office Mojo . “Paramount says the movie will be
a word-of-mouth hit, but the opening isn’t strong enough to say
it’s a success.”  In “Super 8,” a group of adolescents accidentally uncover
a dangerous government project after a train carrying top-secret
cargo crashes as they are filming an amateur movie. The special-
effects heavy movie stars Joel Courtney and Elle Fanning as two
of the young filmmakers whose budding romance is threatened by
hostility between their fathers.  Abrams, Spielberg  The film pairs writer and director Abrams, whose credits
include “Cloverfield,” with producer Spielberg. The movie has
drawn comparison to Spielberg’s early hits including “E.T.: The
Extra-Terrestrial” and “The Goonies.”  “The Hangover: Part II,”  Warner Bros .’ raunchy, R-rated
comedy, fell to third from second with $18.5 million in its
third weekend. The film, a follow-up to the 2009 hit that
tallied $467.5 million for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., has
taken in $216.6 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters since its
May 26 open.  The R-rated film stars the key actors from the original and
follows a similar plot. Three friends, played by  Bradley Cooper ,
Zach Galifianakis and Ed Helms, wake up in a Bangkok hotel room
after wild partying with little memory of what transpired the
night before.  The animated 3-D feature “Kung Fu Panda 2” dropped to
fourth from third with $16.6 million in receipts for Paramount.
Jack Black,  Angelina Jolie  and Gary Oldman provide voices for
the main characters. Paramount is distributing the movie for
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)   “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” the fourth
film in the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  series, fell to fifth from fourth
with sales of $10.8 million.  ‘Green Lantern’ Next  The only other film to open this weekend, “Judy Moody and
the Not Bummer Summer,” from Relativity Media, was seventh,
taking in $6.3 million. The film, based on characters from the
children’s books by Megan McDonald, follows a young girl as she
tries to salvage a summer spent in the care of an aunt. The film
stars Jordana Beatty as Judy and Heather Graham as Aunt Opal.  Films opening next weekend include Warner Bros.’ “Green
Lantern,” starring Ryan Reynolds as the superhero from the D.C.
Comics series, and the Jim Carrey comedy “Mr. Popper’s
Penguins” from Fox.  “‘Green Lantern” should certainly be No. 1,” Gray said.
“It has had an enormous marketing presence.”  Sales of the weekend’s top 12 films fell 5.9 percent to
$136.2 million from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com.
Sales for the year to date, $4.43 billion, are 6.9 percent lower
than last year at this time. Attendance is down 8.3 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
10 and 11 and estimates for today. The percentage change column
represents three-day sales versus the previous week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  