-- 
Adidas, Allianz, Commerzbank, Porsche: German Equity Preview

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/adidas-allianz-commerzbank-porsche-german-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in  Germany . Stock
symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the
previous close.  The DAX Index lost 1.3 percent to 7,069.90 in Frankfurt.  Adidas AG (ADS GY): Adidas AG aims to reach a goal of 500
million euros ($719 million) in sales of outdoor products by
2015 without acquisitions,  Frankfurter Rundschau  reported,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Herbert Hainer.  While many outdoor companies are for sale, there are no
“really large players” available, Heiner was quoted as saying.
The stock lost 1.2 percent to 49.16 euros.  Allianz SE (ALV)  : Allianz Leben’s holdings of government
bonds from Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain amounts to less
than 0.3 percent of the insurers’ total investments, the life
insurance unit’s investment chief Joerg Ladwein said in an
interview with  Welt am Sonntag . The shares added 1.2 percent to
92.27 euros.  Alstria Office REIT-AG (AOX)  : German economic growth and
low  interest rates  as well as concern that inflation will
accelerate are driving demand for commercial real estate,
 Frankurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  said, citing an interview
with Alstria Office REIT-AG Chief Financial Officer Alexander Dexne.  Financing will remain difficult in the industry for the
next three years, while the company has no need for refinancing
before 2014, the newspaper cites Dexne as saying. The shares
were unchanged at 10.40 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  :  Germany’s second-biggest lender
will expand business with small and medium-size enterprises,
private clients and investment banking,  Welt am Sonntag  said,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing . The bank is targeting growth in Germany, Eastern
Europe and Asia, Blessing is cited as saying.  Commerzbank shares lost 1.4 percent to 3.07 euros.  EON AG (EOAN GY) and  RWE AG (RWE)  : Germany’s exit from
nuclear power will cost European Union countries as much as 7.5
billion euros ($10.8 billion) a year as prices for emission
certificates for carbon dioxide rise by as much as 5 euros per
metric ton,  Welt am Sonntag  said, citing estimates by Manuel Frondel of the RWI institute.  EON shares dropped 2.1 percent to 19.09 euros, while RWE
fell 2.3 percent to 38.14 euros.  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  (PAH3 GY): Porsche will
continue to produce its  sports cars  exclusively in Germany,
 Freie Presse  said, citing an interview with Chief Executive
Officer  Matthias Mueller .  The Porsche brand is authentic because it is seen as a
German company, the newspaper cites the CEO as saying, rebuffing
earlier reports the company was considering factories in the
U.S. or  China . The stock fell 1.5 percent to 46.97 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 