-- 
African Trade Blocs Sign Agreement to Develop Continental Free Trade Zone

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-12T16:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/african-trade-blocs-sign-agreement-to-develop-continental-free-trade-zone.html
The leaders of three African
regional economic blocs signed an agreement to develop a free
trade zone stretching from  Cape Town  to Cairo.  The so-called Grand Free Trade Area would encompasses 26
countries, 600 million people and have an estimated gross
domestic product of about $1 trillion, according to a statement
released after a conference in Johannesburg today.  “The establishment of a Tripartite Free Trade Area will
bolster intra-regional trade by creating a wider market,
increase investment flows, enhance competitiveness and develop
cross-regional infrastructure,” according to the statement.  The meeting was attended by leaders from the  Southern
African Development Community , the  Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa , and the  East African Community . It is their
second since an initial summit in October 2008. They agreed to
further negotiations, without publishing any timeframes.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  told a press conference
that  Africa  needs to remove hurdles to the movement of goods
across boundaries and that infrastructure development must lift
intra-Africa trade “from the current low base of 10 percent.”  South Africa , the continent’s largest economy, is driving
regional integration as it seeks to create a larger market for
companies such as  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s biggest
retailer. Africa’s economy has grown an average of 5.7 percent
each year over the past decade, according to the  International
Monetary Fund , fueling the expansion of a new middle class.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 