-- 
Manchester United Said to Look at Options to Improve Finances, Buy Players

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-12T23:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/manchester-united-said-in-financing-talks-after-report-of-asia-share-sale.html
Manchester United , the record 19-
time English soccer champion, is considering ways to cut
financing costs in order to use savings to expand and make funds
available for player purchases, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The club’s chief operating officer, Edward Woodward, a
former banker with J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., has discussed
several ways to cut financing costs, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
The Sunday Times reported yesterday the team is considering
selling shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange after holding
talks with several investment banks about a listing.  “The club does not comment on speculation,”  Manchester
United  said in a statement to Bloomberg News. The Sunday Times
story said talks about a share issue were at an early stage and
may amount to nothing. The newspaper didn’t provide any details
about how much of the club might be offered in the sale.  The club isn’t concerned about its finances, but wants to
ensure it has the most efficient funding policy, said the
person. It’s not close to making any definitive decision about
changing its current terms, the person said.  Manchester United this season won its fourth league title
since the Glazer family’s 2005 buyout. It failed to secure a
second European Cup under the American owners after losing 3-1
in the  Champions League  final to Barcelona on May 28.  Record Loss  In March the team’s parent company Red Football Joint
Venture Ltd. announced a record 104.7 million-pound ($170
million) fiscal-year loss because of costs related to swapping a
long-term  bank loan  for a dollar and sterling bond last year and
lower income from player sales.  The Glazers, who also own the  National Football League ’s
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, bought United for 790 million pounds in a
leveraged buyout. Forbes magazine estimates the team is now
worth $1.8 billion.  The club spends about 45 million pounds a year on its
bonds, which mature in 2017. All of the debt is linked to the
Glazer acquisition. The team was debt-free when it was run as a
public limited company before the takeover. Still, its sales
under the Americans have doubled to about 300 million pounds.  As well as a 500 million-pound loan secured against the
team, the ownership also had a 220 million-pound payment-in-kind
loan that accrued rolled-up interest of as much as 16.25
percent. The owners paid off the lenders, although neither the
club nor the Glazers have said how the loan was repaid.  Two seasons ago United sold Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo to Real Madrid for a world record 80 million pounds.
That helped boost its cash surplus to more than 100 million
pounds. It has spent about 30 million pounds of that in the past
two quarters by buying back some of its bonds.  Much of the rest is available to manager  Alex Ferguson  to
buy new talent, said the person. United has already agreed to
deals totaling about 40 million pounds for Spanish goalkeeper
David De Gea and English defender Phil Jones, according to
reports in U.K. media.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  