-- 
Tanzania to Discuss Proposed Super Tax With Existing Miners

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-13T17:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/tanzania-will-discuss-proposed-super-tax-with-existing-mining-companies.html
Tanzania will discuss with mining
companies operating in the country how a so-called super-profit
tax might be implemented if parliament approves the proposed
levy, Mines Minister William Ngeleja said.  New entrants to the industry would automatically be
subjected to the tax if lawmakers backed it, Ngeleja said in an
interview yesterday in  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  Legislators discussed the broader development plan that the
levy is a part of, while not debating the tax itself today, said
Zitto Kabwe, an opposition lawmaker, by phone from Dodoma, the
capital. The session will continue tomorrow, he said.  “We can’t impose the super-profit tax,” Ngeleja said.
“If it is passed, we will negotiate with existing companies on
how to go about with it. But it will be an automatic catch for
new companies.”  Tanzania vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer and is the world’s only known source of the blue
gemstone tanzanite. Last week, the country’s Planning Commission
published a document that said it may be “optimal” to
introduce a super-profit tax in the  mining industry  as a way to
fund a proposed 42.9 trillion-shilling ($27 billion) economic-
development plan. It said the levy may be appropriate
“considering the increasing trend in mineral prices.”  The commission cited data that showed gold exports from the
East African country increased to $1.5 billion, or 7 percent of
gross domestic product, from $500 million over the past five
years, while annual government revenue from sales of the metal
remained at $100 million, or 0.5 percent of GDP.  IMF Support  The  International Monetary Fund  said it backs additional
taxes on mining projects with “particularly high” returns and
a technical assistance mission from the Washington-based
lender’s Fiscal Affairs Department held talks with the
Tanzania’s Finance Ministry about the issue.  “The IMF supports the idea of what we call a resource rent
tax on mining projects,” John Wakeman-Linn, the IMF’s
representative in the East African country, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. He didn’t say when the mission met
the Finance Ministry officials.  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , the biggest producer of the
metal in Tanzania, operates four mines in the country. The
company said on June 8 its mines in Tanzania are subject to
Mineral Development Agreements that guarantee tax and “fiscal
stabilization” for projects. The accords can’t be amended
without the company’s approval, it said in a statement.  Existing Arrangement  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
miner, said its Geita mine in Tanzania won’t be affected because
an existing arrangement is valid for the life of the mine.  Other companies that have a presence in Tanzania include
Bermuda-based  Tanzanite One Ltd. (TNZ) , and Tanzania Royalty
Exploration Corp. of  Canada .  Last year, Tanzania’s parliament passed a mining law that
increases royalties paid on minerals to 4 percent from 3 percent
and gave the government a stake in all future projects.  “When we changed the mining law and increased royalties,
we negotiated with the companies and they accepted,” Ngeleja
said.  The commission said the proposed super-profit tax is
similar to one being implemented in  Australia , where a planned
30 percent levy on iron-ore and coal profits will earn A$7.7
billion ($8.1 billion) in its first two years, the country’s
Treasury Department said last month. The tax is scheduled to
start in July 2012 after the laws are passed by parliament.  Scaled Back  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July scaled back
the original proposal for a 40 percent tax on all resource
profits to a levy with a higher threshold that exempts most
commodities.  “If we implement the tax, we will not be the first,”
Ngeleja said. “It is the practice in many other countries.”  The five-year plan proposed by the commission targets an
annual average economic growth rate of 8 percent from 2011-12 to
2015-16. The expansion is expected to accelerate to 10 percent
by 2025, it said.  The government has yet to decide on when the proposal, if
approved, would be implemented, Ngeleja said.  “The plan is five years and the revenue measure is for
that period,” he said. “We will discuss the actual timing
later.”  Tanzania’s gold output ranked behind  South Africa  and
Ghana, and alongside Mali’s 44.6 metric tons in 2010, according
to London-based research company  GFMS Ltd.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 