-- 
Four Companies Join Maple Group’s Rival Bid for TMX Group

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-12T18:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/maple-group-s-rival-offer-for-tmx-adds-four-companies-including-manulife.html
Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee
Capital Markets Inc.,  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  and  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC)  joined a group of Canadian banks and pension funds seeking
to buy  TMX Group Inc. (X)  in a rival proposal to a takeover by the
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   The Maple Group Acquisition Corp. added the financial-
services firms to its C$3.58 billion ($3.65 billion) bid for the
owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, according to a statement
today. The number of investors in the group climbs to 13 from
the nine that made an initial proposal to TMX on May 13.  “We believe first of all that this is an excellent
investment for Manulife that makes sense for our shareholders
and our business,” Donald Guloien, Manulife’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “At the same time, we hope that
with Maple’s support, the TMX Group can do an excellent job of
serving  Canada ’s capital markets - and grow internationally.”  Maple approached Toronto-based TMX on May 13 with a plan to
buy the Canadian exchange owner for C$48 a share in a cash-and-
stock transaction. TMX rejected the offer on May 20, saying it
wasn’t superior to its Feb. 9 agreement with LSE, prompting
Maple to take its unsolicited offer directly to TMX investors.  TMX has backed a C$44.95-a-share, all-stock purchase by
LSE, and shareholders of both companies are scheduled to vote on
that offer June 30. LSE’s agreement would give TMX shareholders
2.9963 shares for each they own, in a transaction valued at
C$3.34 billion. LSE investors would own 55 percent of the
company, while TMX shareholders would hold the rest.  Manulife, GMP  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX, declined to comment.  Manulife is Canada’s largest insurer and Desjardins the
country’s biggest credit union group. GMP ranks second in size
among non-bank brokerages in Canada. Dundee Capital Markets is a
Toronto-based brokerage.  Maple Group investors include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 National Bank of Canada (NA) , Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Caisse
de Depot et Placement du Quebec,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,
Alberta Investment Management Corp., and Fonds de Solidarite
FTQ.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:]
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net 
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  