-- 
Arizona’s Wildfire Marches Toward Power Lines

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-06-12T20:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/arizona-s-wallow-wildfire-marches-toward-power-lines-6-under-containment.html
Firefighters battling the Wallow
wildfire in  Arizona  are working to bring more of the flames
under control after beginning the day with about 6 percent
contained.  The fire was burning about 430,525 acres as of 6 a.m. local
time today, said John Helmich, a spokesman for the incident
management team fighting the fire. That is an increase from a
previous estimate of 430,171 acres, and Helmich said the acreage
rose because of mapping corrections.  Containment operations are under way around the perimeter
of the fire, Helmich said, and efforts are being made to protect
electricity transmission lines. Staged burnouts have been used
to fight the fire, including near Luna, New Mexico.  “The strategy at this time is to continue with the burnout
operations to block the fire and there is some significant
optimism today that the containment percentage will jump up
fairly large,” Helmich said.  Conditions in the area remain dry and wind gusts may reach
35 miles (56 kilometers) per hour this afternoon, said Mike Pigott, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . He said wind gusts may peak at 30 mph tomorrow and
25 mph on June 14, before picking up later in the week.  “Hopefully over the next couple days, as the winds
continue to diminish, they can better contain this fire,”
Pigott said.  The fire is about 15 miles away from a transmission line
that helps bring power from Palo Verde nuclear plant to homes
and businesses in parts of  New Mexico  and western  Texas , said
Teresa Souza, a spokeswoman for El Paso Electric.  Tucson Electric Power said  today  on its website that the
eastern edge of the fire remains about 8 to 10 miles away from
transmission lines that carry power from remote plants to
Tucson, Arizona. The company said firefighters continue to work
on a defense for the lines.  A government incident report yesterday said the blaze had
destroyed 29 residences, while it threatened another 2,700.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 