-- 
Harrison Frazar Gets 1st PGA Golf Tour Win 2 Weeks After Son’s Prediction

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-13T04:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/harrison-frazar-wins-st-jude-classic-for-first-title-on-golf-s-pga-tour.html
Harrison Frazar’s middle son, Ford,
predicted two weeks ago that his father was about to end his 13-
year wait for a first victory on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour.  “He said, ‘I think you’re going to get a trophy pretty
soon,” Frazar, 39, told reporters after his playoff win at the
St. Jude Classic yesterday. “I didn’t think it was going to be
that soon.”  Frazar, who began the tournament 583rd in the  Official
World Golf Ranking , beat Robert Karlsson on the third extra hole
at the TPC Southwind in Memphis after the pair finished at 13-
under par through four rounds of regulation play.  Frazar’s maiden title earned him $1.08 million and a place
at next year’s  Masters Tournament , his first trip to the major
championship. Frazar hadn’t won in 354 starts before yesterday,
with his previous biggest check, for $518,400, coming in a
playoff loss to Ernie Els at the 2004 Sony Open in  Hawaii . He’s
finished runner-up four times on the tour.  Frazar gained his first win about three months after
telling  Sports Illustrated  that “this very well could be my
final season on tour.” Last year he didn’t play after
undergoing hip surgery in August.  “As much as I love golf, I’m not sure I want to play it
for a living any longer,” he said in the article. “The last
few years I’ve felt as if I were banging my head against the
wall, wearing myself out physically, mentally and emotionally.”  He said the win in Memphis means, “I’m know I’m going to
be doing this for another two years, but after that I have no
idea.”  U.S. Open  Next  The St. Jude was the last tournament before the U.S. Open,
the second major championship of the year, which is scheduled to
begin in three days at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  It was the second straight playoff loss at the St. Jude for
Karlsson, a Swede who also was seeking his first win on the
world’s richest golf circuit. Last year, Robert Garrigus triple-
bogeyed the final hole to drop into a three-way playoff that  Lee Westwood  won. No. 23-ranked Karlsson has 11 wins on the European
Tour.  It’s the ninth straight week that a PGA Tour event has been
decided by one stroke or in a playoff.  Frazar shot a final round 3-under 67 and Karlsson had a 2-
under 68 for four-round totals of 267.  Retief Goosen , Camilo Villegas, Tim Herron, Ryuji Imada and Charles Howell III tied
for third place at 8 under.  Frazar took the lead at the 17th hole when Karlsson missed
a par putt from about 7 feet. Frazar dumped his second shot in a
lake at the 18th, leading to a bogey, and Karlsson made par to
force the playoff.  ‘Completely Calm’  “I just wanted to make it interesting, I felt bad for
Robert,” Frazar said of his error. “I was completely calm and
lucid, probably more so than I’d been all day. I just hit a bad
shot.”  Each player scored par on the first two playoff holes
before Karlsson missed a par putt to end Frazar’s winless run.  In nine previous tournaments this year, Frazar missed the
halfway cut for weekend play six times. His best showing was a
tie for 14th place at the Byron Nelson Championship last month.
His only previous win came at the 1997 South Carolina Classic on
the second-tier Nationwide Tour.  Frazar is the seventh first-time winner on tour this year
and the only player to win his first title in  Memphis  since
Dicky Pride in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  