-- 
Tauron, KGHM, Polskie Gornictwo: Central Europe Stock Preview

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/tauron-kghm-polskie-gornictwo-central-europe-stock-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index fell 0.7 percent, the Czech PX Index
rose 0.7 percent and  Hungary ’s BUX Index dropped 0.9 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)   and PKN Orlen SA (PKN PW):
The copper producer with the biggest European mine output and
Poland’s largest oil refinery are among the owners of Polkomtel
SA, Poland’s largest mobile-phone company. Polish billionaire
Zygmunt Solorz-Zak submitted a binding bid for Polkomtel after
 Sweden ’s biggest phone company, TeliaSonera AB, said on June 10
it had decided against an offer. Shares in KGHM fell 2.3 percent
to 188.1 zloty. Shares in PKN Orlen dropped 1 percent to 52.1
zloty.  PGE SA (PGE PW) and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo
SA (PGN)  : A joint bid by PGE SA, Poland’s largest utility,
and gas company Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA is
out of the running for the purchase of SPEC SA, the operator of
the European Union’s largest municipal heating network, daily
Rzeczpospolita reported. PGE shares fell 0.2 percent to 24.51
zloty. Polskie Gornictwo shares rose 0.2 percent to 4.25 zloty.  Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE)  : Poland’s second-largest
power utility won’t take over  coal mine  Boleslaw Smialy from
Kompania Weglowa SA as the seller withdrew from the deal
announced last year. Separately, ABM Solid SA, a Polish
construction company, agreed to build 11 biogas power stations
for Tauron in southern Poland through 2015. Shares rose 0.2
percent to 6.7 zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  