-- 
Botswana Holds Off Unions, Keeps Top Africa Credit Rating, Moody’s Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-13T07:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/botswana-refusal-to-cave-to-striking-unions-supports-rating-moody-s-says.html
Botswana’s refusal to give in to a
two-month strike by government workers shows it is committed to
spending cuts, helping the nation maintain the highest credit
rating in  Africa , Moody’s Investors Service said.  Moody’s, which has a negative outlook on the A2 rating,
hasn’t considered a downgrade of the world’s biggest diamond
producer, Kristin Lindow, a sovereign credit analyst, said in an
interview in Johannesburg on June 9.  Teachers, nurses and other state workers agreed to suspend
the strike a day after the comments. Botswana’s government has
refused to ramp up wages after a slump in diamond demand pushed
the fiscal deficit to 12 percent of gross domestic product in
the year through March 2009. Finance Minister Kenneth Matambo
pledged on Feb. 7 to bring the budget into balance by 2013.  The attitude to the strike “signals to us that the
government is very serious about its budget strategy,” Lindow
said. “The easy thing would be to give in.”  Botswana has traditionally run budget surpluses, giving it
a credit rating a level above neighbor  South Africa , the biggest
economy on the continent.  The government has pledged to narrow the deficit to 6.3
percent this year, limiting pay increases to state workers this
year to 3 percent, compared with the 12 percent demanded by
unions, down from an initial request of 16 percent.  Low Debt  The strike was marred by violence as the government fired
workers and said it wouldn’t pay striking employees. Police
fired tear gas to disperse protesting workers in the capital,
Gaborone, on June 9, according to Justin Hunyepa, executive
secretary of the Botswana Secondary Teachers Union.  Botswana’s debt levels are still low enough for the
southern African nation to retain a  credit rating  in the A
category, Lindow said. Government debt, which is forecast to
increase to 19 percent of GDP in the year through March 2012
from 4.9 percent in the 2007 fiscal year, will probably ease to
18 percent next year, according to Moody’s.  South African debt is forecast to climb to 39 percent in
the year through March 2014 from 31 percent in the past fiscal
year, according to the National Treasury. Portugal’s debt is 93
percent of GDP,  Spain ’s is 80 percent and  Germany ’s is 83
percent, according to European Union data.  “The public finances are so strong in Botswana,” Lindow
said. “When we put a negative outlook, we weren’t clear how
long it would be before the finances come back into balance.
They were eating into their assets. That’s leveled off now and
they’re no longer drawing down reserves at the pace they were.”  Yields  The yield on Botswana’s 91-day Treasury bill has been
little changed this year, reaching 6.64 percent at the central
bank’s June 7 auction, from 6.61 percent on Jan. 4. The yield
narrowed from 7.15 percent a year ago. The pula has gained 1.2
percent in the past six months, trading at 6.51042 per dollar as
of 9:14 a.m. in Gaborone.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on June 1 that
Botswana needs to reduce the size of its wage bill and make the
public service “leaner and more efficient.” Rising wage costs
may also add to pressure on inflation, which eased to an annual
8.2 percent in April, the statistics office said on May 13.  Botswana’s economy rebounded last year, expanding 9.4
percent, following a 3.7 percent contraction in 2009, as mining
output recovered, Moody’s said in a report on June 8. Economic
growth will probably ease to 6.3 percent in 2011 and 6.1 percent
in 2012, according to Moody’s.  “They’ve been hit hard by the crisis, but they’ve bounced
back,” Lindow said. “They have ambitions to reduce very
substantially the size of spending relative to GDP. That’s what
we’re trying to ascertain, whether that will indeed happen and
how soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 