-- 
Greek Default Would Not Destabilize the Euro, Bundesbank’s Weidmann Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-12T12:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/bundesbank-chief-says-euro-can-weather-greek-defaul-as-governments-haggle.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
raised the pressure on governments to agree to a Greek bailout
without the  European Central Bank  taking part in easing the
country’s debt burden, saying the euro can withstand a default.  Weidmann said the ECB was unwilling to turn its emergency
bond-buying program into a “lasting institution” and that
 Greece ’s implementation of austerity measures and asset sales
was crucial to securing the handout to prevent a default. He
spoke in an interview with German newspaper  Welt am Sonntag .  “If the commitments are not met, that cancels the basis
for further funds from the aid package,” Weidmann told the
newspaper. “This would be Greece’s decision, and the country
then would have to bear the surely dramatic economic
consequences of a default. I don’t think this would be sensible,
and it would surely put partner countries in a difficult
situation. But the euro would even in this case remain stable.”  Weidmann’s depiction of a default as a liveable outcome
contrasts with warnings from fellow ECB officials Lorenzo Bini Smaghi and  Christian Noyer , as well as European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , who described it as
a “Lehman Brothers catastrophe” last week.  European officials are racing to find a plan to stem
Greece’s debt crisis by June 24 while sharing the cost of a new
rescue with bondholders. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is calling for Greek bondholders to extend the
maturities of their debt by seven years, a move ECB officials
say is akin to a default.  ‘End of the Line’  A bailout for Greece must include “voluntary” investor
participation and meet the approval of central bankers,
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said yesterday in an effort to
narrow the dispute.  “We cannot push through private investor participation
without, or against, the ECB,” Juncker said on Radio Berlin-
Brandenburg. “A default would mean the ECB would have to end
its accompanying programs. A default would mean we have reached
the end of the line.”  Schaeuble, in a June 6 letter to ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and fellow euro finance ministers, called for the seven-
year extension to give Greece more time to cut its debt and
budget deficit.  Forcing losses on creditors may also hurt confidence,
Commerzbank AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in
an interview published today in  Welt am Sonntag . Investors had
been told they wouldn’t need to join any efforts before 2013,
and reneging on that pledge would “not exactly help build trust
in the markets,” Blessing said, according to the newspaper.  New Aid Package  Governments aim to reach an agreement on a new aid package
by a European Union summit on June 23-24. The  International
Monetary Fund  has threatened to withhold its share of what
remains of Greece’s original 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
bailout until governments guarantee that the country’s financing
needs for the next 12 months are covered.  “We cannot accept an uncontrolled bankruptcy of a
country,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday in her
weekly video message. Such an event may endanger the recovery of
 Germany ’s economy, she said.  European governments and the IMF would lend as much as an
extra 45 billion euros to Greece under a new bailout plan that
also includes roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale proceeds
and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors, two people
with direct knowledge of the talks said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net . 