-- 
U.K. to Boost Vaccine Commitment for Pneumonia, Diarrhea in Poor Countries

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T14:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/cameron-defends-foreign-aid-commitment-pleads-for-vaccine-funds.html
The U.K. will contribute an extra
814 million pounds ($1.3 billion) toward a vaccination program
aimed at preventing deaths from diseases such as pneumonia and
diarrhea in the poorest countries, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said.  Cameron made the pledge at a conference he hosted in  London 
today to raise billions of dollars from developed countries for
vaccines and immunization campaigns.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman
 Bill Gates  told the conference that the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , the world’s richest charitable fund, will provide an
extra $1 billion to help the program.  The  GAVI Alliance  received commitments for $4.3 billion in
funding through 2015, surpassing the goal of $3.7 billion, the
group said today. The money will allow full funding for
applications from 50 countries that have sought financing for
vaccines, GAVI said. With the pledges, more than 250 million
children will receive shots, averting more than 4 million
deaths, GAVI said.  Opening the conference, Cameron defended increasing foreign
aid at a time of budget austerity at home. Britain should not
use the need to tackle the deficit as an excuse to duck its
obligations to the neediest parts of the globe, he said.  “When you make a promise to the poorest people in the
world, you should keep it,” Cameron said. “This is about
saving lives.”  The coalition government’s commitment to increase aid
spending to 0.7 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 has
been criticized by Defense Secretary  Liam Fox , who wrote to
Cameron last month arguing the target should be an aspiration
rather than a legal obligation.  Today’s pledge takes the U.K. contribution for the period
to almost 1.5 billion pounds. A portion of the pledges to GAVI
are contingent on the group raising additional money from new
donors. With today’s commitments, GAVI has $7.6 billion
available through 2015, said the group, formerly the Global
Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  