-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance; ENRC Shares Rally After Report of Glencore Interest

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-13T15:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/centrica-enrc-glencore-horizon-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks gained, rebounding from
a 2 1/2-month low, as Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. was
boosted by a report that Glencore International Plc may bid for
the mining company.  ENRC rallied the most in seven months as the Sunday Times
said Glencore may make a 12 billion-pound ($19.5 billion) offer
for the metal producer.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  sank 1.4
percent after saying adjusted operating profit from  Spain  may be
cut by as much as 110 million pounds.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 7.66, or 0.1 percent,
to 5,773.46 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has
fallen for three consecutive weeks as U.S. economic data trailed
forecasts, adding to speculation the global recovery is
faltering. The FTSE All-Share Index also rose 0.1 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.6 percent.  “M&A frenzy could return” to the  mining industry , said
Atif Latif, the director of trading at Guardian Stockbrokers in
London. There is “large upside potential” after ENRC fell 29
percent this year, he said.  ENRC rallied 4.7 percent to 776.5 pence, the biggest gain
since November. Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore’s chief executive
officer, has held talks in recent weeks with three investors who
control about 45 percent of ENRC’s shares, the Sunday Times
said, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the
discussions. Glasenberg has also discussed a possible deal with
the government of  Kazakhstan , which holds 12 percent of ENRC,
the newspaper said, citing a separate unidentified official.  No Formal Bid  Glencore, the world’s largest commodities trader, hasn’t
made a formal bid, the Sunday Times reported. Glencore doesn’t
comment on speculation,  Simon Buerk , a company spokesman based
in Baar,  Switzerland , said by phone when asked about the report.
ENRC declined to comment.  “We would see an all-out cash bid near-term from Glencore
for ENRC as highly unlikely and the Swiss-based group issuing
more equity is not an option for at least six months,” Miriam Hehir, an RBC Capital Markets analyst in London, said today.  Glencore rose 2.8 percent to 523.5 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,
Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, advanced 2.2 percent to
1,235 pence.  Invensys gained 1.1 percent to 300.9 pence as the Sunday
Times reported that the company may sell its pension program for
4.2 billion pounds in a move that could make the company a
takeover target, without citing its sources. The company’s
directors are evaluating proposals to take over the  retirement
plan  from three firms and will select one within months, the
newspaper said. Pension deficit has been the key issue
preventing a takeover, UniCredit SpA analysts said May 20.  Imperial Slips  Imperial Tobacco  fell 1.4 percent to 2,056 pence, a fifth
day of losses. Adjusted operating profit derived from Spain for
the 12 months to Sept. 30 could be reduced by as much as 110
million pounds compared with the company’s previous
expectations.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  dropped 3.2 percent to 1,874 pence after Numis
Securities Ltd. downgraded the world’s largest provider of
mobile power supplies to “sell” from “hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  