-- 
China Issues Alert as Yangtze River Braces for More Rain

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-12T12:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/china-issues-alert-as-yangtze-river-braces-for-more-rain-1-.html
China issued a “level three” alert
as the medium-to-lower reaches of the  Yangtze River  braced for
more heavy rain, the  China Meteorological Administration  said on
its website today.  Heavy downpours, including storms and torrential rain in
some areas, will affect parts of Jiangsu, Hunan, Zhejiang, Anhui
and Hubei provinces as early as tomorrow, the forecaster said.
Landslides, floods and mudslides may occur as the soil becomes
loose after a recent drought, it said.  Flooding has killed 94 people along the medium-to-lower
reaches of the Yangtze River this month, with another 78 people
missing, according to a China National Radio report yesterday.
The region had previously suffered from a drought.  Authorities in the central province of Hunan said today
that the cause of a landslide earlier this week that killed 12
people and left seven others missing was not manmade, the
official  Xinhua News Agency  reported.  An official probe said the drought had made the ground
drier than usual, allowing the heavy rains to sweep away sand
and rocks, resulting in the landslide that roared down a
mountain slope above Guanshan village.  Torrential rains have left 36 people dead and 21 others
missing in  Hunan province , the agency said in a separate report,
citing the local government. Direct economic losses are
estimated at 2.22 billion yuan ($343 million), an unnamed
spokesman for the province’s flood control headquarters was
quoted as saying.  Flooding in the province has affected 3.6 million people,
damaged 17,300 rural houses and forced the evacuation of 149,000
people, the agency said.  --Feiwen Rong, with assistance from  Wang Ying . Editors: Andrew Janes, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  