-- 
Cnooc 52% Discount to Woodside Shows Julius Baer China Bargains

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-12T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/cnooc-trading-at-52-discount-to-woodside-shows-julius-baer-china-bargains.html
This month’s tumble in  China  Shenhua
Energy Co.’s Hong Kong shares dragged valuations to 73 percent
below global peers.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil
producer, sells at a 52 percent discount to Woodside Petroleum
Ltd., while Ping An Insurance Group Co. trades at its lowest
level versus net assets in 11 weeks.  Economic growth concerns have made Chinese shares traded in
Hong Kong the world’s worst performers in June, creating
“opportunities” to buy for Bank  Julius Baer  & Co. and
Schroders Plc. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index’s 6.7
percent slump this month has brought the average valuation of
its 40 stocks down to 10 times estimated profit, the lowest
level since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Where the valuation gap is starting to widen, we’ll be
looking to take advantage of that,” Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-
based  fund manager  at Schroders, which oversaw $331 billion
worldwide as of March 31, said in an interview. “Selectively,
opportunities are starting to appear.”  Julius Baer favors Shenhua, the listed unit of China’s
biggest coal producer, Cnooc and Ping An, the nation’s second-
largest insurer, said Alan Lam, an analyst in  Hong Kong  at the
bank, which has about $322 billion in client assets worldwide.  The Hang Seng China gauge has fallen this month by the most
among 91 global benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg on
concern the central bank will keep raising  interest rates  to
slow inflation. The People’s Bank of China has boosted borrowing
costs four times since the start of 2010. Some shares have also
slumped amid fraud allegations against Sino-Forest Corp. and
Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd.  Buffett’s BYD  The Hong Kong index, whose constituents are known as H
shares, has tumbled 9.5 percent from this year’s high on April
11, approaching the 10 percent retreat some investors term a
correction. A 28 percent drop by Angang Steel Co. led declines,
followed by a 25 percent plunge in BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker
backed by  Warren Buffett . China’s Shanghai Composite Index
slumped 11 percent in that period.  Beijing-based Shenhua Energy retreated 8.2 percent this
month in Hong Kong. Cnooc, also based in Beijing, has lost 5.1
percent, while Ping An is down 7 percent.  Shenhua shares are valued at 13.1 times estimates for 2011
earnings, according to the average of 29 analyst projections
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average ratio of 29
for Chinese coal producers and 48 for global peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Valuations  Cnooc trades for 10.2 times estimates for this year’s
profit, down from 13.7 as of Dec. 31, and lower than the
multiple of 21.4 for Woodside,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil
and gas producer, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Ping An,
based in the southern city of Shenzhen, trades for 3.6 times
estimated net assets, or book value, the lowest level since
March 29, the data show.  “We are positive on Chinese big-caps and state-owned
enterprises, rather than small caps,” Julius Baer’s Lam said in
an interview.  The H-share gauge is dominated by state-controlled
companies. The measure’s five biggest companies including China
Construction Bank Corp. and PetroChina Co. account for about 46
percent of the index.  Recent declines in Chinese stocks are “a reflection that
global investors are panicky about global economic prospects and
worried about Chinese monetary tightening and its slowdown
effects on the real economy,” Schroders’ Lee said.  Slowing Growth  The  World Bank  lowered on June 7 its 2011 growth forecast
for the world economy to 3.2 percent from a January estimate of
3.3 percent, to reflect  Japan ’s earthquake and political unrest
in the  Middle East  and North Africa. China’s growth will slow to
9.3 percent this year from 10.3 percent in 2010, the bank said.  The nation’s customs bureau reported on June 10 a $13.1
billion  trade surplus  for May that was smaller than the $19.3
billion estimate from a Bloomberg News economist survey. Exports
rose 19 percent last month, lower than the 20 percent gain
predicted by economists and down from April’s 30 percent.  Besides raising borrowing costs, China’s central bank has
also boosted the reserve-requirement ratio for banks 11 times to
cool inflation. Consumer prices climbed 5.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, after rising 5.4 percent in March, the most
since July 2008.  “If China’s tightening continues, we may see more
companies experiencing financial difficulties, and eventually
revealing the true story of their books,”  Alex Au , Hong Kong-
based managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd.,
which oversees $300 million of assets, said. “When there is a
lot of liquidity, companies can always find money to fill a hole
and hide any problems in their books. But if they cannot find
more money, the problem will come to the surface.”  Legal Action  Chaoda, a vegetable producer that is based and has its
primary listing in Hong Kong, overstated the size of some farms
in China, Next Magazine reported on May 26. The company told its
lawyers to take legal action against the magazine over its
“false and untrue” allegations, Chaoda said in a June 3
exchange filing.  Muddy Waters Research, a firm founded by short seller
Carson Block, said in a report published June 2 that Sino-
Forest’s disclosures of land holdings don’t match Chinese city
records. The company’s Toronto-listed stock plunged 75 percent
since then. Sino-Forest, a Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-
based operator of tree farms, said in a June 6 statement the
report was inaccurate and defamatory.  Greenheart Group Ltd., a unit of Sino-Forest, has tumbled
46 percent this month in Hong Kong trading, while Chaoda lost 20
percent. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  sank 5.3 percent.  Prone To Fraud  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began an
investigation last year into the use of reverse takeovers, where
a closely held firm becomes public by purchasing a shell company
that already trades.  The SEC cautioned investors in a June 9 bulletin about
buying stakes in companies that gain listings through so-called
reverse mergers, saying they may be prone to “fraud and other
abuses.” The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-
listed stocks has fallen 45 percent this year.  The “probability” for accounting concerns among Chinese
companies should be less in Hong Kong than in the U.S., Julius
Baer’s Lam said. That provides a “buying opportunity in
selective stocks,” he said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  