-- 
Czech Transportation Unions Change Date for Strike to June 16

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-12T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/czech-transportation-unions-change-date-for-strike-to-june-16.html
Czech transportation workers will
hold a one-day strike on June 16 after a  Prague  court ruled they
couldn’t hold a work stoppage today, union representatives said.  The protest against government plans to overhaul public
finances with measures including a value-added tax increase, was
halted after a court said unions didn’t give at least three days
warning before workers walked out. The unions moved the
nationwide work stoppage to adhere to the ruling, Jaroslav
Pejsa, head of the Railway Workers’ Union, said yesterday in
Prague.  The action will include a blockade of roads in, and leading
to Prague, the Czech capital.  Air travel  isn’t affected by the
strike, the biggest protest action by the unions in the country
that shed communism in 1989, according to Lubos Pomajbik, the
head of the Transportation Trade Unions.  The unions also oppose a plan to allow people to redirect
part of their compulsory pension payments into personal accounts
as the Cabinet tries to boost private savings for retirement and
are against a plan to raise the  retirement age . The goals, which
are the centrepieces of Prime Minister Petr Necas’s agenda,
helped Czech bonds outperform German debt in the past year.  The  Czech Republic  is the last of the four largest post-
communist economies in the European Union to boost private
savings for retirement as the government expects an aging
population to reduce the number of workers paying for pensions
of the retired. The Cabinet wants to avoid the difficulties
suffered by Hungary and  Poland , where pension changes widened
budget gaps, forcing a reversal of their overhauls.  The economic impact of the strike should be less than 10
billion koruna ($593 million), depending on the extent of
production restraint and length of the protest, Raiffeisenbank
AS analysts in Prague wrote in a report on June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  