-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Say Agreement on Cutting Debt Would Boost Flagging Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/debt-agreement-in-congress-would-spur-flagging-u-s-economy-lawmakers-say.html
Congress could help improve the U.S.
economic recovery by reaching a debt-reduction deal as they face
an Aug. 2 deadline that risks sending the government into
default, lawmakers said on Sunday morning talk shows.  “I think that would help calm the markets and help us get
to recovery,” Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin ,
chairman of the House Budget Committee, said yesterday on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program, referring to a budget deal that
would control future U.S. deficits.  “If we can work together, I think that’s going to raise
the confidence level here and around the world, and I think that
in itself will have a very positive effect,” Representative
Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the Democratic Whip, said on the same
program.  Lawmakers are haggling over spending cuts and budget
reforms as they seek a deal to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
limit. Leaders of two separate bipartisan efforts last week said
they are stepping up efforts to reach a debt-reduction deal
before the Aug. 2 deadline to expand the debt ceiling or risk a
government default. A series of disappointing economic reports
has added to the pressure for lawmakers to come to an accord.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
Labor Department figures released June 3 showed, while other
data show manufacturing has slowed and the economy is
decelerating. Moody’s Investors Service on June 2 said that it
expects to place the government’s rating under review for a
possible downgrade if there’s no progress on increasing the debt
limit in coming weeks.  Higher Taxes  Vice President  Joe Biden  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pressed Republican lawmakers in a June 10 meeting to
accept higher revenue to help curb deficits in talks aimed at
achieving a plan to raise the U.S. debt limit before the August
deadline, two congressional aides said.  Republicans countered during the private meeting that any
tax increase would hurt the economy and couldn’t pass the
Republican-led House, said the aides, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  “We set up three meetings next week, so we’re making
progress,” Biden told reporters as he left the Capitol, without
saying what specifically was discussed during the meeting with
six Senate and House members.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, who took part in the
Biden-led meeting, said a new urgency is evident in the talks
after signs that the U.S. job market is slowing. The group is
prepared for a “robust series of meetings,” he said.  ‘Technical’ Default  Not all Republicans agree that the Aug. 2 deadline to reach
a  budget deficit  is urgent.  Default “doesn’t mean that we can’t make payments on
Treasury bills or other obligations,” Representative Charles Bass, a New Hampshire Republican, said  CNN ’s “State of the
Union” program yesterday.  “There is a difference between strategic or technical
default and default where you really don’t have the economy to
support the spending,” Bass said. “We are not at that point
yet. We could be. We could be, like some European nations.”  “I think the global economy will understand that the
 United States  has the ability to meet its obligations,” Bass
said. “But it’s not going to be able to do it over the long
term if we can’t control the growth of government.”  Jobs, Not Deficits  Robert Reich, who served as labor secretary under President
 Bill Clinton , said jobs, not deficits, should be the top
priority right now.  “Yes, there is that uncertainty,” Reich said yesterday on
ABC News’ “This Week” program. “But, look it, the deficit
fight, the deficit is important over the long term. But, right
now, the issue is not the deficit. The issue is not the debt
ceiling. The issue is jobs. And they’re not the same.”  Reduced taxes and relaxed regulations are the key to
restoring the  U.S. economy , not additional government spending
or more federal stimulus programs, said Senator  Richard Shelby 
of  Alabama , the senior Republican on the Banking Committee.  “Stimulus basically doesn’t work for the most part. We’ve
tried that,” Shelby said on “This Week” yesterday. “I don’t
believe any new stimulus is going to pass Congress. I don’t
think it has any credibility,” he said.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly decreased in May to the
lowest level in six months as Americans grew concerned over the
outlook for jobs and the economy. The Conference Board’s
confidence index dropped to 60.8 from a revised 66 reading in
April, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed on May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  