-- 
Dubai Shopping-Mall Builder Extends Expansion in Egypt on Retail Strength

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-12T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/dubai-mall-builder-extends-egypt-expansion-on-retail-strength.html
Majid Al Futtaim Group, the
shopping-mall developer that built Dubai’s  indoor ski slope ,
said the violent change of government in  Egypt  won’t stop the
company from proceeding with its expansion plans.  “Egypt’s fundamentals from a consumer perspective haven’t
really changed because of the revolution,” Chief Executive
Officer Iyad Malas said in a telephone interview. Sales at the
company’s Cairo mall are back to “pre-revolution levels,” he
said.  Majid Al Futtaim, based in Dubai, last week asked for
permission to construct a mall in Cairo with 160,800 square-
meters (1.7 million square feet) of leasable space at a cost of
2.8 billion dirhams ($760 million). The company also plans to
extend its Maadi City Centre development.  Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous country, attracted
Gulf developers and retailers with five years of rapid economic
growth prior to the revolution. Majid Al Futtaim has a shopping
center in Cairo and Alexandra and owns four plots of land in and
around the capital where it aims to build more, the CEO said.  The malls in Cairo and Alexandria were forced to close
after being looted during the revolution, when the Egyptian
regime withdrew the police from the streets, the CEO said. The
Cairo mall opened again two months after its closure, while
Alexandria’s mall resumed trading a month later.  Majid Al Futtaim, a privately held builder and owner of
malls, is in talks with Egyptian banks to arrange 2 billion
Egyptian pounds ($337 million) in financing for the new mall,
which is due to open in 2014, Malas said.  ‘Right Format’  Majid Al Futtaim is evaluating the “right format” for two
additional malls in the country. Malas on June 6 met with
Egyptian officials including Prime Minister Essam Sharaf to
discuss its expansion plans in the country.  The new government “is trying to do everything it can to
support investors and I think that will continue,” the CEO
said. Egypt is expected to hold national elections in September.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, the company plans to complete
a shopping center in  Beirut  by October 2012, Malas said. It’s
also designing a project in  Syria  that will include a mall,
three hotels and office and residential buildings outside
Damascus, even as the Syrian government enforces a violent
crackdown on pro-democracy protesters.  “At this stage the work we are doing is continuing because
it involves work that’s being done in Dubai and some colleagues
on the ground,” Malas said.  The first phase of the Syrian project will cost about $1
billion and the company aims to raise half of that amount from
Syrian or regional banks, Malas said.  Majid Al Futtaim Group owns 10 malls and plans to double
that number by 2020, according to a statement last week. The
company’s Mall of Emirates includes a 22,500 square-meter indoor
ski slope, the largest structure of its kind in the  Middle East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 