-- 
Erdogan Elected to Third Term With Pledge to Rewrite Turkey’s Constitution

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-13T13:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/early-election-results-from-turkey-show-erdogan-likely-to-win-third-term.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  promised to seek consensus in writing a new constitution
after winning re-election for a third term, and said his victory
will invigorate pro-democracy movements in the Middle East.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, won 50
percent of the vote with more than 99 percent of ballots
counted, and 326 seats in the 550-member parliament, according
to  preliminary results  published by local media. That leaves him
short of the 330 votes needed to call a referendum on the
constitutional changes that Erdogan says are his top post-
election priority.  “We’ll go to the opposition and we’ll seek consultation
and consensus” to draft a constitution that will satisfy all
sections of the population, Erdogan said in a victory speech
from a balcony at party headquarters in Ankara. “We will bring
democracy to an advanced level, widening rights and freedoms.
The responsibility has risen, and so has our humility.”  Erdogan’s third term could make him the longest-serving
leader since  Turkey ’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. His re-
election with an increased share of the vote, the largest in
almost half a century, will help the premier consolidate his
victory over the military, which introduced Turkey’s current
constitution after a 1980 coup, and which has accused Erdogan of
seeking to impose his Islamic values on Turkey’s secular laws.  ‘Sweet-Spot Win’  Yields on two-year lira-denominated bonds fell 3 basis
point to 8.84 percent at 4:45 p.m., the lowest in 11 days. The
lira strengthened to 1.5725 per dollar while the main ISE-100
stock index gained 0.6 percent.  “Markets are reacting favorably to the sweet-spot win for
AKP,” Tunc Yildirim, a director at broker Standard Unlu in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The key will be whether
Prime Minister Erdogan will stick to his promise of reaching out
to other parties to draft a new constitution.”  Erdogan, 57, served as mayor of Istanbul from 1994 until
1998, when he was sentenced to jail for inciting hatred by
reciting a religious poem. He says his party is committed to
preserving Turkey’s secular system while loosening restrictions
on the practice of Islam. It has sought to lift the ban on
headscarves at universities and make it easier for graduates of
religious schools to enter universities.  Presidential System Debate  Turkey’s economic advance was key to Erdogan’s appeal to
voters on the campaign trail. The $740 billion economy grew at
an annual rate of more than 5 percent during nine years of AKP
rule, making it the world’s 16th largest. Inflation slowed to
about 7 percent from 30 percent in the period, and the stocks
benchmark rose more than sixfold, led by companies such as
lender  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   Erdogan has argued for a shift from Turkey’s current
parliamentary system to a presidential one, in which he himself
would be the leading candidate for the top job, a proposal other
parties have rejected.  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party  had 26
percent of the vote and the Nationalist Action Party 13 percent,
giving those parties 135 and 53 seats respectively, according to
projections from the preliminary results. Independent
candidates, mostly backed by a party advocating autonomy for
Turkey’s Kurdish minority in the southeast, won the other 36
seats. The AKP’s vote rose from 47 percent in 2007, when it won
341 seats.  ‘Most Market-Friendly’  A result “where the AKP continues in power but needs to
co-operate with the opposition is the most market-friendly
outcome,” said Ari Metso, chief executive officer of Helsinki-
based Taaleritehdas East Asset Management who helps manage a 110
million euro ($158 million) Turkey-focused equity fund.  The parliament will probably start work on a new
constitution in September, said Huseyin Celik, a deputy chairman
of AKP. The government will work with opposition parties to
draft the new document and will start with areas where there is
a consensus, he told NTV television today.  On the economy, Erdogan’s third-term challenges will
include a widening trade gap that threatens an abrupt halt to
Turkey’s boom.  The current account deficit ballooned to more than $63.4
billion in the 12 months through April, or about 8.6 percent of
GDP, compared with a government forecast of $42 billion for the
year. The increase was driven by rising demand for imported raw
materials and  consumer goods  as the economy expanded 8.9 percent
last year.  Credit Upgrade  Turkey’s current-account deficit, inflation and bank credit
growth mean that the “jury remains out” on an upgrade by one
step to investment grade,  Fitch Ratings  said today.  The government should now impose a “tight fiscal policy
supporting the central bank in its efforts to calm down
slightly-too-strong GDP growth,” Metso said.  Erdogan can point to improvements in Turkey’s public
finances that have brought Turkey close to investment-grade
rating. Fitch Ratings, which ranks Turkey one step below that
status, said in October that changes to the constitution after
elections may justify an increase.  Treasury projections  show that Turkey -- once the
International Monetary Fund’s biggest borrower after tapping it
for about $26 billion of loans following a 2001 banking crisis -
- will pay off its remaining $4.9 billion debt to the IMF by
2013. That’s a contrast with the European Union countries,
including Turkey’s neighbor  Greece , that have been forced to
take IMF loans in the last three years as their economies
unraveled amid a debt crisis.  Foreign Policy Agenda  Rebuffed in its efforts to join the EU, Turkey now borrows
at 10-year yields lower than at least eight members of the 27-
nation bloc.  In the Middle East, where popular revolts have swept away
longtime leaders this year, Erdogan’s political success and
Turkey’s economic progress have been cited as a model by
opposition parties including  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood.  His government last week said it will keep the country’s
southern border with  Syria  open to refugees fleeing a crackdown
on pro-democracy demonstrations. About 5,000 Syrians have
already sought shelter in Turkish camps.  Erdogan, who has had friendly ties with Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, slammed the violence against protesters and
said he will apply pressure to the Syrian government after the
election.  “He’s now facing a very heavy foreign policy agenda,
starting with Syria as early as today,” said Soli Ozel, a
political scientist at Bilgi University in Istanbul. “If
Syria’s going to explode, and it looks like it might, then who’s
going to be playing a major role in dealing with the fallout?
Turkey.”  Erdogan told the crowd outside his party headquarters last
night that his election win would help pro-democracy movements
throughout the  Middle East . “Damascus will benefit as much as
Ankara,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 