-- 
Memories of 1998 Blasts Linger After Al-Qaeda Leader Bin Laden’s Death

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T12:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/memories-of-1998-bombings-linger-after-death-of-al-qaeda-chief.html
Caleb Magiia, a 47-year-old
Tanzanian, remembers as if it were yesterday the morning 13
years ago when a “big bomb sound” sent hundreds running and
crying through the streets of his capital and introduced al-
Qaeda to the world.  Between 10:30 a.m. and 10:40 a.m., near-simultaneous
bombings of the U.S. embassies in  Dar es Salaam  and Nairobi,
 Kenya , on Aug. 7, 1998, killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens. In Dar es Salaam, the 12 dead were all Tanzanians.  “It was the first time that al-Qaeda was mentioned,”
Magiia said. A young man then, now he is married with three
children and working at the hotel Kilimanjaro, where he was at
the door to greet the arrival of U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  over the weekend. “We were not used to all that
attention,” he said. “Now everyone knows our country.”  News that the man held responsible, Fazul Abdullah
Mohammed, the suspected head of al-Qaeda in East  Africa , was
killed last week at a checkpoint in Mogadishu, Somalia, rippled
through the city yesterday and coincided with a visit from the
top U.S. diplomat. On May 2, President  Barack Obama  announced
 Osama bin Laden , the terror group’s global leader, was shot dead
by U.S. commandos in a raid on his house in Abbottabad, near
 Pakistan ’s capital, Islamabad.  For diplomats, the killing of both al-Qaeda leaders, barely
a month apart after years of pursuit, proved cathartic even with
the knowledge that the fight against terrorism isn’t over.  Enormous Destruction  “The death of the leader of al-Qaeda is as significant for
East Africa and the greater horn of Africa as the death of Osama
bin Laden is for its impact on al-Qaeda as a whole,” Assistant
Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson said in an
interview in Dar es Salaam. “He caused enormous destruction in
two major signature al-Qaeda events.”  Yesterday, Clinton said a silent prayer and laid white
roses at a memorial for the victims of the bombings. Many of the
local embassy staff that survived the attack still work at the
new fortified embassy, located a mile away from the old site.  “Some of you lost your friends and loved ones, and all
Americans grieved with you then and we have not forgotten your
loss, and we have not forgotten our pledge to seek justice
against those who commit such atrocities,” Clinton told embassy
staff and survivors of the attacks.  Checkpoint  Mohammed and one other man were killed by Somali forces
when the pickup truck in which they were traveling failed to
stop at a checkpoint after straying into a government-controlled
district of Mogadishu, according to a U.S. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity. Still, his killing wasn’t pure luck, the
official said.  The killing on June 11 was previously reported by  Agence
France-Presse , which said Mohammed was traveling with a South
African passport, $40,000 in cash and several mobile phones. Al-
Shabaab, a regional grouping affiliated to al-Qaeda,
acknowledged Mohammed’s death, AFP said, citing a leader of the
organization who asked not to be identified.  Mohammed was indicted by a New York district court for his
alleged involvement in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings, according
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s website list of the
most wanted terrorists. The U.S. had offered a $5 million dollar
reward for information leading to his arrest or conviction.  “This guy has carried out substantial attacks” in
numerous countries, including  Israel , and has “frustrated
people for 15 years,” Douglas Paal, a former senior CIA
analyst, said in a telephone interview.  Treasure Trove  Paal, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, said that while he didn’t have specific
knowledge of the case, the killing of Mohammed probably would
lead to an additional treasure trove of information on the al-
Qaeda network and its operatives in East Africa or elsewhere.  “One has the impression that al-Qaeda is now thoroughly
penetrated” and scattered, “making it hard for them to plan
future attacks,” Paal said.  The death of Mohammed, who brought expertise to Somalia on
coordinating suicide bombings and attacking with improvised
explosive devices, creates an opportunity for Somali security
forces to gain ground,  Rasid Abdi , a Horn of Africa analyst,
with  International Crisis Group  said.  Government forces, supported by more than 9,000 African
Union troops participating in a UN-backed mission known as
Amisom, control sections of Mogadishu, while Islamic insurgents
hold most of the country’s south and central regions.  “This disarray in al-Shabaab and the fact they have lost
their senior figure, it is a chance for Amisom to push into new
territory,” Abdi said by phone from Nairobi today.  ‘Lucky to Be Alive’  The explosion at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya’s
capital, in 1998 sprayed glass and shrapnel at Stephen Wambua
who was a block away walking to work. The marketing executive,
now 39, said he ran for five minutes before looking back at
cloud of black smoke rising from the city center.  “I don’t feel scared of another attack because the future
of al-Shabaab is crumbling,” Wambua said, sitting on a bench at
a memorial park for the bombing victims. “I feel sentimental
about this place. It reminds me I’m lucky to be alive.”  Magiia, who remembers meeting former president  Bill Clinton 
twice in Dar es Salaam, wants his country to be known for more
than al-Qaeda: “Tanzania is a peaceful country,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Lusaka, Zambia at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  