-- 
Erdogan May Need to Seek Kurdish Parliament Allies, Demir Says

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-06-12T17:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/erdogan-may-need-to-seek-kurdish-parliament-allies-demir-says.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
who won a third term in office pledging to rewrite  Turkey ’s
constitution and continue its economic growth, may have to seek
alliances with the main Kurdish party in order to move forward
with a new national charter,  Inan Demir , chief economist at
Finansbank AS, said today in a telephone interview.  The governing  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, has
about 51 percent of the votes with 91 percent of ballots
counted, according to preliminary results published by local
media.  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party , or CHP, is
projected to get 26 percent of the vote, early results showed.  On constitutional change:  “We have an interesting picture in that the AKP has
increased its vote but the number of MPs has declined below the
three-fifths needed to pass constitutional change.  We now need to see what Erdogan says about the new
constitution. With a popular vote that’s close to 50 percent I
think he’ll be inclined to press ahead with constitutional
change. He may try to garner support from others in parliament
and that will be the key issue.”  On market reaction:  “Market expectations had been converging on such a result,
so I think this result will be neutral. The most market friendly
result would have been with the AKP somewhat weaker.”  On possible allies:  “The BDP (the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party) is
the closest to the AKP in terms of hostility to the current
constitution, but Erdogan has recently stepped up the rhetoric
against the BDP. Still, there are some sweeteners he could offer
the BDP, such as a lower threshold (for representation in
parliament). The BDP could, or at least some of the BDP might,
back him. He also might be counting on some defections from the
MHP. Ideally for markets he would reach out across the board but
that seems unlikely.”  On economic policy:  “The AKP will be focused on the constitution with the
numbers hanging in the balance. So I don’t expect a blanket
tightening of fiscal policy. There could be some selective moves
against particular sectors: the automotive sector stands out.
Equally I don’t expect any great loosening, or any attempts to
spend the additional revenue (from the tax debt
restructuring).”  -- Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 