-- 
Erdogan Needs Reconciliation for Turkey Constitution, Nazli Says

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-12T17:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/erdogan-needs-reconciliation-for-turkey-constitution-nazli-says.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
who won a third term in office pledging to rewrite  Turkey ’s
constitution and continue its economic growth, is gaining “more
leverage” over his secular opponents, Kaan Nazli, director of
emerging markets at Medley Global Advisors, said today in a
telephone interview.  The governing  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, has
about 51 percent of the votes with 80 percent of ballots
counted, preliminary results published by Cihan News Agency
showed.  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party , or CHP, is
projected to get 25 percent of the vote, early results showed.  On constitutional change:  “The constitutional process will depend on whether the AKP
manages to get some reconciliation with the opposition. The
indications we’re getting show that the CHP, under new
leadership, is more willing to have a discussion.”  On the economy:  “From the financial investors’ perspective, there’s a risk
of the economy overheating and the most important thing for them
is what the government will do to secure a soft landing to cool
down the economy.”  The current account deficit is the main problem, it’s not
really coming down mainly because of the  oil prices , and
everything happening in the region is going to drive up that
trajectory.”  You still see demand pressure on the current account
deficit, the only way to address that is to slow down the
economic growth from 8 percent to a range of 4-5 percent.”  On Erdogan’s proposal to shift to a presidential system:  “Erdogan is so far a very effective and successful prime
minister, but the whole idea of the presidential system is
raising questions on whether he overstays his welcome, whether
he wants to stay for too long.”  If there’s a referendum and the presidential system is
being voted on, the opposition would make it all about Erdogan
and he will look like he’s trying to get something done for
himself, it’s a bit more personal, which will make it harder to
pass.”  On AKP versus the secularists:  “It’s been a progressive process with the AKP getting more
leverage against what’s considered the secularist establishment.
One can say that both the high level of the judiciary and the
military are under the influence and control of the
government.”  You can say Erdogan has won the battle so far but long-
term, sustainable reforms that make sure politicians are running
the country and not the establishment are not there yet.”  Right now it looks like the military and the judiciary are
quiet because they’re traumatized by the fact that they spoke
out in 2007 and the public voted against them. There still
aren’t enough institutional checks and balances to make sure
that the military doesn’t take advantage of political
instability to retain its past influence.”  -- Editors: Mark Bentley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 