-- 
India’s Essar Seeks Indonesia, Australia Resources to Meet Indian Demand

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-06-13T06:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/essar-to-buy-more-indonesian-australian-resources-to-meet-india-s-demand.html
Essar Group plans to acquire more
coal and iron ore assets in  Indonesia , Australia and Africa as
it seeks to boost supply to meet domestic Indian needs, Chief
Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said.  “We’re looking at investing overseas, including in
Indonesia, Australia and Africa, to access natural resources,”
Ruia said in a Bloomberg TV interview at the  World Economic
Forum  on East  Asia  in Jakarta yesterday. “Coal and iron ore are
two major possibilities and, going forward, oil and gas.”  Indian companies including Essar, Tata Power Co. and
 Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  are expanding overseas to meet energy needs
to support growth in Asia’s second-fastest growing major
economy. India, which imports about 75 percent of its crude
requirements, had its oil-import bill climb sixfold in the past
decade to $85.5 billion for the year ended March as demand and
prices rose, equivalent to about 7 percent of gross domestic
product.  “Getting raw materials from overseas for power generation
and steel making is paramount as land acquisitions and
environment approvals in India are bottlenecks,” said K.K. Mital, a  fund manager  at Globe Capital Market Ltd. in New Delhi.
“Essar has the access to capital for acquisitions and can raise
money overseas after listing Essar Energy in  London .”  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  raised 1.27 billion pounds ($2.1 billion)
in an initial public offering in April last year and listed
shares on the London Stock Exchange a week later.  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , a unit that operates India’s second-biggest
non-state refinery, fell 1.2 percent to 124.55 rupees at 11:33
a.m. in Mumbai trading compared with a 0.4 percent drop in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Aries Mines  Last year, Essar Group agreed to buy the Aries coal mines
in Indonesia’s East Kalimantan province to secure supplies for
its  power plants , the Mumbai-based company said in March 2010.
The areas, which hold as much as 100 million metric tons of
power-station coal, may start output within a year, Essar said.  “We believe that Indonesian coal is a natural fit for
 India , for power generation in the country, because India is
short in power requirements and the import of coal is only going
to increase over time,” Ruia said. Essar is also looking at
development in oil and gas, power plants and coal-bed methane
projects in Indonesia, he said.  Environmental restrictions and delayed land purchases in
India may cause a shortfall of 142 million tons of coal in India
in the year that started April 1, compared with an 83 million-
ton gap in the previous year, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal
said on Feb. 3.  Refining Capacity  The Essar Group, controlled by billionaire brothers Sashi
and Ravi Ruia, is targeting 1 million barrels a day of oil
processing capacity by expanding its Indian plant, operated by
Essar Oil, and buying refineries in Europe and  Africa .  Essar is completing acquiring Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
Stanlow refinery, which has a capacity of 12 million tons to 13
million tons and has a stake in a Kenya refinery, Ruia said.  Essar Oil purchased a 50 percent stake in Kenya Petroleum
Refineries Ltd. from Shell, Chevron Corp. and BP Plc in 2009.
The Mombasa-based refinery has a capacity of 90,000 barrels a
day, the permanent secretary in the Energy Ministry,  Patrick Nyoike , said on April 2.  “The Chinese have been very active in Africa, led by the
government or government-led companies,” he said. Still “the
continent is vast, the resources are vast. Although the Chinese
have got large assets, I don’t think all of the best are gone.”  Essar aims to increase its refining capacity in India to 18
million to 20 million tons from 14 million to 15 million tons,
Ruia said. Capacity will further be expanded to 36 million tons,
he said, without providing a time frame.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net . 