-- 
Euro Falls to Record Low Versus Franc as Leaders Clash on Greece’s Bailout

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-13T15:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/euro-touches-month-s-low-as-debt-concerns-counter-rate-increase-prospects.html
The euro slid to a record low versus
the Swiss franc as concern increased that European leaders may
not be able to find common ground on a Greek bailout.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds about
whether Greek bondholders should be compelled to incur losses in
the nation’s second bailout in 14 months. The dollar dropped
against most of its counterparts before a report this week
forecast to show U.S. retail sales declined in May. New
Zealand’s dollar fell after its second-biggest city was struck
by aftershocks of the February earthquake.  “The fact that the euro can’t really get a break against
the Swissie tells you that story still lurks in the
background,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“This risk bounce is just consolidation. In the short term,
there’s enough there to overhang the market for there to be a
slight bias toward risk-off.”  The shared currency weakened 0.8 percent to a record low
1.20043 versus the franc, before trading at 1.20340 at 11:27
a.m. in  New York . The euro fell as much as 0.3 percent to $1.43,
the weakest intraday level since May 31, before trading at
$1.4376.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, fell 0.2 percent to
74.660.  The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 80.20 per dollar after
earlier touching 80.69, the lowest level since June 3.  Juncker Comments  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said in an interview
on Radio Berlin-Brandenburg June 11 that any bailout for  Greece 
must include “voluntary” investor participation. Juncker is
trying to bridge the gap between Germany’s Schaeuble, who wants
Greek bondholders to accept longer maturities of up to seven
years on the debt, and Trichet, who said imposing losses on
creditors would be akin to a default.  “We seem to be swaying from one side to the other side and
the uncertainty is clearly increased and that’s never good for
markets,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. “We’re seeing ongoing debate in
terms of all the overhanging questions that are there for the
 bond market , Greece and the euro.”  European officials are racing to find a plan to stem
Greece’s debt crisis by June 24 while sharing the cost of an
added rescue with bondholders. Trichet signaled on June 9 that
the central bank may raise interest rates in July while
reiterating that inflation will fall below its 2 percent limit
next year.  Portugal  Yields  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record
while two-year German yields reached a near-three month low as
investors demanded the euro region’s safest assets.  The Portuguese 10-year yield reached 10.72 percent, the
highest ever, and  Germany ’s two-year yield touched 1.508
percent, the lowest since March 17.  Retail sales in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in May, the first
drop since June, according to the median estimate of 63
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department
will release the report June 14.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said recent U.S. economic data have prompted him to reconsider
his forecast for growth.  The data are “causing us to rethink our outlook for
growth,” Lacker said to reporters after a speech today in
Roanoke, Virginia. “We could be stuck below trend for some
time,” he said.  The yen weakened versus most of its major peers after a
report showed  Japan ’s factory orders declined 3.3 percent in
April from March, when they rose 1 percent, the Cabinet Office
said today.  BOJ Meets  Two out of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said
 Bank of Japan  policy makers meeting today and tomorrow may
decide to expand asset purchases, four said it may do so in
August, and all but one said the next BOJ move will be to ease.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened after quakes with magnitudes
of 5.2 and 6.0 struck near Christchurch, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey . In February, the city was devastated by a
magnitude-6.3 temblor that killed more than 180 people and
closed the central business district.  The kiwi slumped 1.1 percent to 81.22 U.S. cents, before
trading at 81.40 cents.  Sweden’s krona is joining the franc as a favored currency
for traders seeking to profit from Germany’s economic expansion
while avoiding the debt crisis roiling  Europe .  The krona may climb to its highest level in more than 10
years against the euro as the fastest growth in Europe spurs the
Riksbank to keep raising  interest rates , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s a cheaper way to participate in
German growth than the traditional haven, the Swiss franc, which
is the most overvalued currency against the euro and the dollar
as measured by the relative cost of goods and services.  The Swedish currency reached its weakest level against the
euro this year, reaching 9.1339 per euro, the weakest since Dec.
14, before trading at 9.1137.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  