-- 
Saint-Gobain 2 Billion Euros Show CEOs May Salvage Equities

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-06-13T15:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/first-capital-spending-gains-in-four-years-showing-europe-rally-sustained.html
Companies in  Europe  are boosting
spending on plants, computers and equipment for the first time
in four years, a sign to investors that stocks will overcome the
region’s sovereign debt crisis as economic growth builds.  Fixed investment in the 17 countries sharing the euro will
rise by 2.2 percent in 2011, according to forecasts from the
European Commission. Graham Bishop of Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, whose call for a 7 percent gain in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index last year was the most accurate among strategists
tracked by Bloomberg, says higher corporate spending will push
the measure up 19 percent through the end of this year.  Rising investment at companies from  Infineon Technologies
AG (IFX)  to Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA shows confidence among chief
executive officers even as European governments struggle to pay
debt and the  U.S. economy  shows signs of slowing growth.
Corporate spending had its largest increase of the previous
decade in 2006, when the Stoxx 600 advanced 18 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Commission show.  “We’re seeing a continuation of the improvement that
started in 2010,” Saint-Gobain Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Andre de Chalendar said at the company’s shareholders meeting on
June 9. “All in all, we’re back in a positive momentum. This
backdrop will allow us to keep improving our performance. We
will resume a dynamic investment policy, both for industrial
investments and acquisitions.”  Housing Recovery  Saint-Gobain, Europe’s biggest supplier of building
materials, said in February that it plans to raise capital
expenditures by 500 million euros ($715 million) to about 2
billion euros in 2011. The Paris-based company has said it’s
targeting “double-digit growth in operating income,” helped by
 Asia  and Eastern Europe, and a continued housing recovery in
Western Europe.  The shares have gained 10 percent this year.  Economists are counting on business spending to help boost
gross domestic product in the euro area by 1.9 percent this
year, the most since 2007, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts expect the region to expand even as the
 European Central Bank  raises borrowing costs and governments
finance bailouts of debt-encumbered neighbors.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled a July interest-
rate increase on June 9. Governments in the region face as much
as $65 billion in additional loans to  Greece  to prevent the
area’s first sovereign default. At the same time, the euro
strengthened 7.2 percent this year against the dollar.  Cycle Driver  “Capex is going to be a driver of the cycle from here,”
said London-based Bishop, the European equity strategist at RBS.
“You have got the  cash flow , the business confidence and access
to funding. From an economic perspective, the best way for
companies to use their cash is on capital spending.”  Projections by the European Commission for fixed capital
formation, a measure of expenditures by businesses and
households on machinery, vehicles and buildings, are too
conservative, according to RBS. Capital spending in the euro
region will climb 3.1 percent this year,  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at the Edinburgh-based bank, wrote in a May
12 report.  Infineon, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, raised its
target for investments this year to 850 million euros in May,
and announced a 198 million-euro investment in production
capacity and research and development in  Austria , creating 400
jobs. The Neubiberg, Germany-based company spent 325 million
euros last year.  ‘Most Attractive Solution’  “If you think about the three uses of funds,  capital
expenditures  and organic growth, M&A, and share repurchases, I
must say that as long as we can fill our capacity, organic
growth is by far the most attractive solution,” Infineon Chief
Financial Officer Dominik Asam said at the company’s investor
day in Munich on June 7.  Infineon raised its capital expenditure plans for the
current fiscal year twice since November. Its stock has rallied
7.2 percent in 2011.  While companies are boosting spending, governments in the
region are cutting back. Countries from  Spain  to the U.K. have
begun austerity plans to avert credit downgrades after mounting
debt pushed Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek international
bailouts.  Greek Gap  European estimates put Greece’s 2012-14 financing gap at as
much as 170 billion euros, two people with direct knowledge of
talks between governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
said June 9.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the biggest
aid contributor, is seeking parliamentary approval to offer new
loans in another three-year package to Greece, a country that
has veered toward financial meltdown even after getting a 110
billion-euro lifeline in 2010.  Concerns the economy will take a turn for the worse may
overshadow the increase in corporate earnings, said  Tammo Greetfeld , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  “We are currently underweight stocks and emphasize the
near-term risk,” said Greetfeld, whose 2,900 forecast for the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index implies a 6.1 percent gain after the gauge
dropped 9.3 percent since April 29. “We’re focusing on the
near-term burden of the euro-zone debt crisis. The market will
trade lower in the summer. If the tensions would escalate, then
our year-end target would be at risk.”  Default Speculation  The Stoxx 600 has dropped 7.9 percent since Feb. 17 as
speculation grew that Greece will default and U.S. economic
indicators from housing to payrolls missed estimates. The index
slipped 2 percent to 268.13 last week, falling for the sixth
straight time in the longest streak since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge rose 0.2 percent today.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone company, suspended the
initial public offering of its call-center unit on June 10,
citing “unfavorable market conditions” after a discount on the
price failed to entice investors.  European Union companies boosted spending in the first
quarter, construction rebounded from a slump and export growth
accelerated, the EU’s statistics office said June 8. Corporate
investment rose 2.1 percent from the previous quarter, beating
the median forecast of 1.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Spending growth last peaked in March 2007, three months
before the Stoxx 600 reached a six-year high of 400.31. The
gauge is 33 percent below that level now.  Balance Sheets  “Capex is underestimated,” said  Edmund Shing , an equity
strategist at Barclays Plc in  London , whose projection for a 22
percent increase by the Euro Stoxx 50 through the end of 2011 is
the highest in Bloomberg’s survey. “Companies have deleveraged
a lot, a little too much, so one of the ways to use balance
sheets more effectively is to increase investment,” he said.
“It has important implications for earnings.”  Benchmark indexes will climb 14 percent in 2011, propelled
by a doubling in profits and the lowest valuations in two years,
according to the average forecast from strategists at 15
securities firms compiled by Bloomberg.  The estimates imply the Stoxx 600 will have gained 94
percent since a global market rally began in March 2009. That
would be the biggest gain for a comparable period since the
index more than doubled by the start of last decade.  The average of 14 U.S. strategists polled by Bloomberg
called for the Standard & Poor’s 500 to end 2011 at 1,400, 107
percent higher than its 12-year low on March 9, 2009. The rally
would be the biggest since the 1950s, according to S&P.  Earnings Gains  Per-share earnings in the Stoxx 600 will climb to 24.87
euros this year from 12.72 euros at the end of 2009, according
to more than 12,000 analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Profit growth has pushed the benchmark’s price to 12.7 times
reported earnings, the lowest since December 2008.  “We would expect capex to be a key driver of profit and
the stock market to follow,” said Adrian Cattley, a London-
based European equity strategist at Citigroup Inc. The Stoxx 600
may end the year at 315, a 17 percent gain from last week’s
close, he said. “Current valuations are attractive. We think
we’re in the mid-cycle phase so don’t expect earnings to roll
over. We expect stocks to track earnings gains.”  Herbert Perus, head of equities at Raiffeisen Capital
Management in Vienna, says the deployment of cash will convince
investors that companies’ earnings have outpaced share prices in
the past two years.  “There is a mismatch between earnings, the state of the
companies and the equity market,” said Perus, who helps oversee
about $36 billion. “Most executives are excited,” he said,
“but investors are scared. At one point, that mismatch between
the real economy and share prices will have to narrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 