-- 
Fischer’s Last-Minute IMF Bid May Not Slow Lagarde Momentum

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-13T16:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/fischer-s-last-minute-candidacy-to-run-imf-may-not-slow-lagarde-s-momentum.html
Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer’s last-minute bid for the International Monetary Fund’s
top job may not slow  Christine Lagarde ’s momentum as she gathers
support to run the Washington-based lender.  Fischer, 67, is betting his experience and a shortage of
candidates will prompt IMF members to waive an age requirement
that would exclude him from the managing director position, a
person familiar with the situation said. Mexican central bank
chief Agustin Carstens is also running.  Hours after Fischer announced his bid and the nomination
period closed, Lagarde won the backing of three more countries -
- Bahrain,  Egypt  and the  United Arab Emirates  -- securing the
French finance minister’s place as the front-runner to succeed
Dominique Strauss-Kahn. He resigned as managing director last
month after being charged with attempted rape. Strauss-Kahn has
pleaded not guilty.  “Fischer’s candidacy spices up the race and lends it a
tinge of unpredictability but it is unlikely that this will
knock Lagarde off her path to victory,”  Eswar Prasad , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington and a former
IMF official, said in an e-mail yesterday. “The emerging
markets are unlikely to view Fischer as a candidate who would
effectively advocate for their interests. Besides, he is likely
to be seen as essentially an American candidate, which endears
him neither to  Europe  nor to the emerging markets.”  U.S., Israeli Citizenship  Fischer, who holds U.S. and Israeli citizenship, is getting
a late start in a race that has seen Lagarde solidly backed by
the European Union. Indonesian Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  also added his support to those backing Lagarde,
 Agence France-Presse  reported yesterday.  Carstens says he’s backed by 12 Latin American nations,
while he hasn’t won an endorsement from the region’s biggest
economy --  Brazil .  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is “pleased
that there is such a strong field of candidates” vying for the
top job of the IMF, the Treasury Department said in an e-mailed
statement today. Geithner called ‘Carstens an “exceptionally
capable candidate” after the two men met today in  Washington ,
according to the Treasury Department, calling it a “good
discussion.”  The U.S., the IMF’s single-largest shareholder with almost
17 percent of the votes, hasn’t announced support for a
candidate.  Exceptional Opportunity  “An exceptional and unplanned opportunity has crossed my
path, one that may never again present itself, to run for the
head of the IMF,” Fischer said in a June 11 e-mailed statement.
“After much deliberation, I have decided to pursue it, despite
the fact that it is a complicated process and despite the
possible obstacles.”  The shekel fell to the lowest level in more than a week
amid concern about Israel’s ability to maintain economic
stability as Fischer bids for the IMF job. The currency weakened
by as much as 0.9 percent against the dollar today, and was
trading at 3.4276 at 2:16 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  The Israeli currency has strengthened by about 28 percent
since Fischer took office, while the TA-25 index of  Israel ’s 25
biggest companies has gained about 80 percent.  ‘Creating Uncertainty’  “The possibility of Fischer leaving the country is
creating uncertainty about the economy, which is a concern for
investors because there is no adequate replacement,” Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said by telephone.  Fischer’s entry “is a wild card; could change
everything,” said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at
the IMF, in an e-mail. “He must have some big backers to throw
his hat into the ring at this stage.”  One backer is Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
largest bond fund.  “Based on professional qualifications and cultural fit,
 Stanley Fischer  is the perfect candidate for managing director
of the IMF,” El-Erian wrote in  an editorial  posted on the
Financial Times’ website.  Israel’s central bank said in a statement that the IMF will
have to decide whether to amend its by-laws, which stipulate
that its managing director be less than 65 years at the time of
selection, or reject his candidacy. The fund’s members would
also have to end an informal agreement under which the head is
always a European, while an American heads the World Bank. Age
is not a barrier for Carstens, 53, or Lagarde, 55.  ‘Certificate of Honor’  Fischer helped the IMF end crises in  Mexico ,  Russia  and
Southeast Asia.  The Washington-based Center for Global Development, an aid
research group, said yesterday it has been running a survey
about potential IMF candidates. As of June 9, about 800
respondents to their survey rated Fischer as the best candidate
in five out of six categories measuring how effective someone
would be at running the IMF.  “Our respondents are a very-well informed group of people,
said Nancy Birdsall, president of the center, “so it implicitly
indicates an interest in candidates other than Lagarde and
Carstens.”  Fischer was born in an area of northern Rhodesia that is
today part of Zambia and holds a doctorate in economics from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  For the U.S., favoring a non-European could mean
relinquishing control of the  World Bank  -- an outcome that
members of Congress who decide on funding for development banks
have said they oppose.  The IMF board aims to pick a new leader by June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 