-- 
Former Utah Governor Huntsman May Declare Candidacy, Says Obama Beatable

-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/former-utah-governor-huntsman-may-declare-says-obama-beatable.html
Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman 
said Democratic President  Barack Obama  is “absolutely”
beatable, given the “economic backdrop,” and said he may
decide this week to seek the Republican presidential nomination.  “We’ve got everything that any country would hope for in
order to hit it out of the ballpark,” said Huntsman in a
weekend interview with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line” in Manchester, New Hampshire. “We just don’t
have a plan, we don’t have vision, we don’t have the right
leadership to get us there.”  Huntsman, 51, is seeking to capitalize on his business,
government and foreign-policy credentials to position himself as
a credible alternative to Republican front-runner Mitt Romney,
the former Massachusetts governor who formally entered the race
last week. With a Republican debate set for today in  New
Hampshire , Huntsman is drawing closer to declaring.  “We’re moving in that direction,” he said in the
interview, airing today. “We’ve got about all the boxes
checked.”  In an interview aired yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the
Union,” Huntsman told host Candy Crowley that he is “about a
week and a half out” from making a final decision.  New Hampshire Debate  The Republican debate will pit Romney against former
 Minnesota  Governor Tim Pawlenty, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , former pizza company executive
Herman Cain, and former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  Notable by their absence will be Huntsman and former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, who has been on a road trip in a red,
white and blue bus this month that ended in New Hampshire. Palin
has yet to formally announce.  The debate will take place as the economy has slowed, with
job growth at its weakest in May in eight months, and gridlock
in Congress, where Republicans and Democrats are struggling to
reach a debt-reduction deal before an Aug. 2 deadline that risks
sending the government into default.  “I don’t think you grow your way to prosperity through tax
increases,” said Huntsman, when asked if Republicans should
consider tax increases as part of a solution to the stalemate.
“You’ve got to create a framework and environment through  tax
reform , through regulatory reform” to create businesses and
boost job growth, he said.  China  Experience  Huntsman said his experience as ambassador to China under
Obama until earlier this year was “very important,” and that
his experience as an executive at his family run company had
provided him with “knowledge of the private sector.”  “To have somebody who understands foreign policy and
national security policy, who’s dealt intimately with our
largest trading partner in the years to come and our most
significant emerging strategic challenges, I think is going to
be very important,” Huntsman said.  He made time for the Bloomberg interview on a day that
included two house parties, a talk at the Veterans of Foreign
Wars and a visit to a Harley-Davidson Inc. dealership in
Manchester, as well as a stop at a restaurant in Concord.  To reinforce his business credentials, Huntsman points to
his record in  Utah , where he moved the state from a progressive
income tax with a top rate of 7 percent to a flat 5 percent tax.
In meetings with business leaders, he also highlights his
experience as an executive with Huntsman Corp., his family’s
plastics and chemical company in  Salt Lake City .  Obama’s Failures  In the CNN interview, Huntsman said the Obama
administration has failed in terms of economic policy.  “There are no signs of success, very little,” he said.
“You look at unemployment, you look at the environment in which
jobs supposedly can be created, when you look at the debt level
and you look at all the economic indicators, it would suggest
that we’re in bad shape.”  Huntsman said in the Bloomberg Television interview that he
supports a plan by Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican
chairman of the House Budget Committee, to overhaul Medicare to
contain rising health-care costs.  “It’s realistic,” Huntsman said of the plan, which
critics have said would privatize the service. “What he put
forward on Medicare is a good start.”  In contrast to Pawlenty and Bachmann, who appeal to Tea
Party supporters, Huntsman is zeroing in on the party’s
traditional, pro-business wing. Instead of focusing on social
issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, he talks about
chipping away at corporate income taxes, scaling back government
regulation and boosting trade.  As Paul slams the  Federal Reserve , Huntsman credits the
central bank with playing a key role in the nation’s recovery
from the 2008 financial crisis. And while the rest of the
Republican field talks of China as a threat, Huntsman, who
speaks Mandarin fluently, stresses its market potential.  “We need more shared values” with China, he said.
“That’s the glue that allows any meaningful bilateral
relationship to last.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Manchester, New Hampshiret ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  