-- 
Funds Boost Agriculture Bets for Third Week as Crop May Drop

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-13T07:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/funds-boost-bullish-agriculture-bets-for-third-week-as-crops-may-decline.html
Funds increased bullish bets on
agriculture prices for a third straight week, the longest string
of gains this year, as adverse global weather harmed crops from
 China  to Texas.  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 0.4 percent to 759,974 futures and options contracts in
the week ended June 7, government data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the highest since May 3. Gains were led by a 59
percent jump in bets on rising prices for soybean meal. Sugar
holdings climbed 6.9 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index has surged 79
percent in the past year as dry weather in  Europe  and China and
floods in the U.S. eroded prospects for corn, wheat and soybean
crops.  Climate change  will cause more droughts and have “major
impacts” on  food production  for decades, the  United Nations ’
Food and Agriculture Organization said on June 9.  “We have enough weather-related issues that will push
prices higher, and that’s why money is going into the
 agriculture sector ” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio
manager at Cincinnati-based Huntington Asset Advisors, which
manages $14.8 billion.  Tyson, Bunge  Higher grain prices may erode profits for Tyson Foods Inc.,
the biggest U.S. meat processor, as livestock-feed costs rise.
U.S. farm exports will jump to a record $137 billion in the year
ending Sept. 30 as companies including Bunge Ltd. and Archer
Daniels Midland Co. expand shipping capacity.  Funds reduced bullish bets on corn prices by 2.8 percent to
319,088 contracts through the week ending June 7. Holdings may
rebound as the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its outlook
for domestic and global inventories on June 9. Prices have
almost doubled in the past year. Net-positions for wheat also
dropped before the USDA crop report.  Corn for July delivery surged 8.2 percent since the close
on June 6 and gained as much as 1.8 percent to $7.9975 a bushel
on June 10, beating the record $7.9925 a bushel for the most-
active contract in June 27, 2008. The July contract traded at
$7.9175 a bushel at 3:34 p.m. Singapore time.  Falling supplies of corn may boost demand for wheat as a
substitute in livestock feed. Sorrentino said he expects both
crops to gain this year, while soybeans may decline.  “We are going to see less acreage planted in corn, and
possibly wheat too,” Sorrentino said. “There is cash available,
and it is going to find its way into the commodity space, to
agriculture in particular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  