-- 
Greek Opposition Party Moves Ahead of Ruling Party, Poll Shows

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-12T08:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/greek-opposition-party-moves-ahead-of-ruling-party-poll-shows.html
Greece ’s biggest opposition party
moved ahead of the ruling Pasok socialist party in voter
support, an opinion poll showed, as concern mounted over Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s new austerity measures.  Pasok received 27 percent support in a poll of 1,204 people
by market research company  Public Issue  for the newspaper
Kathimerni. Opposition New Democracy, led by Antonis Samaras,
received 31 percent.  Samaras and the opposition have gained in polls after
rejecting the government’s new austerity measures. The five-year
78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package, which received Cabinet
approval last week, includes the sale of state-owned companies,
higher taxes on restaurants and bars and new “crisis” levies
on wages. The measures follow last year’s wage and pension cuts
and are needed to qualify for funds under a 110 billion-euro
bailout by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  The poll showed both Pasok and  New Democracy  short of an
absolute majority were elections to be held now. In a best-case
scenario, with five parties being elected to parliament, New
Democracy would have 149 seats, one short of a majority.  The number of people who expect Papandreou to see out his
four-year term, which ends in 2013, fell to 26 percent in June
from 46 percent the previous month. Six in 10 Greeks think early
elections will be held, according to the poll.  Ninety-two percent said they weren’t in a position to put
aside money for savings in the next 12 months, while 72 percent
said they expected their personal financial situation to worsen.
The margin of error is 3.2 percentage points. The poll was
conducted between June 1 and June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 