-- 
India’s Essar Seeks Indonesia, Australia Resources to Meet Indian Demand

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-06-12T11:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/india-s-essar-seeks-indonesia-australia-resources-to-meet-indian-demand.html
Essar Group is seeking to expand by
acquiring more coal and iron ore assets in Indonesia,  Australia 
and  Africa  to meet domestic Indian needs for resources, Chief
Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said.  “We’re looking at investing overseas, including in
Indonesia, Australia and Africa to access natural resources,”
Ruia said in a Bloomberg Television interview at the  World
Economic Forum  on East  Asia  in Jakarta. “Coal and iron ore are
two major possibilities and, going forward, oil and gas.”  Indian companies including Essar, Tata Power Co. Ltd. and
Reliance Power Ltd. are expanding overseas to meet energy needs
to support growth in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy.
 India , which imports about 75 percent of its crude requirements,
had its oil-import bill climb six-fold in the past decade to
$85.5 billion for the year ended March as demand and prices rose,
equivalent to about 7 percent of gross domestic product.  Essar agreed last year to buy the Aries coal mines in
 Indonesia ’s East Kalimantan province to secure supplies for its
 power plants , the Mumbai-based company said March 2010. The
areas, which hold as much as 100 million metric tons of power-
station coal, may start output within a year, Essar said.  “We believe that Indonesian coal is a natural fit for
India, for power generation in the country, because India is
short in power requirements and the import of coal is only going
to increase over time,” Ruia said. Essar is also looking at
development in oil and gas, power plants and coal-bed methane
projects in Indonesia, he said.  Refining Capacity  The Essar Group, controlled by billionaire brothers Sashi
and Ravi Ruia, is targeting 1 million barrels a day of oil
processing capacity by expanding its Indian plant, operated by
 Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , and buying refineries in Europe and Africa.  Essar is completing acquiring Royal Dutch Shell Plc.’s
Stanlow refinery, which has a capacity of 12 million tons to 13
million tons and has a stake in a Kenya refinery, Ruia said.  Essar Oil purchased a 50 percent stake in Kenya Petroleum
Refineries Ltd. from Shell, Chevron Corp. and BP in 2009. The
Mombasa-based refinery has a capacity of 90,000 barrels a day,
the permanent secretary in the Energy Ministry,  Patrick Nyoike ,
said on April 2.  “The Chinese have been very active in Africa, lead by the
government or government-led companies,” he said. Still “the
continent is fast, the resources are fast, although the Chinese
have got large assets, I don’t think all of the best are gone.”  Domestically, Essar aims to increase its refining capacity
in India to 18 million to 20 million metric tons from 14 million
to 15 million tons, Ruia said. Capacity will further be expanded
to 36 million tons, he said, without providing a time frame.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net . 