-- 
BOE Says Long-Term Inflation Expectations Are Well-Anchored

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-06-13T07:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/inflation-expectations-stay-well-anchored-boe.html
The  Bank of England  said Britons’
outlook for inflation is “reasonably well-anchored,” while
acknowledging that its failure to control price growth has
undermined consumers’ faith in policy makers.  “Current data suggest that long-term inflation
expectations remain reasonably well anchored,” Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said in the bank’s Quarterly Bulletin published in
London today. “The signals regarding short and medium-term
inflation expectations are more mixed, but there are few signs
that they have become significantly de-anchored.”  Inflation is outpacing wage growth and probably stayed at
the fastest since 2008 last month. While the central bank
forecasts price gains may accelerate to 5 percent in the coming
months, it held the benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5
percent last week to the aid the recovery.  “Despite a modest improvement in the May 2011 survey, the
extent of public satisfaction with the way in which the bank has
set interest rates to control inflation has declined since the
middle of 2010,” the bank said. This is “perhaps in part
reflecting a rise in households’ perceptions of inflation over
that period.”  Consumer prices probably rose an annual 4.5 percent in May,
according to the median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  Office for National Statistics  will release
the data at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow. A separate report on May 15 may
show annual wage growth was 2.1 percent in the three months
through April.  Europe  Crisis  The bank also said financial markets “remained resilient
in the face of a number of significant events” in the three
months through May 20, including political tensions in the
 Middle East ,  Japan ’s earthquake and the debt crisis in Europe.  “Market participants have increasingly focused on whether
the existing support package for  Greece  will prove to be
sufficient given the economic backdrop,” the report said. Also,
they “appeared to differentiate between bonds issued by those
countries perceived to be most vulnerable and those issued by
 Spain  and  Italy .”  The yield difference between Greek 10-year debt and
equivalent German bunds was at 1,381 basis points today,
compared with 258 basis points for Spain and 186 for Italy.
European politicians are working on a second rescue for Greece
and the plan needs to be in place by June 24 to prevent the
 International Monetary Fund  from withholding the next instalment
of the nation’s bailout.  Bank Funding  In the report, the Bank of England said that non-financial
customers’ share of the global foreign-exchange market fell to
about 13 percent in 2010 from about 18 percent in 2007. The
group includes companies that use the  currency market  in their
business and the decline partly reflects the impact of the
financial crisis on trade, it said.  The central bank said lenders continued to repay funds
swapped through the Special Liquidity Scheme, which was closed
in January 2009 at 185 billion pounds ($300 billion). At the end
of May, 148 billion pounds had been repaid, up from 94 billion
pounds at the end of February.  It also noted less demand at its indexed long-term repo
operations, which it revised in June 2010 and which are offered
on a three-month and six-month maturity.  “The average level of cover across operations of the same
maturity was higher during the first six months of operations,”
the central bank said. “Contacts suggested that the reduced
level of participation in the second six months reflected the
increased availability of longer-term liquidity in the market.”  Inflation Expectations  Dale said that the reliability of price-expectations data
is “a key area of concern” for policy makers. U.K. inflation
has been above the Bank of England’s 2 percent target for 34 of
40 months since the start of 2008, averaging 3.2 percent. That
risks pushing up price expectations and wage demands, making it
harder for the central bank to bring inflation back to the goal.  The bank said Internet-search data from providers such as
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  can be useful for economic analysis. Results may
“contain valuable information for analysis of unemployment and
house prices,” and “may be used to provide additional insight
on a wider range of issues which traditional business surveys
might not cover.”  Policy Split  The Monetary Policy Committee has split on the response to
price growth, with some officials, including Dale, voting to
raise interest rates this year. Still, the majority, including
Governor  Mervyn King , has opted to leave policy unchanged to
support the recovery. Minutes of last week’s decision will be
published June 22.  “Movements in estimates of household’s, companies’ and
professional forecasters’ shorter-term inflation expectations
provided mixed signals about the extent to which inflation
expectations remain anchored,” the bank said in the report.
Still, “there are few signs that households are pushing for
higher pay in response to higher inflation expectations.”  Investors have pushed back bets on the first rate increase
to May 2012 after factory and services growth slowed last month.  “The outlook is highly uncertain,” the bank said. “But
the MPC judges that inflation is likely to remain elevated
throughout the remainder of 2011, before falling back during
2012 as the temporary effects wane and downward pressure from
spare capacity persists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  