-- 
Turkish Lira, Bonds Advance as Erdogan Win Signals Deficit, Inflation Cut

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-13T14:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/lira-may-rally-on-expectations-for-economic-gains-after-erdogan-reelected.html
The lira rose to a one-month high
and bonds rallied after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  won
a third term in office, spurring expectations that Turkey will
take steps to reduce its current account deficit and inflation.  The lira appreciated as much as 0.6 percent to the
strongest level since May 10, and traded up 0.1 percent to
1.5739 per dollar at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul. Two-year benchmark
bond yields dropped for a fourth day, sliding three basis points
to 8.84 percent, and closed at the lowest level in more than a
week, according to the TEB Local Benchmark Bond Index.  “It’s now become more likely -- with the elections out of
the way -- that policymakers will take a more coordinated
approach to address Turkey’s worsening current account deficit
problem,” Berna Bayazitoglu, an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  London , said in e-mailed comments.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, won 50
percent of the vote yesterday. Since AKP gained control of the
government in 2002, economic output  per capita has almost
tripled , exceeding $10,000 last year, according to the Treasury.
The benchmark ISE-100 stock index has jumped more than six-fold
in dollar terms -- almost twice the gain on the MSCI Emerging
Market Index -- and yields on benchmark lira bonds have dropped
to about 9 percent, from above 50 percent nine years ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of stocks fell 0.3 percent to
63,523.22. The lira traded at 1.9201 against the equal-weighted
euro-dollar basket.  ‘Exceptionally Strong’  “The AKP’s exceptionally strong popular mandate might
provide it with considerable political leverage in addressing
 Turkey ’s growing macroeconomic imbalances more aggressively,”
Ahmet Akarli, a London-based economist for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in an e-mailed report late yesterday.  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party  won 26
percent of the vote and the Nationalist Action Party 13 percent.
The election outcome gives Erdogan’s party more than half of
seats at the assembly in Ankara, though less than the three-
fifths majority that would enable it to put the draft
constitution to a nationwide referendum without the support of
opposition legislators.  The “outcome of elections where AKP continues in power but
needs to co-operate with opposition is the most market-friendly
outcome,” said Ari Metso, chief executive officer of Helsinki-
based Taaleritehdas East Asset Management, who helps manage a
110 million euro ($158 million) Turkey-focused equity fund.  New Constitution  Erdogan’s plan for a new constitution has been a central
campaign issue. Some investors have been concerned a landslide
victory would revive political tensions with opposition parties,
who warned that Erdogan would push through constitutional
changes without public consensus. His party is rooted in a
banned Islamic movement. Erdogan denies charges he’s trying to
change Turkey’s secular form of government.  On the economy, Erdogan’s third-term challenges will
include a widening trade gap that threatens to halt Turkey’s
economic boom. The April current-account deficit ballooned to
$7.7 billion from $4.4 billion in the same month of 2010, the
state statistics agency in Ankara said on its website today.
That’s the second-biggest gap since records began in 1984, after
a record $9.8 billion in March.  “The lira is gaining because the political risk lessened
for the near future and the current-account deficit is not worse
than expected,” Emre Balkeser, head of trading at Garanti
Securities, said by telephone.  Slowing Credit Growth  Turkey’s $740 billion economy grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent during nine years of AKP rule. Inflation
slowed to about 7 percent from 30 percent since the party came
to power in 2002.  “We expect some policy changes following the elections, in
particular with regard to possibly raising or imposing new taxes
that could help to slow credit growth in certain areas,”
 Christian Keller , an emerging-markets economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London, said in a note to clients today.  Turkish expectations for inflation in 12 months time
reached 6.93 percent compared with 6.88 percent two weeks ago,
the central bank in Ankara said on its  website  June 8, citing a
fortnightly central bank survey.  Policy makers may boost the interest rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 6.5 percent in the third quarter; raise it
to 7 percent in the fourth quarter and 8.75 percent by October
2012, according to analyst surveys by Bloomberg. Inflation
jumped to an annualized 7.2 percent in May from 4.3 percent in
April.  ‘Pave the Way’  “The AKP’s win may now pave the way for a possible
tightening of policies, both on the fiscal and monetary
fronts,” Societe Generale SA analysts Salomon Guillaume and
Blanchard Gaelle said in a note to clients, and recommended
buying lira versus euro/dollar basket.  The central bank has kept borrowing costs at a low of 6.25
percent, helping weaken the lira 4.4 percent in the past six
months, the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The International Monetary
Fund’s estimate for the current-account deficit to reach 8
percent of the gross domestic product in 2011 also contributed
to the lira’s underperformance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  