-- 
Is Biggest Short Sale Hiding in Plain Sight?: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-12T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/is-biggest-short-sale-hiding-in-plain-sight-william-pesek.html
Buy a farm house in the middle of
nowhere, pick up a gun or two, prepare for hyperinflation and
brace for a catastrophic bankruptcy. Thirty minutes with hedge-
fund manager J. Kyle Bass has you wanting to do all of the
above.  The head of Dallas-based Hayman Advisors LP isn’t thinking
about Greece or even Spain but  Japan , the world’s third-biggest
economy. He says his bet against Japanese  government bonds  is
even “more compelling” than his gamble to sell short U.S.
subprime-mortgage debt, which earned him $500 million in 2007.  Shorting Japan has been a losing proposition in recent
years. But the  earthquake , tsunami and nuclear crisis altered
the outlook for a nation whose debt is more than double the size
of the economy. Bass says a collapse is inevitable, making
Japan’s 10-year bonds -- they yield 1.3 percent, among the
lowest in the world -- a natural for a bear investor.  His argument is this: Japan now spends half of its central-
government revenue on servicing debt. This task won’t get any
easier  as the country’s population ages and shrinks -- provided
rates stay the same. What’s more, the price tag for the
earthquake and its effects will far exceed Japan’s initial $300
billion estimate, pushing the country over the edge. In Bass’s
view, the biggest asset bubble ever is hiding in plain sight.  Is Bass right? He’s correct that the world isn’t paying
enough attention to Japan’s debt bubble. Yet history probably
won’t be kind to his wager on a crash that throws  Asia ’s
wealthiest nation into chaos.  Obvious Scenario  “We’ll look back at this, I don’t know when, maybe five to
seven years from now, and we’ll say it was the most obvious
scenario we’ve ever seen in our lives,” Bass said at a
conference in  New York  last week.  The timeline: Greece,  Europe ’s most-troubled country with
10-year yields of almost 16 percent, will probably default first
as its population rejects austerity and its economy goes into
reverse. A visceral reaction in credit markets will follow and
claim other victims.  “Once you see sovereign dominos begin to fall, Japan will
be in the spotlight immediately,” Bass said.  Not everyone is quite so certain. Edward Rogers, chief
executive officer at Tokyo-based Rogers Investment Advisors,told
me he’s heard countless predictions that the  bond market  would
implode and devastate the economy. He says people tend not to
make much money betting against Japanese debt.  Where Money Is  “If you think there isn’t enough money in Japan to finance
the future you don’t know where the money is,” Rogers said, who
has 25 years of experience in Japan.  Consider this: Japan’s  postal system  controls the world’s
largest bank; households are sitting on savings in the
neighborhood of $15 trillion; the country holds $1.06 trillion
in currency reserves, second only to  China ; the unique structure
of Japan’s bond market keeps about 95 percent of public debt in
domestic hands.  There is an even bigger crack in Bass’s argument. Bonds are
the main financial asset held by everyone, from banks to pension
funds to insurance companies to consumers. The question is,
Where would they put their money if they sold? U.S. Treasuries?
Don’t count on it. Japanese have more confidence in domestic
assets than anything made in the U.S.  Japan’s government would wage a powerful battle to maintain
calm. Authorities would intervene in the markets, as they did in
the past when stocks crashed. The central bank would be sure to
purchase loads of debt to keep yields from surging. All this
explains why betting against Japanese bonds can be so hazardous.  Bass and his ilk have a point when they say Japan must
learn to grow without the artificial stimulants of huge
government deficits and near-zero  interest rates . That was the
case even before the disaster in northeastern Japan. Japan’s
need to rebuild will only further weigh down a dismal national
balance sheet.  Political Malaise  Political disarray doesn’t help. On June 2, Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  survived a no-confidence vote. Against this backdrop
of petty politics, roughly 100,000 people are homeless in the
northeast and radiation continues to spew from damaged nuclear
reactors.  In nine years in Japan, I’ve never seen so many Japanese so
disillusioned by the state of affairs in  Tokyo . News last week
that gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent
rate in the three months ended March 31 only heightened the
sense that the political leadership is paralyzed and
ineffectual.  While there are angles for short-sellers to exploit, Japan
isn’t the next  Greece . The next few years won’t be pretty or
smooth, but the idea that they will end in default and economic
devastation seems farfetched.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  