-- 
Italian Voters Set to Overturn Key Berlusconi Legislation in Referendums

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-06-13T11:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/italian-referendums-threaten-berlusconi-infrastructure-funding.html
Italian voters may overturn key
legislation passed by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
government in referendums that end today, weakening his grip on
power and increasing the chances of early elections.  Italians are voting in referendums to permanently ban
nuclear power, stop municipalities from privatizing water
services and block Berlusconi from using official commitments to
avoid attending his corruption trials. Backers of the
referendums have called on their supporters to vote not just to
overturn the legislation, but to punish Berlusconi.  “They’ve made this referendum into a political vote for,
or against Berlusconi,” said Chicco Testa, managing director of
Rothschild for Italy and former chairman of Enel SpA, Italy’s
biggest energy company.  A former opponent of nuclear power, he
now heads the Italian Nuclear Forum, which promotes atomic
energy. “It’s no longer just about power and water,” he said.  For the votes to be binding, more than 50 percent of
registered voters have to turn out. No referendum has reached
that mark since 1995. Berlusconi’s backers are urging their
supporters not to vote, to deny a quorum. The referendums will
likely attract enough of a turnout to make them binding, Ansa
news agency reported today, citing comments by Interior Minister
Roberto Maroni. When polls closed at 10 p.m. yesterday,  turnout 
had topped 41 percent, and traditionally the final day of voting
attracts at least 10 percent of registered voters. Polls close
today at 3 p.m.  “Following a decision the Italian people are taking today,
we will have to say goodbye to the construction of nuclear
plants,” Berlusconi told reporters today in  Rome .  Coalition Strained  The vote will test public backing for the premier less than
a month after his ruling bloc was defeated in local elections
across the country. That setback has strained ties between
Berlusconi and his key coalition ally, the  Northern League ,
which has threatened to pull out of the government if it feels
Berlusconi is a drain on its support.  Confidence in Berlusconi fell to 31 percent in an IPR
Marketing poll published in April, the lowest since his last
election in 2008.  The referendum may also have an impact on  Italy ’s public
finances at a time when concern over the euro-region’s second-
largest debt has pushed up Italy’s financing costs. The risk
premium investors demand to hold the country’s 10-year bonds
over German equivalents rose today to a six-month high of 184
basis points.  Opponents  Opponents of the referendum to block the privatization of
water services estimate that the government would have to
eventually assume 60 billion euros in costs of upgrading the
country’s water network if private investors aren’t brought in.  Voting against privatization “would be a step backward by
20 years,” said Antonio Massarutto, an economics professor at
Udine University. “This is a country that still hasn’t
completed depuration systems, where sewers aren’t connected to
all homes, and where losses in the water transportation network,
while a misleading indicator, demonstrate the increasing degree
of degradation.”  In addition to serving as a rejection of key pieces of the
prime minister’s platform, a “yes” vote could also speed up
the four corruption trials involving Berlusconi, by preventing
him from using state business as a reason to delay court
appearances.  “If referendums reach a quorum, it’s almost certain that
the ‘yes’ side will prevail, and therefore the so-called shield
would be rejected and in that case Berlusconi would be in
serious trouble,” said Federigo Argentieri, a professor at John
Cabot University in Rome, in an interview with Francine Lacqua
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” program.  Private Investment  Backers of the water referendum cite examples, both in
Italy and abroad, of municipalities that have sold water-
management bodies to private companies that then raised rates
and failed to boost investment or service quality.  Under the government plan, potential investors such as
Rome-based utility  Acea SpA (ACE)  would pay to upgrade Italy’s network
and in exchange receive a guaranteed 7 percent return on their
investment. A “yes” result from the referendum would
jeopardize plans by Rome-based Acea, which is ready to increase
investments in Italian waterworks, Andrea Bossola, who heads the
company’s water division, said in an interview.  Water Investments  “We currently invest 450 million euros a year in water and
are ready to double that number if they allow us to go ahead,”
Bossola said.  Acea fell 0.9 percent to 7.32 euros at 1:40 p.m. in Milan.
Enel Green Power SpA, the country’s biggest alternative energy
company, gained 1.6 percent, to 1.95 euros, as investors bet the
alternative energy company would gain from a permanent ban on
nuclear power.  Opponents of the referendum say that privatization is
needed to fix the country’s aging network. Italy’s pipelines
lose about 38 percent of the water they carry, according to
 Federutility , an association of Italian water-service companies.  The Treasury will be stuck with “all the necessary
investments” if the referendum passes, Federutility President
Roberto Bazzano told daily  Il Sole 24 Ore  in an April 28
interview.  Italy, struggling with a debt burden of almost 120 percent
of gross domestic product, second-highest in the euro-region,
spends about 10 euros to 15 euros per capita annually on water-
system investments, compared with about 85 euros annually in
northern European countries, said Udine University’s Massarutto.
Existing legislation aims to raise Italian investment to about
35 euros per person a year, he said.  -- With assistance from Lorenzo Totaro in Rome. Editors: Jerrold Colten, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 Jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 frotondi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 