-- 
Mizrahi Seeks Growth Through Acquisitions, Perry Says

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-06-14T15:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/mizrahi-seeks-growth-through-acquisitions-chairman-perry-says.html
Mizrahi-Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) ,  Israel ’s
biggest mortgage company, is looking for acquisitions to replace
 Israel Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT)  as the country’s third-largest bank,
Chairman Jacob Perry said.  “We tried to buy other banks in Israel, and we are still
looking, but there is not too much merchandise,” Perry, a
former head of the Shin Bet domestic security service, said in
an interview. “The goal to enlarge our domestic and
international activities through mergers and acquisitions is
still on the agenda for the coming years, which may turn us into
the third-largest bank.”  Mizrahi, which says it has a 16 percent share of the
banking credit market and sells more than a third of the
country’s mortgage loans, may be affected by new central  bank
regulations . The Bank of Israel has said it will limit variable-
rate mortgages to reduce risks to borrowers and banks as
 interest rates  increase.  The new regulations won’t have an immediate impact on
mortgage demand, Perry said. “If regulations will be harder, it
may affect our profitability.”  Perry, 67, said Israel’s fourth-largest lender had searched
for acquisitions in eastern  Europe , then abandoned the idea
given the economic situation in the region.  “Any acquisition will be subject to approvals by the
antitrust authority and the Bank of Israel who in the past have
come in the way,” Terence Klingman, an analyst at Meitav
Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone. “If the
bank attempts to buy a bank abroad it may impact the share price
due to more uncertainty about their activities.”  Loan-to-Value  Mizrahi fell 1 percent to 35.35 shekels at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Tel Aviv. The shares have gained 18 percent over the
past year, the most in the five-member  Tel Aviv Banking Index (TABANK) ,
which increased 12 percent over that period.  Mizrahi has been cautious in mortgage lending with an
average loan-to-value ratio of about 50 percent, according to
Perry. In the first quarter, provisions for problem loans fell
5.3 percent.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer has increased the
benchmark lending rate to 3.25 percent from a record low of 0.5
percent since August 2009.  “The central bank has brought interest rates to a high
level and I don’t think it will be raised much more,” Perry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  