-- 
Japan’s Radiation Sleuths Toil With Borrowed Geiger Counters

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-06-13T07:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/japan-amateur-radiation-sleuths-using-borrowed-geigers-seek-hidden-dangers.html
Makoto Tonami starts his workday by
slipping on a white surgical face mask and then drives around
with a borrowed Geiger counter, taking radiation readings. Three
months ago, he was sorting garbage claims in Minami Soma, a city
north of the Fukushima nuclear plant.  “It’s usually two or three of us and we drive till
sunset,” said the 43-year-old city official, who grew up in the
coastal town. His group takes readings at 35 locations with
equipment loaned from the Fukushima government, he said.  Masanori Monma, principal of the Kashima Elementary School
in Minami Soma, borrowed a portable Geiger counter from the
science ministry. Last month, he got a reading of 2.1
microsieverts an hour at a ditch next to a school flowerbed,
about 35 times higher than in downtown  Tokyo  and at the top end
of the annual safety limit for  radiation exposure .  More than three months after the biggest earthquake in
Japan’s history and a 15-meter (40-foot) tsunami wrecked the
Fukushima atomic power station, a picture emerges of ad-hoc
responses to the crisis. In the days after the worst atomic
disaster since Chernobyl, Tokyo Electric Power Co. was using
fire hoses and makeshift pumps to try and cool the crippled
reactors.  About 100,000 evacuees still sleep on gymnasium floors,
unsure if they can ever go home. Less than half of Minami Soma’s
71,000 residents now live there, with some carrying personal
Geiger counters. Tepco forecasts the reactors will be brought
under control by October at the earliest.  ‘Extremely Slow’  “The government’s action was inefficient, extremely slow
and outdated,” said Sentaro Takahashi, a professor studying
radiation control at  Kyoto University . “Right from the start,
Japan lacked the  crisis management  to cope with a disaster that
requires quick plans and action.”  Radiation leaks from the Fukushima reactors have spread
over 600 square kilometers, Tomio Kawata, a fellow at the
Nuclear Waste Management Organization of Japan, said in a
research report published May 24 and given to the government.  Radioactive soil in pockets of areas outside the 20-
kilometer exclusion zone around the plant have reached the same
level as in Chernobyl following a reactor explosion in the
former Soviet Union territory 25 years ago, the report said.  Tokyo Electric, the operator of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, failed to provide sufficient measures to prevent
the disaster,  International Atomic Energy Agency  Director
General Yukiya Amano said last month.  Tepco Critics  The utility, known as Tepco, on April 17 set out a so-
called road map to end the crisis in six to nine months, aiming
to bring down radiation levels at the plant within three months
and then achieve a so-called cold shutdown where reactor
temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees
Fahrenheit).  Since the March 11 disaster, Tepco’s shares have plunged 91
percent to close at 199 yen in Tokyo today, compared with 2,153
yen on March 10.  The chance of Tepco meeting its road map goal is 60 or 70
percent, William Ostendorff, a member of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, said at a hearing of the U.S. Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee last month.  Efforts to bring the reactors under control have been
marred by accidents and delays.  Tepco lost power to cooling systems at reactors 1 and 2
last week and has yet to identify the cause. A broken cooling
pump at the No. 5 reactor was not discovered and replaced for 15
hours on May 30, allowing temperatures at the unit to more than
double to 93.6 degrees Celsius.  ‘Ineptitude, Negligence’  The plant had a gas tank explosion on May 31 and reported
oil leaks into the ocean. The nearby Dai-Ni nuclear station,
also operated by Tepco, reported a fire in a distribution panel
on May 27, during a visit by an investigation team from the
International Atomic Energy Agency.  “If Tepco was operating this facility in the U.S., all of
the reactors would have been shut down indefinitely and there
would have been a complete changeover of management,” said
nuclear engineer Michael Friedlander.  “In terms of the way they handled the accident, in terms
of the way they let the information out to the press, the
inconsistency in the data they have presented; words like
ineptitude, negligence is the only way to characterize it,”
said Friedlander, who spent 13 years operating U.S. nuclear
power plants, including the Crystal River Station in Florida now
owned by Progress Energy Inc.  Risk to Children  This past weekend, thousands of protesters gathered in
Tokyo to rally against nuclear power, according to the
 Associated Press , without citing the source of the estimates.  Japan’s government criticized Tepco last month for
withholding radiation data, a move that was contributing to
“public distrust,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told
reporters on May 27. The utility responded by pledging to
publish in August the combined figures of radiation released to
the atmosphere and in contaminated water.  School principal Monma disputes the results of official
radiation tests in the city and says more needs to be done.  “The readings don’t represent the whole area around the
school,” he said in a phone interview. “We want the city to
run more radiation tests in ditches along roads and similar
areas.”  Children and unborn babies are more sensitive to radiation
than adults because their cells are dividing frequently as they
grow. Radiation can disrupt that process, increasing the risk of
 birth defects , leukemia or mental retardation.  Information Delay  On June 6, Japan’s nuclear safety agency doubled its
estimate of radiation released into the air by Dai-Ichi to
770,000 terabecquerels between March 11 and March 16. That’s
about 15 percent of the total radiation released in the
Chernobyl accident.  Delayed release of information has infuriated the mayor of
Minami Soma, Katsunobu Sakurai.  “When Tepco came to apologize on March 22, I told them to
give us adequate information before apologizing,” he said last
week. The company gives information on work procedures that
doesn’t help residents understand the progress in containing the
situation, he said.  Tepco is considering holding sessions with local residents
to provide more information that is easier to understand,
spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said by phone today.  Overexposure  People living in certain areas of Minami Soma will receive
23.8 millisieverts of annual cumulative exposure at current
radiation levels, exceeding the yearly safety limit of 20
millisieverts, according to a report by  Japan ’s science ministry
earlier this month.  The ministry has 15 vehicles equipped with Geiger counters
doing daily tests at 70 locations outside the zone and runs
weekly tests at 50 areas inside the zone.  Today, less than half of Minami Soma’s companies are back
in operation and rice crops are banned after 10 percent of the
city’s land was submerged by sea water, said Kiyotaka Yamaki, an
official at the city’s disaster center.  Hiroko Yamada, 66, who owned a clothes boutique in Minami
Soma before the quake, was in the city this weekend to mark the
three-month anniversary. She had returned to the city at the end
of March after spending time in a shelter in neighboring
Yamagata prefecture. She brought with her a cell phone-sized
dosimeter that cost 50,000 yen online.  “I don’t trust the government or Tepco after they hid
information,” said Yamada, who lost a relative in the tsunami.
“But there’s nothing we can do until the nuclear crisis is
resolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  