-- 
Japan’s Machinery Orders Drop 3.3% in Sign Companies Are Paring Spending

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-13T01:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/japan-s-machinery-orders-drop-3-3-in-sign-companies-are-paring-spending.html
Japan ’s machinery orders fell for
the first time in four months in April, an indication that
companies are reluctant to spend after the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  Factory orders declined 3.3 percent in April from March,
when they rose 1 percent, the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo .
Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three to six months,
were projected to increase 1.7 percent, according to the median
forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sales at companies from Ricoh Co. to Toyota Motor Corp. are
falling after the disaster caused parts and power shortages,
disrupting production. Signs of a cooling U.S. economic recovery
underscore the difficulty Japan will have in relying on exports
to propel growth and help it recover from the quake that has
left more than 23,000 people dead or missing.  “Today’s data was disappointing,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo. “With rising
concern about global growth slowing, Japanese companies are
likely to revise down their capital spending plans.”  The yen traded at 80.63 per dollar at 10:39 a.m. in Tokyo,
compared with 80.36 before the report was published. The  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.75 percent as Toyota Motor said profit
will fall almost a third this year and after the unexpected drop
in machinery orders.  The report adds to weak data for April that implies the
recession will drag on into the current quarter. Exports had
their biggest drop since October 2009, the  unemployment rate 
climbed and households cut spending.  Economic Contraction  Japan’s economy may shrink at a 2.97 percent annual pace in
the second quarter before returning to growth in the second half
of the year, according to the average forecast of 43 economists
in a survey by the government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association released last week. Gross domestic product shrank at
an annualized 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter.  “The problem of insufficient power has not been resolved
and will remain a drag on the economy going forward,” in
addition to growing evidence of a global slowdown,  Ryutaro Kono ,
chief economist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo,
said before the report.  Toyota last week forecast a surprise drop in profit, citing
disruptions from the quake and a stronger currency. It projected
that net income may fall to 280 billion yen ($3.5 billion) in
the 12 months ending March 31, missing the 422 billion yen
average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ricoh Cuts Jobs  Ricoh, the Japanese office-equipment maker, said last month
that it plans to cut 9 percent of its workforce over the next
three years to revive profit growth amid falling sales.  The government revised historical machinery orders data to
reflect its new calculation method that excludes mobile phones.
From a year earlier, factory orders fell 0.2 percent in April,
today’s report showed.  There are also signs that the economy is starting to
recover from the March temblor.  Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki
Shirakawa said on June 1 that companies are fixing disruptions
in their supply chains at a faster pace than expected as they
rush to repair their facilities. Industrial production rose in
April, rebounding from a record plunge in March, and companies
said they plan to boost output in May and June.  “Supply constraints are easing faster than expected and
production is returning to normal,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “The
economy may be headed for a V-shaped recovery from the third
quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  