-- 
Button Wins Rain-Disrupted Canadian Grand Prix on Vettel Last-Lap Blunder

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-13T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/jenson-button-wins-rain-hit-canadian-grand-prix-after-vettel-s-blunder.html
Jenson Button  of McLaren won
yesterday’s rain-disrupted Canadian Grand Prix to move into
second place in the Formula One drivers’ standings as  Red Bull ’s
Sebastian Vettel slid wide and blew the lead on the last lap.  Button, who started seventh on the grid, survived tangles
with teammate  Lewis Hamilton  and Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  and a
drive-through penalty as he charged through the field to force a
critical error from Vettel after a race littered with rain
delays and collisions. The event was halted for more than two
hours at one point.  Series leader Vettel was second and his teammate  Mark Webber  was third after 70 laps of the Circuit Gilles-Villeneuve
in  Montreal . McLaren’s Hamilton, second in the standings before
yesterday, crashed out after eight laps when he collided with
Button.  “For me it was a fantastic race. Even if I hadn’t won I
would have enjoyed this race immensely, but it’s a win,
definitely my best,” 2009 series champion Button told
reporters. “I’m definitely going to be celebrating. I’ll have a
good night and enjoy what I achieved. A big thank you to the
team for what they’ve done.”  It was the Briton’s 10th career win and the first since the
Chinese Grand Prix in April 2010. He made six trips to the pits
yesterday, including the drive-through.  Michael Schumacher of Mercedes was fourth, followed by
Vitaly Petrov of Lotus-Renault,  Felipe Massa  of Ferrari and
Kamui Kobayashi of Sauber. Jaime Alguersuari (Toro Rosso),
 Rubens Barrichello  (Williams) and Sebastien Buemi (Toro Rosso)
completed the scoring positions.  Vettel leads the standings with 161 points, followed by
Button on 101, Webber 94, Hamilton 85 and Alonso 69. Red Bull
leads the constructors’ standings with 255 points, followed by
McLaren’s 186.  Vettel on Pole  Defending series champion Vettel was in pole position for
the sixth time this season and was seeking a sixth victory in
2011. Alonso and Massa were second and third on the grid,
followed by Webber and Hamilton.  There was standing water on the track in places as the
Grand Prix began under the safety car for the first few laps.
Drivers had to put up with reduced visibility because of rain
thrown up by cars in front.  When racing got under way, Vettel held off Alonso as Webber
slid off the track and lost time. Then Hamilton damaged his car,
putting him out of the race, when he hit the back of Button’s
car as he tried to pass.  “What’s he doing?” Button asked over the team radio.  The incident caused another introduction of the safety car,
and soon after Button had a drive-through penalty for speeding
during that restriction.  Hamilton Incident  Hamilton was penalized two weeks ago after collisions with
Massa and Pastor Maldonado of Williams at  Monaco . The 2008
series champion, Hamilton got the first F-1 win of his career at
Montreal in June 2007 and won there again last year.  “Jenson made a mistake into the corner and I got the run
on him,” Hamilton told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I felt
I was halfway up the outside, but he kept moving across. Whether
or not he saw me I don’t know, but then I was in the wall.”  As rain returned, the safety car came back again and some
drivers switched to wet tires, only for the race to be halted
after 25 laps as rain intensified.  The race restarted two hours later, again under the safety
car, with Vettel still forcing the pace. Alonso crashed out
after the tangle with Button.  Michael Schumacher  then surged
past Massa and Kobayashi to go into second place.  Vettel held off Schumacher, before Button overhauled the
German to go into second and put Vettel under renewed pressure.  “I was probably too conservative at the last safety car, I
didn’t open up the gap enough. I did a mistake, locked up the
rear and ended up in the wet,” Vettel said.  The next event on the 19-race calendar is the European
Grand Prix in  Valencia ,  Spain , on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  