-- 
Kingfisher Will Double Number of Polish Stores to Woo Decorative Consumers

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-13T08:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/kingfisher-to-double-poland-stores-woo-decorative-consumers.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, plans to double the number of
Castorama stores in Poland and convert Brico Depot trade outlets
there to the format to spur growth as U.K. spending sputters.  “We will continue to build stores because there’s a lot of
unoccupied market space,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire
said of the eastern European nation, Kingfisher’s third-largest
market, in an interview. “There’s evidence of a more
sophisticated, decorative and aspirational customer, so we can
see top-line growth in that.”  The Castorama chain, the market leader in Poland with more
than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in sales last year, sees
scope for about 120 outlets in the medium term, up from 60 now,
said Janusz Lella, head of the Polish unit. Cheshire plans to
stock stores with more decorative items such as lighting and
furnishings to attract more women.  In  Poland , where same-store revenue climbed 4.5 percent in
the first quarter after dropping 2.8 percent in fiscal 2010,
Cheshire expects “not a banner year, but it will be okay,” as
consumer sentiment improves. “All signs are it will be a well-
based, robust economy.” The unit accounted for 18 percent of
the group’s retail profit last year.  Kingfisher, which also owns the B&Q chain in the U.K., has
conceded it expects a tough year in the domestic market, where
same-store sales advanced 1.4 percent in the first quarter. The
company warned earlier this month that the second quarter would
be “more challenging” as many people purchased items around
public holiday late in the previous period.  The shares rose 0.9 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 268.4 pence
at 9:22 a.m. in London trading. They have gained 1.9 percent
this year, giving Kingfisher a market value of 6.3 billion
pounds.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the biggest U.S. home-improvement
chain, has lost 4.5 percent of its value in the same period.  Wallpaper and Lamps  For Kingfisher, six new stores are planned in Poland this
year and up to 10 per year are possible. Privately held French
chain Leroy Merlin is the second-largest in the do-it-yourself
market in Poland, followed by  Germany ’s Obi.  Castorama, which promises “every day low prices” to
target value-conscious customers, is adding interior displays
that feature wallpaper and cushions as it shifts focus from
trade items like bricks and floor tiles. So far, 10 stores have
been opened or upgraded to include color-coded signage and more
decorative products like lighting. An own-brand lamp from its
private-label “Colours” line sells for 83 zloty ($30).  The new format will be positive for the company’s gross
margin as the decorative products tend to be more profitable
than building materials, said Andy Hughes, an analyst at UBS AG.
He anticipates “some acceleration” of sales this year for
Kingfisher in Poland.  Converting Brico  About 80 percent of customers are individuals compared with
20 percent of professional tradesmen, Lella said. Still, the
brand awareness, loyalty and frequency of shopping trips at
Castorama means it makes sense to fold the six Brico Depot
stores into the Castorama brand, if the company gets planning
permission.  The smaller, trade-oriented Brico Depot outlets are
typically 2,000 square meters (21,527 square feet) of selling
space combined with a warehouse that could be converted into a
5,000 square-meter Castorama store. The retailer, which opened
its first Brico Depot in Warsaw in June 2006, says the brand
overlaps with Castorama in Poland. In  France , where Kingfisher
has both chains, the brands are more differentiated and Brico
Depot is successful there, Cheshire added.  Direct Sourcing  Ramping up the direct sourcing of own-label products like
the 934-zloty Cooke & Lewis shower unit cabin, will also drive
profits, Cheshire said. The retailer’s other own-brands include
Macallister power tools and Blyss electrical products.  Castorama added a new warehouse outside Warsaw in
September, which sources about 1,000 own-brand products directly
from factories. It now accounts for about 6 percent of products,
and Lella aims to grow that by 50 percent this year. The U.K.
and France directly source about 15 percent of products.  “It will always be slightly lower than the U.K. and France
because there’s good, local, low-cost suppliers,” Cheshire
said. Still, direct sourcing and own-brands are some of the
“big opportunities” Poland provides for Kingfisher, the CEO
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  