-- 
Kuwait Bourse Chief Seeks to Slow Government Sale Plan, Favors Nasdaq

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-12T12:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/kuwait-bourse-chief-seeks-to-slow-government-sale-plan-favors-nasdaq.html
Kuwait Stock Exchange is seeking to
slow government plans to sell the country’s bourse on concern it
remains too weak three years after the credit crisis triggered a
$5 billion bailout of financial companies.  “I’m against the way it is to be privatized,” Hamed al-
Saif, the director and head of the exchange, said in a phone
interview from his office in  Kuwait City  today. “It’s too fast
and the stock exchange will be very weak, it should be
gradual.”  The government must sell 50 percent of the exchange by the
end of this year under the terms of a law approved in February
2010. The remainder is to be sold to Kuwaitis in an initial
public offering, al-Saif said.  Kuwait’s benchmark index has lost 9.3 percent this year.
Companies are recovering after the global financial crisis
forced the government to guarantee all local  bank deposits  in 
2008 and approve a $5 billion economic rescue package to help 
bolster financial institutions.  “You can’t give control of the exchange to the private
sector in this situation because most of the companies have
problems now,” al-Saif said. “We have to review the law. We
have to add value to the stock exchange and correct everything”
before selling it, he said.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-biggest operator of U.S.
stock exchanges, signed an 18.3 million dinar ($66.7 million)
contract with KSE in October 2009 to supply it with a trading
system and advisory services.  Regulator  Al-Saif said the government should consider selling 20
percent of the Kuwait exchange to  Nasdaq  and hand 20 percent to
the  Kuwait Investment Authority , an arm of the government. Under
al-Saif’s plan, a further 20 percent should be sold to the
public and 20 percent to the private sector, which could be
increased to as much as 30 percent within three years “when the
economy and companies will be corrected,” he said.  The exchange has been regulated since March by the  Capital
Markets Authority , or CMA, the country’s first stock-market
regulator.  The law allows listed companies to hold as much as 5
percent stakes in the bourse.  “We’re trying to correct the stock exchange but the CMA
says no, leave everything as it is until the exchange is
privatized,” al-Saif said. “That is wrong."  Officials from the CMA couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment today when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The bourse management met June 9 with Commerce Minister
Amani Boresli to discuss how to proceed with any changes to the
law, according to al-Saif. Boresli wasn’t immediately available
for comment when telephoned by Bloomberg News today.  Privatizing the stock exchange according to the current law
‘‘will tighten controls and makes the market more
professional,” said Ali al-Nimesh, an independent Kuwaiti
economic analyst. “If you want to bring money to this country,
you have to keep it professional and efficient and the private
sector needs to play a leading role."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  