-- 
Nissan Customers Angry Trying to Turn New Leaf: Alan Ohnsman

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-14T00:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/nissan-aggravates-customers-attempting-to-turn-ceo-ghosn-s-new-leaf-cars.html
Nissan Motor Co. is aggravating the
customers it needs most.  Nissan, which wants to become the top seller of electric
cars, repeatedly delayed deliveries to some U.S. buyers who
reserved the first 20,000  Leaf  plug-in hatchbacks, according to
interviews with customers. They said Nissan unexpectedly dropped
some from the waiting list temporarily, asking that they reapply
if they couldn’t prove they’d arranged installation of home-
charging units that can cost more than $2,000.  “My delivery date kept jumping around, from April to
‘pending’ to May to June to July,” said Marc Fishman, a 42-
year-old movie sound editor from Burbank,  California . He said
Nissan canceled the first order he placed, in September 2010,
without explanation and gave him conflicting information after
he reordered the next month.  For Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , the
hitches show that the first mass-market electric car for the
U.S. is a long way from being sold and delivered as smoothly as
the company’s Altima sedans. Ironing out the Leaf process is a
priority for the Yokohama-based carmaker to meet its goal of
selling hundreds of thousands of the hatchbacks annually within
the next few years to recoup an investment of more than $1
billion.  “What it demonstrates is reality -- electric vehicles are
niche products that can’t be mass-produced yet and can’t yet be
sold like regular vehicles,” said  Eric Noble , president of the
Car Lab, an industry research company in Orange, California.  Nissan shares declined 1.1 percent to 784 yen today in
Tokyo trading, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the benchmark
Nikkei-225 Stock Average.  Helicopter Fly-Over  The company expected “challenges” with its first electric
car and first “built-to-order” model sold via the Internet in
the U.S., said Brendan Jones, manager of Leaf sales in the
country. The prospect proved true when orders were delayed due
to technical glitches and communications problems, compounded by
 Japan ’s earthquake in March that slowed deliveries of all
models.  In April, Nissan began revamping the program, retraining
agents who staff the vehicle’s sales website and promoting
Jones, who had been a manager of general sales and marketing, to
director of the same for the plug-in brand.  The first Leaf buyers, whom Jones described as more
affluent and tech-savvy than typical Nissan customers, require
special handling. One Californian on the waiting list was so
anxious about his order that “he even got a helicopter to fly
over the port to see how many Leafs had arrived,” Jones said in
a telephone interview on June 3.  Lowered Expectations  “The expectation we set for our customer service agents
didn’t prepare them for that level of customer inquiry,” said
Jones, based at Nissan’s North American headquarters in
Franklin, Tennessee.  U.S. Leaf deliveries began as a trickle late last year and
totaled 2,167 through May. This year,  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold
2,184 Volt plug-ins, a rival rechargeable car.  Nissan anticipates getting at least 10,000 cars to U.S.
drivers this year -- half the original plan for 20,000.  “I understand the frustration of some of the consumers,”
Ghosn told reporters today in  Palo Alto , California. “The last
thing we want to do is frustrate them.”  The company will deliver at least 1,500 cars to U.S.
customers, the most since the program began, Ghosn said.  Up to 100 Miles  Leaf has a base price of about $33,000 before a federal tax
credit. It travels between 62 miles (99 kilometers) and more
than 100 miles when its lithium-ion battery pack is fully
charged, according to a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
rating.  While anyone can reserve a Leaf for a $99 fee, for now
Nissan lets people actually place orders in only seven states:
 Arizona , California,  Hawaii ,  Oregon , Tennessee,  Texas  and
 Washington .  “I expected the Leaf as early as December last year, and
no later than March this year, so it is disappointing,” said
David Radzieta, a computer systems analyst in Hueytown,  Alabama ,
who made his reservation in July 2010.  In Burbank, Fishman said he’s frustrated because his chance
of getting a  $5,000 electric car  rebate from California has been
put at risk. The program, funded by vehicle registration fees,
may run out of money in July. While it may be renewed,
regulators have proposed halving the rebate to $2,500.  “This was, frankly, an unacceptable way to treat
reservation holders who’ve been continuously misled and kept in
the dark,” Fishman said.  He said he hopes to receive his car by the end of the
month, and is awaiting installation of a $2,250 home charger.  Rewired Homes  Drivers who want to own a Leaf, like those who leased
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s  Mini E  electric car and  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s $109,000 Roadster, are willing to invest time and
money to have their homes rewired to accommodate the vehicles,
something the average driver isn’t ready to do, said the Car
Lab’s Noble.  “These are people who’ve already signed up for some degree
of sacrifice -- who eagerly await vehicles that barely go 100
miles per charge on a good day,” he said.  On Nissan’s consumer website, people thinking about owning
a Leaf are guided through a “suitability analysis,” Jones
said.  “It asks you, how much do you drive, do you have a
garage?” he said. “Do some self-analysis before proceeding.”  Nissan stopped taking reservations in September after
lining up 20,000 potential buyers. Of that group, about 45
percent chose not to continue with the process, said Katherine Zachary, a spokeswoman for the company. Reservations reopened in
May and Nissan has secured more than 1,000 orders since then.  The goal is to ensure buyers wait no more than four months
from order to delivery, Jones said.  Ghosn has predicted electric cars will account for 10
percent of Nissan’s global auto sales by 2020. Anticipating
that, the company will open a lithium-ion battery factory in
Smyrna,  Tennessee , next year to make packs for as many as
200,000 Leafs and other models that will be built at its auto-
assembly plant next door.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  