-- 
Obama May Ease No Child Left Behind Mandates to Avoid School ‘Train Wreck’

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/obama-may-ease-no-child-left-behind-mandates-to-avoid-school-train-wreck-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said it would offer states relief from the
nation’s main public-education law if Congress fails to enact
changes by the start of the school year.  States may avoid requirements of the No Child Left Behind
law that, for example, more students pass standardized tests
each year if they agree to administration-backed “reforms,”
U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan said June 10 in a press
briefing. The Education Department has pushed states to adopt
national academic standards and merit pay for teachers. The law
ties U.S. funding to test results.  Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  and Republican Representative
 John Kline  are among the members of Congress who have criticized
the law’s focus on holding schools accountable only through
testing proficiency. Almost four years ago, Congress released a
draft bill to revamp the law, and in March 2010, the Obama
administration issued a blueprint for change. No legislation has
been formally introduced, giving Congress less than three months
to meet the administration’s deadline.  “Our children get one shot -- only one shot -- at
education, and they cannot wait any longer for reform,” Duncan
said. He called the law a “slow-motion train wreck for
children, parents and teachers” that risks labeling three-
quarters of U.S. schools as failures.  Bush’s Initiative  No Child Left Behind, signed into law in 2002, is former
President  George W. Bush ’s signature education initiative.
Officially called the Elementary and Secondary Education Act,
the law requires schools show that all students are proficient
on state standardized reading and math tests by 2014. Schools
also must demonstrate yearly progress toward that goal or risk
losing federal money.  Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , whose staff was briefed
on Duncan’s plan, supports the administration’s proposal, said
Raquel Guillory, a spokeswoman. O’Malley, a Democrat, worries
that even high-performing schools could lose federal funds under
the current law if they are labeled as failing, she said.  Meeting federal testing benchmarks “is not the only
measure of school success that should be taken into account,”
Guillory said.  Congress, not the Education Department, should be
responsible for changing the law, said Harkin, the Iowa Democrat
and Senate education committee chairman, and Senator Mike Enzi,
a Wyoming Republican and the committee’s ranking member, in
separate statements.  ‘Premature’ Step  “Given the bipartisan commitment in Congress to fixing No
Child Left Behind, it seems premature at this point to take
steps outside the legislative process that would address NCLB’s
problems in a temporary and piecemeal way,” Harkin said in his
statement.  The administration’s first priority is working with
Congress to change and reauthorize the law, Duncan said. If
lawmakers don’t act, the administration would use its power to
grant waivers to states that agree to make changes, Duncan said.  Rather than a “one-off” approach, Duncan said he would
favor giving states a regulatory-relief package in exchange for
what he described as “a set of reforms.”  The administration
may ease provisions for states that show they will measure how
much students learn in a given year, rather than meeting
absolute proficiency standards, Duncan said.  Duncan, when asked by reporters about the types of
“reforms” he was referring to, cited the administration’s $5
billion Race to the Top grants that have rewarded states that
incorporate student achievement into teacher evaluations and
adopted common academic standards developed by U.S. governors
and schools chiefs.  Department’s Plan  In March 2010, the department’s blueprint advocated giving
schools credit for showing improvement in student achievement
through a variety of measures, rather than only for reaching a
certain level of proficiency on state standardized tests. Duncan
said then the current system encourages states to lower their
standards so they can qualify for federal money.  Kline, a Minnesota Republican who chairs the House
education committee, supports “enhanced flexibility” for
states and school districts, Jennifer Allen, his spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  “However, Chairman Kline remains concerned about any
initiative that would allow the Secretary to pick winners and
losers in the nation’s education system,” Allen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  