-- 
London Lures U.S. Technology Investors Seeking Cheaper LinkedIn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-12T23:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/london-lures-u-s-technology-investors-seeking-cheaper-linkedin.html
Laurel Bowden , a partner at Facebook
Inc. investor  Greylock Partners , has been working out of London
from a rented desk for more than two years.  Fresh from an initial public offering of LinkedIn Corp.
that valued its stake at $1.3 billion, the  Menlo Park ,
California-based venture firm last month raised its first fund
focusing on Europe and  Israel . Greylock and Insight Venture
Partners, an early backer of Lovefilm and Flipboard, are among
American investors considering opening offices in London to take
advantage of a burgeoning number of technology startups.  U.S. venture capitalists, later-stage technology investors
and software companies are paying more attention to targets in
London, Paris, and Munich, upping investments in and exposure to
a region some had all but written off. For them,  Europe  offers a
chance at finding hidden gems in unlikely places -- and perhaps
billion-dollar success stories such as Skype Technologies SA,
Spotify Ltd., and Yandex NV.  “The quality of entrepreneurs in Europe is exponentially
higher than a decade ago,” said Jeff Horing, a co-founder of
New York-based Insight. “We are over there because we think
we’re getting better deals.”  European technology startups are cheap relative to the
U.S., where valuations have soared in the wake of Facebook,
Twitter, and Zynga Inc. Last year, deal values in Europe stood
at a pre-investment average of $5 million, compared with $15
million in the U.S., according to Ernst & Young LLP. In the
first quarter, valuations in Europe rose 20 percent to $6
million while the U.S. saw a 40 percent surge to $21 million.  TweetDeck, Wooga  High-profile deals and investment rounds involving U.S.
companies and venture funds this year included Amazon Inc.’s
$320 million purchase of the rest of Lovefilm, Twitter Inc.’s
takeover of London-based TweetDeck, and a 73 million-pound 
funding round for U.K. online loan-provider Wonga, led by 
U.S.-based  Oak Investment Partners .  In March, takeaway-ordering service Just-Eat closed a $48
million investment round led by Greylock, just days after
“Angry Birds” developer Rovio Mobile Ltd. raised $42 million
from investors including Palo Alto-based Accel Partners.  “Five or six years ago, American VCs would have been more
hesitant to do an investment in Europe,” said Barry Maloney,
founder and partner at London-based Balderton Capital, which
took part last month in a $24 million funding around for Berlin-
based social games developer Wooga GmbH. “I think that
hesitancy has gone away now as we’ve had more high-profile
technology and Internet exits.”  Meanwhile, European governments are stepping up their
rhetorical support of young technology companies and, in some
cases, trying to shed an image of hostility to high-tech.  Sarkozy, Schmidt  In Paris last month, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  appeared alongside  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  to pledge their support for
technology investment. In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is promoting Tech City U.K., an effort to
create a Silicon Valley-style cluster of startups in east London
stretching from Shoreditch, near the City financial center, to
Stratford, where the Olympic Stadium is being built.  With the advantages of a multinational population, the
English language, and an existing cluster of  venture-capital 
firms, London is leading European technology growth.  The city is “the beachhead for investments in Europe
overall,” said Gil Forer, Ernst & Young’s former global
director for venture capital. Investors have focused in
particular on the so-called Silicon Roundabout, a cluster of
converted warehouses around the Old Street junction just north
of  London ’s traditional financial district, which has hosted
startups including Last.fm and Tweetdeck.  Silicon ‘Drinkabout’  Greylock may hire a second partner in London after it
closed a $160 million fund, more than initially targeted, Bowden
said. “We expect the pace of investments to increase.”  London-based Index Ventures said in March it would open a
satellite office in the neighborhood, while one of its
investments, social gaming developer Mind Candy, is hosting
weekly “drinkabout” networking sessions.  While investors agree the continent has no shortage of
talented would-be entrepreneurs, none of the startups have come
close to achieving the global scale of Google Inc. or Facebook,
both less than a decade-and-a-half old.  “Europe excels at product engineering and at producing
good developers,” said Christian Lucas, a managing director at
 Silver Lake Partners , a later-stage technology investor that
backed Skype, the Luxembourg-based Internet-call provider that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  last month agreed to buy for $8.5 billion.
“Globalizing remains a challenge.”  ‘Afraid of Failure’  Working in multiple languages and small national markets,
along with tougher regulations on startups than in the U.S., all
hold back European technology companies, said Lucas, who was
added as the firm’s second managing director in London last
year.  On a continent with a tradition of long-term employment in
big, industrial companies like Ericsson AB or  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
the biggest challenges for European startups may run deeper.  Niklas Zennstrom would know. The founder of Skype left
mobile-phone operator  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  to become an entrepreneur.  “The biggest obstacle we have is cultural,” said
Zennstrom, whose career also included founding music-sharing
service Kazaa. “People are afraid of failure.”  Still, entrepreneurs in places like London have a ready
role-model in a city that until recently had little history of
success in the Internet world:  New York . The biggest U.S. city
has launched successful startups including Gilt Groupe and
Foursquare after years in Silicon Valley’s shadow.  “There’s a lot of similarities between London and New
York,” Foursquare founder Dennis Crowley said in an interview.
“When we started, people said: ‘Look, a start-up in New York.
How cute. Now there’s a huge scene.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  