-- 
Philippines to Consider All Policy Tools in Inflation Fight, Officials Say

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-13T08:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/philippines-ahead-of-curve-in-fighting-inflation-treasury-minister-says.html
The Philippines will consider all
policy tools, including  interest rates  and  reserve requirements ,
to keep a tight rein on inflation, the nation’s finance minister
and central bank governor said.  “The strategy is to make sure we’re always ahead of the
curve in dealing with inflation,” Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in  Manila  yesterday during celebrations to mark
the Philippines’ 113th year of independence.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised its benchmark overnight
borrowing rate by a quarter of a percentage point at both its
March and May meetings, to 4.5 percent. Annual inflation reached
4.5 percent last month, the fastest pace in 13 months. Ten of 16
economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the central bank will
raise the rate to 4.75 percent on June 16, while the rest expect
no change.  “We have a number of instruments in our policy toolkit --
policy rate, reserve requirement, macro-prudential measures --
and we will consider all these” at this month’s meeting, central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters yesterday.  Benchmark three-year bond yields rose the most in five
weeks today, according to Tradition Financial Services. The peso
fell a second day, heading for its lowest close against the
dollar in two weeks, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency has risen more than 7 percent in the past 12 months.  Peso Stability  While the central bank doesn’t use the peso to control
price pressures, its stability is helping damp inflation, Deputy
Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in an interview today in  Singapore .
Bangko Sentral is “ahead of the curve” and “inflation has
been benign,” sustaining growth, Guinigundo said.  The central bank will leave its benchmark rate unchanged
for now to gauge the impact of previous tightening before
raising it again possibly in July, said  Prakriti Sofat , a
Singapore-based economist at  Barclays Capital . Global risks have
made the outcome of the June meeting a “close call,” she said.  Bangko Sentral’s monetary policy will remain supportive of
the nation’s economic expansion, Tetangco said. Philippine banks
are required to set aside 19 percent of their deposits as
reserves, a ratio the central bank reduced from 21 percent in
November 2008.  The central bank is currently “not looking at” extending
the tenors of its special deposit accounts, Tetangco said. There
is more than 1 trillion pesos ($23.1 billion) deposited in the
central bank special accounts, a facility that authorities have
used to mop up surplus cash in markets.  Economic Expansion  The $161 billion Southeast Asian economy will
“comfortably” expand by about 5 percent this year, while a
target of 7 percent to 8 percent growth starting in 2011 remains
“aspirational,” Purisima told reporters yesterday.  Gross domestic product increased 4.9 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, the weakest pace since 2009. This
year’s growth target may be reviewed after the second-quarter
data is released, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga
said at the same event yesterday.  The government will pursue a planned bond exchange
depending on market conditions, and is confident of capping the
2011  budget deficit  within 3.2 percent of GDP, Purisima, who
sits on the central bank’s Monetary Board, said.  “So far, we’ve done a good job,” he said. “Inflation is
still within the upper limits of our policy range. The situation
right now is well-managed” by the central bank, he said.  Inflation in the  Philippines  has been “primarily driven”
by higher oil costs, Purisima said. The government will boost
spending to help spur growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  