-- 
Prada’s Hong Kong Initial Offering May Raise Up to $2.6 Billion

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-06-12T11:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/prada-initial-share-sale-may-raise-up-to-2-6-billion-clsa-says.html
Prada SpA, the Italian maker of Miu
Miu bags, may raise as much as HK$20.3 billion ($2.6 billion)
through its initial public offering in  Hong Kong  as it seeks to
expand in Asia.  The Milan-based luxury-goods company is selling 423.3
million shares and set a price range of HK$36.50 to HK$48 each,
according to a prospectus for the sale distributed to reporters
in Hong Kong today.  Prada’s IPO may be double that of Chinese shoe retailer
Belle International Holdings Ltd., which at $1.3 billion is the
largest for consumer-goods companies in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bagmakers  Coach Inc. (COH)  and Samsonite
LLC also plan to sell shares in the former British colony to
capitalize on demand for luxury products in  China , the world’s
most-populous nation.  Mainland China, which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or
 Taiwan , will remain the fastest-growing market for high-end
goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros
($16.6 billion), Bain & Co. said May 3. The country may become
the world’s third-largest luxury market in five years, the
consulting company predicted.  The IPO values Prada at as much as 28 times 2011 profit as
estimated by banks arranging the sale, a person with knowledge
of the matter said June 6. Six comparable luxury-goods companies
worldwide, including  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , recently traded at an
average 21.1 times forecast full-year earnings, according to a
May 20 research note from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  China Stores  Prada’s shares will be priced on June 17 and will start
trading on Hong Kong’s stock exchange on June 24, the prospectus
said.  About two thirds of the net proceeds will be used to
finance the expansion of Prada’s directly-operated stores, the
prospectus said.  The maker of Church’s shoes has forecast first-half profit
growth of at least 46 percent as it opens more stores in  Asia .
Over the next three years the company plans to open about 80
outlets annually, of which as many 12 will be in China and about
25 in Asia, Deputy Chairman Carlo Mazzi said at a briefing today
in Hong Kong.  Prada had 319 directly operated stores as of January 31
this year, up from 211 three years earlier, the prospectus said.
It had 18 such outlets in China, the document said.  Resourcehouse, MGM China  Profit more than doubled to 250.8 million euros last year
on growth in the Asia-Pacific region, where sales jumped 63
percent. Revenue rose 31 percent to 2.05 billion euros.  Hong Kong, where companies raised $58 billion in IPOs in
2010, has fallen below the U.S. in first-time share sales this
year. Resourcehouse Ltd., Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s
iron ore and coal company, on June 4 dropped its fourth attempt
in two years to sell stock in Hong Kong, citing adverse global
market conditions.  MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau casino venture part
owned by  Pansy Ho , is the only $1 billion-plus IPO in Hong Kong
since October to sell shares at the top end of its marketed
price range, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prada, which postponed plans to list in 2008, is controlled
by Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli; his wife,  Miuccia Prada ; and her family. The company sells clothing and
accessories under the Prada, Miu Miu, Church’s and Car Shoe
brands.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  unit CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UniCredit SpA are
managing the IPO, along with Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the prospectus shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  