-- 
Prada IPO May Raise as Much as $2.6 Billion to Fund Expansion

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-12T18:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/prada-s-hong-kong-ipo-may-raise-as-much-as-2-6-billion-for-luxury-company.html
Prada SpA, the Italian maker of Miu
Miu bags, may raise as much as HK$20.3 billion ($2.6 billion)
through its initial public offering in  Hong Kong  to fund the
opening of more stores.  The Milan-based luxury-goods company is selling 423.3
million shares for HK$36.50 to HK$48 each, according to the IPO
prospectus distributed to reporters in Hong Kong yesterday.
Selling shares at the top of the range may give the company a
market value of as much as HK$122.8 billion, according to data
in the document and Bloomberg calculations.  Prada’s share sale may be double that of Chinese shoe
retailer Belle International Holdings Ltd., which at $1.3
billion is the largest for consumer-goods companies in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bagmakers  Coach Inc. (COH) 
and Samsonite LLC also plan to sell shares in the former British
colony to capitalize on demand for luxury products in  China , the
world’s most-populous nation.  Mainland China, which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or
 Taiwan , will remain the fastest-growing market for high-end
goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros
($16.6 billion), Bain & Co. said May 3. The country may become
the world’s third-largest luxury market in five years, the
consulting company predicted.  New Stores  About two thirds of the net proceeds from the initial
public offering will be used to finance the expansion of Prada’s
directly operated stores, the prospectus said.  Over the next three years the company plans to open about
80 outlets annually, of which as many 12 will be in China and
about 25 in  Asia , Deputy Chairman Carlo Mazzi said at a briefing
yesterday in Hong Kong.  “We are less penetrated than our competition in China,”
he said, noting that its Church shoes brand had no retail stores
in the mainland. He said the company plans to expand to Northern
Europe, where it has no retail outlets as well as other
unexploited markets in the  Middle East  and  Latin America .  China accounted for 19 percent of global sales as of Jan. 31,
up from 10 percent three years ago, said Alessandra Cozzani,
group investor relations director.  Prada had 319 directly operated stores, of which 18 were in
China, on Jan. 31, compared with 211 three years earlier, the
prospectus said.  Pricing, Debut  Revenue from its stores accounted for 71 percent of Prada’s
sales for the year ended Jan. 31, Cozzani said.  The IPO values Prada at as much as 28 times 2011 profit as
estimated by banks arranging the sale, a person with knowledge
of the matter said June 6. Six comparable luxury-goods companies
worldwide, including  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , recently traded at an
average 21.1 times forecast full-year earnings, according to a
May 20 research note from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Prada, which will have about 2.6 billion shares after the
IPO, will have a market value of HK$122.8 billion, or more than
70 percent bigger than that of Burberry.  Prada’s shares will be priced on June 17 and will start
trading on Hong Kong’s stock exchange on June 24, the prospectus
said.  The maker of Church’s shoes has forecast first-half profit
growth of at least 46 percent as it opens more stores in Asia.  Profit more than doubled to 250.8 million euros last year
on growth in the Asia-Pacific region, where sales jumped 63
percent. Revenue rose 31 percent to 2.05 billion euros.  Resourcehouse, MGM China  Hong Kong, where companies raised $58 billion in IPOs in
2010, has fallen below the U.S. in first-time share sales this
year. Resourcehouse Ltd., Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s
iron ore and coal company, on June 4 dropped its fourth attempt
in two years to sell stock in Hong Kong, citing adverse global
market conditions.  MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau casino venture part
owned by  Pansy Ho , is the only $1 billion-plus IPO in Hong Kong
since October to sell shares at the top end of its marketed
price range, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prada, which postponed plans to list in 2008, is controlled
by Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli, 65, his wife
 Miuccia Prada , who is 63, and her family. They currently own
94.9 percent of the company, a stake that could be reduced to 80
percent if the full overallotment of shares is taken up during
the initial offering.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA is reducing its stake from 5.1 percent
to 1 percent and will not be affected by the overallotment
option.  The company sells clothing and accessories under the Prada,
Miu Miu, Church’s and Car Shoe brands.  Intesa Sanpaolo,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  unit CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UniCredit SpA are managing
the IPO, along with Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the prospectus shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  