-- 
Profits Seen Boosting Jobs as Earnings Grow Most Since 1940s

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-13T17:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/profits-seen-increasing-jobs-as-earnings-in-u-s-grow-fastest-since-1940s.html
Profits at American companies are
poised to be one of the few bright spots in the U.S., helping to
steady the faltering recovery.  Earnings will climb an average 10 percent a year through
2013, more than three times quicker than the economy, after what
has already been the fastest rebound since the late 1940s,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. projects. In mounting signs of confidence,
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  has raised its annual profit forecast,  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)  increased dividends and DuPont Co. plans to
invest more than $500 million to boost production.  Surging overseas sales, improving U.S. demand and the
 Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep interest rates close to zero
for an extended period bode well for earnings, said Robert Mellman, an economist at JPMorgan who has tracked corporate
profits since 1985 and published a special report May 20 on the
subject. Widening margins will give businesses the means and
incentive to invest and hire, paving the way for accelerating
growth in the world’s largest economy, he predicted.  “Corporate profits have plenty of room to run,” as
“returns on investing and expanding are high,” Mellman said in
a June 10 interview from  New York . “This makes companies want
to grow the business. As profitability remains strong, they’ll
increase hiring.”  Adding Workers  The recent spate of weak economic data, capped by news that
payrolls grew in May at the slowest pace in eight months, is
sparking concern about the expansion’s sustainability. Even so,
private employers have added 2.14 million workers since  job
creation  resumed in March 2010, nine months after the recession
ended. That’s about a quarter of the 8.8 million positions lost
during the 18-month slump.  JPMorgan projects growth will pick up in the second half as
higher energy costs and supply-chain disruptions subside. The
economy will return to a 3 percent growth rate in the third and
fourth quarters, with profit gains accelerating to 10 percent,
Mellman said.  The earnings trend likely will mean a boost for the stock
market, predicts  John Carey , a Boston-based  money manager  at
Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $250 billion. It’s
“reasonable” to expect the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will be
up 10 percent this year from the end of 2010, he said, compared
with about 1 percent as of June 10.  Investors in financial companies such as banks may see some
“nice gains,” and technology stocks including semiconductors
are a good bet, Carey said. Mergers, acquisitions and share-
repurchase activity also may pick up, while dividend increases
will become more widespread and frequent as companies armed with
stronger balance sheets put their cash to work.  “There’s certainly a lot of gunpowder,” Carey said.  Beating Projections  Cincinnati-based Macy’s, which slashed its quarterly
dividend to 5 cents a share from 13.25 cents in early 2009, said
May 11 it will double the payout to 10 cents. The same day, the
second-biggest U.S. department-store chain boosted its 2011
profit forecast to as much as $2.45, above analysts’ projections
of $2.35 a share according to the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, also raised its
dividend May 11 by 16 percent to 21 cents, while Target, the
second-largest U.S. discount retailer, announced June 8 a 20
percent boost in its dividend to 30 cents.  “Conditions for better corporate profits will be there for
the next couple of years, barring some catastrophe,” Carey
said. “If this is going to be a normal business cycle, we have
a lot of growth still to come.”  Surging Earnings  Earnings, adjusted for depreciation and inventory costs,
surged at an average annual rate of 29.9 percent in the eight
quarters through the end of 2010, the strongest such growth in
more than half a century, according to the JPMorgan report,
which Mellman wrote with Chief Economist Bruce Kasman.  The “enormous” gains came despite little help from the
economy, Mellman said. Adjusted for inflation, growth averaged
1.5 percent a year during the period. Businesses also lacked the
power to raise prices during the final months of the recession,
which ended June 2009, and in the early stages of the recovery.  Given this backdrop, the profits rebound is sustainable for
at least three years, albeit at less lofty growth rates, Mellman
said. The latest figures show earnings rising at a 5.3 percent
annual pace in January-March from the prior quarter, while gross
domestic product expanded 1.8 percent.  ‘Bullish Sign’  Companies are starting to get relief from energy costs, as
crude oil has fallen 13 percent from this year’s peak of $113.93
on April 29. Businesses also have more clarity on the parts-
supply shortages caused by the March earthquake in  Japan , and a
rebound in motor-vehicle production is “a bullish sign” for
the labor market, said Joseph Carson, director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “We have a lot of positives lined up,” Carson said.
“Unless we see a big change in underlying conditions such as
balance-sheet strength, record liquidity, pent-up demand and
easy monetary policy, I doubt the economy is at risk.”  Some executives already are looking past the soft patch. A
survey of 99 companies completed June 6 showed businesses are
more optimistic about  capital spending  for this year than
they’ve been since records began in 2003, according to a report
from ISI Group Inc. in New York. Hiring plans were the highest
in five years.  The results are consistent with analysts’ forecasts for a
14.5 percent gain from a year ago in the second-quarter earnings
of S&P 500 companies, ISI said.  ‘Lifeblood’ of Cycles  “The corporate sector is in much better shape today than
it was in past cycles,” Carson said. Given that “liquidity is
the lifeblood of all cycles,” the U.S. has “the foundation for
a strong recovery.”  Companies in the S&P index had $2.58 trillion in cash and
short-term investments at the end of the last quarter, according
to Bloomberg data. Operating profits increased a cumulative 44
percent since the recovery began, six times faster than the 7
percent rise in nominal GDP, Carson said, with the surge led by
domestic industries, which posted a 52 percent jump in earnings.  Even more compelling is the long-term boost American
companies are getting from their overseas earnings, which grew
an average 12 percent during the past decade, or about double
the rise in the U.S., Carson said.  “Strong profits create the incentive to generate more
profits,” he said. “That comes through investment.”  Increase Production  DuPont said May 11 it plans to increase production of
titanium-dioxide pigment by about one-third to satisfy rising
global demand. It will add about 350,000 metric tons of annual
capacity across five sites in the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Taiwan , said
the Wilmington, Delaware-based company, the world’s largest
maker of the paint ingredient.  Even as companies see their bottom lines improving, the
gains are taking time to trickle down to employees. Seven
quarters after the recession ended, labor costs are running 2.3
percent below the second quarter of 2009, according to  Jonathan Basile , senior economist at Credit Suisse in New York. In the
nine other postwar recoveries, labor costs rose by an average
2.7 percent in the same period.  “Employment growth will gradually get better, but the
increase in wages for each worker will remain weak,” Mellman
said. Unemployment exceeding 9 percent and a pool of almost 14
million Americans without a job give workers little leeway to
ask for higher pay. That means the Fed will stick to its “low-
for-long” policy on  interest rates  for some time, he said.  “With increasing profits and a lower jobless rate, at some
point wages start to go up as workers get more bargaining
power,” Mellman said. “But we’re probably a few years away
from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  