-- 
Volcanic Ash Disrupts Air Travel Across Southern Hemisphere

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-13T19:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/qantas-extends-new-zealand-flight-cuts-because-of-chile-volcanic-ash-cloud.html
Flights across the Southern
Hemisphere were disrupted as a cloud of volcanic ash from an
eruption in southern Chile widened from  Argentina  to  Australia .  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s plane was
diverted from its planned landing today in Buenos Aires to the
central province of Cordoba after the capital city closed its
two biggest airports, canceling 144 flights by companies
including Santiago-based  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  and  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest carrier.  “There are ashes throughout the first 9,000 meters of the
atmosphere,” said Alejandro Tome, a spokesman at the Argentine
civil aviation office, adding that the flight disruptions in the
region were “unprecedented.”  Cancellations worsened after initially easing on June 10,
one day after airlines scrapped about 320 flights to and from
the Buenos Aires airports following the June 4 eruption of the
Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex in Chile.  New Zealand 
airspace may be affected for  at least a week , the country’s
Civil Aviation Authority said June 11.  Aerolineas Argentinas SA, the country’s biggest airline,
may resume some flights tonight, depending on weather
conditions, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Sand-Blasting’  In  Brazil ,  Tam SA (TAMM4)  canceled flights to and from Buenos Aires
and Montevideo, Uruguay, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  canceled flights
today to Argentina from Santiago, Florianopolis and  Sao Paulo ,
according to  Aeropuertos Argentina 2000 SA , which runs the
country’s two biggest airports.  The volcanic ash consists of “pretty fine particles that
can cause damage to the windscreen of the aircraft and to the
fuselage,” said Bill Sommer, a spokesman for New Zealand’s
Civil Aviation Authority. “It can also cause problems to
engines and has been known to get into hydraulic systems. It’s
almost like sand-blasting.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. canceled its Buenos Aires to Atlanta
flight today, said  Anthony Black , a spokesman for the carrier.
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  canceled three flights
yesterday because of the volcano’s activity, said Mary Clark, a
spokeswoman. The airline hasn’t decided today whether to cancel
additional flights, Clark said in an e-mail from Houston.  Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s biggest carrier, canceled
more flights today.  8,000 Passengers  “A number of flights have been canceled or re-routed to
avoid the volcanic ash cloud,” Qantas said in a message on its
 Web site . Passengers with tickets to travel to or from affected
destinations can change course or get a refund credit for future
travel, it said.  About 8,000 Qantas passengers had already been affected by
cancellations to 59 flights late yesterday, spokeswoman  Olivia Wirth  said in an e-mailed statement. The airline grounded
flights serving Auckland, Christchurch, Queenstown and
Wellington in New Zealand, as well as Tasmania and  Melbourne ,
Australia’s second-largest city.  “Until we know exactly where the ash plume is, exactly
what the density of it is, Qantas believes it’s absolutely
prudent to suspend services,” Wirth told reporters.  Qantas said its Jetstar budget brand has stopped 66
flights, affecting 8,600 passengers.  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) 
also planned to cancel services to New Zealand, according to
Brisbane-based spokeswoman Melissa Thomson.  UN Secretary-General Ban, who met with Argentine President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner today, took a 8-hour bus ride to
cover the 713 kilometers (443 miles) from Cordoba to Argentina’s
capital.  Engine Stall  In 1982, all four engines on a British Airways Boeing Co.
747 stalled when the plane encountered ash spewed from Mount
Galunggung in  Indonesia . The plane fell for almost four miles
before the pilot was able to restart three engines and make an
emergency landing in Jakarta.  The eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano in April
2010 caused the cancellation of more than 100,000 flights amid
concern that glass-like particles formed when lava was cooled by
ice might melt in aircraft engines and clog turbines.  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the country’s state-controlled
carrier, has said it doesn’t expect delays or cancellations in
an e-mailed statement. The airline is operating with changed
flight paths and altitude levels where necessary, the statement
said, citing Chief Pilot Captain David Morgan.  Lower Altitude  “The ash has traveled a great distance at high altitude
and remains present at distinct altitude bands between
20,000-35,000 feet,” said Morgan, who is also Air New Zealand’s
general manager of airline operations and safety. “As a result,
where required aircraft will fly at a lower altitude of 18,000
feet to remain below the ash or operate a slightly different
course.”  Across the lakes region of Argentine Patagonia, the ash
cloud has closed all airspace. In the southern ski resort town
of Bariloche, ploughs normally used to clear snow from roads
were put to work removing piles of grey ash. The nearby surface
of Lake Nahuel Huapi, part of the country’s oldest national park
that stretches to the mountainous border with  Chile , was covered
in ash.  The government will declare an agriculture emergency in the
Patagonia region as the ashes caused losses of animals and
fruit, said Haroldo Lebed, the country’s secretary of
Agriculture Emergency and Disaster, according to  Perfil.com .  Chile’s Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex previously
had major eruptions in 1921-22 and 1960, according to the
Washington-based Smithsonian Institution. The volcano may erupt
for an additional 10 days, Chilean Mining and Energy Minister
 Laurence Golborne  said on June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  