-- 
Republican Pawlenty Says 5% U.S. Economic Growth Is Plan’s ‘Stretch Goal’

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/republican-candidate-pawlenty-says-5-growth-is-aspiration-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Tim Pawlenty  said his plan for stoking the  U.S. economy  to grow
at 5 percent a year is an “aspiration” that goes hand-in-hand
with his proposals to slash taxes and cut government spending.  Pawlenty, 50, told “Fox News Sunday” he would
“dramatically reduce spending” on federal programs to pay for
tax cuts that may lower revenue by as much as $11.6 trillion
over a decade. Achieving 5 percent growth each year is a
“stretch goal,” the former Minnesota governor said yesterday.  “This is an aspiration. It’s a big goal,” Pawlenty said
of his growth target. Taken together, the tax reductions and
cuts to mandatory and discretionary government programs would
“unleash economic growth,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  is “leading from behind” when it
comes to addressing the economy, Pawlenty said on the Fox
program. “He has run out of ideas,” Pawlenty said. “We have
tried it his way, and it doesn’t work.”  Pawlenty last week unveiled a plan to cut individual and
corporate taxes, reduce loopholes and cut spending, in a move
that he said would help the economy reach his growth target. The
economy hasn’t grown at that rate for a full year since 1984.  His tax plan would reduce revenue going into the  U.S.
Treasury  by $11.6 trillion over 10 years compared with current
law, according to an analysis by the  Tax Policy Center , a joint
venture of the Washington-based  Urban Institute  and  Brookings
Institution .  25% Top Rate  In his June 7  speech  at the University of  Chicago , Pawlenty
called for cutting the top individual  tax rate  to 25 percent
from 35 percent and reducing the top corporate rate to 15
percent from 25 percent. He proposed eliminating taxes on
capital gains, dividends, interest and estates and allowing
“small businesses” that currently pay taxes at individual
rates to pay at the corporate rate.  Pawlenty’s plan would eliminate corporate tax breaks and
retain all individual tax breaks. It would expand the 10 percent
income tax bracket to cover the first $50,000 of income for
individuals and the first $100,000 for married couples.  U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida,
chairwoman the  Democratic National Committee , said in a
statement after the speech that Pawlenty’s proposal is “a
prescription for economic disaster that would fall squarely on
the backs of seniors and working families.” It would cut taxes
for 63.6 percent of households and save top 0.1 percent of U.S.
taxpayers an average of $1.4 million a year, according to the
 Tax Policy Center .  The proposed tax cuts in Pawlenty’s plan are much larger
than those proposed by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan 
of Wisconsin and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp of Michigan, both Republicans.  Strong Showing  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s decision to
skip an August straw poll in the early voting state of Iowa
could create an opening for Pawlenty, who is focusing heavily on
the state and aims to make a strong showing there to boost his
chances of winning the Republican nomination.  “If you’re going to be a leading candidate for President
of the United States, you’ve got to compete in these early
states,” Pawlenty said yesterday. A New Hampshire debate among
the Republican candidates is scheduled for today.  Republicans seeking the nomination to challenge President
Barack Obama include Pawlenty, Romney, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Representative Ron Paul of Texas and former U.S.
Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.  Herman Cain, former chief executive officer of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Godfather’s Pizza Inc. , and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also declared their candidacies.  Other potential candidates include Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann , former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin and former
U.S. ambassador to  China  and Utah governor Jon Huntsman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Young in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  