-- 
Retail Sales Probably Decreased in May: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-12T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/retail-sales-probably-decreased-in-may-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at retailers probably fell in
May as Americans bought fewer cars and elevated gasoline costs
restrained consumers, reports may show this week.  The 0.5 percent drop in purchases, the first decline in 11
months, would follow a 0.5 percent gain in April, according to
the median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Commerce Department data June 14. Other reports may
show inflation eased and manufacturing expanded.  Chains including Limited Brands Inc. missed analysts’
estimates for May as gasoline prices climbed to the highest
level in almost three years and unemployment topped 9 percent. A
decline in fuel costs at the end of the month and a factory
rebound from the temporary effects of the disaster in  Japan 
signal economic growth may pick up in the last six months of
2011.  “The second half should certainly look better,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York . “The
drag from gasoline prices will start to fade,” he said. “Much
of the weakening in May retail sales is the plunge in autos, and
there are reasons not to extrapolate from the numbers.”  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
climbed 0.3 percent last month after rising 0.6 percent in
April, economists surveyed said.  Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million annual rate
in May, the slowest in eight months and down from a 13.1 million
pace for April, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Detroit-
based  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s U.S. deliveries fell 1.2 percent from
the same month last year, while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  had a 2.6 percent
decline as smaller discounts also deterred buyers.  Automaker’s Concern  “Our biggest concern of course is that the economy has
slowed a little bit from where we thought it would be,” Ford
Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said in a June 7 Bloomberg
Television interview. “Having said that, most of the economists
believe that it’s going to start picking up in the second half
with everything that’s been put in place, both monetarily and
fiscally.”  Some of the drop in auto sales last month reflected a
shortage of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and
tsunami disrupted supplies.  The retail sales figures, which aren’t adjusted for
inflation, probably reflected higher service-station receipts.
Regular fuel averaged $3.90 a gallon in May, up 10 cents from
April. The price reached $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July
2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto group. The
cost was down to $3.72 as of June 9.  Job Market  Payrolls grew by 54,000 in May, the smallest gain in eight
months, and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed on June 3. Employment at retailers
fell for the second time in three months.  Less hiring was one reason at least 15 companies fell short
of estimates for same-store sales. Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-
based operator of Victoria’s Secret, reported a 6 percent gain
in May sales at stores open at least a year compared with the
same month in 2010, missing the 7.4 percent average of analysts’
projections compiled by Retail Metrics. A 4 percent decline at
San Francisco-based  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel chain,
was about five times worse than the average prediction.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
fallen 8.1 percent since the end of April, exceeding the 6.8
percent drop in the broader  S&P 500 .  Second Half Pickup  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will grow an average 2.95 percent in the second
half of 2011 after rising 2.1 percent this quarter, according to
the median forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg News from
June 1 to June 8. Economic growth will accelerate to a 3.2
percent rate from July through December from 2.3 percent this
quarter, the survey showed.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, may already be turning around. Fed figures on June 15
may show industrial production grew 0.2 percent in May after
stalling in April, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Regional Fed reports from the New York and Philadelphia area may
also show factories expanded at a faster rate in June.  Inflation is easing as  oil prices  recede. Labor Department
figures due June 16 may show the cost of living index rose 0.1
percent in May after a 0.4 percent gain in April, according to
the Bloomberg survey median. Core prices, which exclude volatile
food and fuel, may have climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.
Figures on June 14 may show wholesale prices were little changed
last month.  The outlook for housing remains bleak. Building permits, a
sign of future construction, likely fell in May for a second
month, according to the survey ahead of a Commerce Department
report on June 16. The same report will show builders broke
ground on more houses after starts unexpectedly fell in April as
flooding and tornadoes in the South closed construction sites,
according the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  