-- 
Trichet ‘Holding a Gun to Own Head’ on Greece: Chart of the Day

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-06-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/trichet-holding-a-gun-to-own-head-on-greece-chart-of-the-day.html
The European Central Bank is playing
a “high stakes game of chicken” with  Germany  by threatening to
disqualify Greek debt as collateral in the event of a bond
restructuring, according to Baring Asset Management.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the cost of insuring Greek,
Irish and Portuguese bonds from default rose to records on June
10, a day after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the
central bank has no plans to take part in a Greek restructuring.
Any solution forcing private-sector involvement amounts to a
“credit event” and would be an “enormous mistake,” he said
after the ECB left its main interest rate at 1.25 percent.  ECB policy makers including Executive Board member Juergen Stark have signaled Greek bonds would no longer be eligible as
collateral following a default. Trichet said on June 9 that the
ECB would not favor anything beyond a “voluntary” rollover of
the nation’s debt.  “Trichet is holding a gun to his own head and threatening
to pull the trigger in front of the crowd of assembled European
policymakers,” said Toby Nangle, director of  asset allocation 
at Baring in  London , which oversees $53 billion. “The non-
treatment of Greek debt as collateral would lead to the
immediate failure of the Greek banking system and potentially
massive requirements from national central banks around the euro
zone to be recapitalized.”  Stark called on governments on June 10 in Frankfurt to end
their “fruitless discussion” about debt restructuring. Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said the same day the central bank
will apply its “rules and framework” concerning the quality of
collateral accepted for monetary policy operations.  “Participation of private creditors in cases of insolvency
is indispensable,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told lawmakers in Berlin on June 10. A working group is charged
with “finding a good solution for the involvement of the
private sector that can and has to be supported by the  European
Central Bank ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 