-- 
Trichet’s ‘Cold War’ With Germany Risks Damage That May Force Compromise

-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-13T14:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/trichet-s-cold-war-with-germany-risks-damage-that-may-force-compromise.html
The confrontation between the
European Central Bank and  Germany  over bailing out Greece risks
causing so much damage that officials may be forced to
compromise.  “The balance of forces in the  euro zone  is a little like
it was in the  Cold War : both sides are brandishing deterrents
that would be too horrendous to use,” said Philip Whyte, a
senior research fellow at the Centre for European Reform in
London. “It’s all going to turn on whether you can fiddle with
debt maturities without calling it a  credit event .”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds over investors’ role in
the second Greek rescue in 14 months. The dispute turns on how
politicians make good on a promise to push creditors to pay some
of the cost, a step that Trichet said on June 9 could be an
“enormous mistake.”  Unless a deal can be struck to guarantee Greece’s financing
needs for the next 12 months, the  International Monetary Fund 
has threatened to withhold its share of what remains of Greece’s
original 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout. Finance
ministers have called a special meeting tomorrow as they try to
avoid what European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  called a “Lehman Brothers catastrophe on European
soil.”  The cost to insure Greek debt against default, already the
most expensive in the world, rose to a record today and bonds of
 Europe ’s bailed-out nations slumped. The swaps indicate a 74
percent chance of default in the next five years.  Giving Ground  “Somebody has to concede ground over the coming days or
the region will experience a full-blown financial crisis,” JP
Morgan Chase & Co. economists led by Bruce Kasman, the firm’s
New York-based chief economist, wrote in a June 10 report. ‘Our
inclination is to think that the German government will back
down and that the region will reach an agreement on a financing
package that will include some modest, voluntary private-sector
involvement.”  The debt crisis has already forced Trichet to tear up the
rule book. The ECB is lending unlimited amounts of cash to
support banking systems and has relaxed collateral requirements.
In May 2010, it took the unprecedented decision to start buying
the bonds of distressed nations in an effort to calm markets as
 Greece ’s fiscal woes began to infect other euro-area members.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has since bought about 75
billion euros of bonds. Of that, 40 billion euros is Greek debt,
according to a Barclays Capital estimate. The ECB stopped buying
bonds 10 weeks ago.  Voluntary Plan  While the ECB has said it could accept a plan in which
creditors voluntarily agree to buy Greek bonds to replace
maturing debt, Trichet said last week the ECB has no intention
of rolling over its own Greek holdings.  He also warned against Schaeuble’s proposal that maturities
on Greek debt be extended for seven years, an outcome that
credit-rating companies said would be considered a default. That
in turn could cut off ECB lending to Greek banks, setting off a
chain reaction.  Asked about the possibility of a Greek default at an event
in  London  today, the ECB president said the central bank’s
advice is to “avoid what would be a compulsory concept.”  “It has to be, in our opinion, a voluntary concept,”
Trichet said at the  London School  of Economics. “Avoid whatever
would trigger a credit event, avoid whatever would trigger a
selective default or a default.”  “This is as simple as that. This is our message to
governments,” he said.  Greek Yields  Turning up the pressure on politicians, Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said the euro can withstand a default.  “The euro would even in this case remain stable,” he told
German newspaper Welt am Sonntag yesterday.  The euro added 0.4 percent to $1.4399 as of 3:36 p.m. in
London as yields on two-year Greek notes rose above 26 percent
for the first time in three weeks. CDS prices jumped 21 basis
points to 1,584, according to CMA.  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity rose 28 basis
points to a record 1,404 basis points today.  Politicians are trying to reach agreement on a new aid
package by a European Union summit on June 23-24.  European governments and the IMF would lend as much as an
extra 45 billion euros to Greece under a new bailout plan that
also includes roughly 30 billion euros in asset-sale proceeds
and about 30 billion euros in rollovers by creditors, two people
with direct knowledge of the talks said last week.  Debt Rollovers  “Participation of private creditors in cases of insolvency
is indispensable,” Schaeuble told lawmakers in Berlin June 10.
A working group set up last week is charged with identifying “a
good solution for the involvement of the private sector that can
and has to be supported by the  European Central Bank ,” he said.  While the ECB is prohibited by its founding treaty from
buying bonds on the primary market, Deutsche Bank economist
 Gilles Moec  said it could encourage debt rollovers by restarting
its secondary-market purchases. Some strategists say the ECB
doesn’t have much debt to roll over out of Greece’s total of
about 330 billion euros.  “My understanding is the ECB hasn’t bought a great deal of
those Greek bonds that are going to be the primary targets,”
 Vincent Chaigneau , head of interest-rate strategy at Societe
Generale SA in London, said an interview. “If the ECB doesn’t
participate it won’t be that big a problem. I tend to believe
the governments can pressure the banks, either with positive or
negative incentives.”  Incentives being considered include giving investors
preferred status, higher coupon payments or collateral, said
people familiar with the matter who declined to be identified
because the talks are in progress.  “If it comes to turmoil in the market, the ECB will
probably resume their government bond purchases and keep the
banks topped up with liquidity,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-
area economist at UniCredit Group in Milan. “But that is as far
as they will go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  