-- 
S. Korea to Release Import Prices, Jobless Rates: Week Ahead

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-06-12T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/s-korea-to-release-import-prices-jobless-rates-week-ahead.html
South Korea ’s central bank will
release export and import prices for May on June 15 after it
raised  interest rates  last week for the third time this year to
curb inflation.  The Bank of  Korea  on June 10 raised the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent to rein in
inflation that has exceeded its target range.  South Korea will also announce on June 15 unemployment data
and imports of liquefied natural gas in May. The jobless rate
fell to a three-month low of 3.6 percent in April from 4 percent
in March, according to data from the  Statistics Korea . The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of four economists is
a 3.7 percent rise for May.  LNG imports in April rose by 6.3 percent by volume from a
year earlier to 2.38 million metric tons, worth $1.5 billion,
according to the Korea Customs Service.  The Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  is scheduled to announce
May sales at major department stores and discount-stores on June
16. Sales at three major department stores climbed 15.1 percent
in April, the most in three months, from a year earlier,
according to the ministry.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan and other policy makers will
attend committee meetings of the National Assembly this week.
The Strategy & Finance Committee and the National Defense
Committee will be convened on Monday.  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 3.2 percent last
week, most since February. The won dropped 0.2 percent last week,
ending a third-week rally, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on five-year  government bonds , notes due
March 2016, rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 3.91 percent last week, according to prices from Korea
Financial Investment Association.  The following is a list of major events in South Korea this
week:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at   sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  