-- 
Samsung Countersues Siemens Unit in South Korea Over Patents

-- B y   B o m i   L i m ,   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-06-13T11:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/samsung-counter-sues-osram-in-south-korea-over-led-patents.html
A Samsung Electronics Co. affiliate
filed a patent-infringement lawsuit in  South Korea  against
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram unit over light-emitting diode technology.  Osram Korea Co. and two Korean sales agents of the German
lighting maker were sued, Samsung LED Co.  said  on its  website 
yesterday. The eight patents related to the suit include LED and
packaging technology used in lighting such as headlights, Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung LED said.  The lawsuits, filed with the Seoul Central District Court
on June 10, were in response to Osram’s complaints in the U.S.
and  Germany  against Samsung over LED technology, Samsung LED
said. The Korean company said June 8 it  never infringed  Osram’s
LED lighting patents. Osram also filed complaints against  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  over the LED technology used in televisions and
lighting products.  “Osram is well prepared regarding possible steps by Samsung
and is therefore relaxed about the move by the counter
claimant,” the Siemens unit said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Osram regards Samsung’s move as a typical counterattack of a
defendant.”  Samsung Electronics gained 0.3 percent to close at 853,000
won ($786) on the Korea Exchange. Siemens added 0.1 percent to
89.57 euros ($129) at 1:36 p.m. in German trading. Samsung LED
and Osram aren’t listed.  Samsung LED is seeking a halt to the unauthorized use of
its intellectual property and monetary damages, it said in
yesterday’s statement, without specifying an amount. The Korean
company said it plans to file more lawsuits against Osram in the
U.S. and other overseas markets as “soon as possible.”  Samsung LED has about 700 U.S. patents and patent
applications and about 2,000 Korean patents and applications,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  