-- 
Saudi Arabia Must Cut Red Tape to Boost Development, Emaar Mideast Says

-- B y   S a r a h   A b d u l l a h
-- 
2011-06-12T09:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/saudi-arabia-must-cut-red-tape-to-boost-development-emaar-says.html
Saudi Arabia  will miss its goals for
infrastructure and affordable housing unless the kingdom
streamlines rules that are delaying projects, according to the
head of Dubai developer Emaar PJSC’s Middle East unit.  “Infrastructure and real-estate projects in Saudi Arabia
are typically very slow due to regulations that are very time-
consuming,” Emaar Middle East Chairman Ahmed Al Kulli said at a
property conference in Jeddah.  Saudi  King Abdullah  has pledged to spend more than $82
billion on housing development to help meet the needs of a
growing population. The government is building four new
metropolitan areas as part of a $400 billion plan to invest in
infrastructure and make the country less dependent on oil.  Al Kulli estimated that Jeddah’s population alone will grow
about 10 percent from the current 3.7 million over the next four
to five years, underscoring the need to speed up development.  Emaar  Middle East ’s Jeddah Gate project will include more
than 100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet) of  office
space  and 30,000 square meters of shops in the city center,
according to the company’s website. Its Al Khobar Lakes
development will have more than 2,000 homes as well as shopping
and leisure facilities. The projects have a combined value of
7.4 billion riyals ($770 million.)  The chairman compared Jeddah Gate with the Burj Khalifa,
the world’s tallest tower built by Emaar in Dubai.  “The two projects both began in May 2005,” he said.
“Burj Khalifa was opened, while Jeddah Gate is still under
construction.”  Al Kulli called for more dialogue between government
officials and real estate developers aimed at solving
bureaucratic delays. He also said that pricing is key.  “If we do not build affordable housing, we will only be
left with empty units,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Abdullah in Jeddah via the Dubai newsroom at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  