-- 
Short Sales in Hong Kong Rise to Eight-Month High on China Growth Concerns

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-13T10:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/short-sales-climb-to-8-month-high-in-hong-kong-on-china-concern.html
Short selling in  Hong Kong  has risen
to the highest level since September 2010 as concerns of slowing
Chinese economic growth and further monetary-policy tightening
intensify, according to a report from  Data Explorers .  Borrowed shares have risen to 12.2 percent of stock
available for lending as of June 7, compared with 8.8 percent in
January, Data Explorers, a New York-based research provider,
wrote in a report June 9. The increase comes as Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong,  Canada  and the U.S. face pressure
from short sellers amid allegations of lax corporate governance
and fraud.  “The Hong Kong equities market has become progressively
more short,” wrote Will Duff Gordon, a senior research analyst
at Data Explorers. The increase in short sales “has been driven
by a sell-off of holdings by institutional investors coupled
with strong demand to borrow equities.”  The  Hang Seng Index  has slumped 2.3 percent this year as
Chinese policymakers raised  interest rates  four times since
October. Consumer prices in the world’s second-largest economy
may climb 4.7 percent in 2011, based on economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That exceeds the Beijing government’s
target of 4 percent. The Hang Seng Index climbed 0.4 percent
today, snapping a seven-day losing streak.  “A lot of people are of the view that property is in a
massive bubble in China and perhaps they’re betting on a
collapse in that area,” said  Puru Saxena , who oversees about
$350 million as chief executive officer of Puru Saxena  Wealth
Management  in Hong Kong.  The most shorted stock in the Hang Seng Composite Index is
Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings) Ltd. with 19 percent of its
shares outstanding on loan, according to Data Explorers. The
vegetable producer based in Fuzhou, located in  China ’s
southeastern Fujian province, has lost 46 percent this year.
Hong Kong’s Next magazine reported on May 26 that the company
overstated the size of some of its farms in China. Chaoda said
the claims were false in a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  Muddy Waters   In Canada, shares of Sino-Forest Corp., a tree plantations
operator based in Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario, have
plunged since a  report  dated June 2 by Muddy Waters Research
said public disclosures don’t match Chinese city records and
that its production figures may not be accurate. Shares in the
company, which has denied the allegations, have fallen 75
percent since June 1.  Short selling more than doubled to a record 35 percent of
Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 2, according to Data
Explorers. The figure started climbing four weeks earlier, from
17 percent on May 2. Sino-Forest is the most-shorted stock in
the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Deer Consumer Products Inc. (DEER)  and Sino Clean Energy Inc.,
U.S.-listed Chinese companies battered by fraud allegations in
online reports, filed defamation lawsuits in  New York  against a
blogger who uses the pseudonym Alfred Little and websites that
published his blogs. Deer’s shares on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange
have lost 34 percent since March 17 when a version of a negative
report by “Little” appeared on the Seeking Alpha investing
website. Deer and Sino Clean have denied the allegations.  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 