-- 
Splintered Tea Party May Be Weakened 2012 Force: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   H u n t
-- 
2011-06-12T15:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/splintered-tea-party-may-be-weakened-2012-force-albert-r-hunt.html
The Tea Party movement was a potent
political insurgency in U.S. elections last year, and it is a
major presence in Washington and state capitols today. It may
have a tougher time as an entrenched force next year.  The grassroots, anti-government, conservative movement
provided the energy and enthusiasm for the huge Republican gains
last November that gave the party control of the  House of
Representatives . It was driven by the financial meltdown of
2008, the resulting government involvement in the economy,
ballooning budget deficits and a visceral dislike of President
 Barack Obama .  The Tea Party’s influence is pervasive. “We are the
dominant force in American politics in Washington, state
capitols and at the local level,” says Mark Meckler, co-founder
and national coordinator of  Tea Party Patriots , one of the
movement’s major offshoots.  “The zeitgeist of the times is people are concerned about
the growing size and intrusiveness of government, onerous
regulations and the skyrocketing national debt,” says Sal Russo, the co-founder and chief strategist for the Tea Party
Express, a leading financial donor to affiliated candidates.  The Tea Party movement never has been monolithic, always
replete with factions: the dominant anti-government
conservatives, social-issues advocates, anti-immigration forces,
libertarians and others. “There is a wide divergence,” says
Russo, a former strategist for  Ronald Reagan  and Jack Kemp.  2010 Mobilization  In the 2010 election, opposition to Obama and the Democrats
galvanized all the Tea Party factions to support Republicans.
Exit polling suggests about two in five voters were Tea Party
supporters and six of every seven of these voted Republican.  To remain as effective next year, the movement faces
several challenges. On the national level and in many states, it
has to defend or support the policies of politicians it helped
elect. That is much harder than merely opposing.  And there are multiple fault lines. One is whether the
movement should focus exclusively on eliminating big government
and reducing debt or whether it also should take on social
issues such as opposition to gay marriage, abortion and  gun
control .  “A major divide is between a smaller group that says focus
on fiscal conservatism and a larger group that includes social
conservatives,” says Judson Phillips, of Tea Party Nation, who
is disdainful of the fiscal issues-only crowd.  ‘He’s a Lunatic’  That sentiment is returned. “He’s a lunatic,” says
Meckler, whose Tea Party Patriots emphasizes the fight against
big government. “He has no credibility in the movement.”
Phillips once suggested the solution to illegal immigration was
to take a “planeload” of undocumented workers and “dump them
in Somalia.” He also was a devotee of the anti-Obama birther
movement.  On the Tea Party Patriots’ criticism, Phillips replies,
“If I am a fringe Tea Party person, I’m the biggest fringe Tea
Party person on the Internet.”  You get the picture.  Even when it comes to economic issues, there are divisions
over priorities between the pro-business elements and the
conservative economic populists. Charles and  David Koch , who own
a huge energy conglomerate, are important, if often secret,
funders of the movement. Some local groups, however, express
outrage at corporate subsidies.  Defense Spending  There are similar strains on national-security and foreign
policy. Some Tea Partiers say the federal  budget crisis  is so
grave that defense budgets will need to be cut; others say
national security spending should be sacrosanct. These
grassroots conservatives also are split on the war in
Afghanistan and the intervention in  Libya .  Take two of the favorites: Congressman Jason Chaffetz of
 Utah , who is considering running from the right against his
state’s longtime conservative senator,  Orrin Hatch , and Florida
Representative Allen West, a freshman who’s become a poster
child on Tea Party blogs.  Chaffetz favors bringing all the troops home from
 Afghanistan  as quickly as possible, arguing “we have neither
the resources nor the ability to fix all the world’s problems.”  West is a retired Army officer -- the return envelope for
one of his fund-raising appeals is labeled Lt. Col. Allen West
(Ret.) -- who is dismissive of such sentiments. “Just because
you kill  Osama bin Laden  does not mean that the Taliban has
stopped fighting.”  Afghanistan Withdrawal  Of those who would accelerate the troop withdrawal, he
says, “I would take these gentlemen over and let them get shot
at a few times and maybe they’d have a different opinion.”  There also is an isolationist element -- including more
than a few libertarian followers of Texas Congressman and
presidential candidate  Ron Paul  -- along with an anti-immigrant
contingent.  All these strands force Tea Party backers to weigh the
pragmatism-versus-principle argument. Some will cite the late
William F. Buckley’s dictum that conservatives should support
“the most right, viable candidate who could win.” The more
ideologically pure reject this advice, citing successes like the
victory in the Kentucky Senate race last year of Ron Paul’s son,
Rand.  These debates are on display in the Republican presidential
derby as no aspirant has cornered the Tea Party vote. Ron Paul
has a devoted following within the libertarian bloc;
Congresswoman Michele Bachmann of  Minnesota , and former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, brandish their conservative credentials on
social issues.  Palin’s Lead  “Palin jumped out to a huge lead, but hasn’t been able to
close the deal,” says Phillips, who brought the 2008 Republican
vice presidential nominee to the Tea Party convention he
organized in Nashville last year, paying her a reported $100,000
fee.  The candidacy of  Tim Pawlenty , the former Minnesota
governor, may rest on winning the initial test in the Iowa
caucuses, where conservative activists dominate. He is relying
on a sweeping economic initiative that would slash spending,
including Medicare and Social Security, while cutting taxes on
wealthier Americans.  The race is wide open, with no front runner. That is
befitting a movement that, by some accounts, was launched when
an obscure financial-television reporter let loose with an on-
air rant about big government.  Russo, who was involved in  Ross Perot ’s third-party effort
two decades ago, says it’s good the movement hasn’t coalesced
behind any leader. “We learned from Perot,” he says. “If one
person becomes the face of the Tea Party and falters, the
movement falters.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  