-- 
Syrian Forces Seize City of Jisr al-Shughour; Hague Seeks Red Cross Entry

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-06-12T21:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/syrians-forces-seize-city-of-jisr-al-shughour-hague-seeks-red-cross-entry.html
Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad’s
security forces took control of the northwestern town of Jisr
al-Shughour in an armed clash with rebels yesterday, five days
after the regime says 120 government troops were killed.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  described Assad’s
response to the uprising as “revolting” and British Foreign
Minister  William Hague  called the violence “unacceptable” and
demanded that he allow the Geneva-based International Committee
of the Red Cross access to the Arab nation.  Units of the Syrian army took full control over Jisr al-
Shughour after it rolled into the city yesterday to “purify it
from members of armed groups,” Syrian television reported. The
state-run network said the attack is a response to the killings
of 120 security troops in the town on June 7.  Military forces are still pursuing “armed militants in the
mountains” and in hiding, according to the report. Some of
Assad’s forces switched sides and joined with rebels, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Gunmen have been detained and two were killed in Jisr al-
Shughour, according to state-run television. Heavy shelling and
gunfire were heard in the town, according to the website of the
human rights group  Syrian Observatory . Since the beginning of
the conflict in March, 1,289 civilians and 322 military service
members have been killed, Syrian Observatory reported.  Burning Fields  Syrian forces are burning fields and firing their weapons
at random, according to Cemil Utanc, the chief of the Turkish
border town Guvecci, where refugees from Syria have fled. All
but 5,000 of Jisr al-Shughour’s 45,000 residents have been
driven away from the town, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Bloomberg News couldn’t verify the claims.  Syria  has banned
most journalists from the country and has restricted telephone
and Internet access.  U.S. officials condemned the violent suppression of the
resistance movement that began in Syria after unrest toppled
regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt . Syria is “engaging in horrific,
revolting attacks on its own people,” Clinton said in a June 11
interview with Africa 360 during a visit to Tanzania, according
to a transcript.  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a Republican who
sits on the Armed Services Committee, said the U.S. and its
allies shouldn’t rule out using military force to bring down
Assad. Graham spoke on CBS’s “Face the Nation” yesterday.  Security Council  Britain, France, Germany and  Portugal  urged the  United
Nations Security Council  on June 8 to adopt a resolution
condemning the crackdown. White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney 
said the U.S. supports the resolution.  Russia , which has veto
power over Security Council resolutions, has opposed it.  “We will continue to work with our international partners,
including in the UN, to condemn the repression in Syria and call
for the Syrian government to meet their people’s legitimate
demands. The violence is unacceptable and must stop,” Hague
said in a  statement .  Libyan forces backing Muammar Qadaffi clashed with rebel
forces in the port towns of Misrata and Zawiya over the weekend.
Qaddafi’s forces have surrounded the rebel stronghold in
Misrata, 125 miles east of Tripoli, and are maintaining efforts
to drive opposition forces from the city.  Libyan Conflict  Libyan government troops began an artillery bombing
campaign June 10, hours after the British helicopters, on behalf
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, hit Qaddafi’s forces
outside Misrata. NATO used precision-guided weapons to destroy
attack vehicles, the alliance said in an e-mailed statement.  In Zawiya, 18 miles west of Tripoli and a key supply route
from  Tunisia , rebels sought to reclaim the town they held for
two weeks in March before being driven out by Qaddafi’s forces.
Rebel forces claimed to have captured Sabha in southwestern
Libya, the Transitional National Council said in a statement.  NATO reported yesterday destroying an armored vehicle
equipped with anti-aircraft weapons. “NATO will maintain the
pressure on the Qaddafi regime and continue to take action to
protect civilians wherever they are under threat of attack,”
Lieutenant-General Charles Bouchard of  Canada , commander of
NATO’s Libya operation, said in the statement.  Qaddafi’s regime lost official recognition yesterday from
the United Arab Emirates, which recognized the Transitional
National Council as the “legitimate” representative of the
Libyan people.  “There is no legitimacy in  Libya  today but of the TNC,”
UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan said in
a statement reported by the state-run Emirates News Agency.
“This recognition affirms that the UAE is committed to
maintaining strong ties with the Libyan people.”  Qatar recognized the TNC last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 Jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  