-- 
U.K. Opposition Leader Faces Criticism From Party, Poll Shows

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-12T12:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/u-k-opposition-leader-faces-criticism-from-party-poll-shows.html
Ed Miliband  is struggling to keep
the support of his U.K. opposition  Labour Party , according to a
poll published today, as a new book alleges his narrow victory
over brother David for its leadership sparked a bitter feud.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper found 54
percent of Labour supporters were not clear what the new leader
stood for and 41 percent thought Labour had made a mistake
electing him. The findings formed part of a wider survey of
2,728 British adults carried out June 9 and June 10.  Miliband, 41, unexpectedly beat his older brother in the
contest to replace  Gordon Brown  as Labour leader in September.
An unauthorised biography, “Ed: The Milibands and the Making of
a Labour Leader,” written by political journalists Mehdi Hasan
and James Macintyre, says the episode had a far worse impact on
their relationship than either has admitted publicly. Extracts
were published in the Mail on Sunday newspaper today.  David Miliband , 45, used a statement on his website today
to appeal for unity.  “I have moved on from the leadership election and so
should everyone else,” he said. “Ed won. I stand fully behind
him and so should everyone else. We all have a part to play
supporting Ed and the frontbench team to ensure we expose this
government for its reckless policies that are damaging the
country. The rest is soap opera of which I want no part and the
public have not interest.”  ‘Tough’  Labour said its leader had issued no statement, pointing to
comments made by health spokesman John Healey today that the
party is united and determined to challenge  David Cameron ’s
government.  “It always takes any opposition leader some time to
establish themselves with the public, just as it did with David
Cameron, and the thing about Ed Miliband is that’s he’s tough,”
Healey told Sky News television. “He’s got a natural way of
dealing with people and most importantly he’s got a very good
idea about the challenges this country faces and that’s what’s
he’s concentrating on.”  Ed Miliband has faced criticism for failing to inflict more
political damage over the spending cuts being undertaken by the
Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, which took office 13
months ago.  According to a  ComRes Ltd. poll  for the Sunday Mirror
newspaper, 66 percent of respondents said the government’s
economic policy threatens to leave a generation of young
jobless. The polling company interviewed 2,011 adults online on
June 8 and June 9.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Atkinson at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  