-- 
Unilever Plans Fivefold Boost to China Business, Asia Chief Manwani Says

-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-06-13T09:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/unilever-plans-fivefold-boost-to-china-business-asia-chief-manwani-says.html
Unilever, the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods company, plans to increase its business in  China 
to as much as five times the current level,  Asia  chief Harish Manwani said.  “Our business has been growing steadily about 18 percent
to 19 percent per annum,” Manwani, president of Unilever’s
Asia,  Africa , and Eastern and Central Europe operations, told
Bloomberg TV in Jakarta at the  World Economic Forum  on East
Asia. “Our commitment in China is to build a business four- or
fivefold” what it is now, he said, without giving a timescale.  The maker of Dove soap and Magnum ice cream, which made 40
percent of its revenue last year in Asia and Africa, is looking
to developing economies to drive growth as sales stagnate in
 Europe  and the U.S. More than 55 percent of Unilever’s business
now comes from emerging markets, Manwani said.  “Asia, emerging Asia, is a very important part of it,” he
said. “I’m very excited about business prospects in Asia.”  China, the world’s most populous nation, may show economic
growth of 9.5 percent this year, according to Bloomberg data.
That’s triple the pace of the U.S.  Unilever’s Chinese expansion goal is realistic, according
to Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research Group,
a Shanghai-based consumer consulting company. Premium brands in
the fast-moving consumer-goods industry are growing about 20
percent annually in the country, he said in a phone interview.  Price Increases  “The government is trying to shift the economy from
manufacturing-oriented to consumption-led,” Rein said.
“Unilever are well poised because they have a strong branding
and they created trust with the consumer.”  Unilever’s shares fell 1.5 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 22.09
euros as of 11:19 a.m. in Amsterdam, giving the company a market
value of 66.8 billion euros ($95.8 billion).  Unilever has reduced its promotional intensity and started
raising prices globally amid higher costs for commodities such
as crude oil and  palm oil . The Rotterdam- and London-based
company last month said it accepted a 2 million-yuan ($309,000)
fine imposed by Chinese authorities for informing media about
plans to raise prices.  Higher expenses will cause profitability to drop in the
first half, the company said in April, adding that it expects an
improvement in the second half. Unilever said it expected the
impact of rising input costs to be 500 to 550 basis points of
sales in 2011, up from a February forecast of 400 basis points.  Edible Oils  Commodity-cost volatility is “unprecedented” this year,
Unilever Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said April 28.
Crude oil costs have affected the company’s health and personal-
care business, while prices of edible oils including palm oil
affect the spreads business, he said.  Inflation in the developing world “is something we
probably know how to handle better, having been in the market
for so many years,” Manwani said. “Of course we have
inflation, but the point we’re making is we also have a
portfolio which allows us to manage our business somewhat better
than if you were just a single-play company.”  Manwani is also chairman of India unit  Hindustan Unilever
Ltd. (HUVR) , the country’s biggest listed maker of consumer products,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. PT Unilever  Indonesia 
is the largest household-goods maker in the Southeast Asian
country, according to the data.  Unilever’s underlying first-quarter sales growth, which
excludes the effect of acquisitions, disposals and currency
fluctuations, was 4.3 percent, missing the 4.4 percent median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Exciting Brands’  Unilever, which Manwani said has 2 billion customers
globally, acquired an 89.35 percent stake in PT Sara Lee Body
Care Indonesia in June 2010. Last month, it completed the
purchase of Alberto Culver Co. for $3.7 billion in cash.  “At this stage, we are trying to make sure that we make
the most of some of the exciting brands,” Manwani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  