-- 
Turkey Votes, Erdogan Seeks Constitution Change

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-12T14:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/turkey-votes-as-erdogan-seeks-mandate-to-change-constitution-1-.html
Voting ended in Turkey’s general
election with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  likely to get
a mandate to reshape the secular constitution amid an economic
boom that contrasts with upheavals to the east and west.  Polls closed at 5 p.m. and partial results are expected
within a few hours. Voters had queued up outside schools and
other polling sites across the Muslim country of 73.7 million
people, with 50 million registered to cast ballots for 550
deputies to parliament.  Erdogan’s priority for the new term, which could make him
the longest-serving leader since Turkey’s founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is to replace the constitution drafted after a 1980
coup. That would cement his victory over generals who accuse him
of imposing Islamic values. Erdogan also pledges to lift  Turkey ,
currently the world’s 16th-biggest economy after annual growth
of more than 5 percent under his government, into the top 10 by
2023 when the republic celebrates its centenary.  “This election is different from the previous two, the
first one was in the aftermath of a financial crisis and the
last one was after a serious spat with the military,” said
 Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst at the Eurasia Group,
which monitors political risk. While Erdogan will win, “what’s
more important is the distribution of seats,” he said. “The
parliamentary mathematics will be crucial.”  Opinion Polls  The governing  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, may
win 49 percent of the popular vote, almost double the 26 percent
backing for the main opposition  Republican People’s Party , or
CHP, according to the average of four surveys by researchers
Pollmark, Sonar, Konsensus and Genar. The studies were carried
out between May 17 and May 31. The AKP came to power with 34
percent of the vote in 2002 and won 47 percent four years ago.  Erdogan’s plan for a new constitution has been a central
campaign issue. He argues for shifting from the current
parliamentary system to a presidential one, in which he himself
would be the leading candidate for the top job. CHP leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu has criticized the government for its record on
poverty reduction and says Erdogan is showing an increasingly
authoritarian streak.  The premier voted today in Istanbul, the city of 13 million
people where he served as mayor more than a decade ago.  “We hope this election will be an opportunity to
strengthen basic rights and freedoms,” Erdogan said at the
polling station at a school in Uskudar, a middle class
neighborhood flanking the Bosporus waterway on the Asian side of
Istanbul, which straddles two continents.  New Constitution  Erdogan, 57, would need 330 votes in the  parliament  to put
a new constitution to a public vote, and 367 to pass it straight
into law.  The premier said June 5 he would “find it unnecessary” to
hold a referendum if he wins a big enough majority to change the
constitution without one. He currently holds 331 seats and would
win 338 based on the four-poll average, according to an
 application  that simulates election outcomes developed by the
 Ari Movement , an Istanbul think-tank.  “If AKP remains slightly below 330 seats that would be the
best outcome from a market point of view,” Eurasia’s Piccoli
said in a telephone interview. “It will force the party to try
to seek a compromise on the constitution, and possibly to
actually shelve the constitutional plan, which means they’re
going to have more time, more focus on economic matters.”  On the $740 billion economy, Erdogan’s third-term
challenges will include a widening trade gap that threatens a
halt to Turkey’s boom. The current account deficit ballooned to
more than $60 billion, or about 8 percent of gross domestic
product, in the 12 months through March, compared with a
government forecast of $42 billion for the year.  Stocks Surge  Istanbul’s ISE-100 stock index jumped by 4.5 times since
AKP came to power in November 2002, outpacing an increase of 3.8
times for the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Turkey’s
benchmark is down 3.5 percent this year.  Still, Erdogan can point to a record of economic growth and
improving public finances.  Standard & Poor’s  increased its
 credit rating  four times since he came to power.  That’s a contrast with the European Union countries,
including Turkey’s neighbor  Greece , that have been forced to
take International Monetary Fund loans in the past three years
as their economies unraveled amid a debt crisis.  In the  Middle East , where popular revolts have swept away
longtime leaders this year, Erdogan’s political success and
Turkey’s economic progress have been cited as a model by
opposition parties including  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood.  Recalling earlier elections, Hatem Ete of the Ankara-based
Foundation for Political, Economic and Social Research says the
key difference this time is that parties are offering long-term
projects.  “All the general elections in Turkey’s recent past were
held to overcome a crisis,” he said in a telephone interview
from his office in the capital. “This time, it’s about how to
build the country’s future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 