-- 
Turkish Election Result Best Outcome for Markets, Altug Says

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-06-12T19:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/turkish-election-result-best-outcome-for-markets-altug-says.html
Financial markets will welcome the
re-election of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  as positive
for political stability, Ozgur Altug, chief economist at BGC
Partners, said today in a telephone interview.  The governing  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, has 50
percent of votes, or 326 seats in the 550-seat parliament, with
98 percent of ballots counted, according to preliminary results
published by local media.  The main opposition  Republican People’s Party , or CHP, is
projected to get 26 percent of the vote, early results showed.
Erdogan’s Islamist-leaning party needs 330 seats in the assembly
in Ankara to take planned constitutional changes to a referendum
without opposition support.  On the market response:  “This is probably the best outcome for markets for two
reasons: It means the AKP remains in charge as a single
government for another four years, which markets will see as
continuation of political stability. Additionally, they have
less than 330 seats, which means they’ll be forced to seek
compromise, and that means less political tension.”  On economic policy:  “The political process (of setting up the government) will
take at least a month. Everyone in the markets wants a package
of measures to deal with the current-account deficit but they’ll
have to give them at least a month for that.”  On party perceptions:  “I think all of the parties will concentrate on something
else in this result. The AKP will say that half of the
population backs us. The CHP will concentrate on the increase in
the number of deputies in parliament and the MHP will say that
we managed to preserve our popularity despite all the negative
factors and the sex tapes. And the independents are happy having
won about 30 seats from 21. Everyone looks happy and,
definitely, financial markets will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 