-- 
Vietnam to Hold Live-Fire Naval Exercises as Tension With China Increases

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-13T01:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/vietnam-says-it-welcomes-foreign-involvement-in-s-china-sea.html
Vietnam  is set to hold live-fire
naval exercises today in the  South China Sea  as tension mounts
with  China  over rights to the waters.  Vietnam will hold a "routine annual training activity" off
the coast of the central province of Quang Nam, according to a
 statement  on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website. A
Vietnamese maritime safety company  posted  a notice of precise
areas and times for the live-fire drill.  The maneuvers follow government accusations last week that
a Chinese vessel harassed a Vietnamese ship in the South China
Sea. Ownership of virtually all of the area is contested, with
claims for various parts made by Brunei, Cambodia, China,
 Indonesia , Malaysia, the  Philippines , Taiwan, Thailand and
Vietnam,  according to  the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  Vietnam also  said  it welcomes international involvement to
keep the peace amid escalating tensions.  "Maintaining peace, stability, security, and maritime
safety in the Eastern Sea is the common interest of the
countries inside and outside the region," Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Nguyen Phuong Nga said in a statement on the
ministry’s website, using the Vietnamese term for waters
adjacent to the nation’s coastline. "Every effort by the
international community in maintaining peace and stability in
the Eastern Sea is welcome."  ‘Diplomatic Process’  "The U.S., like many other nations, has interests in the
South China Sea," State Department spokesman Mark Toner said at
 a June 10 press conference  in  Washington  when asked about the
drills. The U.S. believes in a "collaborative, diplomatic
process," he said, according to the department’s website. "Shows
of force, other gestures like that just, I think, raise
tensions."  Vietnam’s government  said on June 9  that a Chinese vessel
harassed a Vietnam Oil & Gas Group survey ship in the waters.
The incident followed a similar one two weeks before. A Chinese
fishing boat "tangled with the cables of a Vietnamese oil and
gas exploration vessel" while being "chased" by armed Vietnamese
ships on June 9, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei,
 said  in comments posted on the ministry’s website.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Patrick
Harrington, John Brinsley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  