-- 
Warhol, Rothko to Top $1.75 Billion Works at Biggest Art Fair

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/warhol-rothko-to-top-1-75-billion-works-at-biggest-art-fair.html
An Andy Warhol soup-can painting and
a  Mark Rothko  abstract are among items worth more than $1.75
billion set to tempt billionaire collectors at the world’s
largest modern and contemporary art fair, in Switzerland.  VIPs browsing the 42nd Art Basel, which previews tomorrow,
can choose from more than 2,500 artists, organizers said in an
e-mailed statement. The 300 galleries representing 35 countries
are competing with auction houses for business from the
estimated 60,000 people who will attend. In previous years, the
VIPs have included  Roman Abramovich ,  Aditya Mittal , Howard Rachofsky, Laurence Graff and actors  Brad Pitt  and Val Kilmer.  Demand for contemporary works has made a gradual recovery
after the 2008-9 slump, encouraging commercial fair organizers
to expand.  Art Basel , founded in 1970, remains the year’s must-
attend event, even with the calendar crowded by competing fairs,
according to collectors. It will test demand for museum-quality
paintings, sculptures, drawings, installations, photographs,
video and editioned works.  “Basel is the most important fair,” Steve Rosenblum,
founder of the Paris-based private foundation Rosenblum
Collection and Friends, said in an interview. “It is an
opportunity to regularly meet the gallerists and keep an eye on
what is produced by the artists we support.”  Art Basel, held inside two exhibition halls in the center
of the Swiss town, covers 441,000 square feet (41,000 square
meters), and combines dealers representing young contemporaries
with specialists in classic 20th-century works.  New York-based  L & M Arts , one of 73 U.S. dealers at the
fair, will be bringing the Warhol can painting from 1965, as
well as the Rothko, a 1969 orange work in oils on paper mounted
on canvas. Both are priced at between $5 million and $6 million.  Insurance Value  The total value of the works insured this year is about
$1.75 billion, said Robert Read, head of art and private clients
at  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)  That’s higher than last year, with the 10 most
expensive works accounting for $1 billion, Read said.  More than 50 of the exhibitors had booths last month at Art
HK in  Hong Kong , before collectors and curators moved to Venice
for the opening of the Biennale on June 4.  Rival organizer Frieze said last month that it would be
holding a new fair in  New York  on May 3-6, 2012. Art Basel’s
owner,  MCH Group AG (MCHN) , also said in May it acquired a majority
stake in Art HK. Next year’s Asian event is now scheduled for
May 17-20, two weeks after Frieze New York and six months after
Art  Basel ’s sister  Miami Beach  fair.  “The expansion of these fairs gives momentum to the
primary market,” said Iwan Wirth, owner of the Zurich- and
London-based dealer  Hauser & Wirth , who showed in Hong Kong.
“This global presence gives dealers the opportunity to compete
with the auction houses.”  White Relief  Wirth has been exhibiting at Art Basel for 10 years. This
week his booth will feature Eva Hesse’s 1967 white relief
“Compass,” priced at $3.5 million.  Subodh Gupta ’s 2011 canvas
“Untitled,” showing cutlery gleaming over a plate, is marked
at 200,000 euros ($287,000) -- similar to prices asked for the
Indian artist’s canvases in June 2008.  “Art has become more international,” L & M director
Robert Mnuchin said. “There are more countries with collectors
wanting to buy contemporary works from outside their region.”  That said, the fair’s exhibitor list still reflects the art
market’s traditional balance of power. The U.S. has the most
exhibitors, followed by  Germany  (50),  Switzerland  (32), the U.K.
(31) and France (23).  Brazil ,  China ,  India  and  Russia  have a
combined total of 12.  Enrico David  New York-based  Michael Werner Gallery  will be offering new
sculptures by the Italian artist  Enrico David , whose works are
showing in  Venice . The snake-like bronze-and-rubber “Study for
a Body as a Dog’s Training Camp,” from an edition of five, will
be priced at $100,000.  ``People want to participate at the beginning of a
market,'' Werner director Gordon Veneklasen said. ``When an
artist reaches mid-career, it becomes more difficult.''  Emerging talents are presented by dealers in 27 solo shows
as part of the ``Art Statements'' section of the fair, as well
as at satellite events such as  Liste ,  Scope  and  Volta .  London-based dealer  Kate MacGarry  is a first-timer at
Basel, showing a 16mm-film by  Ben Rivers  that charts the demise
of a family-run factory in the U.K. capital. ``Sack Barrow'' is
in an edition of five, priced at 15,000 pounds ($24,363).  ``I'm expecting to have some long-term discussions with
curators and museum directors,'' MacGarry said. ``Art Basel has
authority. It has old money and new, collectors for contemporary
and modern works. It's a smaller city, so the focus is on the
fair more than in  London  and New York.''  MacGarry, like a number of younger dealers, feels more
ambivalent about the global expansion of contemporary-art fairs,
particularly after participating in Art Hong Kong.  ``The big-brand dealers do well,'' she said. ``Being at a
fair in China can be very expensive for smaller galleries, and
sales do not necessarily come immediately if you're presenting
emerging artists: You have to take a long term view.''  Art Basel’s main sponsor is  UBS AG. (UBSN)  The event takes place
at Messe Basel, Messeplatz, 4005 Basel through June 19.  Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Basel, Switzerland, at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 