-- 
Hyundai Heavy’s Shareholder Losses Increase With Chaebol Concern: Real M&A

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a d i ,   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-12T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-12/hyundai-heavy-s-shareholder-losses-increase-with-chaebol-concern-real-m-a.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.’s
interest in acquiring 15 percent of  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  is
already costing shareholders more than the stake itself is worth.  Hyundai Heavy, the Ulsan, South Korea-based owner of the
world’s largest shipyard, has lost about $3.5 billion in market
value since saying last week it may buy a $2.4 billion stake in
Hynix, the second-biggest maker of computer memory chips,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the
nation’s largest carmaker, shrank by $1.8 billion after a report
it may join Hyundai Heavy to bid for shares owned by creditors
that bailed out Hynix in 2001. Both companies denied the report.  A purchase by Hyundai Heavy, which like Hynix’s predecessor
was part of the old Hyundai Group, would be driven by a desire
to rebuild South Korea’s family owned conglomerates, or
“chaebol,” rather than any business rationale, according to
Mirae Asset Securities Co. and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The
chaebol, which spearheaded the nation’s industrialization in the
1960s, racked up debts in the 1990s that compelled South Korea
to turn to the  International Monetary Fund  for a bailout,
leading to calls to reform and rein in the conglomerates.  “It is very difficult to understand the logic as to why a
giant shipbuilding and engineering conglomerate such as Hyundai
Heavy would want to acquire a stake in Hynix,” said Tony Hann,
London-based head of emerging market equities at  Blackfriars
Asset Management Ltd. , which oversees $1 billion and owns about
7,000 Hyundai Heavy shares. “Hyundai Heavy makes all sorts of
things, but it certainly doesn’t make semiconductors.”  ‘Family Inspired’  “This does seem to be a family inspired move for purposes,
which certainly on the face of it, don’t seem to serve minority
shareholder interest,” he said. “To fully understand this,
you’d need to be a member of the controlling family.”  Lee Si Hyun, a spokeswoman for Icheon, South Korea-based
Hynix, declined to comment on potential buyers. Hyundai Heavy
said in an e-mailed response on June 10 that it is still
considering a bid for Hynix. Hyundai Motor, also in an e-mail,
denied any interest in the stake.  A group of nine creditors plans to sell all or part of a 15
percent stake in Hynix that it gained through a government-
initiated bailout in 2001 after an industry downturn.  The creditors plan to invite preliminary bids in July, Ryu Jae Han, Chief Executive Officer of  Korea  Finance Corp., said in
a telephone interview on June 10.  They may ask Hynix to sell new stock in addition to part of
their combined stake. The creditors aim to close the deal,
including payment, by the end of this year, Ryu said.  Interested Parties  “In principle, we are looking at this sale with
interest,” Hyundai Heavy said on June 8, without elaborating.
The company’s shares have since slumped 10 percent to 444,000
won ($410.10), cutting its market value to $31.2 billion from
$34.7 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hynix’s creditors, which are trying to recoup the $4.6
billion that they spent bailing out the company, have already
failed twice last year to attract any buyers.  Shares of Hyundai Motor have slumped 6.3 percent since
Hyundai Heavy’s statement of interest. MoneyToday, an online
Korean language news provider, reported on June 9 that Hynix’s
creditors suggested the two companies form a consortium to bid
for the stake. Hyundai Heavy said the report was groundless,
while Hyundai Motor also denied it.  Hyundai Heavy generates 50 percent of its annual revenue
from shipbuilding, offshore rigs and drilling platforms, and the
rest by selling engine equipment, transformers and construction
machinery, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deal Rationale  All of Hynix’s sales come from memory semiconductors used
in televisions, cameras and mobile phones, the data show.  “Investors clearly don’t understand the rationale behind
Hyundai Heavy even considering an acquisition” of a stake in
Hynix, said Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Co.
in  Seoul . “There doesn’t immediately seem to be much synergy.”  Hyundai Heavy and Hyundai Motor were once part of Hyundai
Group,  South Korea ’s largest chaebol until it was split up.  Chaebol were originally modeled on  Japan ’s zaibatsu
conglomerate system, and with the government’s support came to
control many of South Korea’s biggest businesses. The Hyundai
chaebol traced its roots back to 1947, when Chung Ju Yung
started a construction company that eventually grew into a group
making cars, ships, semiconductors and steel. Hyundai Motor was
founded in 1967, and Hyundai Heavy built its first ship in 1974.  History Lesson  While the chaebol helped transform South Korea into an
industrialized economy after the  Korean War , they were crippled
as the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 pushed affiliates
that borrowed too much money toward insolvency.  Creditors accelerated the breakup of the Hyundai chaebol
after seizing control of Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.
in 2001. The Seoul-based contractor was bailed out after losing
2.98 trillion won in 2000, the result of unpaid international
contracts and debt obligations it couldn’t meet.  Another conglomerate member, Hyundai Electronics Industries
Co., was renamed Hynix in 2001 as it was taken over by creditors.  The chaebol had already begun to unravel after an aging
Chung named his fifth son, Chung Mong Hun, as his successor in
2000, inflaming sibling rivalries and prompting some affiliates
controlled by the founder’s sons to leave the group. Hyundai
Motor broke off that year, while Hyundai Heavy split off in 2002.  Now, Hyundai Heavy’s interest in Hynix is heightening
concern that companies formerly part of the Hyundai chaebol are
now competing to reassemble the conglomerate by acquiring stakes
in each other’s businesses as the expense of shareholders.  Empire Building  “In Korea, M&A is not just driven by business logic,”
said Im Jeong Jae, a  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion and owns shares
of Hyundai Heavy. “Chaebol companies sometimes try to buy
companies in unrelated areas, and because the interests of
majority shareholders, their past relations or other elements
are intertwined, there’s a lot of noise.”  In March, Hyundai Motor Group -- comprised of Hyundai Motor,
Kia Motors Corp. and  Hyundai Mobis  -- won the bid for a 35
percent stake in Hyundai Engineering, which builds nuclear power
plants and airports. All four companies are based in Seoul.  The contest pitted Hyundai’s automotive group companies
against  Hyundai Group , currently made up of  nine affiliates ,
including Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. and Hyundai Elevator Co.  Hyundai Group was initially chosen as the preferred bidder
in November with a 5.5 trillion won bid, two people familiar
with the matter said at the time. The offer was higher than some
investors anticipated, causing the group companies to decline.  Korea Discount  Hyundai Merchant Marine of Seoul and Icheon-based Hyundai
Elevator, two of Hyundai Group’s publicly traded units, tumbled
by 15 percent on Nov. 16.  Hyundai Group’s bid collapsed over concerns about its
ability to finance the purchase. Hyundai Motor Group ultimately
paid 4.96 trillion won for the stake. The price was about 74
percent higher than the 2.85 trillion won that the stake was
worth when the bids were submitted on Nov. 15, the data show.  “Hyundai Engineering is still very fresh on everyone’s
mind,” said Byun Sung Jin, an analyst at  Mirae Asset  in Seoul.
“It’s no secret that the main drive behind buying Hyundai
Engineering was them wanting to get back what was once part of
the Hyundai family.”  Putting family interests ahead of shareholders is one
reason why the nation’s companies are valued at a so-called
Korea discount, according to Blackfriars Asset’s Hann.  The Kospi index, the benchmark gauge for South Korean
common equity, is valued at 9.1 times next year’s earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the cheapest of
15 Asian equity markets, outside  Pakistan , the data show.  “The market takes it seriously because they rightly fear a
regression to Korea’s old ways,” said Shaun Cochran, head of
Korea research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Seoul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hadi in  Hong Kong  at 
 Mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at +852-2977-6639 or  ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 