-- L.A. Police Investigate Sudden Death of Artist Mike Kelley
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-02-02T05:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/l-a-police-investigate-sudden-death-of-artist-mike-kelley-57.html
Mike Kelley, an artist whose work
incorporated stuffed animal toys, sculpture, props and painting
along with performance and music, was found dead Tuesday night
in his South Pasadena, California home. He was 57.  Police in South Pasadena said that the death was an
apparent suicide. Lieutenant Fred Corral, with the investigation
division at the Los Angeles County Department of Coroner, said a
toxicology report would take six to eight weeks to confirm the
cause of death.  “He is one of the leading and most influential artists,”
said Helene Winer, partner in  New York ’s  Metro Pictures gallery ,
where Kelley had his first New York solo exhibition in 1982 and
showed over the next two decades. Kelley, she added, “broke
down the distinctions between different forms of art. He was
very intense, had a lot of energy, was extremely serious and
very productive.”  News of Kelley’s death spread quickly through the global
contemporary art world.  “His suicide came as a complete shock to me,” said artist
 John Miller , who met Kelley in 1978, when both were students at
the  California Institute of the Arts . “I haven’t felt this way
since 9/11. There is a sense of unreality. He is one of the most
loyal friends I’ve ever had.”  Miller said he spoke with Kelley on the telephone a week
ago, and that Kelley had referred to problems he was having
since his work began to bring him fame and money.  Awkward Success  “There was a whole complex of things at play,” Miller
said. “Coping with his own recognition and success was part of
it. He didn’t like situations when he stood out as a celebrity,
even though he was a performer.  “He’s always been a bit of a workaholic in terms of
production,” Miller said. “He kept raising the bar and it
stopped being fun.”  While an undergraduate art student at the  University of
Michigan , the Detroit native was a founding member of Destroy
All Monsters, a music and performance art collective. Kelley’s
work appeared on the cover for  Sonic Youth ’s 1992 album,
“Dirty.”  Kelley’s works are included in some 30 public collections,
including the  Metropolitan Museum of Art , the  Art Institute of
Chicago , the  Museum of Modern Art  and the  Solomon R. Guggenheim
Museum . He had been invited to participate in the 2012  Whitney
Biennial  in New York. It will mark his seventh appearance in the
high-profile show, the Whitney said.  His top price at auction is $2.7 million, for a room-size
installation of stuffed creatures. It belonged to hedge fund
manager  Adam Sender , who put it up for sale at  Phillips de Pury 
in November, 2006.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 