-- ‘Power Rangers’ Billionaire Saban Looking for Asian Investments
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2012-02-02T04:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/-power-rangers-billionaire-looks-to-asia.html
Saban Capital Group, U.S. billionaire
Haim Saban’s private-equity firm, opened its first Asian office
in  Hong Kong  and plans to invest “a significant” amount of
capital in the region, said the company’s president.  “We have a big appetite for  Asia ,” Adam Chesnoff, who is
also chief operating officer of Saban Capital, said in a phone
interview from Hong Kong, declining to give details on the
investment amount. “We’re very bullish on the prospects of the
Asian landscape in terms of growth, innovation.”  Led by  China , the East Asia and Pacific region is set to
expand 7.8 percent this year, compared with a global average of
2.5 percent, the  World Bank  said in January. Los Angeles-based
Saban Capital, which started investing in Asia in 2010 the money
of the billionaire behind the Power Rangers television series,
plans to put more funds into fast-growing companies in the media
and communications industries, Chesnoff said. The fund has no
other investors.  “Asia is home to some of the world’s most innovative and
creative entrepreneurs in media and communications,”
billionaire Saban, 67, chairman and chief executive officer of
the firm, said in a statement for the new office. “We are
excited about expanding our investment franchise into Asia.”  Sumeet Jaisinghani, who joined Saban Capital in 2008 and
has been involved in the firm’s investments in Asia, will
oversee the team in Hong Kong after moving from  Los Angeles . The
firm plans to open more offices in the region, Chesnoff said.  Saban Capital invested in PT Media Nusantara Citra, a unit
of  Indonesia ’s largest media company, Hong Kong’s Celestial
Tiger Entertainment, and Taomee Holdings Ltd., the Shanghai-
based operator of an entertainment website for children.  ‘Continue That Momentum’  “We’re seeing pretty attractive double-digit returns in
the investments that we have made so far,” Chesnoff said. “Our
hope is to continue that momentum with the investments that
we’re going to make going forward.”  Saban Capital plans to take minority stakes in companies in
Asia, focusing on equity investments, unlike in the U.S. where
it would typically seek control of firms and use leverage,
Chesnoff said.  “Many private-equity firms look to control and to dictate
the strategy of the company; Asia is very different,” he said.
“Adapting yourself and operating in a certain way that’s
friendly to entrepreneurs and companies in Asia, is very
important.”  Saban Capital has either invested or arranged to invest
about $6 billion of equity in different transactions in the U.S.,
 Europe  and the  Middle East  over the past decade, said Chesnoff,
who is based in Los Angeles. It has teamed up with eight
private-equity firms, including TPG Capital and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, in various transactions in previous years, he said.  The firm can “move very quickly” in its investments
because it manages only the billionaire’s money, Chesnoff said.  “Certainly our entire investment team’s goal is to
increase Haim’s net worth as much as possible within the next
few years,” Chesnoff said, declining to provide details of the
billionaire’s wealth. “During 2012 and 2013, we’ll see quite a
bit of activity and transactions that we can consummate.”  Saban made his first fortune developing and producing the
Power Rangers children’s television series about a group of
teenagers who battles the evil Rita Repulsa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  