-- T. Rowe Bets This Time Is Different with Facebook
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-02-02T21:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/t-rowe-buying-facebook-leads-money-managers-betting-this-time-different.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  has posted a
profit every quarter since going public in 1986, in part because
the firm sat out the dot-com boom in the 1990s and scaled back
mortgage holdings before the housing collapse.  As Facebook Inc. prepares what may become the biggest IPO
ever by an  Internet company , the Baltimore-based asset manager
is betting this time is different. T. Rowe holds the biggest
stake of any mutual-fund company in Facebook, the world’s
largest social-networking service. It is also among the main
holders of  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,  Angie’s List Inc (ANGI) . and  LinkedIn Corp (LNKD) ., all
public companies, and has put money into Twitter Inc. and
LivingSocial.com, which are closely held.  T. Rowe, which manages $490 billion, mostly in equities, is
telling investors that Internet companies are more mature now
than during the 1990s, when companies with no earnings prospects
went public. The current Web companies have greater potential
and are further along in their development, T. Rowe Price said
in a report to shareholders last year titled “A New Era of
Internet Investing.”  “They didn’t get caught up in the hype of the dot-com
world, but they seem to be saying they see value in some of
these new companies,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual-fund consultant
in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island , said in a telephone interview.  T. Rowe Price owns 5.2 percent of Facebook’s  Class A (FB) 
shares, making it the only mutual-fund manager with a stake of
more than 5 percent, according to the registration statement
filed by the  Menlo Park , California-based social-networking
website yesterday. The firm owns 6 million Class A shares and
12.2 million  Class B (0154628D)  shares.  ‘Substantial Amount’  T. Rowe Price’s own documents show that its mutual funds
held Facebook shares valued at $408 million at the end of 2011,
Robert Benjamin, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
company owns a “a substantial amount” of additional Facebook
shares in other accounts for clients, Benjamin said.  Facebook filed to raise $5 billion in what would be the
largest Internet IPO on record. The amount is a placeholder used
to calculate fees and may change.  Facebook is considering a valuation of $75 billion to $100
billion, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.
At the high end of the range, that would value Facebook at 26.9
times trailing 12-month sales, more than double  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
valuation when the search-engine operator went public in 2004.  Controlling Risk  Heather McDonold, a spokeswoman for T. Rowe, declined to
comment on Facebook and the firm’s other Internet investments.
The company, she said, is managing risk by keeping the
investments small as a percentage of its funds.  “Except in a couple of instances, no single investment
currently represents more than 1 percent of any fund,” she
wrote.  The company owns 15 percent of the Class A shares of
 LinkedIn (LNKD) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is the
third-largest holder of San Francisco-based Zynga, with a 12
percent stake, and among the top four owners of Indianapolis-
based Angie’s List with a 12 percent holding. T. Rowe also has a
0.3 percent stake in Chicago-based  Groupon Inc (GRPN) .  Internet and social media stocks rose today after Facebook
filed its IPO. As the close of New York trading, Zynga had
gained 24 percent since the company’s own IPO; Angie’s List was
up 13 percent; LinkedIn had climbed 71 percent; and Groupon had
risen 15 percent.  ‘No Guarantee’  T. Rowe Price invested in Zynga, Angie’s List and Chicago-
based Groupon before their 2011 IPOs, McDonold said, declining
to give a price. T. Rowe Price bought LinkedIn after the company
went public, McDonold said.  Traditionally, making an investment in a company before its
IPO was a good way to make a lot of money, said  Tom Taulli ,
whose Los Angeles-based website, IPOPlaybook.com, analyzes IPOs.
More recently, he said, private market valuations have been so
high “that getting in early is no guarantee that you will make
money,” he said.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , raised $100 million in
September 2009 in a venture capital round that included T. Rowe
Price. SkyNews reported in July that the firm was set to pay
about $90 million for an added Twitter stake, citing people
familiar with the situation.  LivingSocial.com, based in  Washington , has received a total
of $1.03 billion from investors including T. Rowe Price.  Fidelity Investments , whose funds can invest in a limited
amount of illiquid assets, typically acquires non-traded shares
directly from the issuer because it can negotiate certain rights
with the purchase, said Kristina Salen, global sector leader for
media, Internet and telecommunications at the Boston-based firm.  Researching Companies  Salen declined to comment on Fidelity’s Facebook holdings
and how the firm acquired them.  Salen said relationships with private firms grow out of
connections Fidelity analysts build while researching companies
in their industries.  “We spend a lot of time with private companies,” she said
in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t necessarily mean we will
invest in them.”  T. Rowe Price was viewed as out of step with the times for
its refusal to embrace the dot-com boom in the 1990s, Kunal Kapoor, an analyst for Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc ., wrote in
a 2004 note.  “The rest, of course, is history,” Kapoor wrote. “The
market tumbled, T. Rowe’s conservatism protected its
investors.”  Conservative Investors  The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index lost 66 percent
of its value between June 30, 2000 and Dec. 31, 2002, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. T. Rowe Price’s shares fell 33
percent over the same stretch, including reinvested dividends.
Denver-based  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , which had a reputation
for more aggressive investing, dropped 70 percent.  “T. Rowe came out of that  bear market  in pretty good shape
because of their conservative nature,”  Russel Kinnel , director
of mutual-fund research at Morningstar, said in a telephone
interview.  The success of the new generation of tech companies is
fulfilling the early promises of the Internet, Robert Sharps, a
portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price, said in the firm’s April
newsletter.  “What we are seeing now is what fueled much of the
optimism and ultimately much of the speculation in the 1990s,”
he said.  In its newsletter this January, the firm identified
Internet software and service, mobile and cloud-computing
companies as areas of focus for its portfolio managers.  Google,  Amazon.com (AMZN)   T. Rowe Price is the third-largest holder of  Mountain View ,
California-based Google Inc., the fourth-largest holder of
Seattle-based Amazon.com Inc. and one of the biggest in
Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. The three technology
stocks represented the firm’s largest positions as of Sept. 30,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  T. Rowe Price shares have risen 1.6 percent this year. In
the 25 years ended Dec. 31, they returned 20 percent a year with
dividends, more than double the performance of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  