-- 3M ‘Blackmail’ Allegations Against Porton Capital Dismissed
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T02:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/3m-claims-against-porton-capital-alleging-blackmail-dismissed.html
3M Co ., the maker of Scotch tape and
 Post-It Notes , lost its bid to sue Porton Capital Inc. over an
alleged $30 million extortion scheme after failing to persuade a
federal judge the case could be tried in his  Washington  court.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins ruled today that 3M
failed to show the court had jurisdiction over Porton, which has
offices in London and in Dubai. Wilkins ruled that a defamation
claim against Porton’s Washington lawyer, Lanny Davis, can go
forward.  “It is undisputed that the Porton defendants themselves
were never physically present in the  District of Columbia  and
that they never personally performed any of the alleged tortious
acts here,” Wilkins said.  The case involves  3M’s acquisition  from Porton and other
investors of Acolyte Biomedica Ltd., which was developing
products to detect microorganisms, according to the complaint.  Porton and Ploughshare Innovations Ltd., two of the
shareholders who sold their stakes in the technology company,
sued  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M in  London  over the deal. They
claimed they lost $56 million in potential profits because 3M
failed to properly market Acolyte’s MRSA-detecting technology,
BacLite. 3M called BacLite a failed product.  A London judge in November ordered 3M to pay about
$1.3 million in damages to Porton and Ploughshare.  In the Washington case, Porton and its chief executive
officer, Harvey Boulter, are accused of trying to extort
$30 million in connection with the U.K. lawsuit.  ‘Transatlantic Victory’  “This completes a resounding transatlantic victory for
Porton,” Porton’s lawyer, Lee Wolosky of Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, said in an interview. “3M’s U.S. blackmail claims
were nothing more than a publicity stunt intended to distract
attention from the U.K. trial.”  William A. Brewer III, a lawyer for 3M, said in a statement
that the company “looks forward to pursuing its defamation
claims” against Davis.  “We are eager to conduct discovery on these claims -– and
bring this case to trial as quickly as possible,” Brewer said.  3M initially filed the lawsuit in New York State Supreme
Court. The Washington lawsuit, which added Davis, was filed in
August.  3M accused Davis of being “the mastermind” of a scheme to
extract millions from the company by launching “an unrelenting
bombardment of sensational and false accusations against 3M in
the global media,” according to its amended complaint.  ‘Actual Malice’  In today’s ruling, Wilkins said that some of the public
statements made by Davis “reflect actual malice and/or bad
faith on their face and cannot be dismissed at this stage.”
Wilkins said whether 3M can substantiate its defamation claims
are “questions for another day.”  Davis, a one-time special counsel to President  Bill Clinton , argued his statements are protected by the so-called
fair comment privilege.  Davis also claimed some of the statements were related to a
petition he filed with the  Food and Drug Administration  on
behalf of Porton entities seeking an investigation into 3M’s
application for FDA approval of BacLite.  “We are confident that the defamation case is utterly
baseless -- and that what Davis said in explaining his petition
to the U.S. government was true,” Raymond Mullady of  Blank Rome
LLP (1219L) , who represents Davis, said in an e-mailed statement.  He added that under the rules, Wilkins must assume 3M’s
allegations are true, including allegations about statements
Davis never made.  Wilkins’s ruling noted that Boulter has yet to be served as
a defendant in the case.  The case is  3M Co. (MMM)  v. Boulter, 11-01527, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  