-- Group of 500 Female Wal-Mart Workers File U.S. Bias Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-02T19:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/500-female-wal-mart-workers-file-sex-discrimination-claims-with-eeoc.html
More than 500 former and current
female  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  employees filed sex-discrimination
claims with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
their attorneys said.  The filings were made to preserve the women’s claims over
pay and promotions against the world’s largest retailer after
the U.S. Supreme Court last year said their cases couldn’t be
litigated in a nationwide class-action, or group, lawsuit.  “The fight continues to seek justice for the women
employees of Wal-Mart,” two of their lawyers, Joseph M. Sellers
and  Brad Seligman , said in a statement announcing the number of
EEOC claims filed through Jan. 27.  The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision June 20, said the
women failed to show a common corporate policy that led to
discrimination against workers at thousands of Wal-Mart and
Sam’s Club stores across the U.S.  The workers “provide no convincing proof of a company-wide
discriminatory pay and promotion policy,” said Justice  Antonin Scalia  in the court’s majority opinion. Such a policy would help
justify allowing the claims to proceed as one lawsuit.  While the justices voted to reverse a lower court ruling
allowing the women to sue as a group, four members of the high
court said they’d have ordered further proceedings.  ‘Legitimate Claim’  “Anyone with a legitimate claim should have their day in
court,” Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart, said today in a telephone interview. “These
claims have never been heard on their merits.”  Seligman said after the June ruling that “thousands of
claims” remained to be filed.  Those individuals who have filed claims thus far are from
 Alabama ,  Arkansas ,  Georgia , Mississippi and  North Carolina , the
attorneys said today, adding that Jan. 27 was a deadline for
women living in those states to do so. Those in other states
have until May 25 to do so, Seligman and Sellers said in their
statement today.  Justine Lisser, a Washington-based spokeswoman for the
EEOC, said she couldn’t confirm the accuracy of the figures
provided by the lawyers for the Wal-Mart claimants.  “The charge process is confidential,” as required by law,
from the filing of claims through investigation and disposition,
she said. That changes if the agency files a lawsuit, Lisser
said, because the court filings are a matter of public record.  The  Supreme Court  case was Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes,
10-277, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 