-- Macy’s Seeks Injunction in Contract Lawsuit Against Martha Stewart Living
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-02T15:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/macy-s-seeks-injunction-in-contract-lawsuit-against-martha-stewart-living.html
Macy’s Inc. (M)  asked a New York state
 Supreme Court  justice to issue a preliminary injunction against
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. in a filing yesterday in
 Manhattan .  The retailer sued in New York state Supreme Court on Jan.
23 seeking to stop New York-based Martha Stewart Living from
executing a new sales agreement with  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)      Macy’s,
based in Cincinnati, said it renewed a 2006 agreement for Martha
Stewart-branded products that expires in 2018.  In court documents filed yesterday, lawyers for Macy’s
asked Justice Jeffery K. Oing to issue the injunction, saying
that the agreement grants the retailer an exclusive right to
make and sell Martha Stewart products in certain categories and
the right to refuse to make and sell other products that are
within Macy’s product line.  An injunction is necessary to prevent Macy’s from
“suffering immediate, continuing and incalculable harm as a
result of the unexplained and unlawful breach by defendant
 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  of its exclusive license to
Macy’s,” lawyers for Macy’s said in the court documents.  “We value our relationship with Macy’s and are confident
that we are not breaching the terms of our agreement, Jeanne Meyer, a spokeswoman for Marth Stewart Living, said in an e-
mail. ‘‘MSLO believes it’s good for our partners, our consumers
and our brand to have a wide range of Martha Stewart products
available in a variety of top retailers and we structure all of
our commercial agreements with this strategy in mind.”  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  