-- African Top Central Banks Turn on Governments to Curb Prices
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-03T07:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/africa-s-top-central-banks-turn-on-governments-to-curb-prices.html
Central bankers in  Africa ’s biggest
economies are admonishing their governments as spending plans
subvert the power of monetary policy and threaten to quicken
inflation at a time when  Europe  slips into a recession.  Nigeria’s Central Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi on Jan. 31
said lawmakers’ plans to raise spending beyond the 4.8 trillion
naira ($30 billion) proposed by President Goodluck Jonathan is
“inadvisable.” His counterpart in South Africa,  Gill Marcus ,
said on Jan. 19 that above-inflation increases in power tariffs
are “questionable.”  “The tighter fiscal policy is in South Africa or Nigeria,
the more comfortable central banks will feel and the easier they
will find it to cut rates if there are problems,” Charles Robertson, chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in London,
said in a telephone interview.  While policy makers in  Australia ,  Indonesia , Israel and at
the  European Central Bank  cut borrowing costs last year to
support their economies, African central banks, such as Nigeria,
Kenya and Uganda raised rates to bolster their currencies and
curb prices. South Africa has kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged
at 5.5 percent since November 2010.  Price-stability mandates in Nigeria and South Africa now
argue in favor of higher borrowing costs as inflation stays
above central bank targets. That threatens to curb economic
growth in the two nations at a time when a worsening debt crisis
in Europe, which buys a third of South Africa’s manufactured
goods, crimps global demand.  ‘Political Flak’  “Politicians are seen as good because they are increasing
spending, leaving the central bank to take the political flak,”
 Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist of Exotix Ltd. in  London ,
said in a phone interview.  In South Africa, the government is set to cut its growth
forecast for 2012 to below 3 percent from 3.4 percent, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Jan. 26. Inflation, which
reached 6.1 percent in December, is forecast to remain above the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range this year,
Marcus said on Jan. 19.  Growth in Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, will
probably be capped at 7.2 percent this year from 7.7 percent in
2011, according to the government. The  inflation  rate, which was
little changed at 10.3 percent in December, may climb to as high
as 14.5 percent in the first half of the year because of rising
fuel costs, Sanusi said on Jan. 31.  Chasing Opportunities  African currencies will probably benefit as investors seek
higher-yielding assets, according to Aryam Vazquez, an emerging-
markets economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York .  South
Africa ’s rand has jumped 5.7 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of the year, while Nigeria’s naira has risen 1.1
percent.  The rand strengthened 0.2 percent to 7.6604 against the
dollar as of 8:48 a.m. in Johannesburg while the naira was
little changed at 160.50 on the interbank market.  “As long as you have this very low-yield play in the
developed world and flush liquidity conditions, investors will
continue to chase the opportunities in places like Nigeria and
South Africa,” Vazquez said.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the supplier of about 95 percent
of South Africa’s electricity, won approval to raise prices an
average 25 percent annually in the three years through 2012 to
pay for a 500-billion rand ($65.8 billion) expansion program.  “Administered prices should not act as an inhibitor to
growth and investment,” Governor Marcus said on Jan. 19.  Government-determined prices, such as electricity, rose the
most of any category in the consumer-price index in December,
according to Statistics South Africa. Inflation, excluding
administered prices, was 5 percent in December.  Investors are increasing bets South Africa’s central bank
will raise rates as soon as a year from now. The yield on the
forward-rate agreement due in 12 months has gained nine basis
points this year to 5.84 percent.  “The  Reserve Bank  is constrained,” Matthew Sharratt, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview
in Johannesburg. “It makes it a lot more difficult with
continual increases in administered prices for the Reserve Bank
to fulfill its inflation target mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  