-- Malaysia’s Five-Time Election Winner Mahathir Warns Najib on Rushing Vote
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-02-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/malaysia-prime-minister-should-delay-vote-to-gain-support-mahathir-says.html
Malaysia ’s ruling National Front
coalition should hold off calling elections to allow more time
to win support from groups such as the country’s ethnic Chinese,
former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said.  Current leader Najib Razak might secure a simple majority
in parliament without winning back the two-thirds control lost
in 2008 if elections were held now, Mahathir, 86, said in an
interview at his office yesterday in  Kuala Lumpur . Najib would
struggle to win back opposition-held states, he said.  “If you have the time, use the time to build up support,”
Mahathir said. The coalition “can’t afford to lose support from
any sector of the country. The current thinking is that the
Chinese won’t vote for the government.”  Najib, who took over as prime minister mid-term in 2009, is
bound by law to call an election by early 2013. He sparked
speculation of an early vote when he said in December that
preparations had begun for the contest after a budget that was
unveiled in October boosted wages for civil servants and gave
cash payments to low-income families.  Mahathir won five consecutive national elections as the
prime minister of  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest  economy  before
stepping down in 2003. In 2008, the National Front lost a third
of its seats in the worst showing since independence in 1957.  ‘Moral Force’  Mahathir “is a moral force for a lot of Malays,” said Ooi
Kee Beng, deputy director of the Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies in  Singapore . “Even for non-Malays, they want to forget
it nowadays, but in the early 1990s, most of them felt a certain
pride that Mahathir gave to them.”  Before 2008, the worst showing for the National Front was
in 1969, when candidates representing urban ethnic Chinese and
rural Islamic opposition groups won more than a third of seats
in Parliament. Ethnic Chinese victory marches prompted a
backlash from Malay groups that led to emergency rule.  Najib’s father, Abdul Razak, took over as prime minister in
1970 and responded by creating an affirmative-action policy that
gave Malays educational, housing and job preferences.  A victory for the opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim , who was
acquitted last month of sodomy charges, would turn the country
“upside down,” Mahathir said yesterday.  Since Najib took office in April 3, 2009, the benchmark
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has risen 69 percent as of
yesterday’s close, compared with a 44 percent gain for the MSCI
Asia Pacific index.  Economic Growth  Spending by foreign and local companies has accelerated
since Najib’s government unveiled a so-called Economic
Transformation Program in 2010, under which it identified $444
billion of private-sector led projects from mass rail to oil
storage to promote in the current decade. Malaysia aims to spend
233 billion ringgit in 2012 to help the nation achieve economic
growth of 5 percent to 6 percent, the prime minister said in his
Oct. 7 budget speech.  Mahathir downplayed Anwar’s chances, saying the opposition
chief’s claim he would prevail in a “Malaysia Spring” was
misguided. The toppling of authoritarian regimes in the  Middle
East  became known as the “Arab Spring.”  “If you look at the Arab countries, it was clear that
these authoritarian rulers never cared for the people, never
created jobs,” he said. “Malaysia, on the other hand, upon
gaining independence, spent most of its time trying to create
jobs for its people.”  Former Deputy  Anwar had been Mahathir’s deputy until he was fired when
faced with similar allegations in 1998. He was sentenced to nine
years in jail for sodomy and a separate corruption charge at
that time, before being released in 2004 after Malaysia’s
highest court overturned the sex conviction.  Mahathir, who rejected an International Monetary Fund
bailout for Malaysia during the 1998 Asian Financial Crisis,
said he feels “vindicated” by  Europe ’s debt crisis and that
the region has been “living beyond its means.”  Mahathir, who introduced  capital controls  and fixed the
ringgit at 3.80 a dollar in September 1998, said that if he had
his way now he would ban currency speculation and short-selling.  “It’s not about producing goods or providing services,”
he said. “It’s just about betting on the stock market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Singapore at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  