-- Taliban Prisoner-Transfer Plan Would Send ‘Horrible Message,’ Rogers Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-02T21:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/taliban-prisoner-transfer-plan-would-send-horrible-message-rogers-says.html
The Obama administration would cross
a “dangerous line” and send a “horrible message” with a plan
to encourage peace talks with the Afghan Taliban by transferring
five prisoners from U.S. military detention, the chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee said.  The U.S. hasn’t decided whether to transfer the five
Taliban prisoners from detention at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to
Qatari imprisonment as part of an initiative to start peace
talks, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told the
panel today.  “It crosses a pretty dangerous line and a policy change in
the  United States  that I find very disturbing,” Representative
Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said at his committee’s
annual open hearing assessing national security threats.  “It sends a horrible message to the world’s bad actors
that soldiers, prisoners, citizens are to be traded like
commodities,” he said. “That is a horrible precedent and one
that I hope this administration strongly reconsiders.”  The criticism, which echoed similar comments at a Senate
hearing Jan. 31, may complicate the administration’s
consideration of whether to transfer the prisoners as a
confidence-building gesture to encourage peace talks with
Taliban representatives in Qatar.  “There has not been a final decision made on this,”
Clapper said. “It seemed, from an administration point of view,
worth exploring.”  Taliban Assassinations   Under questioning from Rogers, CIA Director David Petraeus
acknowledged the Taliban continues to conduct assassinations to
advance political goals.  “Negotiating with people who are associated with this
level of violence is very disturbing,” Rogers said.  Clapper said, “Whether or not we negotiate, and with whom
we negotiate, is not an intelligence community call. It’s a
policy issue.”  Rogers also expressed concern that  Iran  may not take
seriously warnings by the U.S. that it will consider “all
options,” including military force, to stop the Iranian
government from developing nuclear weapons.  “Their calculus is, ‘Hey, we’re making progress here,’”
Rogers said of the Iranian government, referring to its nuclear
program.  Clapper disputed that assessment, saying he has seen signs
of Iranian moderation. After threatening to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , “they kind of tempered their rhetoric,” Clapper said.
The USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier transited through the
strait recently without incident, he said.  “I do think they have respect for what our potential
capabilities are,” Clapper said. Economic sanctions “are
having an impact on the economy as never before on Iran,” he
said.  Iran has denied seeking nuclear weapons, saying its nuclear
program is for civilian energy and medical use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  