-- Allstate’s Wilson Says Record-Low Interest Rates Fuel Energy Investment
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-02T14:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/allstate-s-wilson-says-interest-rates-fuel-energy-real-estate-investments.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. auto insurer, is investing in energy and real estate
as near record-low interest rates squeeze income from bonds,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  said.  “For insurance companies or long-term investors,
obviously, low interest rates reduce the economic upside we have
from investing in America,” Wilson said in a phone interview
yesterday after Allstate announced fourth-quarter  results . “It
encourages people to invest in different things. Sometimes those
different things are real assets.”  Insurers invest in fixed-income securities to back
policyholder liabilities and generate income. Yields on their
portfolios have been under pressure as the  Federal Reserve  holds
its benchmark  interest rate  at between zero and 0.25 percent.  The central bank last week extended its pledge to keep
interest rates low through at least late 2014. About half of
Allstate’s $95.6 billion portfolio was in corporate bonds as of
Dec. 31, according to a  presentation  on the Northbrook,
Illinois-based company’s website. The insurer also has holdings
of Treasuries, municipal debt and mortgage-backed securities.  “When you’re getting less than 2 percent on a 10-year
Treasury, or 3 percent on a corporate bond for 10 years, it
doesn’t feel like as good of a return relative to the risk,”
said Wilson. The insurer has increased investments in oil and
gas assets and equity real estate, he said.  Share Gain  The insurer surged 4.4 percent to $30.61 at 9:31 a.m. in
New York after fourth-quarter results beat analysts’ estimates.
Net income was $724 million in the period, more than double the
profit a year earlier, on reduced losses from catastrophes and
improving margins for home coverage.  Allstate’s holdings outside of bonds included $4.4 billion
in limited partnership interests such as private-equity, real-
estate and hedge funds at the end of the third quarter. The
investment in real-estate funds jumped 54 percent in the 12
months ended Sept. 30, to $983 million, according to the most
recent company filings.  Some of those bets have helped maintain yields, Wilson
said. Total portfolio yield was 4.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with 4.3 percent a year earlier, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Net investment income declined to $975 million in the
quarter from $998 million a year earlier, as the life-insurance
unit shrank its portfolio after reducing the fixed-annuity
business, the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  