-- Alpargatas Weighs International Acquisitions to Boost Growth
-- B y   L e o n a r d o   L a r a
-- 2012-02-02T20:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/alpargatas-weighs-international-acquisitions-to-boost-growth-2-.html
Alpargatas SA (ALPA4) , the Brazilian maker of
Havaianas flip-flops, is weighing acquisitions overseas as an
opportunity to boost growth, Chief Executive Officer Marcio Utsch said.  “We are looking at some M&A deals,” Utsch said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo offices yesterday.  Utsch, 52, said Alpargatas wants to become a global brand
in footwear, clothing and related businesses. “These are the
sectors we are focusing our research on,” he said.  Alpargatas had 683.6 million reais ($397 million) of cash
on hand as of Sept. 30, according to the latest quarterly
earnings statement. That’s the biggest amount since at least
1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sao Paulo-
based company’s last acquisition was Cia. Brasileira de
Sandalias, maker of Dupe flip-flops, in 2007. Alpargatas
increased its stake in Alpargatas Argentina SA the same year and
currently holds 92 percent of that company, Utsch said.  Exports, pre-World Cup sports events, rising incomes in
 Brazil  and increased capacity from a new plant will help
Alpargatas grow faster this year than in 2011, Utsch said.
Alpargatas plans to add 2,250 workers this year, a 13 percent
increase to its workforce, he said.  The stock has gained 15 percent this year through
yesterday. The BM&FBovespa Small Cap index has risen 12 percent
over the same period, while shoe-maker Arezzo Industria e
Comercio SA surged 23 percent in the period. Alpargatas shares
were unchanged at 14.20 reais at today’s close.  Alpargatas may seek to buy strong brands in Brazil or
overseas, said Ricardo Boiati, an analyst who covers the company
at Banco Bradesco BBI SA.  “Alpargatas is a manager of brands, not just a footwear
maker,” said Boiati, who has an “outperform” recommendation
on the stock.  Alpargatas will sell to new markets in  Asia  this year and
seek to boost market share in established markets, including the
U.K. and the U.S., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leonardo Lara in  Sao Paulo  at 
 llara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  