-- Amazon Starts India Shopping Service as Internet Market Grows
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-02T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/amazon-starts-india-shopping-service-as-internet-market-grows.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
Internet retailer, started an online shopping service in India
to profit from the world’s second most populous nation as it
waits for the country’s retail regulations to loosen.  The website named  Junglee , which means “wild” in Hindi,
has links that take potential buyers to other sites that sell
products from mobile phones to toys. It will also feature goods
from Amazon.com, the Seattle-based company said in an e-mail
statement.  Amazon and  eBay Inc.  are among companies that could benefit
from India’s online shopping market that is expected to more
than triple by 2015. Junglee, which doesn’t take direct payments
from shoppers and connects them to other sites, gives Amazon a
presence in  India , which bars foreign sellers of multiple
brands.  “Amazon will get a foothold in the Indian market,” said
Sameer Narang, a Mumbai-based analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd.
“They’ll be able to understand the market, customer behavior,
the logistics in the country. In a couple years, the market has
to open up so they’re just warming their feet.”  India suspended its decision in December to allow overseas
companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA to sell
more than one brand in the Asian nation.  The new service may help Amazon boost profits in  emerging
markets . The Seattle-based company said on Jan. 31 that fourth-
quarter sales missed estimates on lower-than-expected revenue
from digital media such as the video-game market. Amazon is
relying more on third-party sellers, which make up as much as 36
percent of units sold, according to the company.  Retailers want to tap markets such as India, where sales
are expected to grow to $785 billion in 2015 from $396 billion
in 2011, according to estimates by Business Monitor
International.  India’s online retail industry is expected to surge to 70
billion rupees ($1.43 billion) by 2015 from 20 billion rupees as
broadband availability becomes more common and the number of
 Internet users  grow, the Associated Chambers of Commerce said in
a July  report .  India’s government on Jan. 10 raised the limit on overseas
ownership of stores selling a single brand to 100 percent, from
51 percent earlier. Foreign retailers may also fully own
wholesale operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  