-- AMD Expects PC Processor Market to Expand About 5% This Year
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-02T22:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/amd-expects-pc-processor-market-to-expand-about-5-this-year-1-.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s main rival in personal-computer chips, expects the
market for processors to grow about 5 percent this year.  In the first half of the year, the PC market will
experience “headwinds” from shortages of hard-disk drives,
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert said today in a
presentation to analysts at the company’s Sunnyvale, California,
headquarters.  PC component makers are still reeling from last year’s Thai
flooding, which cut production of disk drives and rippled
through the industry. AMD said last month that its first-quarter
 sales  would decrease as much as 11 percent from the previous
three months. That indicates revenue of as little as $1.5
billion, missing the $1.6 billion predicted by analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  AMD is aiming for a gross margin -- the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the cost of production -- of 44
percent to 48 percent. That target excludes certain costs. The
company also said it’s readying an “ultra-low power” chip for
tablet computers this year.  AMD  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $6.93 at the close
in  New York . The stock has climbed 28 percent this year.  Product Shift  Separately, the company said it will shift its strategy to
focus on supplying so-called system on chips, or SOCs, said
AMD’s new chief technology officer, Mark Papermaster.  SOCs are single chips that combine the functions of
multiple semiconductors onto one piece of silicon. The new
initiative will help speed up the pace at which AMD brings its
products to market and allow the incorporation of other
companies’ technology alongside its own in more customized
offerings, Papermaster said in an interview.  While AMD won’t produce products designed to push into the
crowded smartphone business, it will make processors that need
less power, helping it tackle the growing market for tablet
computers and thinner, lighter laptops, he said. Future AMD
products might include its own processor and graphics components
working with a processor based on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology.  To take advantage of the rapid growth of tablets and new
types of laptops, AMD needs to introduce new products faster,
Papermaster said.  “We can’t play in these opportunities on the pace we were
at,” he said.  Papermaster  joined AMD in October. He previously worked at
Cisco Systems Inc., Apple Inc. and International Business
Machines Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 