-- AMR Braves $1 Billion Revenue ‘Question Mark’ After Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-02-02T16:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/amr-confronts-1-billion-revenue-question-mark-after-job-cuts.html
AMR Corp.’s turnaround plan in
bankruptcy envisions finding $1 billion in new revenue even as
the parent of  American Airlines (AMR)  scales back its workforce by 18
percent and prepares to trim overall flying.  In a blueprint that includes eliminating 13,000 jobs, Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Horton  didn’t specify how he would reach
the revenue goal beyond boosting departures from five U.S. hubs
by 20 percent over five years and expanding international
flying.  “That’s the big question mark,”  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group
LLC analyst, said yesterday in an interview. “All airlines have
set these new revenue targets during restructurings or mergers,
and it’s very hard to achieve because you can’t always control
all the variables.”  Generating new revenue will be more difficult than
identifying AMR’s $2 billion in proposed savings, Neidl said.
About $1.25 billion will come from labor, including the job cuts
and contract changes to improve productivity.  Fort Worth , Texas-
based AMR also will seek to end its four pension programs.  Horton, 50, portrayed the plan as a move toward exiting
Chapter 11 as a stand-alone airline. He told employees in a
letter that a merger, as some analysts have suggested, wouldn’t
be in AMR’s best interest as the company reorganizes in federal
 bankruptcy court .  “This is a different kind of restructuring,” Horton said
on a conference call with reporters. “It’s not about shrinking.
It’s about renewal and growth.”  Annual Losses  AMR rang up four annual  losses  before a Nov. 29 Chapter 11
filing. American slid to third place in the U.S. by traffic from
No. 1 in the world in 2008 after sitting out a round of mergers
that vaulted  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  into the top two spots in the global rankings.  Revenue at AMR  totaled $22.2 billion in 2010, the latest
available annual figure, and probably was $23.9 billion in 2011,
based on the company’s first three quarterly reports and
analysts’ estimates for the last three months of the year.  “New revenue is the hardest part, no question,” said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “And if there’s $1 billion they can find, then so
should everyone else, so there is no competitive advantage.”  Straebler said one possibility is raising fares on
American’s main jet operations if flights are cut at the
American Eagle commuter unit, whose future won’t be announced
for a few weeks.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  “There are opportunities out there, but all of the low-
hanging fruit has already been picked” through fees for
services such as checked bags that were added several years ago,
Straebler said in an interview.  While American didn’t say how the smaller workforce would
affect available seating, the job losses were so sweeping that
future flying will take a “big” trim, said  Michael Derchin , an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut.
American’s capacity changes this year will be “relatively
minor,” Horton said.  Maxim’s Neidl said American’s plan implied a 10 percent
pullback in capacity, and “you can’t cut much more without
losing viability.”  Published schedule data shows AMR poised to pare system-
wide capacity by 1.7 percent over the next three months,
according to  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in New
York. Some “dramatic changes” on individual routes may show up
on airline schedules in the next two weeks, Keay said yesterday
in his weekly report on the airline’s available seating.  Delta Capacity  One of AMR’s larger rivals, Delta, has “no growth
projected” for the foreseeable future because of persistently
high fuel costs and the uncertain economy, President Ed Bastian
said today at a Raymond James airline conference. He reiterated
the Atlanta-based carrier’s plans to trim capacity by as much as
3 percent this year.  “You’re not going to see growth from Delta in any region
of the globe” this year, Bastian said. Delta’s capacity is down
15 percent since 2007, he said.  AMR said its turnaround plan includes better matching plane
size to the markets and demand, and winning more “high-value
customers” by spending several hundred million dollars a year
to upgrade products and services. The airline ordered 460 fuel-
saving  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  jets with a list value of $38.5
billion in July.  Network Changes  Customer service on American will come to rival that of
British Airways and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Horton said, citing two
carriers known for attentiveness to passengers.  Adding $1 billion in revenue is “doable given the size of
the firm once they stabilize,” CRT Capital’s Derchin said in an
interview. “It’s going to take network changes, product
changes, probably trying to regain some lost market share.”  AMR’s assets include an attractive route system with hubs
such as Miami, a jumping-off point for  Latin America ; Dallas-
Fort Worth, where American dominates flying; and New York,
Derchin said.  History has shown American the perils of counting on future
revenue gains that may prove elusive, said  Robert Mann , a former
executive at the airline who is now president of aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New York . In
2003, the airline won $1.6 billion in concessions from union
workers to help avoid Chapter 11, only to end up in court
protection eight years later.  “There were strong expectations of revenue improvement,
and that didn’t materialize,” Mann said in an interview. “A
validity check needs to be made on whatever the assumptions are
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  