-- ANC Study Said to Propose S. Africa Mine Resource-Rent Tax
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-03T15:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/anc-study-said-to-propose-s-african-mine-resource-rent-tax-1-.html
A study into mine nationalization
ordered by  South Africa ’s ruling  African National Congress 
proposes a 50 percent resource-rent tax rather than taking over
operations, a party official who has seen the document said.  Previous ANC discussion documents defined resource-rent
taxes as a levy triggered once the expected rate of return had
been attained on an asset. Nationalizing the country’s mines
would be too expensive for the government because it would cost
almost 1 trillion rand ($131 billion), according to the study,
the official, who declined to be identified because the document
hasn’t been made public, said yesterday.  The party instituted the study after its youth wing leader,
 Julius Malema , proposed that the government take over mines and
banks because the black majority isn’t deriving enough benefit
from them. South  Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of
platinum, chrome and manganese and supplies coal to  power plants 
in Europe and  India . In April 2010, Citigroup Inc. valued the
country’s mineral resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any
nation.  “There is a growing belief that the  mining industry  has
not delivered what people thought it would deliver, such as a
wider distribution of the country’s wealth,” Niall Carroll, the
chief executive officer of Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., which
manages the holdings of the 300,000-strong Bafokeng community,
said in an interview from Johannesburg today. “It is going to
result in change.”  Economic Policy  The study also proposes a 50 percent capital gains tax on
the sale of mineral rights before the start of  mining  to
discourage speculators, said the official. The tax would also
apply if a company changed ownership before a mine had been dug.  If adopted by ANC leaders the study will influence policy
documents to be discussed at a party conference in June. Final
decisions on  economic policy  will be made at its national
conference in December.  Keith Khoza, a party spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a message left on his his mobile phone by Bloomberg. Earlier
he confirmed that the ANC has received the report and said its
decision-making body could discuss it at a five-day meeting that
began yesterday. All discussion papers need to be presented to
the National Executive Committee before being distributed to the
ANC’s other structures, Khoza said.  Land Seizure  The ANC’s youth wing has also called for the seizure of
land in South Africa, where more than a quarter of the
population is unemployed. The ANC, led by President  Jacob Zuma ,
has said mine nationalization isn’t government policy. The
report, which was written by three economists, is aimed at
guiding the ANC’s nationalization debate.  Paul Jordaan is an independent mining consultant who has
worked for the government and has previously argued against
nationalization. Pundy Pillay is a researcher at Johannesburg’s
University of The Witwatersrand while Margaret Chitiga-Mabugu is
an economist at the Pretoria-based Human Sciences Research
Council.  Leaders of the largest companies operating in South Africa,
including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , have
said Malema’s nationalization drive is deterring investment and
curbing growth in Africa’s biggest economy. Malema is appealing
against his suspension from the ANC following a disciplinary
hearing for ill discipline.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  also operate
mines in South Africa, which depends on mining for half of its
export earnings.  ‘Negative Impacts’  While nationalizing mines “could have extremely negative
impacts on growth and development in our country,” South Africa
can boost its revenue, spur industrialization and create jobs by
replacing its first-come-first-served approach to issuing mining
licenses with “competitive concessioning,” Jordaan argued in
the second quarter of 2010 edition of Umrabulo, an ANC magazine.  This would allow the government to ensure companies meet
the country’s national priorities, Jordaan said. He proposed
introducing laws “obligating the operator to sell all products
into the domestic market at competitive prices, to facilitate
beneficiation and to underpin the competitiveness of our
manufacturing and agricultural sectors.” Beneficiation is a
local term for mineral processing.  Mines Chamber  A separate report by the ANC’s economic transformation
committee, which also opposes nationalization and calls for
greater processing of minerals, will be discussed by the
national executive committee, the official said.  “These other suggestions are going to get talked about a
bit, but there’ll only be a tweak here or there in terms of
policy,” Paul Theron, managing director of Johannesburg-based
Vestact Pty Ltd., which manages more than 1 billion rand of
assets, said in an interview. “The industry is very powerful
and has vast influence. It will see where it goes and then
they’ll start up the lobbying machine.”  Malema’s suspension from the ANC has taken the steam out of
the nationalization drive, Theron said. “The momentum behind
nationalization has slipped away,” he said.  Frans Barker, senior executive at the Johannesburg-based
Chamber of Mines, which represents most mining companies
operating in South Africa, declined to comment when contacted
today.  IDC’s Assets  Xstrata will make its views known on the ANC’s report
through the chamber once it has seen the study, the Zug,
Switzerland-based company’s South African unit said in an e-
mail. AngloGold and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , both based in
Johannesburg, declined to comment.  The study also suggested moving mine assets held by the
government’s Industrial Development Corp., a  development bank ,
into a state mining company, the official said.  The Johannesburg-based IDC owns 7.9 percent of
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , a 21.9 percent stake in  Merafe
Resources Ltd. (MRF)  and 7.9 percent of  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Other proposals include the development of an iron and
steel plant at Ngqura in the Eastern Cape province, investment
in infrastructure related to mining exports and industrial
development zones focused on mineral processing, the official
said.  The mining industry “can prepare for a growing regulatory
burden, including changes to the tax regime, beneficiation,
black economic empowerment laws and participation by the state
mining company,”  Anne Fruhauf, an analyst at New York-based
Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The rand gained 1.2 percent to 7.5592 per dollar as of 5:17
p.m. in Johannesburg. An  index  of 21 mining companies traded on
the city’s stock exchange fell for the first time in three days,
declining 0.3 percent to 36,402.90.  “The status quo is unsustainable,”  Royal Bafokeng ’s
Carroll said. State and society demands for a larger slice of
mining profits are a global phenomenon, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  