-- ANC Study Said to Propose South African Mining Resource-Rent Tax
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-02T19:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/anc-study-said-to-propose-south-african-mining-resource-rent-tax.html
A study into mine nationalization
commissioned by  South Africa ’s ruling  African National Congress 
proposes introducing measures including a 50 percent resource-
rent tax rather than taking over operations, a party official
who has seen the document said.  Previous ANC discussion documents have defined resource
rent taxes as a levy that would be triggered once the expected
rate of return had been attained on an asset. Nationalizing the
country’s mine assets would be too expensive for the government
as it would cost more than 1 trillion rand ($131 billion),
according to the study, the official, who declined to be
identified because the document hasn’t been made public, said.  The study also proposes a 50 percent capital gains tax on
the sale of mineral rights before  mining  has begun to discourage
speculators and suggested moving mine assets held by the
government’s Industrial Development Corp. into a state mining
company, the official said.  The party instituted the study after its youth wing leader,
 Julius Malema , proposed that the government take over the
country’s mines and banks because the black majority isn’t
deriving enough benefit from them.  South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese and supplies coal to  power plants  in Europe
and  India . In April 2010 Citigroup Inc. valued the country’s
mineral resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation.  If adopted by ANC leaders the study will influence policy
documents to be discussed at a policy conference in June. Final
decisions on economic policy will be made at its national
conference in December.  Keith Khoza, a party spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a message left on his his mobile phone by Bloomberg. Earlier
today he confirmed that the ANC has received the report and said
its decision-making body could discuss it at a 5-day meeting
that began today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  