-- ANC Study Rejects Nationalization of South Africa Mines, Business Day Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2012-02-02T07:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/anc-study-rejects-nationalization-of-south-africa-mines-business-day-says.html
A report by  South Africa ’s ruling
 African National Congress  found that the nationalization of
mines, as proposed by  Julius Malema , head of the party’s youth
wing, would be unconstitutional and too expensive, Business Day
reported, without saying where it got the information.  The government can’t afford to buy stakes in South Africa’s
mines, and it would be against the constitution to seize them,
the Johannesburg-based newspaper said. Mining companies should
pay more tax and royalties, and there should be more processing
of raw materials locally with higher duties on the export of
unprocessed minerals, Business Day said.  The study, compiled by three economists, is intended to
guide the ANC’s discussions into how to better distribute South
 Africa ’s mineral wealth, Business Day said. The report is
expected to be discussed by a meeting of the ANC’s national
executive committee, the newspaper said.  The ANC’s youth wing has called for the nationalization of
mines and the seizure of land in South Africa, where more than a
quarter of the population is unemployed. The ANC, led by
President  Jacob Zuma , has said that mine nationalization isn’t
government policy.  The ANC has received the report, Keith Khoza, a spokesman
for the Johannesburg-based party, said by mobile phone today,
adding that he is unaware of its contents or recommendations.  “It’s quite possible it could be presented to the ANC’s
national executive committee meeting starting today,” he said.
All discussion papers need to be presented to the NEC before
being distributed to the ANC’s other structures, Khoza said.  ‘Ill Discipline’  Leaders of the largest companies operating in South Africa,
including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , have
said that Malema’s nationalization drive is deterring foreign
investment and curbing growth in Africa’s biggest economy.
Malema is fighting his suspension from the ANC following a
disciplinary hearing for ill discipline.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL) , Xstrata Plc and  Lonmin Plc (LON)  also operate
mines in South Africa, which supplies European and Indian power
plants with coal and depends on mining for half of its export
earnings. In April 2010, Citigroup Inc. valued the country’s
mineral resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation.  A separate report by the ANC’s economic transformation
committee, which also opposes nationalization and calls for
greater beneficiation, will also be discussed by the national
executive committee, Business Day said, without citing anyone.
Some ANC leaders are opposed to the idea of the state owning
mines, it said, citing unidentified people.  Xstrata will make its views known on the ANC’s report
through South Africa’s Chamber of Mines once it has seen the
study, the Zug, Switzerland-based company’s South African unit
said in an e-mailed response. AngloGold and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,
both based in Johannesburg, declined to comment in e-mailed
responses to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  