-- Angelo Dundee, Trainer of Boxing Champ Muhammad Ali, Dies at 90 in Florida
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-02T05:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/angelo-dundee-trainer-of-boxing-champ-muhammad-ali-dies-at-90-in-florida.html
Angelo Dundee, the boxing trainer who
ran  Muhammad Ali ’s corner from his professional debut as Cassius
Clay through the epic bouts that made him a three-time
heavyweight champion, has died. He was 90.  His death in Tampa,  Florida , was reported by the  Associated
Press . Dundee attended Ali’s 70th birthday party last month in
Louisville,  Kentucky .  “It was the way he wanted to go,” his son, Jimmy Dundee,
told the AP. “He did everything he wanted to do.”  Though he trained more than a dozen title-holders,
including middleweight Sugar Ray Leonard, Dundee became a legend
in boxing for his work with Ali. The loquacious Ali -- ravaged
to the point of muteness in his later years by Parkinson’s
syndrome -- often praised Dundee, who was of Italian descent, as
“half-colored” for the easy way the two men related.  “He never bosses me, tells me when to run, how much to
box,” Ali told biographer Jose Torres. “I do what I want to
do. I’m free. I go where I want to go.”  The key to the Dundee-Ali relationship -- which remained
strong even as Ali joined the Nation of Islam, changed his name
and was stripped of his title for refusing induction into the
U.S. Army -- was the trainer’s willingness to let his boxer be
his showman self, David Remnick wrote in “King of the World,”
his 1998  biography  of Ali.  Dundee told Remnick, “You couldn’t actually direct him to
do something. You had to sort of mold him. He resented direct
orders. He wanted to feel that he was always the innovator, and
so I encouraged that.”  Ali signed with Dundee in 1960 after culminating his
amateur career with the light-heavyweight  gold medal  at that
year’s  Olympic Games  in  Rome . Four years later, Ali became the
second-youngest  heavyweight champion  by beating Sonny Liston.  ‘Thank You’  Dundee was Ali’s trainer and corner man through
declarations of retirement and ill-conceived comebacks,
including his 1980 return to fight heavyweight champion Larry Holmes, a former sparring partner of Ali. Dundee said it “broke
my heart” to concede  that fight  on Ali’s behalf after 10
bruising rounds. He said Ali, through swollen lips, mouthed the
words “Thank you.”  Angelo Mirena Jr. was born on Aug. 30, 1921 -- he gave the
year as 1923 in his 2007 memoir, “My View from the Corner,”
then revised it to 1921 for the paperback edition -- in
Philadelphia, one of seven children of immigrants from Calabria
in southern  Italy . He and two brothers took the name Dundee from
Joe Dundee, an Italian boxer from the 1920s.  Dundee worked as an airplane inspector during World War II,
then served in the U.S. Navy. In 1948, he moved to  New York ,
where one of his brothers,  Chris Dundee , had become a manager
“well connected in the shadowy boxing world of that era,”
Remnick wrote.  5th Street Gym  The brothers brought their boxing promotion and management
to  Miami Beach , where they worked out of a walkup called the  5th
Street Gym .  In 1957, Dundee was in Louisville, Kentucky, for a fight
when he got a call in his hotel room from 15-year-old Cassius
Clay.  “Cassius said, word for word, ‘I’m Cassius Marcellus Clay
and I’m the Golden Gloves champion, I’ve won this and won
that,’” Dundee recalled. “Then he told me he was going to win
the Olympics.”  Some quick thinking by Dundee helped Ali (then Clay)
survive a  1963 fight  that set the stage for his first title bid.  After Henry Cooper knocked down Ali at the end of the
fourth round, Dundee bought his fighter needed recovery time by
furtively enlarging a small split he had noticed on a seam of
one glove, then alerting the referee to it. A fruitless search
for a replacement glove gave Ali extra time to regain his wits.
He went out and pummeled Cooper, and the referee stopped the
fight in round five.  Title Bout  Dundee’s corner work was also key in Ali’s first  title
bout , in 1964 against Liston. After round four, Ali was
struggling to see, due to a burning sensation in his eyes, and
begged his team to concede.  In “the most important single minute of Dundee’s two
decades” with Ali, Remnick wrote, the corner man kept his cool,
used his sponge to get clean water into Ali’s eyes and pushed
the boxer to fight through the pain. Ali did, and he won the
title when Liston didn’t answer the bell for round seven.  Dundee, in a 2011  online chat , called that Liston fight
Ali’s greatest victory. “No one picked him to win, except me,
and Muhammad,” Dundee said. “Muhammad always thought he was
going to win. He thought he was going to a party every fight. He
was the calmest and most confident guy ever. ”  Dundee recalled hearing Ali softly say of himself, “The
Greatest is gone,” after he lost his title challenge to  Joe Frazier  in the 1971 “Fight of the Century.”  ‘Rope-a-Dope’  Ali beat Frazier in a 1974 rematch that set up his title
challenge to George Foreman. In the “Rumble in the Jungle,”
held in Kinshasa, Zaire, Dundee was surprised and worried when
Ali unveiled his defensive “rope-a-dope” strategy. Ali came
off the ropes to knock out an arm-weary Foreman in round eight.  In Ali’s epic third matchup with Frazier, the 1975
“ Thrilla in Manila ,” both fighters were exhausted after round
14. Frazier’s corner gave up first.  “As we tried to raise a bone-weary Ali off his stool to
accept the plaudits of the crowd, he collapsed, his legs giving
way to fatigue, his body to pain, totally drained,” Dundee
wrote. “It was a question whether he would have gone another
round.”  Dundee had a son and a daughter with his wife, Helen, whom
he married in 1952. She died in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  