-- Anglo American Closes at 8-Month High on Speculation of Renewed Takeover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-02T15:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/anglo-american-heads-for-9-month-high-in-johannesburg-trading.html
Anglo American Plc (AGL)  climbed to its
highest in eight months amid speculation a combined  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
and Glencore International Plc could make a bid for the
diversified mining company.  The stock gained as much as 4.3 percent and closed 3.4
percent up at 340.63 rand in Johannesburg, the highest since May
31. Shares worth 244 billion rand traded ($31.8 billion), 247
percent of the three-month average volume and almost twice as
much as rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   “What is affecting sentiment the most is the speculation
about Xstrata and Glencore,” Doug Blatch, head of equity
trading at Investec Asset Management, said by phone from  Cape
Town . “Immediately the market starts thinking what else could
be in play. It’s a game of chess; who makes the next move?”  Glencore is looking to buy the shares it doesn’t already
own in Xstrata to add coal, copper and nickel mines from  Africa 
to  Asia . Xstrata dropped a proposed 29.2 billion-pound ($46.2
billion) offer to merge with Anglo and create one of the world’s
largest mining companies in October 2009 after the London-based
company’s board snubbed the approach.  “We know that Anglo has potentially been a target
before,” Blatch said. “What would be the next move for a
combined Xstrata-Glencore if that were to happen?”  ‘Different Drivers’  Anglo may not be a good fit for Xstrata and Glencore if
they were to merge,  Peter Davey , a London-based mining analyst
with SBG Securities said by phone.  “Glencore is primarily a trading house; you don’t trade
diamonds and platinum,” Davey said. “I think a combined entity
of Xstrata and Glencore might have different drivers than where
Xstrata was coming from before.”  Improved sentiment after data showed an expansion in
manufacturing across the globe may also be boosting mining
shares, while a report in today’s Business Day that  South
Africa ’s ruling African National Congress found that the
nationalization of mines would be unconstitutional and too
expensive also contributed, Investec’s Doug Blatch said.  U.S. manufacturing grew at the fastest pace since June, a
report showed yesterday. The U.K.’s factory measure unexpectedly
reached an eight-month high, and manufacturing gauges in South
Africa,  Europe ,  China  and  India  rose in January.  “I don’t think the market has given too much credence to
the fact that full nationalization was on the cards,” Blatch
said. “Increased royalties would probably be more acceptable to
most. At the margin, it certainly is positive.”  The government can’t afford to buy stakes in South Africa’s
mines, and it would be against the constitution to seize them,
the Johannesburg-based newspaper said. Mining companies should
pay more tax and royalties, and there should be more processing
of raw materials locally with higher duties on the export of
unprocessed minerals, Business Day said.  “The good news is there’s no point in killing the golden
goose; the sting in the tail is we need to take more royalties
and taxes,” Davey said. “Anglo is going to get taxed even more
in South Africa where it makes half its revenue. Where’s the
good news in that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  