-- AOL Inc.’s Huffington Post to Debut Live Online Programming This Year
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-02T21:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/aol-inc-s-huffington-post-to-debut-live-programming-this-year.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s  Huffington Post  unit plans
to create live online programming later this year on the
Huffington Post and AOL websites and on televisions via Sony
Inc.’s PlayStation and devices from Roku Inc. and Boxee Inc.  The Huffington Post Streaming Network will feature news and
commentary based on content from its companion websites,
President Arianna Huffington said at a presentation to reporters
at the company’s  New York  headquarters today.  Led by Roy Sekoff, the founding editor of the Huffington
Post, the service will stream video for 12 hours a day, five
days a week, produced by a staff of 100 from its  Los Angeles  and
New York studios.  “This is unlike anything that’s out there,” he said. “We
hope to capture the beautiful chaos of everything on the web.”  AOL, which posted a 66 percent decline in net income in the
fourth quarter, has been losing share in the U.S. display
advertising market, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.
AOL captured 4.2 percent of the $12.3 billion domestic display
advertising industry last year, compared with  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
16.3 percent. Online video typically commands higher ad rates
than display advertising, EMarketer said.  “Our goal is to simply make this better and better --
there’s no number we’re looking at to see how successful this
becomes,”  Arianna Huffington  said in an interview after the
presentation.  AOL has seen revenue declines for the past five quarters,
driven largely by the downturn in its legacy-subscriber
business. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong 
aims to increase quarterly revenue toward the end of this year,
he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  AOL gained 2.7 percent to $18.24 at the close in New York.
The shares have risen 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  