-- Apple, Schweitzer-Mauduit, Target: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/apple-schweitzer-mauduit-target-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to get a
preliminary ban on sales of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy
10.1N and Galaxy Nexus mobile phone from a German court.  The Munich Regional Court rejected the motion yesterday, in
a case where Apple invoked a patent granted last year protecting
technology related to touch screens for tablets and smartphones.  “Samsung has shown that it is more likely than not that
the patent will be revoked because of a technology that was
already on the market before the intellectual property had been
filed for protection,” Presiding Judge Andreas Mueller said
when delivering the ruling.  The decision came a day after a Dusseldorf appeals court
upheld Apple’s request to ban sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the
predecessor model. Samsung began selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1N, a
revised version, in  Germany  to get around the ban. A lower
Dusseldorf court is scheduled to rule next week on a separate
case Apple filed over the Galaxy 10.1N. Samsung lost two patent
rulings against its rival in a Mannheim court last month.  The European Commission announced Jan. 31 it will
investigate whether Samsung broke a 1998 commitment to license
any standard essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable
and non-discriminatory terms.” The action followed litigation
filed by Samsung last year in European courts over the patents,
the EU said.  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use tablets and smartphones
to visit websites, play games and download music.  Neither Samsung nor Apple immediately replied to e-mails
seeking comment on yesterday’s case.  The patent at issue protects technology that shows users
when they reach the scrolling limit of a page. The decision
relied on the likelihood that Samsung could get the patent
revoked at the European patent Office, which had granted the
 intellectual-property  protection.  Peter Chrocziel, an Apple lawyer, argued at the hearing
that the technology Samsung claimed was known before the iPad
maker’s patent was filed didn’t contain the same solution
because it didn’t provide the same experience for the user.  Samsung lawyer Henrik Timmann argued the court shouldn’t be
allowed to issue a preliminary ban as long as a nine month
deadline for contestation for the patent hasn’t been elapsed.  Judge Mueller said he and his two colleagues on the bench
don’t follow the jurisprudence of the courts in Dusseldorf and
Mannheim, which don’t typically grant emergency requests over
recent patents.  “We don’t share the idea that young patents are less
valuable than those who have survived for a longer period of
time,” said Mueller. “We don’t think that would be in line
with European rules of enforcing IP rights.”  Yesterday’s case is LG Muenchen 21 O 26022/11.  Schweitzer-Mauduit Loses Cigarette-Paper Patent Dispute  Schweitzer-Mauduit International Inc. (SWM) , the world’s largest
maker of cigarette papers, lost a ruling in a patent-
infringement complaint against Julius Glatz GmbH.  Julius Glatz and its LIPtec unit didn’t violate Schweitzer-
Mauduit’s patent rights for papers designed to limit accidental
fires, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge James Gildea
said in a notice yesterday on the Washington-based agency’s
website. The findings are subject to review by the six-member
commission, which can block imports of products that infringe
U.S. patents.  The dispute is over low-ignition propensity papers, which
have thick bands that act as “speed bumps” so a cigarette goes
out if a person isn’t drawing air through it. Every U.S. state
mandates the use of the low-ignition papers as part of efforts
to reduce the number of deaths caused by people falling asleep
with smoldering cigarettes.  Gildea’s full determination will be made public after both
companies get a chance to redact confidential information.  Schweitzer-Mauduit, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , claimed
Julius Glatz infringed two patents related to a way to make the
papers. Schweitzer-Mauduit makes papers under the name Alginex,
and has said in regulatory filings that it has additional
patents protecting its flagship brand from competitors. In its
complaint, Schweitzer-Mauduit said it has about 23 percent of
the global cigarette-paper market and it supplies about 80
percent of the U.S. market for low-ignition propensity papers.  Glatz, based in Neidenfels, Germany, and its LIPtec make
and import their own papers, which are sold through  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based KneX Worldwide LLC, according to documents
in the case. The papers are used in the Signal and Skydancer
brand of cigarettes.  The case is In the Matter of Reduced Ignition Proclivity
Cigarette Paper Wrappers, 337-756, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Target Announces Agreement for Naming, Branding Rights in Canada  Fairweather Ltd., International Clothiers and Les Ailes De
La Mode will cease the use of the Target trademark by Jan. 31,
2013, according to a  Target Corp. (TGT)  statement released yesterday.  Target, the 1,750-store retailer, and Fairweather of
Toronto had sued each other, alleging trademark infringement,
and were each seeking injunctions to prevent the other from
using the Target name in  Canada .  Minneapolis-based Target said in January 2011 it planned to
start opening about 150 Canadian outlets in 2013 after agreeing
to pay C$1.83 billion ($1.87 billion) for 220 store leases of
discount chain Zellers from the Hudson’s Bay Co.  Closely held Fairweather, controlled by Isaac Benitah, had
argued that it bought the Canadian rights to the Target name in
2001 from defunct retail group Dylex Ltd. Fairweather said it
has operated a Target Apparel store in Toronto since 2005 and
has additional locations under the banner in place or planned in
other cities.  The U.S. Target took legal action in 2002 against Benitah,
who runs several other Canadian chains including International
Clothiers. The Federal Court of Appeal ruled in 2007 in favor of
Benitah’s use of the name on apparel. Target Corp. filed another
trademark challenge last year before its first expansion outside
the U.S., and then initiated new litigation, which Fairweather
countered with its own Federal Court action.  The retailer’s settlement statement didn’t disclose
financial terms or any other details of the agreement.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Bay Founders’ Prison Sentences Confirmed by High Court  Sweden’s  Supreme Court  didn’t grant a leave to appeal to
three founders of file-sharing website The Pirate Bay, the
Swedish news agency TT reported yesterday, meaning a 2010 guilty
verdict and prison sentences for the men will stand.  A Swedish court of appeal on Nov. 26, 2010, sentenced three
of the founders of the website to jail and a total of about 46
million kronor ($6.8 million) in damages for aiding copyright
infringement. Fredrik Neij was then sentenced to 10 months,
Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi to eight months and Carl Lundstroem to
four months in jail.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Specialized Bike Company Wins Only $1 From Former Employee  A  California  state court jury ordered a former employee of
a Morgan Hill, California-based bicycle manufacturer to pay $1
in damages at the conclusion of a trade-secrets case, the San
Jose Mercury News  reported.   Robert Choi, a former employee of  Specialized Bicycle
Components Inc.  and one of the founders of Cotati, California’s
 Volagi , was ordered to pay the damages in a suit that accused
him and another former Specialized employee of taking the
company’s trade secrets with them to their new job, according to
the Mercury News.  The judge tossed the trade-secret allegations during the
trial, leaving only a breach-of-contract allegation, the
newspaper reported.  While Choi told the Mercury News the ruling was
disappointing, he said he was pleased that the jury found his
conduct that allegedly damaged Specialized Bicycle Components
was worth only $1.  IP Moves  Pillsbury Expands San Diego IP Group With Two From Luce Forward  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP (1146L)  expanded its San Diego
IP practice with two hires from that city’s  Luce Forward
Hamilton & Scripps LLP , the San Francisco-based firm said in a
 statement .  The two new hires are Callie Bjurstrom and  Peter Hahn , both
of whom are litigators.  Bjurstrom has represented clients in patent, trademark and
trade-secret disputes. Among the industries in her client base
are fast foods, computer games, auto manufacturing and consumer
beverages.  She has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
Wisconsin  and a law degree from University of  Arizona .  Hahn has done IP litigation and transactional work,
including technology-transfer and joint-venture agreements, as
well as the IP and technology elements of mergers and
acquisitions.  He has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering
from the University of  Iowa  and a law degree from the  University
of Houston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 