-- Argentina Corn Crop to Get Significant Rain After Drought
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-02T19:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/argentina-corn-crop-to-get-significant-rain-after-drought-2-.html
Argentina ’s main corn- and soybean-
growing regions are forecast to receive significant rainfall
during the next week, providing relief from a drought caused by
the La Nina weather pattern.  As much as 150 millimeters (5.9 inches) may fall in
northern and central producing regions, with “scarce” rain of
as much as 10 millimeters in the southern areas, the Buenos
Aires Cereals Exchange said in its weekly climate report today.  Corn in Argentina, the world’s second-biggest exporter of
the grain, needs rain after months of dry weather destroyed some
of the sowed crop. Temperatures will rise above 35 degrees
Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit) through Feb. 9, the exchange
said. La Nina has also hurt crops in  Brazil  and  Mexico .  “The much longed-for rains arrived in January and provided
some relief,” the cereals exchange said in its separate weekly
crop report today. “Above all, it helped the crops planted
later on or in the second phase” as corn planted before October
was most affected by the drought.  Rain earlier this week caused flooding in Argentina’s
northern Cordoba province and in parts of Buenos Aires. Corn
planting in Argentina begins in August and harvesting starts in
February, while soybean sowing runs from September with
harvesting beginning in February.  Corn for March delivery fell half a cent to $6.4415 a
bushel at 12:38 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, while
soybeans for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to $12.165 a
bushel.  Corn output is forecast at 22 million metric tons, with
soybean production at 46.2 million tons, the exchange said in
its crop report today. Both crops are almost fully planted.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest corn exporter. Argentina is
the third-largest soybean exporter after the U.S. and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  