-- Harrisburg City Council Loses Second Attempt to Return City to Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-02T17:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/harrisburg-city-council-loses-second-attempt-to-return-city-to-bankruptcy.html
The city council of  Harrisburg (9661MF)  lost a
second attempt to return the capital city of  Pennsylvania  to
bankruptcy.  U.S. District Court Judge Sylvia H. Rambo in Harrisburg
threw out an appeal filed by City Council attorney  Mark
Schwartz , ruling that the council missed a deadline to challenge
a lower court ruling that dismissed the bankruptcy last year.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  dismissed the
bankruptcy on Nov. 23 and later refused to let Schwartz appeal,
ruling that he waited too long. Schwartz then asked Rambo to
give him more time.  Rambo refused, calling the effort “potentially
frivolous.”  “Appellant City Council has not acted in good faith,”
Rambo wrote in her opinion issued yesterday.  In an e-mail, Schwartz said he followed the process for
getting extra time to file an appeal and that both judges ruled
without holding a hearing to gather any facts.  “Another door should not have been slammed on
Harrisburg,” Schwartz said in the e-mail today.  The council put the city into bankruptcy in October,
disregarding a state law that banned such a filing. Under
Chapter 9 of the federal  bankruptcy code , state authorization is
necessary, so France threw out the case. Schwartz and the
council had tried to convince France that the state ban violates
Pennsylvania’s constitution.  Receiver Appointed  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces debt greater than its
general fund, in part because of an overhaul and expansion of an
incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue. Guaranteed
debt is about $242 million, with $65 million overdue, according
to the bankruptcy petition.  On Dec. 1, a state judge confirmed the appointment of a
receiver to run the city. That receiver, David Unkovic, chief
lawyer for the state economic development department, has until
Feb. 6 to file a recovery plan for the city.  The city council has been fighting with Mayor  Linda Thompson  over how best to fix the city’s financial problems.
Thompson opposed the bankruptcy and didn’t oppose the
appointment of the receiver.  The case is In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 1:11-
bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  