-- Marriott Set to Open Downtown Newark’s First New Hotel in Four Decades
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-02-02T13:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/marriott-set-to-open-downtown-newark-s-first-new-hotel-in-four-decades.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. lodging chain, plans to open a
Courtyard property at Newark, New Jersey’s Prudential Center,
the first new hotel in the city’s downtown in four decades.  Tucker Development Corp ., a closely held company based in
 Highland Park , Illinois, is spending $25 million to $50 million
to build the mixed-use property, Chief Executive Officer Richard
Tucker said in an interview, declining to give a more specific
amount. A ceremony to mark the completion of the development’s
structure is being held today, and construction is scheduled to
be finished by September, he said.  The Courtyard, to be operated by Marriott International,
will be one of three chain hotels in downtown  Newark , joining
Best Western International Inc.’s Robert Treat, and a  Hilton ,
which was the last new lodging property built in the city’s
core. It was developed in 1971, Tucker said.  “We looked at both hotels, which run at a very high
occupancy rate,” said Tucker, whose development will have
14,000 square feet (1,300 square meters) of ground-floor retail
space and a restaurant. “The new property is adjacent to the
Prudential Center, which is great. Combine that with a 50,000-
people business district and six major universities, you have a
great location.”  The Prudential Center, which hosts about 200 sporting,
concert and other events annually, is home to the National
Hockey League’s  New Jersey  Devils and the National Basketball
Association’s New Jersey Nets. The new building will be Tucker
Development’s third property in the state.  Corporate travelers helped boost demand for Marriott’s
hotels in the U.S., especially the upscale Courtyard and
Springhill Suites brands,  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at  FBR
Capital Markets Corp. (FBRC)  said in October after the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company released third-quarter results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  