-- Harvard Targeted in U.S. Asian-American Discrimination Probe
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-02-02T10:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/harvard-targeted-in-u-s-asian-american-discrimination-probe.html
The U.S. Education Department is
probing complaints that  Harvard University  and  Princeton
University  discriminate against Asian-Americans in undergraduate
admissions.  The department’s Office for Civil Rights is investigating a
complaint it received in August that Harvard rejected an Asian-
American candidate for the current freshman class based on race
or national origin, a department spokesman said. The agency is
looking into a similar August 2011 allegation against Princeton
as part of a review begun in 2008 of that school’s handling of
Asian-American candidates, said the spokesman, who declined to
be identified, citing department policy.  Both complaints involve the same applicant, who was among
the top students in his California high school class and whose
family originally came from  India , according to the applicant’s
father, who declined to be identified.  The new complaints, along with a case appealed last
September to the U.S.  Supreme Court  challenging preferences for
blacks and Hispanics in college admissions, may stir up the
longstanding debate about whether elite universities
discriminate against Asian-Americans, the nation’s fastest-
growing and most affluent racial category.  Like Jews in the first half of the 20th century, who faced
quotas at Harvard, Princeton, and other Ivy League schools,
Asian-Americans are over-represented at top universities
relative to their population, yet must meet a higher standard
than other applicants based on measures such as test scores and
high school grades, according to several academic studies.  Higher Bar  “Many Asian-Americans live for their children, sacrificing
everything to pay phenomenal tuition at these private schools,”
said former Delaware Lieutenant Governor S.B. Woo, president of
the  80-20 Educational Foundation , an Asian-American advocacy
group. “They, at the same time, are very much aware that their
kids have to cross a much higher admissions bar.”  Harvard “does not discriminate against Asian-American
applicants,” and doesn’t comment on the specifics of complaints
under federal review, spokesman Jeff Neal said. Asian-Americans
comprised  16 percent  of Harvard undergraduates in the 2010-2011
academic year, down from 18 percent in 2005-2006, according to
the university’s website.  “Our review of every applicant’s file is highly
individualized and holistic, as we give serious consideration to
all of the information we receive and all of the ways in which
the candidate might contribute to our vibrant educational
environment and community,” Neal said.  ‘Neutral Fact-Finder’  In a Jan. 11 letter to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Harvard and to the complainant, notifying them that it would
investigate the allegation, the  Office for Civil Rights  said
that the action “in no way implies that OCR has made a
determination with regard to its merits. During the
investigation, OCR is a neutral fact-finder.”  The agency doesn’t release the names of complainants.
While the Office for  Civil Rights  has the power to terminate
federal financial aid to colleges, it almost always negotiates
agreements with schools on steps required for compliance, rather
than taking enforcement action, the Education Department
spokesman said.  Princeton is aware of the 2011 complaint and will provide
the government with the requested information, university
spokesman Martin Mbugua said. The college, in Princeton,  New
Jersey , doesn’t discriminate on the basis of race or national
origin, he said.  “We make admissions decisions on a case-by-case basis in
our efforts to build a well-rounded, diverse class,” Mbugua
said.  Fluctuating Rates  The proportion of Asian-Americans among  Princeton
undergraduates  increased to 17.7% this year from 14.1% in 2007-
2008. The rise reflects the tendency of incoming classes to
“fluctuate based on the assessment of individual applications”
rather than the impact of the federal review, Mbugua said.  A Chinese-American student, Jian Li, filed a complaint
against Princeton with the Education Department in 2006,
alleging discrimination on the basis of race or national origin.
Li, who scored the maximum 2400 on the SAT and 2390 -- 10 points
below the ceiling -- on subject tests in physics, chemistry and
calculus, was denied admission by Princeton, Harvard,  Stanford
University , and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  In 2008, the Office for Civil Rights broadened its
examination of Li’s complaint into a compliance review of
whether Princeton discriminates against Asian-Americans.  ‘Substantially Identical’  Because the 2011 complaint against Princeton “raised
substantially identical issues,” the agency is folding it into
the compliance review, the Education Department spokesman said.
Li enrolled at  Yale University  and later transferred to Harvard,
graduating in 2010. He declined to comment, citing concerns
about a backlash.  The Education Department received a complaint in September
that Yale, in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , rejected an Asian-American
applicant on the basis of race, the department spokesman said.
The complainant later withdrew the allegation. It also involved
the Indian-American student from  California , his father said.  Yale is unaware of the complaint, spokesman Thomas Conroy
said. Asian-Americans make up  15 percent  of Yale undergraduates.  Asian-American applicants have to outperform their
counterparts from other backgrounds on the SAT to gain entry to
elite universities, recent studies show.  Test Scores  Asian-Americans admitted to the University of Wisconsin’s
flagship Madison campus in 2008 had a median math and reading
SAT score of 1370 out of 1600, compared to 1340 for whites, 1250
for Hispanics, and 1190 for blacks, according to a 2011 study by
the  Center for Equal Opportunity , a Falls Church, Virginia-based
nonprofit group that opposes racial preferences in college
admissions.  “Clearly, both whites and Asian-Americans are
discriminated against vis a vis African-Americans and Latinos,”
said Roger Clegg, the center’s president. “At some of the more
selective schools, Asians are also discriminated against vis a
vis whites.”  Because many Asian-Americans come from families that
arrived in the U.S. relatively recently, they are less likely
than whites to qualify for preference as alumni children, Clegg
said. “Stereotyping takes place too” of Asian-Americans, he
said.  Asian-American students who enrolled at  Duke University  in
Durham,  North Carolina  in 2001 and 2002 scored 1457 out of 1600
on the math and reading portion of the SAT, compared to 1416 for
whites, 1347 for Hispanics and 1275 for blacks, according to a
2011 study co-authored by Duke economist  Peter Arcidiacono .  Higher Standard  If all other credentials are equal, Asian-Americans need to
score 140 points more than whites, 270 points higher than
Hispanics, and 450 points above African-Americans out of a
maximum 1600 on the math and reading SAT to have the same chance
of admission to a private college, according to “No Longer
Separate, Not Yet Equal,” a 2009 book co-written by Princeton
sociologist  Thomas Espenshade .  Budget-strapped state schools such as the  University of
California  at San Diego are reducing enrollment of Asian-
Americans to make room for international students from  China  and
elsewhere who pay almost twice the tuition of in-state
residents, Bloomberg News reported Dec. 28.  Asian-American organizations are weighing in on both sides
of a federal lawsuit filed on behalf of Abigail Noel Fisher, a
white student who was rejected in 2008 by the  University of
Texas  at Austin. Fisher v. Texas marks the first federal court
challenge to affirmative action in college admissions filed
since a 5-4 U.S. Supreme Court decision in the 2003  Grutter v.
Bollinger case , which upheld the use of race by the  University
of Michigan  law school to achieve a “critical mass” of under-
represented minority groups such as blacks, Hispanics and Native
Americans.  University of Texas  The  University of Texas  automatically admits in-state
applicants in the top 10 percent of their high school classes,
who make up most of its students. It then considers race in
selecting the remainder of its freshman class.  The suit contends that the top 10 percent program is enough
to ensure campuswide diversity. The university responds that,
without taking race into account, many individual courses would
have hardly any black or Hispanic students.  After federal district and appeals courts upheld the
university’s position, the U.S. Supreme Court is considering
whether to hear the Fisher case. The  Justice Department  supports
the university.  Discrimination  “Asian-American students suffer discrimination at the
hands of the University of Texas at Austin,” the  Asian-American
Legal Foundation  said in a friend-of-the-court brief for the
plaintiff. While the university justifies its preference for
Hispanic applicants as an effort to diversify classrooms, it has
more Hispanic students than Asian-Americans, the San Francisco-
based foundation said.  With changes in the Supreme Court’s composition since
Grutter, including Samuel Alito Jr. replacing the retired Sandra Day O’Connor, who wrote the majority ruling, the justices may
take the opportunity to strike down race-conscious admissions
policies, said Woo, the head of the  Newark , Delaware-based 80-20
Educational Foundation.  The foundation plans to submit a brief supporting the
plaintiff if the Supreme Court takes the case.  Woo also co-founded a political action committee that
endorses candidates who promise to consider Asian-Americans for
key positions such as judgeships.  Hiding Racial Identity  “The prevailing college admission policy artificially
places highly qualified Asian-American applicants to compete
against each other rather than against the general pool of all
applicants, instilling such a fear that many Asian-Americans
hide their own racial identity” on applications, the committee
stated in December.  Four Asian-American organizations backed the University of
Texas in a brief to the appeals court, arguing that Asian-
Americans benefit from learning in a racially diverse
environment.  “It is simply a misstatement to argue that Asian-Americans
are victims,” the groups wrote.  There are 14.7 million Americans of Asian descent only,
plus 2.6 million who are multiracial including Asian, according
to the 2010  U.S. census . The combined 17.3 million comprises 5.6
percent of the population, up 46 percent from 2000. Median
household income for single-race Asian-Americans exceeds
$65,000, compared with a national average of $50,000. Half of
those 25 and older hold college degrees, almost double the
national average.  Harvard Revisited  The Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights first
examined Harvard’s handling of Asian-American applicants more
than 20 years ago. It turned up stereotyping by Harvard
evaluators, such as this comment about one Asian-American
candidate: “He’s quiet and, of course, wants to be a doctor.”  It also documented that Harvard admitted Asian-Americans at
a lower rate than white applicants even though the Asian-
Americans had slightly stronger SAT scores and grades.
Nevertheless, the agency concluded in 1990 that Harvard didn’t
violate civil rights laws because preferences for alumni
children and recruited athletes, rather than racial
discrimination, accounted for the gap.  The issue remains unresolved, said Stephen Hsu, a physics
professor at the University of Oregon who blogs about the
admissions process.  “The only way to answer these questions is to force these
schools to open their data sets,” he said. “College admissions
should be transparent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  