-- Asian Currencies Advance to Three-Month High on U.S. Manufacturing Data
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-02T09:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/asia-currencies-strengthen-to-three-month-high-on-u-s-manufacturing-data.html
Asian currencies strengthened to a
three-month high, led by Malaysia’s ringgit and  South Korea ’s
won, as U.S. manufacturing data added to optimism the world’s
largest economy will prop up demand for the region’s exports.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares gained for a third
day after reports yesterday showed U.S.  manufacturing  expanded
at the fastest pace since June and production gauges in China
and  India  rose in January. Global funds bought $1.3 billion more
Indian, South Korean and Taiwanese shares than they sold this
week, taking net purchases this year to $9.8 billion, according
to exchange data.  “With gains in stocks and good data out of the U.S., risk
sentiment is improving,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at
the Japan Center for Economic Research in  Tokyo . “We will
probably see some more fund inflows into the region for now,
supporting Asian currencies.”  The ringgit surged 0.8 percent to 3.0175 per dollar as of
4:53 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won climbed 0.7 percent to 1,118.35 and the
Taiwan dollar advanced 0.5 percent to NT$29.55. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most
active currencies excluding the yen, rose for a third day,
reaching the highest level since Oct. 31.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s index climbed to
54.1 in January from a revised 53.1 in December. China’s
purchasing managers’  index  increased to 50.5 last month from
50.3 in December while HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
said India’s index rose to 57.5 from 54.2.  Korean Stocks Jump  The won reached the strongest level since November as the
 Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of equities jumped 1.3 percent. South Korea’s
foreign-exchange reserves increased by $4.94 billion to $311.3
billion at the end of January from a month earlier as the euro
and British pound strengthened against the dollar, the  Bank of
Korea  said today.  “Improving global economic data is supporting the won,”
said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. “The won didn’t fall much yesterday even after
South Korea’s trade balance turned out to be a deficit, and this
signals the market is tilted toward some risk-taking.”  The ringgit advanced to the highest level in more than four
months after data showed global funds added to holdings of the
nation’s bonds last year. International investors raised their
ownership of ringgit-denominated debt by 36 percent in 2011 to
164.5 billion ringgit ($54.5 billion), Bank Negara  Malaysia  said
on its website on Jan. 31. The central bank left its benchmark
interest  rate  unchanged at 3 percent at a review this week.  “Risk appetite is gradually improving,” said Akira Banno,
a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “Given the stable  interest-rate  environment in
Malaysia, more foreign funds are expected to return.”  Philippine Rates  The Philippine peso rose to a three-month high as
speculation policy makers will cut borrowing costs to support
economic growth spurred demand for the nation’s assets. The peso
advanced 0.7 percent to 42.662 per dollar.  Overseas investors bought $372 million more Philippine
stocks than they sold this year through yesterday, according to
exchange data. The central bank, which lowered its benchmark
rate last month for the first time since 2009, isn’t ruling out
another reduction this quarter, Governor Amando Tetangco said
yesterday after a report this week showed economic growth slowed
in 2011.  “For the  Philippines , the positive credit fundamentals are
helping, meaning yields are still low, supporting local
equities,” said Estelito Biacora, senior vice president and
head of private banking in  Manila  at Bank of the Philippine
Islands. Foreign investors “are still keeping their holdings in
Philippine bonds,” he said.  Elsewhere, the Thai baht added 0.2 percent to 30.93 per
dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.5 percent to 8,943.
 China ’s yuan strengthened 0.08 percent to 6.3018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  