-- Most U.S. Stocks Gain as Treasuries, Dollar Fluctuate Ahead of Jobs Data
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-02T21:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/asia-stocks-rise-a-third-day-won-gains-as-manufacturing-grows-oil-falls.html
Most U.S. stocks gained as a drop in
jobless claims fueled optimism about the economy before
tomorrow’s employment data. Oil slid to a six-week low as
supplies rose. The dollar and Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent to
1,325.54 at 4 p.m. in  New York  as three stocks rose for every
two that fell on U.S. exchanges. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  lost 11.05 points to 12,705.41. The  Stoxx Europe 600
Index  reached to a six-month high as mining shares surged after
Xstrata Plc confirmed takeover talks. The S&P GSCI Index of raw
materials lost 0.5 percent as oil’s drop overshadowed a rally in
natural gas. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields were little changed
at 1.83 percent. The Dollar Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers in
 Washington  that while the world’s largest economy is still
vulnerable to shocks, measures of spending, production and jobs
have improved. U.S. unemployment claims dropped by 12,000 to
367,000 last week. Olli Rehn, the European Union’s economic
commissioner, said he expects a debt-swap agreement between
 Greece  and private bondholders by the end of the week.  “It’s a wait-and-see approach,”  Peter Jankovskis , who
helps manage about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in
Lisle, Illinois, said in a telephone interview. “You have a
number of people waiting for the jobs report tomorrow to make a
decision which way they go. You have the ongoing negotiations on
the Greek debt on the background. I wouldn’t read too much into
today’s trading.”  Slump Halted  U.S. stocks rose for a second day after yesterday  halting  a
four-day retreat, the longest for the Dow since August.
Tomorrow’s monthly payrolls data is forecast to show employment
grew by 140,000 last month after rising 200,000 in December and
the jobless rate held at an almost three-year low of 8.5
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Gains among the 10 main  S&P 500  industry groups were led by
energy, financial and consumer-staples companies, while raw-
materials producers, health-care companies and utilities
declined.   MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-largest payments network,
jumped 6.7 percent after profit climbed 24 percent. Qualcomm
Inc., the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, advanced 2
percent after raising its sales and earnings targets. Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc., the maker of Keurig brand single-
cup pods and brewers, surged 24 percent as profit exceeded
estimates.  Earnings Season  Profits have  topped  estimates at about 67 percent of the
246 companies in the  S&P 500  that have released results since
Jan. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings-per-share have
increased 3.2 percent for the group on a 6.6 percent increase in
sales.  Internet and social media companies rose after Facebook
Inc. filed to raise $5 billion in an initial public offering.
Zynga Inc., the largest developer of games for Facebook, surged
17 percent.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest Internet daily-deal site,
added 7.4 percent.  Oil slipped to a six-week low, dropping 1.3 percent to
$96.36 a barrel, after government data showed supplies climbed
and fuel demand tumbled. Natural gas in New York rose 5.6
percent, the first advance in four days, following a bigger-
than-forecast drop in U.S. stockpiles.  The  Stoxx 600  rose for a third straight day. Shares of
Xstrata Plc jumped 9.9 percent as the mining company said
Glencore International Plc offered to buy the shares it didn’t
already own. Glencore advanced 6.9 percent. Joining the two
natural resources companies would combine the world’s largest
listed commodity trader with a producer of coal, copper and
nickel from Africa to  Asia .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 1.4 percent,
heading for the highest close since Aug. 4. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2 percent.  Vietnam (VNINDEX) ’s benchmark VN Index
jumped 2.8 percent amid speculation policy makers will implement
more measures to support the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  