-- Asian Stocks Rise for Third Day on Global Outlook; Glitch Hits Tokyo Trade
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-02-02T10:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/asian-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-global-outlook-glitch-hits-tokyo-trade.html
Asian  stocks  advanced for a third
day, with the regional benchmark index heading for its highest
close in three months, as manufacturing gained in the U.S. and
Europe, boosting confidence the global economy is recovering.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s No. 3 maker of mobile
phones, jumped 7.4 percent in  Seoul . Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker by market value, advanced 1.8 percent
after car sales in the U.S. increased last month. Lynas Corp.
surged 19 percent in Sydney after the rare earths supplier won
approval to start production in Malaysia.  “We got more confirmation that business confidence in the
U.S. and Europe is improving,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. in Tokyo. “The European debt crisis is in a temporary lull,
so stocks sensitive to the economy will have a chance to gain.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.2 percent to 124.55 as
of 7:38 p.m. in  Tokyo , poised for its highest close since Oct.
28. Almost three shares rose for each that fell. The gauge last
month posted its biggest monthly advance since September 2010
amid bets China will ease lending curbs, the  U.S. economy  is
improving and Europe is containing its debt crisis.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.8 percent, while
the broader Topix Index advanced 0.6 percent. Trading of 241
companies on the Tokyo Stock Exchange including Sony Corp. and
Hitachi Ltd. was suspended for the morning session because of a
computer glitch, the worst disruption in six years.  Kospi, Hang Seng  South Korea ’s Kospi Index climbed 1.3 percent, while
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index and China’s Shanghai Composite Index both
advanced 2 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index and Sri Lanka’s  Columbo
All-Share Index (CSEALL)  were the only Asian benchmark stock indexes to
decline today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index swung between
gains and losses today. The measure advanced 0.9 percent in  New
York  yesterday after reports showed manufacturing in the U.S.
grew in January at the fastest pace in seven months, while a
gauge of U.K. factory activity jumped to an eight-month high and
German output grew for the first time since September.  Asian exporters gained. LG Electronics jumped 7.4 percent
to 90,500 won in Seoul.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s
largest maker of notebook computers, advanced 6.6 percent to
NT$67.5. James Hardie Industries SE, a supplier of building
materials that counts the U.S. as its top market, rose 4.2
percent to A$7.24 in Sydney.  Car Sales  Carmakers rallied after a report from Autodata Corp. showed
sales of cars and light trucks in the U.S. climbed 11 percent in
January from a year earlier as consumers replaced aging
vehicles. Separately, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. predicted a
“double-digit” gain in the  China ’s vehicle sales.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest automaker,
increased 1.8 percent to 2,906 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co.,
which increased U.S. deliveries for the first time since April,
gained 1.8 percent to 2,722 yen.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd., whose parent owns Swedish
automaker Volvo AB, surged 7.8 percent to HK$2.36 in Hong Kong.
BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., climbed 3.8 percent to HK$24.55.  Raw Material producers led gains among the 10 industry
groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after a gauge of
 industrial  metals prices rose yesterday, snapping a three-day
streak of declines.  ‘Enormous Value’  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
climbed 4.2 percent to HK$20.45.  Aluminum Corp. of China , the
No. 1 supplier of the light alloy, rose 3.8 percent to HK$3.86.  Glencore International Plc jumped 5.5 percent to HK$53.45
before trading was suspended in Hong Kong. Xstrata Plc, the
world’s biggest exporter of power-station coal, said it is in
talks with Glencore, its biggest shareholder, regarding an all-
share “merger of equals” after the world’s biggest commodity
trader made an approach.  “Glencore being such a dominant trader and marketer of
commodities, and Xstrata being such as strong operator of
difficult assets, I think it creates enormous value,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone before the statement.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
advanced 2.9 percent to A$70.72 in Sydney after agreeing to buy
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s stake in a titanium venture in  South Africa .
BHP, the world’s No. 1 mining company, increased 1.9 percent to
A$37.62.  ‘One Step’ Closer  Lynas surged 19 percent to A$1.59, the biggest advance on
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)  The company is set to start
production at the world’s biggest rare-earth refinery in
Malaysia after it won approval from the Southeast Asian
country’s Atomic Energy Licensing Board. Rare earths are 17
elements used in making products including Apple Inc.’s iPod
music players, flat-screen televisions, and hybrid cars.  Stocks also rose as discussions between  Greece  and its
creditors continued to progress. The Greek government is “one
step from closing” a debt-swap deal with private bondholders,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in  Athens 
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 8.1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with increases of 5.3 percent by the
 S&P 500  and 6.1 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 1.3 times book value. That
compares with 2.2 times for the S&P 500 in the U.S. and 1.5
times for the Europe Stoxx 600.  Sharp Corp. plunged 16 percent to 528 yen in Tokyo, the
lowest since June 1980. Japan’s biggest maker of liquid crystal
display panels forecast a record loss of 290 billion yen (3.8
billion) in the year ending March 31 due to slumping prices of
its Aquos televisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  