-- Assured Guaranty Municipal Sues UBS Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-02T23:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/assured-guaranty-sues-ubs-real-estate-securities-in-new-york.html
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. sued
a  UBS AG (UBS)  unit for breach of contract, accusing the company of
failing to meet obligations related to the pooling of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Assured Guaranty, a New York-based municipal bond insurer,
filed the suit today in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan . It accuses Wilmington, Delaware-based UBS Real Estate
Securities Inc. of failing to abide by obligations under pooling
and servicing agreements related to residential mortgage-backed
securities sold in three offerings in 2006 and 2007.  “UBS Real Estate assembled these securitizations from
thousands of residential  mortgage loans  and, as an inducement to
investors and insurers, represented, among other things, that
those mortgage loans met specified quality control standards and
were underwritten according to applicable guidelines,” the bond
insurer said in its complaint. “UBS Real Estate’s
representations were false, and, as a result, Assured has
sustained and will continue to sustain substantial damages.”  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  ‘Wrong’ Position  Assured Guaranty  Municipal’s position is “wrong” and UBS
intends to show that in court, Torie Von Alt, a New York-based
spokeswoman for  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said in an e-mail.  “Assured is a sophisticated market participant and
understood the risks it was underwriting when it agreed to
insure approximately $1.5 billion in RMBS backed by high-risk
mortgages,” Von Alt said. “Now that it has had to pay claims
under the policies it wrote, Assured is attempting to shift
responsibility to UBS through indiscriminate loan repurchases
and this lawsuit.”  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. UBS Real
Estate Securities Inc., 650327/2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  