-- MasterCard Net Beats Estimates as Customers Use More Plastic
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-02T21:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mastercard-profit-beats-estimates-as-customers-use-more-plastic.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, said fourth-quarter profit climbed 24
percent as spending with credit and debit cards increased. The
shares rose the most in three months.  Net income increased to $514 million, or $4.03 a share,
from $415 million, or $3.17, a year earlier, the Purchase, New
York-based company said today in a statement. The  average
estimate  of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $3.91 a share.
MasterCard took a $495 million charge related to price-fixing
litigation.  MasterCard advanced 7 percent to $381.57 in New York, the
most since Nov. 2. The results cap a year in which MasterCard,
led by Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga , surged 66 percent,
the fourth-best performance in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .
The firm repurchased stock as the global shift from cash and
checks to electronic payments continued.  “We are seeing sustained momentum driven by new deals and
the ongoing shift away from paper-based payments,” Banga, 52,
said in the statement.  MasterCard shares  gained  in part because the company
predicted that revenue would increase in 2012 and 2013 at a
compound annual growth rate of 12 percent to 14 percent, David Koning, an analyst with R.W. Baird & Co, wrote in a note to
clients today. MasterCard also said it wants to increase
earnings per share by more than 20 percent during the same
period, he said.  Anitrust Suit  MasterCard’s charge represents the company’s portion of a
potential settlement of an antitrust suit over how much banks
charge merchants to process transactions, according to the
statement.  In November, MasterCard and  Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s largest
payments network, put any potential settlement at about $4
billion. The two companies agreed that San Francisco-based Visa
would be responsible for two-thirds of any settlement and
MasterCard would be responsible for about one-eighth.  “With these kinds of negotiations, you do not know when the
thing gets settled,” Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund- Mejean said today in a phone interview. “We’re already in the
sixth year of this thing. I really would be lying if I gave you
any kind of timing on this.”  Fourth-quarter spending on MasterCard debit cards in the
U.S. increased 18 percent to $139 billion from a year earlier,
and U.S. credit-card spending rose 6.6 percent to $143 billion,
according to the statement. Debit-card spending climbed 21
percent worldwide, while global credit-card spending was up 14
percent.  Global Spending  Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded
cards, adjusted for currency fluctuations, increased 16 percent
to $863 billion, the company said. Spending by consumers outside
their home countries climbed 18 percent. Processed transactions
gained 23 percent to 7.7 billion.  MasterCard’s total  profit  for 2011, including the after-tax
charge, increased 3.3 percent to $1.91 billion, according to the
statement. Revenue climbed 21 percent to $6.71 billion. Net
revenue during the three months ended Dec. 31 increased 20
percent to $1.7 billion. Operating expenses climbed 12 percent
to $968 million, excluding the charge, MasterCard said.  “It was a combination of a lot of things that sort of made
them like the perfect stock” in 2011,  Donald Fandetti , a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York, said before the results were
announced. “You had a company that was beating numbers, a very
strong capital return story with share purchases and you had a
world where investors weren’t fully comfortable with some of the
alternatives.”  Fandetti, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock,
predicted MasterCard would report earnings per share of $4.10.  Visa is scheduled to report fiscal first-quarter results on
Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 