-- AstraZeneca Declines Most in 5 Months on Forecast: London Mover
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-02-02T16:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/astrazeneca-to-buy-back-4-5-billion-in-stock-cut-jobs-as-patents-expire.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, fell the most in five months after saying
profit this year will decline as the company prepares to face
generic competition to top-selling medicines.  Core earnings, which exclude reorganization and other one-
time costs, will be $6 to $6.30 a share, down from $7.28 in
2011, the London-based company said today in a statement.
AstraZeneca said it will buy back another $4.5 billion of stock
this year and cut 7,300 jobs, or about 12 percent of the
company’s workforce.  Patent protection on the drugmaker’s best-selling
medicines, including the ulcer treatment Nexium and
antipsychotic medication Seroquel, expires over the next four
years. The two products accounted for more than $10.2 billion in
revenue last year. Sales will fall this year by a percentage in
the low double-digits, the company said.  “Although the buyback program is a positive, EPS guidance
relies heavily on cost savings and the revenue outlook is
weak,” Deutsche Bank analysts including Mark Clark wrote in a
note to investors.  AstraZeneca fell 3.4 percent, the biggest decline since
Sept. 2, to 2,984 pence in London. The stock has gained 3.1
percent in the past year including reinvested dividends,
compared with a 17 percent return in the  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Job Cuts  The job cuts announced today come on top of 21,600
positions already eliminated by Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan  since 2007. The reductions will cost $2.1 billion and
save $1.6 billion a year by the end of 2014, the company said.  AstraZeneca will cut about 3,750 sales, general and
administrative jobs, 2,200 positions in research and
development, and another 1,350 in operations. The company took a
restructuring charge of $261 million during the quarter.  The drugmaker said it will revamp the way it conducts
neurological research, creating a unit of 40 to 50 scientists
based in Boston and Cambridge,  England . That will lead to the
closing of a research site in  Montreal  and a reduction in
positions at Soedertaelje,  Sweden , AstraZeneca said. The
drugmaker will continue seeking new treatments for
cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, infectious, respiratory,
inflammatory and neurological diseases, as well as cancer.  Acquisition Strategy  Brennan repeated the company’s strategy to acquire products
or smaller companies to add products to the company’s pipeline
and said he’s not looking for “transformational” deals. Any
acquisition would be smaller than the $14.7 billion purchase of
MedImmune Inc. in 2007, he told journalists at a press
conference in London today.  AstraZeneca last year purchased about about $5 billion in
stock in 2011, its biggest buyback to date. The repurchasing
plan and job cuts were larger than expected,  Justin Smith , an
analyst with Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London , said in an
interview. While the company lowered its forecast for drug
revenue, its profit estimate remains unchanged, which “shows
good cost execution,” he said.  “By the time we get to 2014 they’ll have taken $6 billion
out of the cost base,” Smith said. “We all know they have a
weak pipeline, but they’re doing what they can to cut costs and
return money to shareholders.”  Core earnings rose to $1.61 a share from $1.39 in the
quarter, the company said. That topped the $1.58 average
 estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. On that basis,
profit for the full year beat the $7.24 average estimate of 30
analysts and met the company’s forecast of $7.20 to $7.40.  Drug Sales  Sales for the quarter were little changed at $8.6 billion,
beating the $8.58 billion estimate of 23 analysts. Generic
competition cost the company $450 million during the fourth
quarter, and revenue was also hurt by government price cuts, the
company said.  Revenue from the cholesterol-lowering pill Crestor,
AstraZeneca’s biggest-selling drug, grew even after generic
versions of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s rival Lipitor entered the market in
November. Crestor generated $6.6 billion in sales last year, and
revenue increased 11 percent to $1.77 billion in the quarter.  AstraZeneca received U.S. regulatory clearance for blood-
thinner Brilinta in July. The drug is now approved in 64
countries and has been introduced in 37 markets, the company
said today. Brilinta, sold as Brilique in  Europe , had sales of
$5 million in the quarter, which Barclays Capital analysts
called “disappointing” in a note to investors today.  New Products  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  requested more data
on experimental diabetes pill dapagliflozin, delaying approval.
AstraZeneca said it’s working with the FDA on the next steps for
the application for dapagliflozin, which it’s developing with
New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  Bristol-Myers Chief
Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti said in a Jan. 30 interview
that the company is still committed to dapagliflozin.  Following the FDA letter and other setbacks in  drug
development , AstraZeneca said today it estimates revenue from
newer drugs and its pipeline will generate $2 billion to $4
billion in revenue by 2014, down from a range of $3 billion to
$5 billion previously. It still expects revenue to be between
$28 billion to $34 billion annually through 2014.  “The buyback will appease the investors who are looking
for signs of growth but it won’t solve the problem,” Navid Malik, an analyst with  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS)  in London, said in
an interview today. “They need to drive innovation in their
pipeline to generate revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  