-- Australian Auto Exports at 13-Year Low
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-02T05:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/australian-auto-exports-at-13-year-low.html
The value of  Australia ’s automobile
exports plunged to the lowest level since 1998 last year as the
strength of the local currency reduced overseas demand, leading
to job cuts at the local units of General Motors Co. and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)   Passenger vehicle shipments fell 26 percent from a year
earlier to A$1.35 billion ($1.45 billion), the  Australian Bureau
of Statistics  said today in its December trade report. Car
exports have slumped 63.7 percent since their peak of A$3.6
billion in 2008, when they were the largest export by the
country’s manufacturing industry.  The decline highlights the so-called two-speed nature of
Australia’s economy as industries outside the booming mining
sector suffer from a more than 60 percent rise of the local
currency against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three years. Toyota
said last month it’s cutting more than a 10th of its assembly
plant workforce in Australia, while GM Holden said today its
reducing the number of contractors it employs.  “Our capacity to sustain large levels of export sales has
largely evaporated,” said Ian Chalmers, chief executive officer
of the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries, a car industry
lobbying group. “We’re competing in an internationally
difficult space while dealing with a very high Australian dollar
at the same time.”  Toyota Cuts  Australian manufacturing,  accounting  for about 10 percent
of gross domestic product, has contracted even as booming demand
for the nation’s commodities helped the economy avoid a
recession after the 2008-09 global financial crisis.  Toyota Australia, the country’s largest car exporter, cited
the strong dollar when it said Jan. 23 that 350 people face
compulsory redundancy at its main plant in Altona, a suburb of
the country’s second-largest city  Melbourne .  The division’s production has fallen 36 percent since 2007,
it said in an e-mailed statement last month. The unit shipped
83,000 cars worth A$1.5 billion in 2010, the majority to the
 Middle East , the largest importer of Australian-made cars,
according to Toyota’s website.  Holden, Australia’s largest producer of cars for the
domestic market, blamed the high Australian dollar for the job
cuts at its assembly plant in the South Australian city of
 Adelaide .  Growth Under Threat  “At the current  exchange rate  we won’t be able to realize
further growth in our export programs,” GM Holden Chairman Mike Devereux said in a statement. About 100 jobs will go and the
company “will not be able to do business” in Australia without
government support, Devereux said in an interview today with
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today the government is
determined to “keep car manufacturing here” and acknowledged
the problems posed by the high Australian dollar. The so-called
Aussie is likely to stay “relatively high for years to come,”
Gillard said yesterday and urged businesses to adapt to it.  Driven by demand for the country’s mining and petroleum
exports and top-rated government debt, the Australian dollar has
been the best-performing group of 10 currency against the U.S.
dollar during the past two years, rising 22.1 percent over the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While that strength helps contain inflation by making
imports cheaper, it hurts exporters by making their products
more expensive relative to overseas competitors.  BlueScope Steel (BSL) 
Ltd., the country’s largest steel producer, in August shuttered
its export division, and Australian wine exports fell to a 10-
year low in 2011.  The Australian Industry Group’s performance of
manufacturing index has  shown  a contraction in 13 months over
the past two years. A comparable  survey  in the U.K. has seen
contractions in five months during the period, while U.S.
manufacturing has grown in every month since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  