-- Australia’s Record Trade Surplus Spurs Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-02T05:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/australia-s-record-trade-surplus-spurs-currency.html
Australia ’s  trade surplus  soared to a
record in 2011 on coal and iron ore shipments, sending the local
currency to a five-month high.  Exports outpaced imports by A$19.3 billion ($20.7 billion)
in the 12 months through Dec. 31, a Bureau of Statistics report
showed in Sydney today. The December surplus unexpectedly
widened to A$1.71 billion from a revised A$1.34 billion in
November, compared with the median estimate of a A$1.2 billion
surplus in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.  The data underscore the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
expectation that Chinese demand for the nation’s commodities
will help propel the domestic economy even as a global expansion
slows. Growth in Australia, which has avoided a recession for
two decades, is driven by  iron ore  and coal shipments to  Asia  as
the developing economies of China and  India  boost construction
and power generation.  “The signals out of China are positive -- we’re still not
seeing a slowdown in commodity demand,” said Ben Jarman, a
Sydney-based economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . who predicts the
RBA will lower borrowing costs at next week’s meeting. For the
central bank, “it’s going to be a close call. Numbers like this
will tell them nothing disastrous yet has happened to the global
economy.”  The Australian dollar increased to $1.0713 at 4:56 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0710 before the data. It reached as high as
$1.0757, the strongest level since Sept. 1. Traders trimmed bets
on the chances of a quarter-percentage-point rate cut on Feb. 7
to 58 percent from 60 percent before the release.  Stocks Rise  Asian stocks rose for a third day on signs global
manufacturing is strengthening.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 1.2 percent as of
11:36 a.m. in  Tokyo . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added
0.2 percent and Treasury 10-year yields increased two basis
points to 1.84 percent.  Today’s report showed Australia’s exports rose 2 percent to
A$27.8 billion, the second-highest monthly total, led by a 31
percent jump in non-monetary gold shipments and an 8 percent
gain in coal, coke and briquettes.  “The trade figures are very, very good,” Australian Trade
Minister Craig Emerson said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television in Canberra. “It’s clear that this is being driven
by Australia’s economic engagement with the Asia region in the
Asian century.”  Consumer Demand  Elsewhere in Asia, Hong Kong retail sales probably slowed
in December, gaining 20.5 percent from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before a report
today.  Vietnam ’s trade deficit narrowed to $100 million in January
from $269 million in December, according to preliminary data
released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.
Imports declined 18.7 percent from a year earlier while exports
slipped 11.1 percent.  Switzerland  reports trade data today, with the nation’s
surplus narrowing to 2.5 billion Swiss francs in December from
2.95 billion a month earlier, economists predicted.  European producer-price inflation probably slowed to 4.3
percent in December from a year earlier, from 5.3 percent in
November, a Bloomberg survey showed before a report today.  In the U.S., the number of people filing first-time claims
for  unemployment benefits  probably fell to 371,000 in the week
ended Jan. 28, from 377,000 in the previous week, a Bloomberg
survey of 46 economists showed.  U.S. Unemployment  The U.S. tomorrow publishes nonfarm payrolls data for
January that are forecast to show employment growth slowed to
145,000 in January from 200,000 a month earlier, according to
the median of 81 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In Australia, more than two-thirds of exports go to Asia,
with  China  accounting for 26 percent of merchandise shipments,
while the European Union takes 8 percent and the U.S. less than
4 percent.  In minutes of its December rate decision the RBA said that
“in China, most of the monthly indicators, including for
industrial production and retail sales, were still consistent
with solid” gross domestic product.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , in a statement on the central
government’s website yesterday, said the government will support
small companies with a 15 billion-yuan ($2.4 billion) fund as
growth moderates in the world’s second-largest economy.  Mining Bonanza  Australia’s exports and a A$456 billion pipeline of
resource projects helped spur the local currency to $1.1081 on
July 27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  Today’s trade report showed imports advanced 1 percent to
A$26.1 billion on a 22 percent increase in fuel and lubricants,
while imports of civil aircraft dropped 13 percent.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the overnight cash rate
target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing
“considerable turbulence” in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth” as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis intensified.  A separate report in Australia today showed home-building
approvals unexpectedly declined in December from the previous
month for the third time in four months as weakness outside the
resources industry hurt employment growth.  The so-called two-speed nature of Australia’s economy was
reflected in the loss of 29,300 jobs in December, capping the
worst year for employment since 1992.  Twenty-seven of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted this week Stevens would reduce borrowing costs for a
third straight meeting to 4 percent.  “There is a degree of uncertainty around at the moment for
a whole lot of reasons around what’s going on globally,”
Richard Goyder, chief executive officer of Perth-based
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second-largest retailer, told
reporters on a conference call today. “Further interest rates
reductions will obviously help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  