-- Australia’s Service Industry Grew Last Month, Snapping Three-Month Decline
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/australia-s-service-industry-grew-last-month-snapping-three-month-decline.html
Australia ’s services industry
expanded in January, snapping three straight months of declines,
as back-to-back interest-rate reductions boosted businesses
including accommodation, cafes, finance and recreation.  The performance of services  index  advanced 2.9 points to
51.9 in January, the highest reading since August,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  and the Australian Industry Group said in
Sydney today. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the overnight cash rate target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent
on Dec. 6, citing turbulence in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth” as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis intensified. The
local dollar touched a five-month high yesterday after
government data showed a record trade surplus last year.  “The easing of  interest rates  towards the end of 2011 may
have lifted  consumer confidence  despite the dampening stream of
news coming from Europe,” Peter Burn, director of public policy
at the Australian Industry Group, said in a statement. “The
services sector remains patchy and continues to face strong
headwinds including from the strength of the dollar and flat
labor market conditions.”  Companies outside of Australia’s booming mining industry
are struggling, and the so-called two-speed nature of the
nation’s economy was reflected in the loss of 29,300 jobs in
December, capping the worst year for employment since 1992.  The index’s gauge for selling prices fell to 46.9 from 48.9
and the employment measure rose to 51.2 from 48.1.  Sales rose to 49.4 from 47, and the reading for new orders
climbed to 54.1 from 50.4. The wages indicator slid to 57.8 from
60.4, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  