-- Mazda Says It’s Considering Capital Increase After Losses Mount
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-02T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mazda-says-it-s-considering-capital-increase-after-losses-mount.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the most
unprofitable company among  Japan ’s eight biggest carmakers, said
it’s considering boosting capital as four years of losses erode
equity, threatening its  credit rating .  Repairing Mazda’s capital “is a must,” President Takashi Yamanouchi told reporters in Tokyo yesterday after the company’s
earnings presentation. “We are considering every option.
Nothing has been decided.”  The carmaker’s 73 billion yen ($958 million) third-quarter
loss, reported yesterday, lowered the company’s proportion of 
equity by 5 percentage points to 19.2 percent of its assets. 
The drop in the so-called equity ratio triggered Japan’s 
Rating & Investment Information Inc. to warn it may lower its 
debt rating on Mazda within three months.  “R&I cannot overlook the further weakening of the
financial base, which has already been weaker than the rating
suggests,” the debt-rating assessment company said in a
statement.  A share sale would give Mazda room to keep its investment-
level debt rating as mounting competition and the yen’s
appreciation prevents the company from making profit. Mazda
yesterday downgraded its  earnings outlook  by projecting its
biggest full-year loss in 11 years.  Mazda, whose shares tumbled 42 percent last year, rose 1.6
percent to close at 130 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
yesterday.  Mazda’s Yamanouchi said he’s confident the company will
return to profitability next fiscal year and that the carmaker
is “aggressively” looking to form an alliance. CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets said in a report last week that Mazda will
probably post losses through the year ending March 2014.  Mazda, which raised 93.3 billion yen in a share sale in
2009, yesterday forecast it will post a 100 billion yen loss in
the year ending March, five times the deficit it projected
earlier and more than twice the 46 billion yen loss projected by
the average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  