-- BAM Nuttall Wins $120 Million Order to Clear London Games Site
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-02T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/bam-nuttall-wins-120-million-order-to-clear-london-olympic-games-site.html
U.K. construction company BAM Nuttall
Ltd. has been awarded two contracts worth 76 million pounds
($120 million) to turn the  London  Olympic site into a park and
residential area once the Games are over.  The contracts will create about 500 jobs, with at least
one-fifth going to local workers in east London, the  Olympic
Park Legacy Company , or OPLC, said in an e-mailed statement.  “London is streets ahead of previous Olympic cities when
it comes to securing a lasting legacy,” London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in the statement. “The creation of thousands of
new homes and hundreds of jobs and apprenticeships will bring
huge benefits to east London and help drive growth across the
capital for many years to come.”  The OPLC will fund the creation of what will be called the
Queen Elizabeth II Olympic Park from 292 million pounds that was
earmarked in the Games’ budget, it said.  BAM Nuttall will clear London’s Olympic Park of some of its
temporary venues, roads and walkways after the Olympic and
Paralympic Games. It will also build new roads, cycle and
pedestrian paths across the park and into the surrounding area,
and finish permanent venues and parklands. The work, one of
 Europe ’s “largest construction projects” according to the
OPLC, will take 18 months.  The new park will be open in July 2013.  BAM Nuttall, which is part of Dutch builder Royal BAM
Group, has been involved in work at the Olympic site, as well as
the upgrade of Neasden Depot, the largest depot on the London
Underground network, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 