-- Banks, Pensions Are Squeezed as Fed’s Low Rates Erode Profits
-- B y   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/banks-pensions-are-squeezed-as-fed-s-low-rates-erode-profits.html
The  Federal Reserve , which cut its
target for the federal funds rate to a zero-to-0.25 percent
range on Dec. 16, 2008, said last month that rates would remain
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014. While the
unprecedented period of near-zero rates is meant to aid an
ailing economy, it poses challenges for banks, insurers, pension
funds, and savers.  The hope is that by making mortgages and other loans
cheaper, ultra-low rates eventually may revive economic growth,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 6 issue. For now
they’re squeezing profits at banks and disrupting investment
strategies at insurance companies and pension funds. They’ve
reduced payouts on savings accounts and bonds, and may lead to
higher bank fees and insurance premiums.  “For most people, there’s been more downside to these low
rates than upside,” says  Barry Ritholtz , chief executive
officer of FusionIQ, a New York-based investment research firm.
“They’ve punished savers and people living on fixed income, and
made insurance more expensive.”  For banks, low rates provided a boost at first because they
could borrow money cheaply and reduce rates paid to depositors
while still collecting interest on existing loans made at higher
rates.  As old loans matured, banks had to make new loans at lower
rates, cutting into profit. At  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the four
largest U.S. banks by assets, net interest margins -- the
difference between what they pay to borrow and what they earn on
loans -- dropped to 2.99 percent in the fourth quarter from
3.17 percent a year earlier.  ‘Margin Compression’  “There’s no best way to counteract net interest margin
compression,” says  Betsy Graseck , a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst.
“You need to have several different strategies.”  Many banks have announced cost-cutting plans, including
layoffs and lower compensation.  Jason Goldberg , a Barclays
Capital analyst, says larger banks are increasing fees on
deposit accounts and slashing debit-card rewards programs.  “There are certainly a lot of levers they are pulling,”
Goldberg says. “That said, it’s a big challenge. For a lot of
these banks the majority of their profits comes from net
interest income.”  Low rates also present a special challenge to insurers,
which need safe, predictable investment returns to pay claims.
About 64 percent of the property and casualty insurance
industry’s portfolio is in high-grade corporate bonds. The
average yield on investment-grade corporate bonds has fallen to
4.3 percent, from 6.2 percent in July 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Insurance Losses  Insurers suffered $32.6 billion in losses from January
through September 2011 in the wake of natural disasters
including  Hurricane Irene  and tornadoes in the Midwest. To make
sure they have cash available, insurers have begun moving some
of their money into shorter-term bonds, says Steven N. Weisbart,
chief economist at the  Insurance Information Institute . Since
shorter-term bonds have lower yields, that shift leads to a
further squeeze on investment income.  Data through the third quarter indicates that industry
profits were down 60 percent from the same period in 2010.
Weisbart says that to make up for lost investment revenue some
insurers may begin tightening underwriting standards and raising
premiums.  Like insurers, pension funds have long counted on bonds to
help them meet future obligations. After four years of low
rates, and a decade of flat performance in the stock market,
corporate pension funds face record shortfalls. A January report
by Credit Suisse Group AG estimated that 97 percent of companies
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500  have underfunded pension plans.  ‘Dispiriting Year’  The combined deficit at the 100 largest defined-benefit
plans increased by $236.4 billion last year, according to an
annual pension study by Milliman Inc., a Seattle-based actuarial
and consulting firm.  “This was an unusually dispiriting year,” wrote John W. Ehrhardt, a co-author of the report. Depressed  interest rates 
were responsible for 90 percent of the funding shortfall accrued
since the middle of 2011, Ehrhardt says. “It’s all about having
to cope with low rates right now.”  To address the shortfalls, companies have been making
record levels of cash contributions to their pension funds over
the past year.  Boeing Co.  recently announced that it would
contribute $1.5 billion to its pension plan in 2012.  Traditionally, pension funds followed a simple allocation
rule of thumb, investing 60 percent of their money in stocks and
40 percent in bonds, according to Ehrhardt.  ‘More Sophisticated’  “That was the answer for many years,’” he says. “Things
have gotten much more sophisticated.”  The biggest change over the past decade has been the
position pension funds have begun taking in alternative
investments. Between 2006 and 2010 they doubled their exposure
to riskier investments -- including real estate, private equity,
and  hedge funds  -- to 20 percent, according to Milliman.  Lately, pension funds have been trying to boost yields by
buying bonds with longer maturities. By lengthening the average
maturity of their bond portfolios by about six to eight years,
funds have been able to get about two percentage points of extra
yield, says Ari Jacobs, a pension specialist at consulting firm
Aon Hewitt. That strategy carries its own dangers: When interest
rates rise, the value of existing bonds falls--and longer-
maturity bonds drop more than shorter-maturity ones.  “The traditional tools to manage a portfolio, like time
horizon and diversification, have been thrown out the window,”
says Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private
Bank in  Chicago . “All the lessons my generation has learned
over our lifetime have been seriously called into question these
last few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Philips at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  