-- Bendix Defect Leads to Shipment Halt, Lower Navistar Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-02-02T03:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/bendix-defect-leads-to-shipment-halt-lower-navistar-outlook-1-.html
Bendix Commercial Vehicle Systems LLC
said it stopped shipping defective truck-brake parts that
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  told investors today will
contribute to a first-quarter loss.  The company, a unit of closely held Knorr-Bremse Group AG,
said it told customers last month to stop shipping trucks with
its brake component because they may leak in cold temperatures,
causing the brakes to be applied involuntarily. No injuries have
been reported, the partnership said in a statement on its
website.  A valve that helps with traction and stability control may
leak when temperatures drop below 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18
degrees Celsius), the Elyria, Ohio-based company said. About
50,000 to 60,000 trucks are affected, said Barbara Gould, a
spokeswoman for Bendix.  Navistar, based in Lisle,  Illinois , said today it expects
to report a loss for the quarter ended yesterday, in part
because of the brake issue. Analysts estimated profit of 27
cents a share, the average of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The partnership’s other customers include  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ,
according to a customer list on the supplier’s website.  The Illinois-based maker of heavy-duty trucks halted some
shipments starting about Jan. 20, Jack Allen, president of
Navistar’s North America truck group, said at an analyst
 conference . It is repairing the brakes on affected vehicles yet
to ship and ones already in use, he said.  “It doesn’t affect everybody in our industry and it
doesn’t even affect all of our products, but it’s a serious
issue,” said Allen, who didn’t name the supplier. “As a result
we haven’t shipped a whole lot trucks since Jan. 20.” He said
shipments may be held up until the second or third week of
February and that the company expects to recover sales volume in
2012.  Navistar declined to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  