-- Bernanke Sees Improvement in Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-02T17:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/bernanke-says-economy-vulnerable-to-shocks-even-amid-signs-of-improvement.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy has shown signs of improvement while
remaining vulnerable to shocks, and he called on lawmakers to
reduce the long-term U.S.  budget deficit .  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said today in testimony to the
House Budget Committee in Washington. “The outlook remains
uncertain, however, and close monitoring of economic
developments will remain necessary.”  Bernanke repeated the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan.
25 statement that the outlook for the economy would likely
warrant near-zero  interest rates  through at least late 2014. The
FOMC also established an inflation goal of 2 percent, achieving
Bernanke’s longstanding aim to reduce “public uncertainty”
about monetary policy.  “In an environment of well-anchored inflation
expectations, more-stable commodity prices, and substantial
slack in labor and product markets, we expect inflation to
remain subdued,” Bernanke said today.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,321.94 at 12:42 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note was 1.82 percent, down one basis point from
yesterday.  Parries Criticism  During questioning after his opening statement, Bernanke
rejected criticism from Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , chairman of the budget committee, who said the Fed
was willing to tolerate inflation above its target in order to
bring down unemployment.  “We will not actively seek to raise inflation or to move
away from the target,” Bernanke said. “We’re always trying to
bring inflation back to the target.”  Reports indicating strength in the labor market,
manufacturing and construction spending helped drive the  S&P 500 
up 4.4 percent last month for the best January since a 6.1
percent increase in 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, Labor Department
figures showed today. The median forecast of 46 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey projected 371,000.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Even so, “the pace of the recovery has been frustratingly
slow, particularly from the perspective of the millions of
workers who remain unemployed or underemployed,” Bernanke said.
“Moreover, the sluggish expansion has left the economy
vulnerable to shocks.”  Bernanke devoted half of his speech to discussion of the
 U.S. budget deficit .  “To achieve economic and financial stability, U.S. fiscal
policy must be placed on a sustainable path that ensures that
debt relative to national income is at least stable or,
preferably, declining over time,” Bernanke said. “Achieving
this goal should be a top priority.”  At the same time, Congress should “take care not to
unnecessarily impede the current economic recovery,” Bernanke
said.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said this week
it expects the budget deficit to narrow to $1.1 trillion this
fiscal year from $1.3 trillion last year. The deficit would
reach $1.5 trillion by 2022, CBO estimated, and the debt would
rise to levels unseen since the government was paying off its
World War II expenses.  Household Spending  The Fed chairman said progress in payroll growth will be an
important determinant to household spending in coming quarters,
which in turn will influence the pace of the expansion.  Bernanke noted that the labor market “improved modestly”
over the past year. Total non-farm payrolls are forecast to rise
by 145,000 jobs tomorrow, when the Labor Department releases its
January report. The  unemployment rate  is likely to remain at 8.5
percent, economists predict, where it was in December, down from
8.7 percent the previous month.  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke told the
committee. “Particularly troubling is the unusually high level
of long-term unemployment: More than 40 percent of the
unemployed have been jobless for more than six months, roughly
double the fraction during the economic expansion of the
previous decade.”  Manufacturing Growth  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in January at the fastest
pace in seven months, according to a report from the  Institute
for Supply Management . The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
manufacturing index rose to 54.1, from 53.1 in December. Figures
exceeding 50 signal expansion.  United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s largest package-
delivery company, forecast a 2012 profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates as shipping demand increases.  “We certainly are seeing a better  U.S. economy  than we
would have thought back in probably August, September,” said
UPS Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis in a Jan. 31 call with
investors and analysts. “Back in that timeframe, people were
talking about a chance for a second recession. You don’t hear
that anymore.”  Still, consumer confidence unexpectedly dropped in January
and a gauge of business activity fell. The Conference Board said
this week that its confidence index decreased to 61.1, lower
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, from a revised 64.8 reading the prior month.  Consumer Confidence  Bernanke noted that consumer confidence “remains at levels
that are quite low by historical standards” and that the “pace
of growth in business investment has slowed, likely reflecting
concerns about the domestic outlook and developments in
 Europe .”  “There are signs that these concerns are abating
somewhat,” he said, “if business confidence continues to
improve, U.S. firms should be well positioned to increase both
capital spending and hiring.”  The 58-year-old Fed chief said in a press conference last
week that a third round of large-scale asset purchases is “an
option that is certainly on the table.”  Bernanke’s views were echoed in a Jan. 27 speech by Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley, who said
the economy will probably slow this year due to “significant
impediments,” and that the central bank “will continue to do
its part in supporting the recovery.”  Bond Purchases  The Fed’s second round of bond buying, or quantitative
easing, drew fire from Republican lawmakers when it was
announced in November 2010. Among the critics was Ryan, who said
the purchases risked creating asset-price bubbles and fueling
inflation.  “I was greatly concerned to hear the Fed recently announce
that it would be willing to accept higher-than-desired inflation
in order to focus on the other side of its dual mandate, which
is promoting employment,” Ryan said in opening remarks today.  Ryan has also called for government spending cuts. He
proposed a plan last year to reduce deficits by slicing $6.2
trillion over 10 years from Medicare and scores of other
programs including Medicaid,  food stamps ,  farm subsidies  and
Pell college tuition grants.  Criticism of Bernanke has also flared in the race for the
Republican nomination for president, with candidates  Mitt Romney 
and  Newt Gingrich  saying they wouldn’t keep Bernanke as Fed
chief. His four-year term as chairman expires on Jan. 31, 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  