-- Bernanke Says He Won’t Trade 2% Inflation-Rate Target for More Job Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-02T18:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/bernanke-says-he-won-t-sacrifice-inflation-goal-for-more-employment-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank will seek to keep prices rising
at a 2 percent rate and rejected suggestions that it would
sacrifice its inflation goal to boost employment.  “Over a period of time we want to move inflation always
back toward 2 percent,” Bernanke said today in Washington in
response to a question from Republican Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , chairman of the House Budget Committee. “We’re
always trying to bring inflation back to the target.”  Bernanke defended the central bank’s newly established
inflation goal after Ryan suggested it might be willing to
tolerate higher inflation to fulfill the second part of its
mandate from Congress, which is to seek maximum employment.  “In looking at the two sides of the mandate, the rate of
speed, the aggressiveness, may depend to some extent on the
balance between the two objectives,” Bernanke said. “We are
always trying to return both objectives back to their mandate.”  Ryan, who has supported legislation to have the Fed focus
solely on stable prices, said in opening remarks he was
“greatly concerned to hear the Fed recently announce that it
would be willing to accept higher-than-desired inflation in
order to focus on the other side of its dual mandate.”  Bernanke, 58, also came under fire from  Scott Garrett , a
New Jersey Republican, who said the Fed chairman overstepped his
authority when he submitted a paper to Congress last month that
discussed whether mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
should take more losses to support housing markets.  ‘Issuing Resolutions’  “Is this an invitation now to Congress that we should be
issuing resolutions to what monetary policy the Fed should be
doing?” Garrett asked.  “We’ve gotten a lot of requests from individual
congressmen for our views and for our analysis,” Bernanke said.
“I am sorry if you think we went too far.’  In his prepared remarks, Bernanke acknowledged recent
improvement in some economic data while cautioning that the
economy still faces risks, including fiscal deficits that in the
long-run must be reduced.  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said. “The outlook remains
uncertain, however, and close monitoring of economic
developments will remain necessary.” He also said the Fed
expects inflation to “remain subdued.”  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks rose after Bernanke’s comments before falling back.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.1 percent to 1,324.78
at 1:20 p.m. in  New York  after climbing as much as 0.4 percent.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at
1.82 percent.  Fed policy makers see inflation declining in 2012 to below
their 2 percent target, with most expecting prices to rise 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released last week. That gives them more leeway to take action
aimed at lowering unemployment.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke said at his Jan. 25 press
conference, after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said it
would keep its key  interest rate  near zero until at least late
2014.  The price gauge preferred by the Fed, the personal
consumption expenditures index, increased 2.4 percent in
December from a year earlier, down from 2.6 percent the previous
month. The pace of so-called  core inflation , which excludes food
and energy, increased to 1.8 percent in December from 1.7
percent the month before.  Economic Reports  Reports indicating strength in the labor market,
manufacturing and construction spending helped drive the  S&P 500 
up 4.4 percent last month for the best January since a 6.1
percent increase in 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, Labor Department
figures showed today. Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in January
at the fastest pace in seven months, according to a report
yesterday from the  Institute for Supply Management .  Even so, “the pace of the recovery has been frustratingly
slow, particularly from the perspective of the millions of
workers who remain unemployed or underemployed,” Bernanke said.
“Moreover, the sluggish expansion has left the economy
vulnerable to shocks.”  Budget Deficit  Bernanke devoted half of his prepared speech to a
discussion of the  U.S. budget deficit .  “To achieve economic and financial stability, U.S. fiscal
policy must be placed on a sustainable path that ensures that
debt relative to national income is at least stable or,
preferably, declining over time,” Bernanke said. “Achieving
this goal should be a top priority.”  At the same time, Congress should “take care not to
unnecessarily impede the current economic recovery,” Bernanke
said. Under questioning by lawmakers, he declined to be drawn
into specific policy prescriptions, such as proposals to extend
the payroll tax cut and  unemployment benefits .  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said this week
it expects the budget deficit to narrow to $1.1 trillion this
fiscal year from $1.3 trillion last year. The deficit would
reach $1.5 trillion by 2022, CBO estimated, and the debt would
rise to levels unseen since the government was paying off its
World War II expenses.  Household Spending  The Fed chairman said progress in payroll growth will be an
important determinant to household spending in coming quarters,
which in turn will influence the pace of the expansion.  Bernanke noted that the labor market “improved modestly”
over the past year. Total non-farm payrolls are forecast to rise
by 145,000 jobs tomorrow, when the Labor Department releases its
January report. The  unemployment rate  is likely to remain at 8.5
percent, economists predict, where it was in December, down from
8.7 percent the previous month.  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke told the
committee. “Particularly troubling is the unusually high level
of long-term unemployment.”  United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s largest package-
delivery company, forecast a 2012 profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates as shipping demand increases.  “We certainly are seeing a better  U.S. economy  than we
would have thought back in probably August, September,” said
UPS Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis in a Jan. 31 call with
investors and analysts. “Back in that timeframe, people were
talking about a chance for a second recession. You don’t hear
that anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  