-- Besson Says in Talks to Restart Petit-Couronne Refinery
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-02T13:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/besson-says-in-talks-to-restart-petit-couronne-refinery-1-.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said talks are taking place with  oil companies  to restart
Petroplus Holdings AG’s Petit-Couronne refinery in Normandy.  “My preoccupation is to restart the refinery very quickly.
A refinery can’t remain stopped for too long or the restart is
very costly,” he said on France Info radio today.  “We are in
touch with several oil companies so that it restarts quickly
through processing contracts.”  An announcement could come within two weeks, he said.
Besson didn’t name any oil companies.  The French government, facing elections later this year, is
under pressure to curb job losses, especially at energy
companies where unions remain powerful. Total SA and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have also halted refineries in
France, leaving the country with eight working plants compared
with 24 in 1977.  Refining is “strategic” for  France  and the government
will mobilize “financial means” so that operations at the site
can continue, Besson said today.  Gary Klesch, chairman of commodity investment firm Klesch
Group, said today he is interested in acquiring three plants
from Petroplus including Petit-Couronne.  Klesch isn’t the only investor interested in acquiring the
refinery in Normandy.  “We are interested to conduct due diligence at all the
five refineries,” said Christian Kappelhoff-Wulff, director at
Goldsmith Advisors AG, by phone from Zurich. “We have informed
the administrators in the U.K.,  Germany , and  Switzerland  about
our interest.  “We have also expressed interest in the refinery in France
as of today” and are in contact with Petroplus management about
the Belgian plant, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  