-- Billionaire Donors Extending Life of Lagging Primary Candidates
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-02-02T17:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/billionaire-donors-extending-life-of-lagging-primary-candidates.html
More than 50 years ago,  Joseph
Kennedy  used his wealth to advance the political career of his
son, President  John F. Kennedy . Last month, Jon Huntsman Sr.
tried to do the same thing.  The senior Huntsman, a chemical company executive, and his
candidate son, Republican Jon Huntsman Jr., invested a combined
$4.4 million in his presidential primary candidacy -- a million
more than the $3.3 million raised from supporters.  The strategy didn’t work; Huntsman came in third in the
Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary and dropped out of the race six
days later. What the maneuvering did accomplish was exposing how
broken the campaign finance system installed in 1974 to diminish
the influence of wealthy donors and corporations has become.  “Big changes to the campaign finance system have really
all come together in the past two years,” said  Michael Malbin ,
president of the Washington-based Campaign Finance Institute,
which advocates for donation limits. “Clever lawyers are
exploiting the edges of the law.”  In addition to Huntsman, two other Republican presidential
hopefuls -- former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  -- have extended their stays
in the primary race with help from one or two rich supporters.  ’Darwinian’ Sorting  “Gingrich, in particular, was able to avoid the Darwinian
sorting that would have typically occurred after New Hampshire
in large part due to the efforts of the super-PAC,”  Anthony Corrado , professor of government at Colby College in  Maine , said
in a phone interview yesterday.  “In the past, candidates who didn’t catch on early tended
to see their fundraising dry up,” he said. ’’Now, one merely
has to retain the support of a few donors willing to write large
checks.’’  The collapse of campaign finance laws began more than two
decades ago as candidates first discovered loopholes in the
strict donation limits imposed to level the playing field
between wealthy and modest contributors. It accelerated in
recent years after several court decisions and regulatory
inaction.  In 2009, a federal appeals court in Emily’s List v.  Federal
Election Commission  expanded on First Amendment grounds the role
outside groups could play in political campaigns, provided they
didn’t coordinate with candidates.  2010 Court Rulings  A year later, the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  in Citizens United v.
Federal Election Commission ruled that corporations and labor
unions could spend unlimited sums to help elect or defeat a
candidate. Two months later, in March 2010, a federal appeals
court found that independent groups could accept unlimited
donations, paving the way for today’s so-called super-PACs.  The  Federal Election Commission , an evenly-divided
bipartisan panel charged with enforcing campaign finance laws,
became deadlocked and failed to issue new regulations in light
of those court rulings, leaving lawyers working for the groups
to interpret them.  The upshot is a presidential campaign that is being
financed in ways not seen for decades, with secret donors and
multi-million-dollar donations to committees aligned with a
single candidate.  ‘Open Checkbook’  Foster Friess, a  fund manager  based in  Wyoming , helped
Santorum win in Iowa Jan. 3 by giving $331,000 to the Red, White
and Blue Fund, which supports the former senator. He gave more
in January, which will be disclosed in FEC reports later this
month, and intends to continue spending, he said in an email
yesterday. He has an “open checkbook” for anyone who opposes
Democratic President  Barack Obama , he said in a Jan. 27
Bloomberg Television interview.  “I think super-PACs help level the playing field a little
bit because without them it seems like the unions and the media
had a huge advantage,” Freiss said yesterday. He also pointed
to Democratic billionaires, including  George Soros  and Peter B.
Lewis, who put millions into an unsuccessful effort to defeat
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004.  In the case of Huntsman’s bid, the candidate last year
provided about $2.5 million of his money through a loan,
according to FEC disclosure reports. Also last year, the senior
Huntsman donated $1.9 million to Our Destiny, a super-PAC that
spent $1.3 million in  New Hampshire  on broadcast ads promoting
his son. That’s almost 75 times the $18,300 the candidate spent
on broadcast commercials, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  Gingrich Casino Backers  Gingrich’s presidential bid is being underwritten primarily
by one set of donors: Las Vegas casino billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , his wife, Miriam Ochshorn Adelson, and their family.  Yasmin Lukatz and Sivan Ochshorn, Miriam Adelson’s
daughters from a previous marriage, and Oren Lukatz, who shares
an address with Yasmin Lukatz, gave a combined $1 million to a
pro-Gingrich super-PAC, Winning Our Future, on Dec. 22, at that
point almost half of the committee’s receipts since its
formation, FEC reports show.  After fourth-place finishes in  Iowa  and the Jan. 10 New
Hampshire primary, Gingrich’s campaign was running out of cash -
- until Adelson and his wife bailed him out.  The casino owner donated $5 million to Winning Our Future
to carry Gingrich’s message in  South Carolina . The super-PAC
bought $1.3 million of broadcast TV time in the Palmetto State -
- more than twice what Gingrich campaign spent, according to
CMAG data.  $5 Million More  Gingrich won, and as the campaign moved to  Florida ,
Adelson’s wife donated another $5 million to the pro-Gingrich
super-PAC.  “Imagine if there were no super-PACs, his campaign would
have ended before South Carolina,” said Bradley Smith, a
Republican former FEC chairman and co-chairman of the Center for
Competitive Politics who promotes looser campaign finance laws.  In a statement in January to Bloomberg News, the Adelsons
said their “motivation for helping Newt is simple and should
not be mistaken for anything other than the fact that we hold
our friendship with him very dear and are doing what we can as
private citizens to support his candidacy.”  “Our means of support might be more than others are able
to offer, but like most Americans, words such as friendship and
loyalty still mean something to us,” they said.  Rick Tyler , spokesman of Winning the Future, said in a Jan.
31 interview on Bloomberg Television that he has “no
knowledge” of whether more Adelson money is on the way after
the former speaker’s 14-point loss to former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney in Florida’s Jan. 31 primary. Adelson
didn’t return calls and emails yesterday.  In an interview with  MSNBC  in January, Sig Rogich,
Adelson’s government affairs consultant, said the Adelsons’
giving doesn’t come with strings.  “I don’t think it’s buying a presidency any more than it
was when Joe Kennedy helped his son,” Rogich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  