-- Bill Gates Alum Seeks to Thwart L.A.’s ‘End of Days’ School Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/bill-gates-alum-seeks-to-thwart-l-a-s-end-of-days-school-cuts.html
Every Thursday at 7:30 a.m., John Deasy huddles with his top aides in the  Los Angeles Unified
School District (34902MF)  to pore over data tracking everything from
English language proficiency to attendance.  “We know the exact number of kids in algebra who are
passing -- and what we are doing about those who are not -- in
Van Nuys Middle School in Mrs. Jones’s classroom,” said Deasy,
who’s responsible for 664,000 children in the nation’s largest
school system outside  New York City .  Deasy, 51, preached the importance of measuring performance
when he was handing out educational grants for the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation, the world’s biggest charity. Now he
uses data as a tool to boost student achievement in a district
where just 56 percent finish high school. He also hopes that
statistics will show enough signs of improvement to persuade
voters to pass tax increases, and help close a $543 million
deficit for the year beginning July 1.  “The case we’re going to make to the voters is we have
managed to massively downsize,” Deasy, a former chemistry and
biology teacher, said Jan. 19 in an interview in his downtown
 Los Angeles  office. “We cut $2 billion in the last three years
and we increased achievement at the highest trajectory we’ve
ever seen. We’re not where we want to be, but we’re nowhere near
where we used to be.”  California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown  is campaigning to put $6.9
billion of sales- and income-tax increases on the November
ballot that could bring Deasy’s district an additional $237
million in the coming year. The superintendent hopes to pass a
$278 million local property-tax increase in either the June
primary or November’s general election.  ‘End of Days’  The district’s revenue last year, at  $6.3 billion , was $593
million lower than 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s due to state budget cutbacks and declining
enrollment, Deasy said. He’s making contingency plans in the
event the tax votes fail that include firing 8,000 of his 65,000
employees and shutting programs such as adult school, where
those over age 18 earn high-school equivalency diplomas.  “If it goes down, you get really hurt,” Deasy said of the
Democratic governor’s proposal. “Massive cuts, end of days.”  More than two-thirds, or 68 percent, of likely voters back
Brown’s tax proposal, according to a poll by the nonpartisan
 Public Policy Institute of California . Views might change by
election day, especially if the ballot is crowded with other
initiatives, according to Michael Shires, associate professor of
public policy at  Pepperdine University  in Malibu, California.  Voter ‘Fatigue’  “Voters get fatigued when there’s a lot for them to
decide,” Shires said. “The outcome also depends on the
economic climate going into the election.”  Deasy’s property-tax increase may be a tougher sell. Los
Angeles residents turned down a $100-per-parcel increase for the
district two years ago. Deasy’s proposal would cost more than
twice that annually for each of the district’s property owners.  Los Angeles Unified is grappling with the  arrest  Jan. 30 of
a former elementary school teacher charged with sexually
molesting 23 children between 2005 and 2010. Deasy said in a
statement that he was “sick and horrified” by the behavior of
the teacher, who was removed from school the day the district
was notified of an investigation by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department.  “We hope the voters focus on the good work taking place
every day in our schools, and on our dire financial situation,
rather than the terrible acts allegedly committed by this
individual,” said Thomas Waldman, a spokesman for the district.  ‘Performance Meter’  The superintendent, who previously ran school districts in
 Santa Monica , California, and Prince George’s County,  Maryland ,
came to Los Angeles after serving as deputy director for
education at the Seattle-based  Gates Foundation . He supervised
large grants such as a  $100 million  contribution the foundation
made in 2009 to Hillsborough County Public Schools in Tampa,
 Florida , to design ways to track teacher effectiveness.  At his Thursday meetings, Deasy distributes what he calls
his “performance meter,” a list of statistics and target
goals. It shows that the percentage of elementary students
proficient in English, for example, rose to 50 percent last year
from 39 percent in 2008. Deasy’s target is 74 percent by 2014.  Performance measurement is a focus of the 10-year-old  Broad
Superintendents Academy , a management training program sponsored
by Los Angeles billionaire  Eli Broad , which Deasy attended.  “What I took away from that is, you don’t know your
budget, you’re in trouble,” Deasy said. “You need to pay
attention to where every single penny goes.”  Agreement With Union  The district has cut expenses by ending leases on buildings
it didn’t need, rerouting buses to save on fuel and terminating
contracts with consultants, Deasy said. Employment in the head
office is down 54 percent from three years ago, he said.  Los Angeles Unified fired 853 teachers who failed to meet
district standards last year, a record number, Deasy said.
Spending on books and supplies is down 38 percent over the past
five years, to $365 million.  In December, the district signed an agreement with the
35,000-member  United Teachers Los Angeles , agreeing to prevent
some schools from being taken over by independent operators,
such as charter schools. In exchange, the union agreed to give
local principals, parents and teachers what Deasy called
“stunning autonomies” over work schedules, hiring, curriculum
and other operational decisions.  ‘Doomsday Budgeting’  “If you’re not doing well, we’ll come in and intervene,
that’s kind of the theory,” Deasy said of district management.
“The central bureaucracy, we audit and regulate very well. We
are likely to smother anything that’s good out there.”  Deasy’s talk of massive cuts has put district workers in a
funk and forced them to delay personal purchases that could help
the economy in a city with 11.6 percent unemployment, said Tim
Delia, a special-education teacher and union board member.  “I think this kind of doomsday budgeting is really
counter-productive,” Delia said.  Los Angeles voters aren’t in the mood to support higher
taxes because unemployment is high and home values have fallen,
according to Kris Vosburgh, executive director of the Howard
Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which advocates for lower taxes.  The district already receives more per pupil than others in
the state and overpays its staff, he said. Its 2010 revenue per
student was $10,766, above the  statewide average  of $8,801.  Broad’s Support  California  teachers were the third-highest paid in the
nation at $67,000 annually in 2009, according to  U.S. Census
Bureau  data. Los Angeles Unified teachers were slightly below
that  statewide average , according to the state’s Education
Department. Deasy earns $330,000 a year.  “They have taken advantage so many times,” Vosburgh said
of district officials who have asked voters to approve $20.6
billion of bonds for school construction and repairs since 1997.
“Taxpayers have already been victimized by the extensive over-
bonding.”  Deasy has support from Broad, who said in an interview that
he favors the governor’s proposed tax increases and believes the
superintendent is “making real progress.”  Deasy said he hopes to raise $3 million from private donors
for advertising to support his property-tax initiative.  “It’s these kids’ right to have the same education we
had,” he said, “and that costs money.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Christopher Palmeri in
Los Angeles at   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  