-- Blackstone Said to Eye Brocade Buyout as Deal Interest Fades
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-03T15:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/blackstone-said-to-study-brocade-leveraged-buyout-as-deal-interest-fades.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, is studying a leveraged buyout of
 Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) , said a person with
knowledge of the situation.  While Blackstone is in talks with Brocade, which has been
seeking a buyer since 2009, reaching a deal may be difficult,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Brocade, a maker of switches for data-
storage networks, had a market value of $2.65 billion as of
yesterday.  “There is a very good opportunity for private-equity
investors to make better of use of Brocade and its assets than
the current management,” said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC in  San Francisco . “The question is whether
management is receptive to a price that is attractive to
private-equity investors. There are certainly investors that are
receptive to prices that are below what management is looking
for.”  Brocade has become more expensive as its stock rebounds
from an Aug. 5 drop, when the  San Jose , California-based company
reported preliminary revenue and profit that  fell short  of its
forecasts. Smaller private-equity funds such as Thoma Bravo LLC
have dropped out of the sale process because Brocade is too big
for their financing capabilities, said another person familiar
with the matter.  Brocade  gained  1.2 percent to $5.90 at 10:28 a.m. in New
York trading. The stock has advanced 14 percent this year.  Stock Jump  Foundry Networks Inc., acquired by Brocade in 2008, is one
of the company’s most attractive assets because of its more
advanced Ethernet technology. Brocade’s fourth-quarter earnings
excluding items beat analysts’ estimates, helped by record
revenue in its Ethernet business.  The stock climbed 13 percent on Nov. 22, after the results
were announced, raising management’s expectations for a sale
price and making a deal to sell Brocade less likely, said the
people with knowledge of the situation.  In July, Dell Inc. passed over Brocade to buy Force10
Networks Inc., a person with knowledge of the situation said at
the time.  A spokesman for New York-based Blackstone and a spokeswoman
for Brocade declined to comment. A representative of Thoma Bravo
wasn’t immediately reachable for a comment.  Elliott Management Corp., the hedge fund that pushed Novell
Inc. to sell itself in 2010, amassed an 8.5 percent stake in
Brocade last year, gaining a position it could use to agitate
for change. Elliott, based in  New York , cut its stake to 7.5
percent on Jan. 13. At the time, Brocade stock had gained about
64 percent on renewed speculation about a potential sale since
Elliott built its stake on Aug. 5.  Fund managers sometimes use their status as shareholders to
urge management to shift strategy or look for a buyout. Activist
investor  Carl Icahn  pressed  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  on
July 21 to explore strategic alternatives. Google Inc. agreed to
acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion on Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  