-- Blackrock Favors Seed, Machinery Makers Over Food as Investment
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-02-02T17:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/blackrock-favors-seed-machinery-makers-over-food-as-investment.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said producers of seeds and farming equipment
make a better investment than agricultural commodities as new
technologies boosting production may lead to lower food prices.  World  food prices  reached the highest ever last February on
surging grain prices, before slipping 11 percent through
December, according to the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization . Global food output must rise 70 percent by 2050 to
feed a world population expected to grow to 9 billion from 7
billion and as increasingly wealthy consumers in developing
economies eat more meat, according to the FAO.  “People are going to consume more food,” Catherine Raw, a
 fund manager  at BlackRock, said at a conference in  London  today.
“That doesn’t necessarily translate into higher commodity
prices because what it may lead to is technical innovation. The
better way of playing this trend is being exposed to inputs: the
seed manufacturers, the equipment manufacturers, things to make
farming more efficient.”  Since the end of 2009 corn prices have risen 56 percent as
record demand eroded inventories, and cattle futures rose 50
percent. Total meat consumption per person will rise every year
through at least 2020, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development in Paris and the Rome-based FAO forecast in a
June report.  “What you have is a structural change in price to
incentivize new production,” Raw said. Grains prices may fall,
while they will probably stay at elevated levels that are needed
to incentivize innovation in production, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  