-- Blackstone Group’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Declines 12% on Performance Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-02T22:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/blackstone-fourth-quarter-profit-drops-12-on-performance-fees.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, said fourth-quarter profit fell 12
percent as performance fees and investment income declined.  Economic net income, a measure of earnings excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering, dropped
to $449.9 million, or 40 cents a share, from $512.7 million, or
46 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Blackstone said today
in a statement. The result matched the average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Blackstone, led by Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman , has been ahead of rivals in raising new funds and
last month closed on $16.2 billion for the sixth-biggest
private-equity fund ever, according to London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd. The firm over the past years expanded the fund of
hedge funds business as well as its advisory group, which
counsels companies on mergers and restructurings, to reduce
reliance on private equity.  “With the debt talks,  Europe  in shambles, U.S. downgraded,
markets collapsing, who the heck would sell a business in the
middle of that?” Schwarzman said on a call with analysts and
investors today. “As those issues get resolved one way or
another and expansion continues, you’ll see more volume coming
in a more traditional fashion in the private-equity area.”  Real Estate  Blackstone deployed a near-record $16 billion last year and
returned $9 billion to investors,  Tony James , the firm’s
president, said in an earlier call with media. The firm expects
to invest as much as $10 billion in 2012, with about half
designated for private equity.  “You’re probably going to see more activity on the real
estate side than on the private-equity side this year,” James
said.  Profit from Blackstone’s real estate business rose 56
percent to $1 billion in 2011 from the year before, the firm
said, driven by an increase in performance fees. In June,
Blackstone acquired the U.S. malls of  Australia ’s  Centro
Properties Group  for $9.4 billion, the firm’s biggest deal since
the leveraged buyout boom collapsed in 2007.  Performance fees overall declined 21 percent to $358.1
million in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier, and
investment income fell 59 percent to $65.5 million, Blackstone
said. In the firm’s private-equity business, performance fees
dropped 77 percent to $70.9 million and investment income fell
68 percent to $54.5 million last year compared with 2010.  Record Assets  “We just had a fewer amount of exits as the second half of
the year was a little bit weaker for equity markets,” Laurence Tosi, Blackstone’s chief financial officer, said on the call
with media. “That’s why you saw a slowdown in private-equity
fees.”  Blackstone earnings fell even as it ended the year with a
record-high $136.8 billion fee-earning assets under management,
up 25 percent from 2010. The firm’s largest segment by assets
remains its hedge fund-of-funds business, which oversees $37.8
billion.  Blackstone gained 0.2 percent to close at $16.68 in New
York trading. The stock has increased 19 percent this year.  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets. KKR & Co. and Apollo
Global Management LLC are scheduled to report results next week.  New Jersey Deal  Worldwide, the value of leveraged buyouts rose 30 percent
to $31.5 billion in the fourth quarter from the third, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In December, Blackstone won as much as $1.8 billion in
state pension money from  New Jersey , the most an investor has
committed to the firm at one time since it closed its first
buyout fund in 1987. The state will put up to $1.5 billion into
four new custom funds called separately managed accounts.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to use it to buy
companies within five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the transactions and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  Spotlight on Practices  Private equity’s practice of increasing the value of
companies they own, along with the way the industry’s managers
are compensated and taxed, have been put under a public
spotlight this year by opponents of Republican presidential
front-runner  Mitt Romney . A former governor of  Massachusetts ,
Romney was the CEO of Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based
private-equity firm. His opponents accuse Romney of enriching
himself at the expense of corporations and their employees.  “Six months ago on this call, I worried out loud about the
political attacks on private equity if Mitt Romney ran for
president,” James said today on the call with media. “Well,
that has certainly come to pass.”  “Private equity is neither our biggest or fastest-growing
business,” he added. “It is, nonetheless, an important part of
our firm.”  Schwarzman, who co-founded Blackstone in 1985 with  Peter G. Peterson , endorsed Romney last year and held a fundraiser for
the candidate at his Park Avenue apartment on Dec. 14. Ranked
the 66th-richest American by Forbes magazine, Schwarzman has
opposed raising the tax on the share of profits given to
private-equity managers, known as carried interest, and has
endorsed a flat tax as part of comprehensive reform of the U.S.
tax code.  ‘Critical Capital’  “It is distressing to all of us here, who strive every day
to do the best we can for our investors and for the economy
overall, to witness the vicious, politically motivated attacks
on the private-equity business that are both inaccurate and
unfair,” James said. “Private equity provides critical capital
for startups, growing companies and struggling businesses on a
scale that cannot be replicated elsewhere, especially in times
of turmoil.”  The Private Equity Growth Council, the industry’s lobbying
group in  Washington , today launched a  website  promoting private
equity as an “engine” that helps drive the  U.S. economy  and
features testimonials of people who say the buyout industry has
helped their business.  Blackstone was involved in 53 deals last year valued at a
combined $27.1 billion. That tops the 36 deals valued at $16.5
billion the firm participated in the year before, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm has “several” IPOs for
portfolio companies in its pipeline, James said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  