-- Boston Scientific Falls After Fourth-Quarter Profit Plunges
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-02T21:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/boston-scientific-shares-decline-after-fourth-quarter-profit-plunges-55-.html
Shares of  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
the second-biggest cardiac-device maker, fell the most in almost
two months after fourth-quarter earnings plummeted 55 percent.  Boston Scientific  declined  4.1 percent to $5.84 at the
close in  New York , the biggest drop since Dec. 8.  Net income 
plunged to $107 million, or 7 cents a share, from $236 million,
or 15 cents, a year earlier, the Natick, Massachusetts-based
company said today in a statement.  Demand for defibrillators to restart a stopped heart and
pacemakers to ensure a steady rhythm, two of Boston Scientific’s
biggest products, continued to fall in the fourth quarter after
peaking in 2009. Sales failed to meet analyst estimates for all
of the company’s cardiac devices and global markets may have
contracted, casting doubt on the possibility that demand was
starting to revive, said Michael Matson, an analyst with Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York.  “Boston’s implantable cardioverter defibrillator franchise
continues to underperform in a struggling market,” said  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in New York, in a note
to clients today. “Stents also struggled in the fourth quarter,
with Boston’s non-drug-eluting stent and cardiac rhythm
management businesses unable to offset the shortfall.”  The company  forecast  earnings excluding one-time items of
60 to 70 cents a share for 2012, and said the year’s sales will
range from $7.3 billion to $7.7 billion. Boston Scientific won
U.S. approval in November of the Promus Element, its own higher-
profit version of a heart stent previously licensed from  Abbott
Laboratories. (ABT)   Boston Scientific reported fourth-quarter  revenue  fell to
$1.85 billion from $2 billion a year earlier. Worldwide sales of
defibrillators used to shock a stopped heart back into a normal
rhythm and pacemakers decreased 15 percent to $482 million.
Sales of the company’s stents and related products declined 8
percent to $594 million.  The device maker’s shares have fallen 15 percent in the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  