-- Boston Scientific Saving Cash for Possible Acquisitions, CFO Capello Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-02T21:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/boston-scientific-saving-cash-for-possible-acquisitions-cfo-capello-says.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  will reserve
most of the $1 billion in free cash it expects to generate in
2012 for acquisitions, with plans to use 25 percent to buy back
shares, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Capello said.  The company plans to purchase new technologies to help
drive growth into the “mid-single digits,” Capello said on a
conference call today with analysts. Boston Scientific, the
second-biggest heart device manufacturer, reported today that
net income plunged 55 percent to $107 million, or 7 cents a
share, in the fourth-quarter as sales fell 7.7 percent.  Boston Scientific repurchased close to $500 million in
stock during the second half of 2011, said Denise Kaigler, a
spokeswoman for the Natick, Massachusetts-based company. This
year, the device maker will use at least $250 million for
buybacks. What it does with the remainder will depend on what
technologies are available and their price, Capello said.  “I think you’re going to see us get a little bit more
aggressive from the business development perspective to try to
drive some new technologies into the business to drive the
revenue growth,” he said. “We are anticipating that it may
become a slightly better environment from the business
development perspective, in terms of targets that are available
that may not have been available historically.”  The company acquired Atritech Inc., a closely held maker of
heart devices, in March. Atritech sells a device that is
implanted in the heart to stop blood clots from triggering
strokes in people with irregular heartbeats known as atrial
fibrillation.  Boston Scientific  declined  4.1 percent to $5.84 at the
close in  New York , the biggest single-day drop since Dec. 8. The
device maker’s shares have fallen 15 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  