-- Brazil Confronting Limits on ‘Capacity’ to Weaken Currency, Pimentel Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-02-02T02:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/brazil-confronting-limits-on-capacity-to-weaken-currency-pimentel-says.html
Brazil ’s government faces limits on
how much it can do to prevent its currency from strengthening,
Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said.  “Beyond what the central bank already does, there isn’t
much more than can be done,” Pimentel said yesterday in an
interview in Port-au-Prince as he accompanied President  Dilma Rousseff  on her state visit to Haiti. “There’s a limit to our
capacity to prevent this appreciation of the real.”  Since 2010, the government has tripled a tax of foreign
purchases of domestic bonds, increased reserve requirements on
short-dollar positions and raised levies on foreign loans and
bets against the dollar in the  derivatives market  as part of an
effort to stem a rally by the real that was hurting domestic
manufactures.  The real yesterday advanced 0.7 percent to 1.7343 per  U.S.
dollar , and earlier touched 1.7295, the strongest since Nov. 4.
Since Feb. 2, 2009, the real has gained 34 percent, the third-
best performance against the dollar among the 16-most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide after the Australian
dollar and  New Zealand dollar .  The strength of the Brazilian economy is attracting foreign
money, Pimentel said. Brazil’s industrial production in December
rose 0.9 percent, the fastest pace in seven months, in line with
the median forecast for a 1 percent rise in a Bloomberg survey
of 39 economists.  Rates, Growth  Traders are betting the central bank will cut the benchmark
rate by as much as 100 basis points to 9.5 percent by May,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.
Policy makers have cut the Selic rate at each of their last four
meetings from 11.5 percent last August.  The central bank may resume dollar purchases in the  spot
market  and the  Finance Ministry  may implement new measures to
stem a recent rally in the real in a bid to protect local
manufacturers, Andre Carvalho, an economist with UBS AG in  Sao
Paulo , wrote in report Jan. 31.  Latin America’s biggest economy contracted in the third
quarter for the first time in more than two years, while
business confidence in the fourth quarter fell to its lowest
level since the start of 2009.  Economists maintained their estimate for 2012 growth at
3.27 percent in a weekly central bank survey, down from a
forecast of 3.3 percent four weeks earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  