-- Brazilian Rate-Futures Yields Fall to Record Low as Tombini Signals Cuts
-- B y   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-02-02T21:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/brazil-futures-yields-fall-as-tombini-signals-cuts-correct-.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures contracts fell to a record low after central bank
President Alexandre Tombini reiterated that policy makers “have
some room” to reduce borrowing costs without stoking inflation.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.45 percent. It
earlier declined to 9.43 percent. The real gained 0.9 percent to
1.7189 per dollar from 1.7343 yesterday.  Futures traders stepped up bets that borrowing costs will
fall below 10 percent this year after Tombini told reporters in
Mumbai today that the Brazilian economy has grown below its
potential in the last two quarters, giving policy makers “room
to reduce rates.” The central bank is pursuing its goal of
bringing inflation back to its 4.5 percent target in 2012,
Tombini said.  “Whoever still doubted can see that they have really
decided to bring interest rates to a single digit,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps oversee about $300 million at Squanto
Investimentos, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . Policy makers “are
looking for clearer communication, more transparency,” he said.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts have tumbled 21
basis points since Jan. 26, when the central bank said in the
minutes of its Jan. 17-18 meeting there is a “high”
probability interest rates will fall to one digit because of
significant structural changes in Brazil’s economy, including
the expansion of the credit market.  Growth Slowdown  The yield on the contract due in January 2014, the most
actively traded today in Sao Paulo, dropped five basis points to
9.88 percent, the lowest since Nov. 30.  “The market is pricing in two cuts,” Junqueira said.
“This weighs on the short-term contracts but also in the longer
maturities.”  Traders are anticipating the central bank will reduce the
Selic rate by 100 basis points to as low was 9.5 percent by May,
according to rate futures yields.  Brazil ’s economic growth slowed to around 3 percent last
year from about 7.5 percent in 2010, Tombini said.  The central bank has cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 2
percentage points to 10.5 percent since August, even as
inflation remains above the mid-point of its target range of 4.5
percent plus or minus two percentage points. Annual inflation,
as measured by the mid-month IPCA-15 index, was 6.44 percent as
of Jan. 15.  Inflation  The central bank’s expectation for consumer price increases
this year is close to 4.7 percent, Tombini said today in Mumbai.  Analysts forecast inflation of 5.28 percent this year,
according to a Jan. 27 central bank survey of around 100
economists.  Consumer prices rose 0.66 percent in January, up from a
0.61 percent increase in December, the Foundation Economics
Research Institute in Sao Paulo said today. The figure exceeded
the 0.64 percent median estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Brazil’s government faces limits on how much it can do to
prevent its currency from strengthening, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said in an interview yesterday in Port-au-Prince as he
accompanied President  Dilma Rousseff  on a state visit.  The strength of the Brazilian economy is attracting foreign
money, Pimentel said. Brazil’s industrial production in December
rose 0.9 percent, the fastest pace in seven months.  The Brazilian government sold 5.07 million of the 5.3
million LTN bills offered at an auction today, according to a
preliminary statement posted on the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  