-- Briscoe Rises Most Since June on Profit Leap: Wellington Mover
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-02-02T04:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/briscoe-rises-most-since-june-on-profit-leap-wellington-mover.html
Briscoe Group Ltd. (BGR) , a New Zealand
homeware and sporting goods retailer, gained the most in more
than seven months in Wellington after saying full-year profit
probably rose at least 25 percent.  Net income will be at least NZ$27 million ($22 million) in
the year ended Jan. 29 from NZ$21.6 million a year earlier, the
Auckland-based company said in a statement today. The stock rose
5.6 percent, the most since June 30.  Briscoe’s outlook adds to signs that shoppers reacted to
lower prices in the busy Christmas period, adding to retailers’
sales and margins. In November, the company said full-year
profit would exceed NZ$24 million after a surge in spending on
apparel and equipment by fans attending the  Rugby World Cup  in
September and October.  “The market responded very favorably to our marketing
initiatives during the lead up to and throughout the crucial
Christmas trading period,” Managing Director Rod Duke said in a
statement sent to the stock exchange.  “While competition remained fierce across most retail
sectors, which placed some strain on gross margins, sales for
the group were consistently strong during December and also
through January,” he said.  The  stock  rose 8 cents, or 5.6 percent, to NZ$1.50 at the 5
p.m. market close in Wellington. Earlier it gained as much as
7.8 percent. The company reports earnings on March 9.  Full-year sales rose 4.5 percent to NZ$438 million, the
company said today. After adjusting for store closures,
including outlets demolished or under repair after the
Christchurch earthquakes, sales rose 8 percent.  Fourth-quarter sales increased 4.7 percent to NZ$146
million. After adjusting for closures, same store sales gained
9.1 percent in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  