-- California Lawmakers Pass Bill Allowing $865 Million Internal Borrowing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-02T20:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/california-lawmakers-pass-bill-allowing-865-million-internal-borrowing.html
California (STOCA1)  lawmakers passed a bill to
let the state borrow $865 million from internal accounts to help
avert a cash shortfall that might leave the state without enough
money to pay its bills.  The  bill , which heads to Governor  Jerry Brown  for his
signature, allows the state to temporarily siphon money from
seven accounts, including the Transportation Revolving Fund and
Health Care Deposit Fund. The loans must be repaid with
interest.  California must come up with $3.3 billion by March because
 tax revenue  hasn’t met forecasts, and spending has exceeded
projections, Controller John Chiang said Jan. 31. Treasurer Bill Lockyer plans to borrow as much as $1 billion from  Wall Street 
to help ease the shortfall.  “We are simply borrowing from Peter to pay Paul,” said
Senator Joel Anderson, a Republican from Temecula, who voted
against the bill.  Brown plans to sign the legislation, said H.D. Palmer, his
budget spokesman. Meanwhile, Chiang has said he will delay
making more than $1 billion in scheduled payments to public
colleges, counties and health programs for the poor.  Pension Payment Delayed  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest public pension in the U.S. with $230 billion of assets,
agreed last month to allow the state to delay making a $527
million payment until April to cover state worker benefits.  State receipts were $2.6 billion lower than forecast
through Dec. 31, while expenditures were an equal amount higher,
Chiang said. In a previous  report , Chiang said corporate and
personal income-tax collections were the drivers of the
shortfall for the fiscal year that began in July.  Lawmakers also sent Brown a bill intended to spread out the
loss of a $248 million school busing subsidy. The funds were cut
when mid-year estimates showed tax revenue failed to grow as
much as projected. Rural district would have been hardest hit by
the cuts without the change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  