-- Canada Said to Set Wireless Spectrum Auction Rules Within Weeks
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/canada-said-to-set-wireless-spectrum-auction-rules-within-weeks.html
The Canadian government may announce
in the next few weeks rules to govern its latest auction of
wireless spectrum, which could unlock billions of dollars of
infrastructure investments by companies such as  BCE Inc. (BCE)   The government may release the auction rules as early as
this month, though the release may not occur until March, a
person familiar with the plans said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the information isn’t public.  Companies spent C$1.8 billion ($1.8 billion) on wireless
infrastructure in 2010, down from C$2.2 billion the year before,
according to the latest figures from the Canadian Radio-
television and Telecommunications  Commission , which regulates
the industry. Established providers such as BCE and  Telus Corp. (T) 
say new spectrum will help prevent a logjam on their networks as
consumers boost use of data-heavy applications on smartphones.  “We’ve had this complete uncertainty for a year and a
half,” said Mark Goldberg, principal at Toronto-based telecom
consulting firm Mark H. Goldberg and Associates, referring to
delays by the government in setting the auction rules and
clarifying its policy on foreign ownership in the industry.  The auction may allocate spectrum to new entrants to the
country’s mobile-phone market, who say they need access to
frequencies to compete with incumbents.  “I’m pretty certain the government will find in favor of
the new entrants,” said Stewart Lyons, president of Mobilicity,
which began mobile services in 2010 after buying C$243 million
of spectrum in the government’s 2008 auction, when a block of
spectrum was reserved for new entrants.  Reviewing Information  Industry Canada , the federal department that conducts the
auctions, is reviewing all information received during
consultations with stakeholders, said spokeswoman Stefanie
Power. “Once the minister announces the policy decisions,
Industry Canada will consult shortly after on the auction
licensing framework and rules. The timeframe of the auction(s)
will be announced at that time,” she said in an e-mail.  The government should avoid trying to pick “winners and
losers” by allocating frequencies to recent entrants, said
 Michael Hennessy , Telus’s senior vice president of regulatory
affairs.  “It’s very difficult in a set-aside regime to pick who the
beneficiaries should be” since new entrants may end up merging,
Hennessy said by phone.  Globalive Communications Corp., a two-year-old Canadian
wireless carrier, is in talks to buy Mobilicity, a person
familiar with the discussions told Bloomberg in December.  Balancing Competition, Investment  If there are bidding limits, Telus would prefer that the
government cap the amount of spectrum that a single company can
acquire. “It’s the best balance between encouraging competition
and investment,” said Hennessy.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis met in August with
executives from telecom and cable companies including BCE, Telus
and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  to discuss options on the
spectrum auction and foreign-ownership rules. In a Nov. 29
 speech , he said the government needed more time to consider the
issues.  The last spectrum auction raised C$4.25 billion for the
government, which has promised to eliminate its  budget deficit 
by the fiscal year starting April 2015. Delays to date mean the
auction may not take place until 2013, Goldberg said.  The government pledged in March 2010 to relax foreign
ownership rules, which prohibit foreign investors from having
majority stakes in telecommunications companies. Former Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said in November of that year the
government would delay updating foreign-ownership rules until
the auction, which will make available spectrum in the 700 and
2,500 Megahertz bands.  Coveted Frequency  The U.S. government auctioned spectrum in 2008 in the 700
Megahertz band, which is coveted by wireless providers because
devices using that frequency range are better able to receive
signals inside buildings and in rural areas.  In December 2009, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s cabinet
overturned a decision by the broadcast regulator that found
Globalive violated foreign-ownership limits. Globalive, which
sells mobile phone services under the Wind Mobile brand, was
backed at the time by Egypt’s Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, which
has since merged with Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  