-- Carson City Prostitutes Stand Up for Paul Donating Their Tips
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/carson-city-prostitutes-stand-up-for-paul-donating-their-tips.html
A poker player helped rent a
billboard, a Mormon spreads the word at root beer socials and
prostitutes at a famous brothel turn tricks and donate their
customers’ tips -- all for Ron Paul.  The 76-year-old, 12-term Texas Republican congressman is
banking on a big showing at the Feb. 4  Nevada  caucuses to boost
his third presidential primary bid. His message of personal
liberty, states’ rights and low taxes resonates with voters in
the state, where prostitution is legal, gambling is widespread
and the foreclosure rate has been the highest in the nation for
five years, according to RealtyTrac.  “Go to the Romney campaign and ask ‘How many of your lives
have been changed by the philosophy of  Mitt Romney ?’” Julie
Benincasa, 52, of Las Vegas said in an interview as she
volunteered in Paul’s Henderson, Nevada, campaign office this
week. “People will go, ‘what?’”  “My entire life -- just about every spare moment, in one
way or another -- is promoting  Ron Paul ’s message of liberty,
limited government and sound money,” she said, adding that she
sold $1,600 worth of jewelry to donate to the campaign.  Benincasa’s commitment to Paul is matched by a legion of
followers who see it as their duty to spread the word, including
Arin Hopkins, 46, a dog sitter in a gated community in Henderson
who pays for pro-Paul brochures and delivers them door-to-door
and Pete Claytor, 49, a Las Vegas electrical union member who
converted five of the six Democrats at his job site.  Gambler’s Billboard  Robert Fellner, 27, a professional poker player and
blogger, donated $1,000 of the $3,500 cost of putting a
billboard up in downtown  Las Vegas , raising the rest of the cost
on his website. The billboard touts Paul as the only candidate
to predict the economic collapse.  Those avid supporters may give Paul an advantage in such
caucus states as Nevada and  Maine  on Feb. 4 and Colorado and
 Minnesota  on Feb. 7, where casting a vote takes more of a time
commitment than showing up at a precinct and casting a ballot.  On Jan. 31, as the  Florida  results were being counted, Paul
flew into Nevada and kicked off a state tour with a rally at a
Henderson casino that drew more than a 1,000 -- a number far
exceeding  Newt Gingrich ’s 200-person reception in  Orlando  that
evening.  ‘Irate, Tireless Minority’  “We will spend our time in the caucus states because if
you have an irate, tireless minority you do very well in the
caucus states,” said Paul, who finished fourth in Florida’s
primary with 7 percent. “If you have an energized group of
people that are working on a campaign and actually believe in
something, it is going to work in the caucus states.”  In the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, Paul placed third with 21
percent of the vote. Romney and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  had 24.5 percent and 24.6 percent, respectively, in the
contest, while Gingrich had 13 percent.  In Nevada, Paul’s staffers have been on the ground for more
than six months, Carl Bunce, the state campaign chairman, said
at the Jan. 31 rally. They have been educating voters both on
the candidate and on the caucus process, holding “scores” of
training events all over the state, said James Barcia, deputy
national press secretary.  Paul is the only candidate with a presence on college
campuses here, said David Damore, associate professor of
political science at  University of Nevada , Las Vegas. The only
campaign with a stronger ground operation in the state is
Romney’s, Damore and other observers said.  Tea Party Outsourcing  “The Paul folks are well-organized, the Romney folks are
well-organized and Gingrich is outsourcing to the  Tea Party ,”
Damore said.  In 2008, Romney won the Nevada caucuses with 51 percent
support compared to Paul’s 14 percent. In the four years since
then, both candidates have maintained their support bases in the
state. Romney has spent more money. As of Jan. 31, he had bought
almost twice as much in broadcast television commercials in the
state than Paul, according New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a
company that tracks advertising. The other Republican contenders
hadn’t spent anything on commercials.  Nevada Lieutenant Governor Brian Krolicki, co-chairman of
the Romney campaign in the state, said he’s confident his
candidate will win, although he wouldn’t rule out Paul’s
campaign machine.  “A caucus can always be full of surprises,” he said in a
media call on Jan. 31.  Appealing to Mormons  One way Paul is targeting Romney is by going after his
rival’s base: members of the  Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
Day Saints , who four years ago  comprised  about 25 percent of
Nevada’s Republican caucus-goers. A campaign subgroup called
Latter Day Saints for Ron Paul is seeking to convince Mormons
that the congressman -- and not LDS member Romney -- best
represents their views about the U.S. Constitution.  “Although the country might be ready for a Mormon
president, we provide them with the notion that, in terms of
constitutionality, that we have the better candidate,” Barcia
said in a Jan. 30 interview at the Henderson campaign office.  David IsBell, 29, from Las Vegas, said he saw a sign on an
overpass in  Salt Lake City  in 2007 that said “Google Ron
Paul.” He did. IsBell had been a Mormon missionary in Eastern
Europe when the U.S. invaded  Iraq . The move turned him away from
President  George W. Bush  and other Republicans. Paul’s
opposition to the war got his attention.  “He was the first politician who gave me goose bumps when
he talked,” IsBell said in a telephone interview. “The way Ron
Paul speaks is parallel to the way our prophet Ezra Taft Benson
spoke about our faith,” he said referring to the former
president of the Mormon church, who served from 1985 to 1994.  Root Beer Floats  IsBell said he spreads that message at root beer float
socials, game nights and other events wearing a Ron Paul t-
shirt. He shares quotes from Benson, and then Paul.  “Mormons are reliable voters -- they turn out,” said
Robert Uithoven, a Republican consultant with j3 Strategies in
Reno. Still, Uithoven, who has ties to  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
chairman and Gingrich supporter  Sheldon Adelson , puts most
Mormons in Romney’s camp. While Nevada’s libertarian streak is
good for Paul, those same Mormon voters were targeted by his
campaign in 2008, Uithoven said.  “He has a base of support that tends not to grow very
much,” Uithoven said.  Paul’s strategy isn’t limited to Mormons. He has rolled out
special coalitions of gun owners, home-schoolers, veterans,
Hispanics and hospitality workers, too.  The most unlikely coalition of supporters, though, is the
one the candidate didn’t recruit.  Moonlite BunnyRanch  At the Moonlite BunnyRanch, a legal brothel near Carson
City featured in  HBO ’s “Cathouse” series, the most scantily-
clad caucus of all was held two weeks ago.  Dennis Hof, 65, the proprietor and self-described
“pimpmaster general” of the BunnyRanch and five other Nevada
brothels, said he polled all 500 women to see who they supported
for the presidency. Last time, they cast their support behind
 Barack Obama . This cycle their opposition to the roundups of
wild horses on federal land near the brothel moved them to Paul.  He said they like Gingrich -- they “don’t have a problem
with him being a womanizer” -- but they think Romney is too
square. Paul’s support for states’ rights won them over, he
said.  At the BunnyRanch, customers who say they are “Pimpin’ for
Paul” get extra attention, Hof said, and some of the women ask
clients for Paul donations. Many, like Hustler centerfold Cami
Parker, 25, also donate tips.  “I really appreciate the fact that Ron Paul respects
states’ rights and individual rights,” Parker said in a
telephone interview. “It seems like he really understands our
rights to do what we want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  