-- Cemex Surges as Company Seen Meeting Covenant: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-02-02T21:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/cemex-surges-as-company-seen-meeting-covenant-mexico-city-mover.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, rose the most in more than two months as the
company provided a roadmap to meeting its debt covenants.  Operating cash flow will grow 1 percent to 4 percent in the
first half, Cemex said in a statement today after its earnings
report. That will help it meet a covenant requiring a ratio of
total funded debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- a measure known as Ebitda -- to
be below 6.5 by June 30, the company said. Cemex also laid out
steps to achieve the ratio of 5.75 required by Dec. 31,
including possible asset sales.  “It looks very possible that they’ll meet their
covenants,”  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst with Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB in Mexico City, said today in a telephone interview.
“You now have a lot fewer doubts.”  The shares advanced 9.7 percent to 9.98 pesos today in
Mexico City trading, the most since Nov. 28. Yields on the
company’s dollar bonds due 2016 tumbled 33 basis points, or 0.33
percentage point, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cemex’s debt to Ebitda dropped to 6.64 times in the fourth
quarter, from 7.43 times a year earlier and 7.2 times in the
third quarter, the company said in a separate report earlier
today. The year-end 2011 covenant required that the ratio be
under 7 times.  Net Loss  Its fourth-quarter loss narrowed after a pickup in
production volume helped offset a slump in  Mexico ’s peso.  The net loss was $146.2 million, or 14 cents per American
depositary receipt, compared to a year-earlier loss of $573.6
million, or  57 cents , the Monterrey, Mexico-based company said.
Analysts had projected a loss of 17 cents, the average of eight
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “This leads us to think that the worst is behind us,”
Chief Financial Officer  Fernando Gonzalez  said on a conference
call with reporters from San Pedro Garza Garcia, a suburb of
Monterrey. “We are seeing an important inflection point,
especially in the last quarter, and we expect this will
translate into a sustained recovery.”  Cemex hasn’t had a  profit  for nine straight quarters. Its
results deteriorated amid a U.S. construction recession after
the $14.2 billion acquisition in 2007 of Rinker Group Ltd.,
which got more than 80 percent of sales in the U.S.  Operating Ebitda rose 13 percent from a year earlier to
$542.5 million. Sales rose 6.1 percent to $3.7 billion.  Asset Sales  The company sold $225 million in assets in 2011, and Cemex
expects to sell an additional $500 million this year, according
to the statement.  The  Mexican peso  lost 11.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in 2011, the worst performance among major Latin American
currencies.  The cement maker reduced staffing by 5 percent to 44,104 in
the fourth quarter.  Cemex projects consolidated cement volume will rise 2
percent this year. In addition to asset sales, it may also use
free cash flow and money received last year as compensation for
assets seized by the Venezuelan government to cut debt.  During the first half of the year, Cemex said it expects
the Americas, including Mexico and the U.S., to help compensate
for challenges including a “weak Mediterranean region.”  The cement maker’s stock has surged 34 percent this year
through today, making it the best performer on the  benchmark IPC 
index of 35 Mexican stocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  