-- CEOs’ Political Donations Should Reward Courage: Jason S. Grumet
-- B y   J a s o n   S .   G r u m e t
-- 2012-02-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/ceos-political-giving-should-reward-courage-commentary-by-jason-grumet.html
As paralysis in Congress brought the
U.S. to the brink of a government shutdown late last year,
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz let loose
a corporate primal scream.  In an open letter, he accused members of Congress of
putting “partisan and ideological purity over the well-being of
the people,” and urged that they be punished. He pointed out,
rightly, that the deterioration of our political system is at
least partly caused by the ever-expanding election cycle and the
treadmill of fundraising. And, in a laudable and rare effort to
combine deeds with words, he vowed to cease all campaign
donations and urged business leaders and voters to do the same.  More than 100 senior executives -- including  AOL Inc. (AOL)  CEO
 Tim Armstrong ,  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  CEO Dan DiMicco and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  CEO Robert Greifeld -- have signed on. Yet their effort
doesn’t go far enough. By taking their marbles and going home,
Schultz and his colleagues are unlikely to disrupt the partisan
toxicity that pervades our politics. Recent Supreme Court
decisions ensure that any effort to meaningfully restrict the
flow of money into politics would require a constitutional
amendment. By disengaging from political giving, corporate
pragmatists only increase the peril faced by politicians with
the courage to collaborate.  There is a better way for these leaders to use their
checkbooks to bring about change and create real incentives that
reward and protect members of Congress who work across the
aisle.  Targeted Contributions  Imagine if Schultz and his “Upward Spiral” CEOs
coordinated contributions to reward specific acts of
collaboration. One place to look would be the debt-focused,
bipartisan “Gang of Six” led by Senators Mark Warner, a
Virginia Democrat, and  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican,
which has been steadfast in the effort to sustain a beachhead of
collaboration after the so-called supercommittee of lawmakers
failed to agree on a deficit-reduction plan in November.  There are other examples: Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont
Democrat, and Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican,
recently led a successful effort on patent-reform legislation.
Senators  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and  Mark Kirk ,
an Illinois Republican, championed a unanimously approved
amendment to the annual defense authorization bill imposing
sanctions on Iran’s central bank. Republican Senator  Tom Coburn 
of Oklahoma, a fiscal conservative, should be acknowledged for
voting to support the Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction package,
a move that earned him the wrath of anti-tax ideologues.  Equally notable was a rare compromise between Senators
Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, and  James Inhofe , an
Oklahoma Republican, who traveled from the outer edges of their
caucuses to agree on a two-year transportation bill that
includes funding for highways and provisions to alleviate
congestion and air pollution.  To have a meaningful effect, the praise and contributions
of CEOs must not be directed principally toward the few
remaining congressional “centrists.” The reality of our
electoral system guarantees that Congress will be dominated by
partisans for the foreseeable future. The goal must be to reward
these members when they find ways to collaborate that are
consistent with their values.  If all “Upward Spiral” executives simultaneously donated
the maximum, each of these candidates would have an additional
$250,000 in their campaign coffers. Beyond financial support,
there is also a great need for corporate leaders to engage
intellectually in diverse and politically active coalitions to
promote broad-based, substantive and political solutions.  In the current toxic environment, public disillusionment
leads to disengagement that further undermines our ability to
solve any of the real problems we face. Our nation’s CEOs
possess the rational self-interest and means to change this
dynamic. By combining policy insight with strategic financial
contributions, business leaders can provide much needed support
to the elected officials most capable of making a difference.  (Jason S. Grumet is president of the Bipartisan Policy
Center in  Washington . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jason S. Grumet at  jgrumet@bipartisanpolicy.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  