-- China Economy Heading for ‘Hard Landing’ as Exports Falter, Shilling Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-02T14:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/china-economy-heading-for-hard-landing-as-exports-decline-shilling-says.html
China’s economy  is headed for a
“hard landing” this year as weaker demand overseas chokes off
exports, said Gary Shilling, who correctly forecast the U.S.
recession that began in December 2007.  A Chinese government report yesterday showed that export
orders fell last month even as manufacturing expanded. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.1 percent yesterday as
stronger manufacturing boosted concern that the world’s second-
largest economy will decelerate further as the government
refrains from loosening monetary policy to tame inflation and
curb property prices.  “They slammed on the brakes,” Shilling, president of A.
Gary Shilling & Co., a Springfield, New Jersey-based consultancy
firm, said at the Bloomberg Link China Conference in New York
yesterday. “Transition is not easy because they are geared up
to exports.”  China ’s economy expanded 10.4 percent annually in the past
10 years, five times the pace of the U.S., as the government
boosted spending on roads and bridges and manufacturers exported
everything from toys to socks. Shilling defines a hard landing
as a growth rate below 6 percent.  The economy grew at a 9.2 percent rate in 2011 and its
expansion will slow to 8.5 percent this year, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s official purchasing managers’ index increased to
50.5 from 50.3 in December, exceeding the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey for a reading below the 50 level that divides
expansion from contraction. The data may have been distorted by
the weeklong New Year holiday. Readings for new export orders
and imports contracted for a fourth month.  Shifting to Consumption  The economy will grow at least 8 percent over the next
decade as growing domestic consumption and investment in new
industries offset the export slowdown, according to Carlyle
Group LP and Leeb Capital Management.  “China is likely to grow between 8 and 10 percent or so
for the next 10 years,” said  David Rubenstein , co-chief
executive officer of Carlyle, a private-equity firm. “China to
me is the most attractive place in the world to invest” outside
the U.S., he said at the conference.  Policy makers are transforming their economy toward
consumption to reduce the reliance on exports and policy
initiatives encouraging entrepreneurship will power economic
growth, said Rubenstein.  Stephen Leeb, president of Leeb Capital, said China’s
investment in new industries, such as renewable energy, will
help the economy “easily” maintain an annual growth rate
between 8 percent and 10 percent.  Property Slowdown  “The next 10 years are going to be probably among the most
intense in the history of any industrial country in terms of
creating new industries,” Leeb said at the conference.  Shilling, 74, has been calling for a hard landing in China
since at least a year ago, advising clients to sell copper and
the Australian dollar as a play on the downturn.  Shilling forecast the U.S. recession in 2007 and warned
investors a year earlier that residential real estate was a
bubble about to burst. As the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell a
more-than 12-year low in March 2009, he said that higher
unemployment would curb  consumer spending , leading to “weaker
stocks.” The gauge has since rallied 96 percent.  China’s growth will be undermined by a cooling property
market, said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based
Marketfield Asset Management, which manages $1.3 billion.  Lower housing prices will feed “rapidly to the
construction, and then it feeds back to the credit system,”
said Shaoul. “That’s the problem China is going to face in the
next 12 to 15 months.”  About 61 percent of investors in a Bloomberg survey in
December said that they anticipate a crash in the financial
industry by late 2016. China’s new loans totaled $4 trillion in
the past three years, twice the size of the Italian economy,
raising concern that some of the lending to local governments
and property developers will turn sour.  China’s government won’t allow the nation’s banks to
trigger another credit crisis, said Joseph Taylor, an emerging-
markets strategist at Boston-based Loomis, Sayles & Co., which
oversees $163 billion in assets.  “Banks are still the instrumentality of the state,”
Taylor said at the conference. “They won’t be allowed to go
under. They won’t be allowed to trigger a systemic crisis.”  While the economy won’t get to crisis point, growth will
probably slow because China has had “almost no success” in
increasing consumption as a percentage of gross domestic
product, and the nation has too much bad debt, Taylor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  