-- South China Villagers Pick Leaders After Protests Ousted Earlier Officials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T06:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/china-protest-village-choose-new-leaders.html
Residents in the southern Chinese
village of Wukan chose a committee yesterday to oversee
independent elections, a process that Communist Party officials
agreed to after protests ousted previous local leaders.  More than 6,000 of Wukan’s 12,000 villagers voted for an
independent committee that will supervise elections for a new
village leadership, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing local Communist Party chief Lin Zulian. The final vote
count was completed at 11 p.m. local time yesterday, the Beijing
News reported.  Authorities agreed to cancel an earlier election after
allegations of fraud that, along with disputed land sales and
the death of a local man in police custody, sparked a two-week
protest in the fishing village in southern China’s  Guangdong
province . Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to better protect
farmers’ land rights and said people should be allowed to
criticize their leaders as the Communist Party seeks to reduce
unrest that could erode its power.  “If this kind of election can be spread to the whole of
Guangdong province and finally nationwide, that would imply hope
for democratic elections at the grass-roots level,” said Hu
Xingdou, a professor of economics at the Beijing Institute of
Technology. “If it can’t be spread to the whole province or
nationwide, then the situation of China’s rotting grass roots
will continue.”  Police Blockade  Authorities in December blockaded Wukan for two weeks after
residents kicked out local officials and then prevented police
from entering the village. A resolution to the standoff was
reached after Zhu Mingguo, Guangdong’s deputy Communist Party
secretary, meet with protest leaders and agreed to what he
called the residents’ “reasonable” demands.  Lin, who had helped lead the demonstrations, was named
Wukan’s party secretary after the dispute was settled.  A later investigation of the elections held in Wukan in
February found that the candidate list had been kept secret and
that some of those overseeing the vote were also seeking office.
 China  first implemented direct elections at the village level in
the 1980s as part of  Deng Xiaoping ’s campaign of reform and
development.  In yesterday’s vote, villagers in Wukan picked 10 men and
one woman for the election committee, Beijing News said. Those
chosen won’t be allowed to run in the leadership elections,
Xinhua said.  -- Regina Tan in Beijing. Editors:  John Liu , Paul Tighe  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  