-- China Cuts Subsidies for Solar Projects on Declining Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T07:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/china-cuts-subsidies-for-pilot-solar-projects-on-declining-costs.html
China , the world’s biggest producer
of solar panels, cut subsidies for demonstration sun-power
projects approved in 2011 and this year after the cost of
components declined.  The government reduced the subsidy for projects approved
last year by 11 percent to 8 yuan ($1.3) a watt, the Ministry of
Finance said in a  statement  yesterday. It will offer a subsidy
of 7 yuan a watt for those that are eligible for the assistance
this year.  The subsidy applies only to projects developed by owners
who will consume the power for their own use under the so-called
Golden Sun program.  The cost of solar panels fell 47 percent last year as
Chinese manufacturers increased production, leading to excess
capacity after European governments cut back on subsidies. The
price declines has led some some companies including  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  to predict that solar technology is nearing parity with
fossil fuels to supply power to national electric grids at a
competitive price.  “The reduction in the subsidies is not significant, given
slumping solar-component costs,” Lian Rui, a senior analyst for
the research company Solarbuzz, said today by phone. “It’s not
always that the government cuts subsides set a year ago, but
developers can still secure high returns.”  China has been subsidizing projects under the program since
2009 to bolster the use of renewable energy and cut reliance on
fossil fuels.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , China Guodian
Corp.,  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  have won
subsidies under the program.  Intermittent Cuts  Lian expects the government to start making intermittent
cuts in subsidies to respond if prices continue their decline.
The U.K. government is expected to announce as early as next
week a plan to reduce subsidies for solar energy once
installations reach a predetermined level.  Developers who qualified for the assistance under the
Golden Sun program last year can make amendments to or withdraw
their projects if they can’t make “reasonable” returns, the
ministry said.  The projects that are approved this year must be completed
by the end of 2012. Subsidies for photovoltaic projects that
aren’t connected to grids and mostly built in rural and remote
areas as well as wind-solar hybrid farms will be assessed
separately, the ministry said.  The government is planning to grant additional subsidies to
projects using smart-grid and micro-grid technology, the
ministry said in the statement, without giving details.  Chinese solar companies including  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  and Trina expect the excess panel capacity to be absorbed at
home this year on anticipation that the country will double
installations from the 2.2 gigawatts in 2011.  Editor: Baldave Singh  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7528 or
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  