-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in 2 Weeks on Banks, Small Firm Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T08:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/china-stocks-rebound-from-two-week-low-on-premier-wen-s-small-firm-support.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest gain in two weeks, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  offered more support to smaller companies and investors
speculated the government will help banks replenish capital.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the country’s largest lenders, climbed
more than 2 percent after the 21st Century Business Herald
reported the biggest shareholder in state-owned banks will
accept lower dividend payout ratios.  Xinjiang Talimu Agriculture
Development Co. (600359)  and Hunan Dakang Pasture Farming Co. jumped by
the daily limit after the Xinhua News Agency said the government
will boost investment in agriculture.  “The government’s support for smaller companies is
positive given their large share of the economy,” said  Li Jun ,
a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“That’ll help investors become more optimistic that the economy
will hit a bottom soon.’  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 44.48 points, or 2
percent, to 2,312.56 at the close, its biggest gain since Jan.
17. The  CSI 300 Index  climbed 2.4 percent to 2,486.24. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 1.6 percent in New York.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 5.1 percent this year,
after plunging 33 percent in the previous two years, on
speculation slowing economic growth will push the central bank
to relax monetary policies and the government will take measures
to support stocks. The measure trades at 9.5 times estimated
earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Support Small Companies  Premier Wen said the government will support small
companies with a 15 billion-yuan ($2.4 billion) fund as growth
moderates in the world’s second-largest economy.  China  will also extend preferential tax policies for small
companies until 2015 and will ask banks to increase tolerance of
bad loans to these businesses, according to a statement posted
on the central government’s website yesterday, citing a State
Council meeting presided by Wen. The nation’s small companies
have been hurt by a credit squeeze after the government boosted
lenders’ reserve-ratio requirements over the past two years.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, climbed 2.3
percent to 4.38 yuan. Construction Bank, the second largest,
added 2.3 percent to 4.85 yuan.  Bank of Communications Ltd. ,
part-owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, rose 3.1 percent to 4.93 yuan.  Lower Dividend Payout  Central Huijin Investment Co., which holds stakes in
China’s largest banks, may accept lower dividend payout ratios
from the lenders to help them replenish capital, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported today, citing an unidentified
person close to regulators. The proportion of cash dividend
payouts may decrease by 5 percentage points from 40 percent of
profits now, it said.  ICBC paid out 39 percent of its 2010 profit as dividends,
compared with 44 percent in 2009 and 50 percent in 2008,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Construction Bank’s
payout ratio dropped to 39 percent in 2010 from 44 percent in
2009 and 49 percent in 2008, Bloomberg data showed.  China’s interest-rate swaps fell for the first time this
week on speculation a cash shortage will persuade policy makers
to cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios.  ‘‘I still expect China to do something and cut reserve
ratios this month,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “I think liquidity is still
going to be tight, if there is no liquidity injection.”  Interest-Rate Swap  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, decreased 14 basis points, 0.14 percentage
point, to 3.16 percent as of 3:33 p.m. in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.35 percent yesterday,
the highest level since Nov. 3.  The central bank canceled a sale of three-month bills for a
sixth week today as maturing reverse-repurchase contracts
decrease cash supply in the financial system. The People’s Bank
of China announced on Nov. 30 it would lower reserve ratios by
0.5 percentage point from a record high of 21 percent, the first
such cut since 2008, as inflation cooled.  Talimu Agriculture surged by the maximum 10 percent to 8.22
yuan. Hunan Dakang jumped 10 percent to 12.03 yuan.  Dalian
Zhangzidao Fishery Group Co. (002069) , a sea-farming company, added 2.4
percent to 23.21 yuan.  China will expand the fiscal budget for agriculture this
year, direct more fixed-asset investment to the sector and offer
more subsidies for major grain-producing areas, as part of
efforts to stabilize grain production, Xinhua reported, citing a
document by the  Central Committee  of the  Communist Party of
China  and the State Council. The nation is trying to boost
agricultural output to feed its 1.35 billion people.  Hard Landing Risk  China’s stocks fell yesterday on concern a rebound in
manufacturing will reduce the need for more loosening of
monetary policy. The official purchasing managers’ index
increased to 50.5 from 50.3 in December, exceeding economists’
estimates. The data may have been distorted by a weeklong
holiday as readings for new export orders and imports contracted
for a fourth month.  The nation’s economy is headed for a “hard landing” this
year as weaker demand overseas chokes off exports, said Gary Shilling, who correctly forecast the U.S. recession that began
in December 2007.  “They slammed on the brakes,” Shilling, president of A.
Gary Shilling & Co., a Springfield, New Jersey-based consultancy
firm, said at the Bloomberg Link China Conference in  New York 
yesterday. “Transition is not easy because they are geared up
to exports.”  ‘Untouchable’ Stocks  The two-year slump in Chinese stocks is partly a result of
investor distrust of the nation’s capital markets amid reports
of  insider trading , according to Gary Rieschel, founder and
managing director of Shanghai-based Qiming Venture Partners.  China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing 
has pledged to crack down on insider trading, China Business
News reported Jan. 12, citing comments made by Guo at a meeting
by the regulator.  Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S. have been tainted by
allegations of fraud involving companies like Sino-Forest Corp.
and are “pretty much untouchable,” according to Perella
Weinberg Partners LP’s Daniel Arbess.  Muddy Waters LLC’s Carson Block alleged Sino-Forest and
U.S.-traded digital advertiser Focus Media Holding Ltd.
overstated assets, spurring a regulatory investigation into the
timber company.  Short sellers have “clobbered the valuation of the
companies,” Arbess said at the  Bloomberg Link  China conference
in New York yesterday. “Once somebody yells fire, the market’s
inclination is to get out of the building and worry about that
later.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  