-- China Interest-Rate Swaps Drop as Cash Shortage May Spur Reserve-Ratio Cut
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-02T09:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/china-interest-rate-swaps-drop-as-cash-shortage-may-spur-reserve-ratio-cut.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps fell for
the first time this week on speculation a cash shortage will
persuade policy makers to cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios.  The one-year rate reached the highest level in almost three
months yesterday as maturing reverse-repurchase contracts
reduced the supply of funds. The People’s Bank of China added
353 billion yuan ($56 billion) via 14-day  reverse-repo
operations  before the week-long Lunar New Year holiday that
started on Jan. 23. That was the biggest injection since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in early 2008.  “I still expect China to do something and cut reserve
ratios this month,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “I think liquidity is still
going to be tight, if there is no liquidity injection.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, decreased two basis points, 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.24 percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 3.35 percent yesterday, the highest
level since Nov. 3.  The monetary authority suspended a sale of three-month
bills for a sixth week today as it pulled a net 351 billion yuan
out of system after reverse repo contracts expired, ending four
weeks of injections.  ‘Visible Drop’  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell two basis points to
4.33 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  “We expect a more visible drop in the fixing today,
following the pattern of easier liquidity conditions in the
first half of every month in China,”  Ju Wang , a Barclays
Capital strategist in  Singapore , wrote in a report today,
referring to the 7-day repo fixing. The market is “waiting for
more clarity on possible reserve-ratio cuts.”  China’s economy  is headed for a “hard landing” this year
as weaker demand overseas chokes off exports, said Gary
Shilling, who correctly forecast the U.S. recession that began
in December 2007.  A Chinese government report yesterday showed
that export orders fell last month, even as manufacturing
expanded.  Government bonds  rose. The yield on securities due August,
2021 fell one basis point to 3.433 percent, snapping a three-day
advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  