-- Christie: Voters Would Pass N.J. Gay Marriage
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-02-02T19:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/christie-says-new-jersey-voters-would-pass-a-gay-marriage-ballot-question.html
New Jersey voters would probably pass
a law allowing gay marriage in a referendum, Governor  Chris Christie  said today.  “The polls that I’ve seen show that if this goes to the
ballot, I lose,” the Republican governor, who opposes same-sex
marriage, told about 400 people at a town-hall meeting in
Denville. “How much more magnanimous could I be?”  Christie, 49, has said he would veto a law permitting gay
nuptials, arguing that voters should decide the issue and that
he would abide by the results. The first-term governor said he
would direct Republican lawmakers to support a bill that would
create a November referendum. Democrats said gay marriage is a
civil right that shouldn’t be subject to a popular vote. The
Senate president said today there won’t be a referendum.  The governor drew criticism from Democrats, including U.S.
Representative  John Lewis  of  Georgia , for saying to reporters
on Jan. 24 that civil-rights backers of the 1960s would have
been happy with a referendum “rather than fighting and dying 
in the streets of the South.” He apologized for those comments
in a Jan. 30 radio appearance.  Christie said he wouldn’t apologize for using the term
“numbnuts” to describe critics, including Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a gay Democrat representing Trenton, who compared the
governor to segregationists because of his civil-rights
comments.  Six States  Court rulings or legislation led to the change in the
 District of Columbia  and the six states where it’s already legal
-- including neighboring  New York . Voters have rejected
legalization in all 31 referendums on the question, according to
Freedom to Marry, a New York-based national advocacy
organization.  Washington ’s Senate yesterday passed a bill to legalize
same-sex marriage, and Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat,
has said she’ll sign it. In New Jersey, backers of a measure to
allow the practice say they are trying to gather votes to pass
it out of the Assembly even as they expect it to clear a
committee today.  “There is no question” the Judiciary Committee will
approve it, setting up a vote in the full chamber, Assemblyman
John McKeon, a Democratic member of the panel and a bill
sponsor, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Every Minute’  Democrats have about 34 Assembly votes of the 41 needed to
pass the measure and “are picking up more every minute,” said
Gusciora, a co-sponsor.  The bill needs 21 Senate votes to move to Christie’s desk.
Senate Democrats have scheduled a Feb. 13 vote by the chamber
and have the votes to pass the measure, Derek Roseman, a
spokesman for Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , said in an e-
mail.  Sweeney, in a statement today, said Christie and some of
his colleagues could learn from Washington, where four
Republican senators yesterday voted for gay marriage.  “When the Senate votes on this issue on Feb. 13, it will
be a very simple choice; you either support marriage equality,
or you don’t,” Sweeney said. “There is no third option.”  Republicans have “thus far walked in lockstep with his
direction,” said McKeon, of  West Orange , referring to Christie.  “The governor needs to release members to vote their
conscience,” Gusciora said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Second Try  Democrats, who control the Senate and Assembly, have made
same-sex marriage a 2012 priority. Two years ago, they failed to
pass a bill permitting the practice and supported by then-
Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat.  Corzine enacted a measure in 2006 to allow civil unions,
after the state’s high court ordered lawmakers to extend marital
rights to same-sex couples. The law is being challenged in court
by  Lambda Legal , a national advocacy group that says unions
don’t provide marriage’s benefits and protections.  McKeon said Democrats are proceeding, even though they know
Christie will veto it.  “If a majority of the Legislature votes for it, that might
in some way impact the  Supreme Court  when they look at this
issue,” he said. “This is not a religious issue, it’s a matter
of civil rights. It’s the right thing to do.”  Madison Galluccio, the 15-year-old daughter of Jon and
Michael Galluccio, tearfully urged lawmakers today to allow her
parents, who wed in another state, to have the benefits of
marriage in their North Haledon home.  “I want to be able to have the same rights as you,”
Madison Galluccio said at the Judiciary Committee meeting.  Opinion Poll  The  Galluccios  were lead plaintiffs in a class-action
lawsuit against  New Jersey  for not allowing gay couples to
jointly adopt children. Though the state in 1997 became the
first in the nation to allow the practice, it has failed to lead
in the matter of marriage, said Jon Galluccio.  Public support for gay marriage in New Jersey reached a
high of 52 percent in a  poll  by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,
 Connecticut , that was released Jan. 19.  “If a majority of people want it, prove it,” Christie
said. “Let them vote on it. They’ll get in the privacy of the
voting booth and make their choice.”  A constitutional amendment, which Christie is proposing,
would need to be approved by three-fifths of the Legislature to
appear on the November ballot, and would then require support
from a simple majority of voters for passage. Republicans
account for two-fifths of the Legislature.  “All they need is to get one-fifth,” Christie said of
Democrats. “This is the bargain of a lifetime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  