-- Cigna’s Cordani Says Health Insurer to Grow in Current Overseas Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-02T21:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/cigna-reports-quarterly-profit-2012-forecast-that-trail-analyst-estimates.html
Cigna Corp. (CI) , the U.S. health insurer
that sells in 30 countries and jurisdictions, isn’t looking to
add more markets, Chief Executive Officer David Cordani said.  “From a prioritization of new countries to enter, we did
Turkey and India, so we are where we want to be,” Cordani said
in a telephone interview today after Cigna provided a 2012
 forecast  that trailed analyst estimates and sent shares down.
“There are not additional countries on the horizon to enter.”  Cigna’s  international revenue  increased 31 percent in 2011
as the company took advantage of a growing middle class in
countries including  South Korea  and  China . This year, Cigna
expects to increase earnings outside of the U.S. by 20 percent
to 30 percent, Cordani said. The geographic diversity will help
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna be better protected from
changes in the U.S. health system, he has said.  The “growth trajectory is outstanding” in countries where
Cigna already has a presence, Cordani said. In November, Cigna
signed an  agreement  with  India ’s TTK Group to sell insurance
products in that country. The company also acquired FirstAssist
Insurance Services Ltd., a U.K. travel and protection insurer,
to grow outside the U.S.  Cigna fell 3.4 percent to $44.13 at 4 p.m. New York time.
The insurer forecast full-year profit today of $5 to $5.40 a
share, less than the $5.68 average of 19 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  New Accounting  New accounting rules reduced Cigna’s 2011 earnings for the
international business by $70 million. The change may put
pressure on the company’s profit margins, said Chris Rigg, an
analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group in New York who has a
‘neutral’ rating on Cigna.  “The top line is growing rapidly but the earnings are not
growing as fast,” Rigg said.  In the U.S., Cigna is focusing on folding in Healthspring
Inc.’s operations after its acquisition closed this week. Cigna
paid $3.8 billion in cash for the company to expand into
Medicare, which generated more than $1.3 billion for
Healthspring in the third quarter. Medicare is the U.S. health
plan for the elderly and disabled, and Medicare managed-care
plans are among the fastest-growing products for health insurers
as Americans age.  Cigna’s Forecast  Cigna’s outlook includes the impact of new accounting rules
for deferred acquisition costs, increased medical use, and a
contribution of 3 cents to 10 cents from Healthspring. Cigna
joined  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the two
largest U.S. health insurance companies, in saying more people
are expected to seek medical care in 2012, raising costs for
insurers.  The Healthspring benefit is “a little less than what we
had expected,” said Rigg, who has a ‘neutral’ rating on Cigna.
“We thought it could be roughly double that amount.”  Fourth-quarter  earnings  excluding one-time items were
$1.11, the company said. The quarterly results missed analyst
estimates by 8 cents. Net income fell 37 percent to $290
million, or $1.04 a share, from $461 million, or $1.69, a year
earlier, the company said.  “The fourth quarter is definitely disappointing,” Rigg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  