-- CIT Sells $3.25 Billion in Biggest Bond Sale Since Bankruptcy
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-02T23:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/cit-planning-bond-offering-to-help-redeem-2-5-billion-of-high-cost-debt-.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  sold $3.25 billion of
debt in its second and biggest bond sale since emerging from
bankruptcy in December 2009 as the small-business lender led by
 John Thain  pays back “high-cost debt” this quarter.  CIT issued $1.5 billion of 4.75 percent, three-year notes
and $1.75 billion of 5.5 percent, seven-year debt, both Series C
second-priority secured bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds may be used to refinance outstanding debt,
the New York-based company said in a statement today. CIT “is
in the process of repaying $2.5 billion of high-cost debt in the
first quarter of 2012,” Thain said in a Jan. 31 conference
call, referring to its  7 percent  so-called Series A notes.  Thain has sold assets to help CIT, once the biggest
independent commercial lender in the U.S., recover from a
bankruptcy that wiped out $2.3 billion in government bailout
money. In addition to cutting high-coupon debt, CIT “seems to
be maintaining cautious credit standards” based on reports it
was demanding extra financial information from Sears Holdings
Corp. and its lack of European sovereign credit risk exposure,
Gimme Credit LLC analyst  Kathleen Shanley  said in a note today.  “We have eliminated or refinanced about $18 billion of
debt” since the start of 2010, Chief Financial Officer  Scott Parker  said on the Jan. 31 conference call to discuss earnings.
“We lowered our funding cost, improved our funding flexibility
and are well-positioned to execute the balance of our liability
restructuring roadmap.”  CIT is graded B2 with a “stable” outlook by Moody’s
Investors Service and B+ with a “positive” outlook from
 Standard & Poor’s , Bloomberg data show.  Exit From Bankruptcy  The lender plans to redeem the remaining $4 billion of the
Series A debt later this year, Thain said on the conference
call. The notes have higher costs and restrictions attached to
them because they were part of the company’s exit from
bankruptcy, Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, wrote in a Jan. 31 note.  “Series C notes remain secured until CIT achieves
investment grade by both S&P and Moody’s or once CIT repays all
of Series A,” she wrote.  Once the Series A debt is fully repaid, liens on a
revolving line of credit and the Series C notes “fall away” so
that debt becomes unsecured, Parker said in a Nov. 16 conference
call. That’s part of the company’s goal of getting back
investment-grade credit ratings, he said.  CIT tapped the  debt market  for the first time since its
bankruptcy in March, offering $1.3 billion of 5.25 percent,
three-year notes and $700 million of 6.625 percent, seven-year
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  