-- Colombia Drug Lords’ Cattle Theft Rob Rally Benefit: Commodities
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-02-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/colombia-drug-lords-rustling-cattle-rob-rancher-price-rally-commodities.html
Latin America ’s oldest guerrilla
group’s penchant for cattle rustling is robbing Colombian
ranchers of the benefits of the highest U.S.-traded futures
prices since the 1960s.  The cash-strapped Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia is
selling livestock at below-market prices after a military
crackdown on cocaine production made the fighters “desperate
for financing,”  Juan Manuel Santos , the nation’s president,
said last month. The group, known as FARC, may be Colombia’s
biggest cattle owner, according to a ranchers federation.  Santos is trying to preserve gains Colombia, the world’s
largest supplier of cocaine, has made to improve security for
international investors and its own citizens. He’s going beyond
cocaine to target secondary funding sources that also keep them
active, said  Michael Shifter , president of  Inter-American
Dialogue , a Washington-based policy analysis center. The FARC
survives on revenue from crime, including illegal gold mining,
drug trafficking and cattle rustling.  “They can sell at substantially lower prices since the
cattle is stolen,” said Diego Ochoa, head of research at
brokerage Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa SA, which manages a
livestock fund in Bogota. “They get a profit. For the legal
producers and the legal middlemen, prices deteriorate.”  Stolen cattle can be sold at a discount of 20 percent to 30
percent, weighing on domestic cattle prices, Ochoa said. Those
prices slipped 8.8 percent from June 15 to Jan. 24, according to
weekly figures provided by the Bogota-based Colombian Mercantile
Exchange.  Cattle Futures Rally  Cattle futures in  Chicago  rallied 23 percent in the same
period. Gains in international prices typically contribute to
domestic price increases with a three-to-six month delay, as
farmers decide to sell more to foreign markets, Ochoa said.  Futures for April delivery rose 0.5 percent yesterday to
$1.292 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. On Jan. 25,
prices reached $1.29675, the highest for a most-active contract
since the commodity began trading on the CME in 1964 -- the same
year that the FARC was founded in the Colombian countryside.  The FARC is moving stolen cattle to the center of the
country from the south,  Santos  said in a Jan. 16 speech in the
southern province of Caqueta. While livestock theft officially
fell 14 percent to 8,265 animals last year from 9,616 in 2010,
many cases go unreported, according to Colombia’s National
Police. It’s putting in place policies to better identify and
track cattle, to hamper transport of stolen cows and bulls.  Increased Rustling  “It’s a recognition that a broader strategy is needed,”
Shifter said. “It’s necessary if Santos is going to achieve his
goal of weakening substantially the FARC -- and just focusing on
the drug aspect doesn’t accomplish that.”  Cattle rustling and kidnapping of ranchers has increased in
the past year across the Andean nation, said Jose Felix
Lafaurie, president of Colombia’s  Federation of Cattle Ranchers .
About 71 percent of cattle farmers said there had been a
deterioration of public law and order in the past 12 months,
compared to 11 percent two years earlier, according to a
September federation survey.  “Since the drugs can’t get out, they need another source
of funding,” Lafaurie said. “And that source of financing is
kidnapping, or the use of assets they have, and in this case
cattle is a good asset to improve their finances.”  Cattle rustling and ranching isn’t new to the guerrillas,
especially in areas of southern Colombia that formed part of a
Switzerland-sized swathe of territory controlled by guerrillas
until 2002, according to Lafaurie.  FARC’s Veterinarian  The FARC probably is the largest single owner of cattle in
 Colombia  after decades of stealing livestock, extorting farmers
and displacing landowners, said Lafaurie. He said that about six
years ago he met the veterinarian who tended to livestock for
Mono Jojoy -- the alias of FARC’s second-in-command who was
killed by the military in 2010.  “So you can see how long they’ve been into it,” Lafaurie
said.  Stricter government controls should cut trafficking of
stolen animals and increase prices, according to Ochoa. The
government also is going after land held by the FARC as it takes
steps to return property to farmers displaced by violence,
Santos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  