-- Colombia Equity Offerings to Challenge 2011 Record, Cordoba Says
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-02T15:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/colombia-equity-offerings-to-challenge-2011-record-cordoba-says.html
The number of Colombian equity
offerings will likely match last year’s record eight deals as
businesses fund expansions to tap the fastest economic growth in
nearly five years, said the head of the country’s bourse.  Share sales in the Andean nation exceeded $7 billion last
year, more than twice the previous record set in 2007, as
Colombian, Peruvian and Chilean exchanges integrated trading in
the first Latin American bourse combination, said Juan Pablo Cordoba, president of  Bolsa de Valores de Colombia. (BVC)   “I don’t think we’ll see a repeat of those size of issues,
but we’ll see about the same number of offerings as new
companies come to market this year,” Cordoba said yesterday in
an interview at his office in Bogota.  Companies throughout the region seeking to expand are using
the three-nation Andean integration as a “platform” for
raising the needed funds, Cordoba said.  Mexico  may join the
integrated market as soon as this year after studying the legal
implications, he said.  Colombia ’s central bank unexpectedly raised the overnight
 interest rate  to 5 percent on Jan. 30 after third-quarter gross
domestic product expanded at the fastest pace since 2006,
defying President  Juan Manuel Santos  who said an increase
wouldn’t be appropriate.  Foreign Investment  The growth has been driven by infrastructure projects and a
wave of foreign investment in oil, coal and gold exploration in
areas that were once overrun by violence. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.7 percent in the third quarter from a year ago,
leading the central bank to project growth of as much as 6
percent for 2011. The bank said the economy will grow between 4
and 6 percent in 2012.  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , Colombia’s biggest bank, sold $661 million
worth of shares in a sale that ended Jan. 27.  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,
 Carvajal SA (CARVAJA) , Construcciones El Condor SA, and Contourglobal
Latam SA are among companies that have expressed interest in
selling shares in Colombia in 2012.  Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA ,  Grupo Nutresa SA (NUTRESA) , and
 Avianca Taca Holding SA (PFAVTA)  were among companies that sold stock
last year in Bogota to help pay for acquisitions.  Colombia’s benchmark IGBC Index surged 9.5 percent in
January after falling 18 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  