-- For Companies, Joining Up Is Hard to Do: Gibbs, Ierulli, Smeets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G i b b s ,   K a t h r y n   I e r u l l i   a n d   V a l e r i e   S m e e t s
-- 2012-02-02T00:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/companies-find-joining-up-hard-to-do-commentary-by-gibbs-ierulli-smeets.html
Mergers are famously disruptive for
companies and employees. They also don’t always make business
sense: About half of all combinations are considered financially
unsuccessful, according to a 2003 study by the Federal Trade
Commission.  So what makes for a successful merger? Experience shows
that the primary reason for failure is the difficulty of
organizational integration. A 2010 PricewaterhouseCoopers
 survey  of post-merger companies finds that careful planning of
integration ensures that a combination is more likely to achieve
cost synergies or other goals. The report says that “speed is
critical,” adding that the most important challenges “are
motivation of employees, alignment of cultures, organization and
processes as well as IT systems.”  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s historical approach to takeovers is
instructive. For years, the networking-equipment giant pursued a
strategy of innovation through the acquisition of small
technology companies, and has developed methods to make the
process effective.  Cisco avoided “mergers of equals,” or the acquisition of
companies of similar size. It also ensured that its due-
diligence team included human-resources staff who screened
targets for “shared vision” and “chemistry or cultural
compatibility.” Deals were rejected if the fit wasn’t strong.  ‘Cisco Buddy’  Once an acquisition was executed, integration teams
immediately descended on the target company. Acquired employees
were assigned a “Cisco Buddy” to help them assimilate and learn
their new company’s culture.  Meanwhile, human-resources executives told new employees
that the combination was an acquisition, not a merger of equals
and that “the more flexible and positive you are, the better it
will be for you.”  Cisco has recently experimented with a different approach
for a small number of acquisitions of larger companies such as
LinkSys. In those cases, instead of quick and close integration,
Cisco allowed the target to operate as a stand-alone division,
with its own brand name, management, product design and
organization.  According to a 2008 article in the Wall Street Journal,
“the slow pacing for some of the ‘platform’ integrations
suggests they’re not as easy. Cisco decided to take a year and a
half learning Scientific-Atlanta’s business before sitting down
with its executives to discuss detailed sales synergies,” and
that “some ‘us versus them’ dynamics have lingered.”  There are several reasons integration is likely to be
difficult and costly. The full-scale merger of two organizations
requires reconciling large numbers of policies, including those
regarding structures, job titles, compensation and recruiting.
In addition, employees are likely to lose some of the value of
their intangible human capital, including their understanding of
unique methods and culture of their company, as well as the
social networks with colleagues that are so valuable to
coordination, collaboration and problem-solving.  Finally, there is a serious risk of conflict as both
companies’ workforces form into factions in an attempt to
protect their positions in the critical post-merger phase.  Our research studied a sample of mergers among Danish
companies to try to understand integration. The results suggest
that costs are high, and provide clues as to how companies can
successfully carry out mergers to mitigate those expenses.  We were surprised at first when we realized that many
merging companies don’t fully integrate and, as a result, don’t
realize maximum synergies. That decision is made because of the
difficulty of achieving full integration.  Separate Offices  We found that, generally, there is very little mixing of
two workforces in the same physical locations. Even several
years after a merger, only 5 percent to 15 percent of employees
have been reassigned to a workplace that existed in the other
company before the merger. In other words, the two organizations
don’t really become one.  Strikingly, there is high turnover, especially of target
employees, but they are replaced by new hires and average
workforce size doesn’t change. That is noteworthy, because
incumbent employees possess valuable skills and experience that
are lost when they leave. On the other hand, new hires may be
easier to integrate because they are recruited for fit and
aren’t part of an existing workforce and culture that might
resist being absorbed.  Along similar lines, we found that mixing of workforces is
most likely to occur at new workplaces set up after the merger,
rather than when employees are sent “across enemy lines” to
existing units in the other organization. It may be easier to
combine employees in a new office, starting the unit from
scratch.  We also found that target employees are more protected --
they have less turnover and are less likely to be reassigned to
the other side -- if their company is closer in size to the
acquirer. This is consistent with the idea, suggested by the
economic literature on ethnic conflict, that clashes between the
two workforces are more likely in a merger of equals.  By contrast, if the target firm is relatively small, its
workforce has a stronger incentive to cooperate and assimilate
quickly because it is in the minority.  Without extensive integration, how do merging companies
achieve synergies? Our results suggest they do so by using key
employees who serve as “brokers” between the two sides. In
particular, managers and those employed in research and
development are most likely to be reassigned to a unit from the
other firm.  This makes sense: A primary role for managers is to
coordinate across functions, so after a merger they translate
and coordinate between organizations. R&D is likely to be one of
the most important sources for synergies, so fuller integration
is important to achieve knowledge sharing in product design.  Too Arduous  In short, organizational integration appears to be so
difficult that the firms we studied do little of it in practice,
even shedding experienced workers, hiring new people and setting
up new workplaces in some cases.  Yet they seem to enjoy some benefits from a merger anyway,
by strategic use of key talent to share ideas and coordinate.  Several lessons emerge. First, due diligence should include
careful thought about integration: how it can be achieved, how
likely success will be, and the extent to which synergies can be
realized with limited integration.  Second, the acquiring company should have an integration
plan ready before the deal is announced, and then implement
quickly and forcefully.  Third, the merger should focus on the key talent in both
organizations: identifying who they are and why they are
valuable, and then finding ways to keep them and get them to
collaborate with each other.  ( Michael Gibbs , a clinical professor of economics at the
 University of Chicago  Booth School of Business, is a contributor
to  Business Class . Kathryn Ierulli is a lecturer in economics at
the University of Chicago.  Valerie Smeets  is an associate
professor of economics at the University of Aarhus in  Denmark .
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
 Michael Gibbs  at  Michael.Gibbs@chicagobooth.edu ;
Kathryn Ierulli at  kierulli@uchicago.edu ;
Valerie Smeets at  vas@asb.dk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  