-- Condoms to Sunscreen in $30B McKesson Contract
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-02T20:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/condoms-to-sunscreen-in-30b-mckesson-contract.html
The Department of Veterans Affairs
used a  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  drug contract to make as much as $1.2
billion in unauthorized and potentially illegal purchases that
included condoms and sunscreen, an agency spokesman said.  The department administers the eight-year, $30 billion
McKesson contract, also used by other federal agencies such as
the U.S. Bureau of Prisons and the Indian Health Service. The
“working hypothesis” is that a “significant portion” of the
$1.2 billion in questionable spending violated government
purchasing regulations, Josh Taylor, a VA spokesman, said in an
e-mail today.  VA staff didn’t always seek competitive bids for some of
the items they bought from McKesson, as federal acquisition
regulations require, W. Scott Gould, a deputy VA secretary, said
at a U.S. House committee hearing yesterday. McKesson abided by
the terms of the contract, he said.  “We could only conclude that we ourselves were the source
of the problem,” Gould said at the hearing.  Congress and the VA’s Office of the Inspector General are
investigating illegal spending through the McKesson contract.
The probes come as McKesson faces competition from  Cardinal
Health Inc. (CAH)  and  AmerisourceBergen Corp. (ABC)  for its contract
expiring in May.  Chemo Gowns and Sanitizer  While a provision in the contract allows some exceptions,
the VA hasn’t said exactly how much of the $1.2 billion in
spending was unauthorized and illegal. It also hasn’t identified
the specific purchases that violated law. The agency is
reviewing those purchase, Taylor said.  VA purchases outside the contract included generic
medicine, hand sanitizer, bandages, latex gloves, condoms,
sunscreen and gowns for chemotherapy, he said. The agency buys
sunscreen for patients receiving medication making them
sensitive to sunlight, he said. The condoms are distributed to
veteran patients to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, he
said.  Most of the spending outside the terms of the contract was
for generic drugs, Taylor said. Those generic purchases helped
save the agency money, VA officials told members of the House
Committee on  Veterans Affairs  during yesterday’s hearing.  Veterans were never in danger of receiving unsafe medicine,
Gould and Sharon Longwell, a McKesson vice president, testified
at the hearing.  McKesson supplied  prescription drugs  that had Food and Drug
Administration approvals, even for those items that were not
specifically covered by the contract, Sharon Longwell, a
McKesson vice president, testified at the hearing.  McKesson Discounts  The company has followed the terms of the contract and has
even provided discounts that have benefited the VA, Longwell
said.  “McKesson has delivered excellent quality and service to
the VA,” Longwell said at the hearing.  Officials with the Indian Health Service declined to
comment because of the inspector general investigation, Dianne
Dawson, an agency spokeswoman, said in a Jan. 27 e-mail.  The Bureau of Prisons wasn’t aware of any issues with its
use of the contract, Ed Ross, a spokesman, said in a Jan. 26 e-
mail.  VA officials have acknowledged that they can’t confirm the
agency paid fair and reasonable prices for items that totaled
$226 million, or about 5 percent of almost $4.3 billion in
spending under the McKesson contract for the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30.  Taxpayer Costs  The agency considered modifying the McKesson contract last
year and ultimately wasn’t able to do, VA Secretary Eric
Shinseki said in a December letter to Representative Joe
Donnelly, who questioned the department’s spending. The agency
prohibited employees from buying items not covered by the
contract in a Nov. 8 memo.  “There were discussions but not a formal request by VA for
a modification” to the contract, said Kris Fortner, a McKesson
spokesman, in a Feb. 1 e-mail. Fortner didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the medical supplies
purchased by the agency and whether the company was aware that
some purchases were illegal.  When a government agency buys items from a vendor that
aren’t covered by contract, it may increase the cost of
purchases for taxpayers and reduce opportunities for other
vendors, Steve Ryan, who runs the government strategies division
at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in a Jan. 31 phone
interview.  “There’s always a hint that maybe this is a favoritism
issue, maybe it’s more than inadvertence and modest
incompetence,” said Ryan, a partner at the  law firm  in
Washington. He said he was referring to buying without contracts
in general and that he has no knowledge of the VA-McKesson
issue.  Medical Supplies  The VA already has contracts with other vendors, including
Dublin, Ohio-based Cardinal Health Inc. and Warwick, Rhode
Island-based Claflin Co., to provide the agency with medical
supplies. It’s unclear whether the agency bought items from
McKesson that were covered by VA contracts with other vendors.  The Claflin contract doesn’t require the VA to buy all of
its medical and surgical supplies listed in the agreement from
the company, said Anne Marie Johnson, Claflin’s vice president
of administration, in a Jan. 31 phone interview.  Deb Mitchell and Corey Kerr, spokeswomen for Cardinal
Health, didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  