-- Congo President’s Party Increases Seat Lead in Parliament
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-02-02T14:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/congo-president-s-party-increases-seat-lead-in-parliament-1-.html
The political party of  Democratic
Republic  of Congo President  Joseph Kabila  leads the provisional
list of candidates elected to parliament with 483 of 500 seats
decided, the country’s electoral commission said.  Of the 500 seats, the  People’s Party  for Reconstruction and
Democracy has at least 60 so far, according to results e-mailed
by the commission today from Kinshasa, the capital. The
opposition Union for Democracy and Social Progress has the
second-highest tally with 41, it said. More than 100 political
parties will be represented in parliament, according to the
commission’s announcement.  Kabila’s allies look destined to win a majority of seats,
according to the results. Parties in the Presidential Majority
group and other parties who’ve previously given Kabila their
support already make up more than 260 seats. They will still
need to form a government. Congo’s  Supreme Court  is hearing
challenges to the results, which are scheduled to be certified
by March 16.  Almost 19,000 candidates from more than 450 political
parties vied for National Assembly seats. The Nov. 28 election, 
Congo’s second after 40 years of dictatorship and war, was
marred by irregularities including lost ballots, contested
results and violence, according to electoral observation
missions from the U.S.-based  Carter Center , the European Union,
and Congo’s Catholic Church.  Etienne Tshisekedi, the leader of the Union for Democracy
and Social Progress who came second in the presidential
election, rejected the parliamentary results and told members of
his party to refuse their seats, UDPS secretary-general
Jacquemain Shabani said in a mobile phone message on Jan. 27.  Congo is the world’s top producer of cobalt, which is used
to make rechargeable batteries,  Africa ’s biggest tin miner and
the continent’s second-largest producer of copper, after Zambia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 