-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Increases for a Second Week in Bloomberg Index
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-02T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-increases-for-a-second-week-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
climbed for a second week as Americans became less pessimistic
about the prospects for the world’s largest economy.  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  rose to minus 44.8 in
the period to Jan. 29 from minus 46.4 the previous week. A
measure of Americans’ view of the state of economy climbed to
the highest since June.  Gains in employment and post-holiday clearance sales at
retailers also helped create a  better buying climate  for
consumers, the report showed. At the same time, increasing
gasoline costs threaten to hinder progress in household
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Rising incomes and aggressive discounting by retailers
likely created a better buying climate and bolstered consumer
confidence to close out January,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “That being said,
the increase in the cost of gasoline and the most tenuous of
gains in the labor market does place the improvement in
confidence in jeopardy.”  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
applications for  jobless claims  decreased by 12,000 to 367,000
last week. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for 371,000 first-time claims.  Stocks climbed after the figure showed the labor market is
improving. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,326.84 at 9:35 a.m. in New York.  View of Economy  All three components of the weekly consumer comfort index
improved. The measure of Americans’ views of the state of the
economy rose to minus 79.1 last week from minus 81.1 the prior
period. The gauge of personal finances climbed to minus 4.5 from
minus 6.9. An index of the buying climate rose to minus 50.8
from minus 51.3.  The Bloomberg comfort survey has a 3-point margin of error,
and the index has been stuck below minus 40 -- the level
associated with recessions or their aftermath -- since the end
of February 2011. The confidence gauge, which began December
1985, averaged minus 46.8 last year, compared with minus 45.7
for 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading on
record.  Forty-one percent of survey respondents said the economy is
in “poor” shape, the fewest since March.  The report is “another sign of incremental but sure gains
in consumer sentiment as the economy inches forward,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  Employment Gains  The increase in confidence partly reflects progress in the
job market. Payrolls rose by 145,000 in January and the
 unemployment rate  held at 8.5 percent, the lowest level in
almost three years, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a Labor Department
report tomorrow.  Confidence improved among households in income groups
ranging from $25,000 to $99,900 a year, the report showed. The
reading for women climbed to a six-week high.  Some companies are benefiting from the stabilization in
confidence.  1-800-Flowers.com Inc. , a seller of flowers and
gifts on the Internet and by telephone, raised its annual sales
forecast citing “positive” trends in all its businesses.  “We are heartened by the recent reports of improvement in
consumer confidence,”  James McCann , chief executive officer,
told investors on a Jan. 26 conference call. At the same time,
“we remain cognizant of the challenges in the global economic
environment,” he said.  Other Measures  Not all sentiment measures are climbing in tandem. While
the Thomson/Reuters University of Michigan Index rose to an
almost one-year high in January, the New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge dropped after reaching an eight-month peak in
December.  Fuel costs have started increasing. A  gallon of regular 
unleaded gasoline climbed to $3.45 as of Jan. 31 from a 10-month
low of $3.21 in December, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
automobile association.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  