-- Credit Suisse, Standard, BAA, Glaxo, Apple in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-02T12:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/credit-suisse-standard-baa-glaxo-aig-apple-in-court-news.html
Kareem Serageldin,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s former global head of structured credit trading, was
charged in a scheme to falsify prices tied to collateralized
debt obligations to meet targets and boost year-end bonuses for
his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, 38, who lives in the U.K. and led the
securities department of Credit Suisse’s investment banking
division, was named in an indictment unsealed yesterday in  New
York . Two of his former subordinates, David Higgs, 42, and
Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York yesterday and said they’re cooperating with the U.S. in the
probe.  Higgs and Siddiqui said during their guilty pleas that
Serageldin told them to overstate the value of mortgage-backed
assets in a Credit Suisse trading book known as ABN1 after the
collapse of the U.S. housing market. Both said they did so to
enhance their job performance and bonuses.  “While the residential housing market was in a freefall,
these defendants decided they were above the rules of the market
and above the law,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara told
reporters yesterday.  Switzerland’s second-largest bank said in 2008 it would
take writedowns on asset-backed securities after finding
“mismarkings” by a group of traders. The Zurich-based bank
said it would write down $2.65 billion after a review found
pricing errors on residential mortgage-backed bonds and CDOs
made “by a small number” of traders who were subsequently
fired or suspended.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday sued
Serageldin, Higgs, Siddiqui and Faisal Siddiqui. The SEC
identified Faisal Siddiqui, 36, of New York, as a vice president
at Credit Suisse’s CDO trading group in New York. The SEC said
that Salmaan Siddiqui and Faisal Siddiqui aren’t related.  Serageldin earned $7.27 million in salary and other
compensation in 2007, the U.S. said. Once Credit Suisse learned
of the scheme, they rescinded more than $5.2 million of the
incentive pay he received, prosecutors said.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen living in the U.K., isn’t in
U.S. custody, Bharara said.  “We do not consider him a fugitive,” Bharara said. “We
encourage him and his lawyer to come to the United States and
answer the charges against him.”  If Serageldin doesn’t come to New York, Bharara said his
office will seek to extradite him.  Both Higgs and Siddiqui pleaded guilty to one count each of
conspiracy to falsify books and records and commit wire fraud,
which carries a maximum five-year prison term and three years of
supervised release.  Higgs and Siddiqui were released on $500,000 bond each and
ordered to surrender their passports. Both agreed to pay
unspecified restitution, the U.S. said.  Higgs, Siddiqui and Serageldin haven’t worked for Credit
Suisse since their employment was terminated in 2008, said
Steven Vames, a spokesman for the bank in New York.  Serageldin couldn’t be immediately reached for comment on
the allegations.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Standard Life Wins $157 Million Insurance Suit Over Lehman Loss  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  won a 100 million pound ($157 million)
case over whether insurers, including ACE European Group Ltd.,
had to pay for losses on asset-backed securities after the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   A Standard Life unit sued 11 insurers in a  London  court,
saying they should have covered payments it made to customers
after a fund it had marketed as low-risk lost nearly 5 percent
of its value on one day in January 2009.  Judge Henry Eder yesterday ruled Standard Life should be
able to recover the money it used to repay customer losses as
long as it paid a deductible of 10 million pounds.  The Standard Life Pension Sterling Fund, which was valued
at 2.2 billion pounds and had 97,000 customers at the end of
2008, invested around half its value in debt securities. The
2009 losses led to “a mass of complaints” and “severe
pressure from the Financial Services Authority,” Eder said in
his judgment.  Jonathan Shillington, an outside spokesman for ACE, didn’t
immediately comment. Standard Life said in a statement the
insurers had been given permission to appeal and that the issue
wouldn’t be heard until later this year.  For more, click here.  BAA Loses Appeal Over Forced Sale of London Stansted Airport  BAA Ltd., the owner of London’s Heathrow airport, lost an
appeal against the forced sale on antitrust grounds of the U.K.
capital’s Stansted terminal and one of its two bases in central
Scotland.  BAA’s case arguing that the U.K. airport market had become
more competitive since the Competition Commission’s decision
almost three years ago was unanimously dismissed, the
Competition Appeal Tribunal in London said in a ruling
yesterday.  “We are disappointed by the decision of the tribunal,
which we will now carefully consider before making any further
statements,” London-based BAA said in an e-mail. Stansted is
the company’s second-busiest airport and the biggest base for
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s No. 1 discount airline.  BAA was ordered to find buyers for Stansted and London
Gatwick airport in March 2009, together with Edinburgh or
Glasgow in Scotland. Gatwick was sold to Global Infrastructure
Partners Ltd. for 1.51 billion pounds ($2.4 billion), but the
other disposals were delayed after the tribunal upheld claims
that an adviser to the regulator had a conflict of interest,
before revisiting the issue and reaching the same conclusion.  The Competition Commission said in a statement it was
pleased the decision had been upheld and that it’s now “surely
time” for BAA to accept the ruling and complete the disposals.  For more, click here.  Glaxo Settles 20,000 Lawsuits Over Avandia, Lawyer Says  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which is paying $3 billion to resolve
government claims that it illegally marketed drugs such as the
Avandia diabetes medication, agreed to settle more lawsuits over
the pills, a lawyer said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, agreed last month to
resolve more than  20,000 cases  alleging Avandia causes heart
attacks, said Paul Kiesel, a lawyer for former users. The
accord, reached in court-ordered mediation, included a case that
was set for trial in state court in Los Angeles, he said.  “We are pleased the mediation has successfully resulted in
the settlement of a significant number of the remaining cases,”
Kiesel, one of the lead lawyers for plaintiffs in the Avandia
litigation, said Jan. 31 in a telephone interview.  The settlements are part of London-based Glaxo’s efforts to
resolve legal issues stretching back more than a decade.
Executives announced in November that the drugmaker will pay $3
billion to settle U.S. criminal and civil probes into whether
Glaxo illegally marketed Avandia and other medications.  The company already has agreed to pay at least $700 million
to settle more than 15,000 patients’ claims that Avandia caused
heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the accords said
last year.  The most-recent settlements of Avandia patients’ suits
“are covered by existing provisions and those payments will be
funded through existing cash resources,” Bernadette King, a
U.S.-based Glaxo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement Jan.
31.  More than 2,500 Avandia cases are consolidated before U.S.
District Judge Cynthia Rufe in Philadelphia, who appointed a
mediator in a bid to resolve the remaining claims over the drug.
Other cases are pending in state courts around the U.S.  Patrick A. Juneau, a Lafayette, Louisiana-based lawyer
named as the Avandia mediator, helped the company and
plaintiffs’ lawyers reach agreement on the accords for the more
than 20,000 cases, Kiesel said.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Calpers, Specialist Firms Reach Accord on Trading Ahead  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
biggest U.S. pension fund, reached a settlement in a shareholder
lawsuit against specialist firms over a practice known as
trading ahead, according to a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in Manhattan said in a
Jan. 31 filing that the parties in the 2003 lawsuit have entered
into a “memorandum of understanding that contemplates the
submission of a stipulation of settlement” that will resolve
the case. The document contained no other details.  Calpers and other investors alleged that from 1999 to 2003,
specialist firms traded for their own accounts ahead of clients,
resulting in inferior prices for their own accounts.  The firms engaged in practices known as inter-position, in
which they place themselves between matching orders in an effort
to generate profits, and trading ahead, in which they trade for
their own accounts knowing how a public investor’s order would
affect a stock price, Calpers said in the complaint.  The New York Stock Exchange, which had been named as a
defendant, settled the lawsuit in 2010, agreeing to make current
and former personnel available for interviews and provide
documents in the litigation, lawyers for the exchange said in
court filings. The exchange didn’t admit wrongdoing.  Specialist firms agreed to reimburse clients $247 million
to settle a 2004 lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange
Commission alleging they violated trading rules.  Brad Pacheco , a Calpers spokesman in Sacramento, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment on the
settlement. Irwin Warren and James McClammy, attorneys for the
specialists firms, didn’t return voice-mail messages seeking
comment after regular business hours.  The case is In re NYSE Specialist Securities Litigation,
03-8264, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil
complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Foreclosure Agreement Deadline for States Postponed to Feb. 6  The deadline for states to decide whether to join a
proposed nationwide foreclosure settlement with banks was
delayed to Feb. 6 from Feb. 3, the Iowa Attorney General’s
Office said.  States were given more time to evaluate the proposal, which
may total $25 billion, after at least one asked for a delay,
Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom
Miller, said yesterday in a phone interview. Miller is helping
to lead negotiations.  State and federal officials have been negotiating an
agreement with mortgage servicers that would provide mortgage
relief to homeowners and set requirements for how banks conduct
foreclosures.  State officials are reviewing the agreement with  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) ., and are being asked to sign on.
Greenwood declined to name the state that asked for more time or
comment on state support for the deal.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said in a
Jan. 27 letter to Miller, the Justice Department and U.S.
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan that she
needed answers to 38 questions to evaluate the deal.  The deadline was changed as Oregon Attorney General John
Kroger said yesterday in a statement that he would sign on to
the settlement, joining Connecticut Attorney General George
Jepsen, who also supports it.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  has said he won’t sign
on to the settlement.  Bank Foreclosure Accord Backed by Oregon Attorney General  Oregon’s attorney general agreed to join a proposed
multistate settlement over foreclosure and mortgage-servicing,
saying it penalizes banks and offers relief to homeowners.  The settlement will provide $30 million to the state and as
much as $200 million in relief to Oregon homeowners, including
those facing foreclosure, Attorney General John Kroger said
yesterday in a statement.  “This agreement penalizes banks that engaged in wrongful
foreclosure practices and brings badly needed relief for
distressed homeowners,” he said. “I am not confident we could
get a better agreement on this limited set of issues if we
litigated for several more years.”  All 50 states announced an investigation into bank
foreclosure practices in 2010 following disclosures that
companies were using flawed documents in seizing homes. A group
of state attorneys general and federal officials have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement that would set
standards for how banks conduct foreclosures while providing
mortgage relief to borrowers.  States have until Feb. 3 to decide whether to accept the
settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Wells Fargo & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said in an e-
mailed statement Jan. 31 that he would also sign on to the
agreement. The deal “would impose tough new servicing standards
on banks and hold them accountable for what have become familiar
abuses,” he said.  For more, click here.  Greenberg Amends Suit Seeking U.S. Compensation for AIG Takeover  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive officer, revised his
lawsuit seeking $25 billion over the U.S. takeover of the
insurer, claiming a banker said the government wanted to
“steal” the business.  The amended complaint, filed Jan. 31 in the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims in Washington, quotes an unidentified banker
hired to represent the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during
bailout discussions in 2008.  “These guys are going to try and steal the business,” the
banker said to an AIG representative, according to the
complaint.  Greenberg’s Starr International Co. sued the government
Nov. 21, calling the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in
the insurer in 2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property
that requires $25 billion in compensation.  U.S. Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler ordered Jan. 31 that AIG
be notified that it was added as a “nominal” defendant in the
case, meaning the company would be bound by any judgment.  The revised complaint buttressed earlier claims that the
U.S. taking of 562.9 million shares of AIG common stock was
illegal. Starr claims that while the U.S. got so-called fairness
opinions from banks on exchanging two groups of preferred stock,
it failed to get such an opinion in exchanging a block of
preferred stock for 562.9 million shares “for virtually
nothing.”  Starr, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time of the
bailout, claims that in the midst of the financial crisis in
September 2008, the U.S. took 80 percent of AIG’s equity while
violating the constitutional rights of shareholders to due
process and equal protection of the law.  Alison Preece, a spokeswoman for Starr’s lawyers at Boise,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, declined to comment on the amended
lawsuit. Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman,
couldn’t immediately comment on the revised lawsuit.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Apple Loses Bid to Ban Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1N, Nexus Phone  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to get a preliminary ban on sales of
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy 10.1N and Galaxy Nexus mobile
phone from a German court.  The Munich Regional Court rejected the motion yesterday, in
a case where Apple invoked a patent granted last year protecting
technology related to touch screens for tablets and smartphones.  “Samsung has shown that it is more likely than not that
the patent will be revoked because of a technology that was
already on the market before the intellectual property had been
filed for protection,” Presiding Judge Andreas Mueller said
when delivering the ruling.  The decision comes a day after a Dusseldorf appeals court
upheld Apple’s request to ban sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the
predecessor model. Samsung began selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1N, a
revised version, in Germany to get around the ban. A lower
Dusseldorf court is scheduled to rule next week on a separate
case Apple filed over the Galaxy 10.1N. Samsung lost two patent
rulings against its rival in a Mannheim court last month.  Neither Samsung nor Apple immediately replied to e-mails
seeking comment on yesterday’s case.  Yesterday’s case is LG Muenchen 21 O 26022/11.  For more, click here.  Phone Hacker Must Reveal Who at News Corp. Gave Instructions  Glenn Mulcaire , the ex-private investigator who hacked into
celebrities’ voice mails for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World,
lost a U.K. appeal to avoid giving “incriminating” evidence in
civil lawsuits against him.  The ruling yesterday by the Court of Appeal in London
upholds a judge’s order for Mulcaire to disclose who at the now-
defunct tabloid told him to intercept phone messages left for a
British actor and a celebrity publicist and what information was
collected. Mulcaire’s lawyers argued that by doing so he would
incriminate himself.  “I intend to appeal this ruling to the  Supreme Court ,
because this may affect my right to claim” the privilege
against self-incrimination “in other civil cases still being
brought against me,” Mulcaire said in a statement released by
his lawyer, Sarah Webb. Judge David Neuberger said Mulcaire
doesn’t have to release the information until the nation’s
highest court decides whether to review the issue.  Mulcaire and News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit were sued by
dozens of celebrities and other victims whose phones were hacked
to get stories. The company settled more than half of the 60
hacking lawsuits against it last month including those by actor
Jude Law and soccer player Ashley Cole.  For more, click here.  Pemex Amends Case Against Shell Claiming Trade in Stolen Gas  Petroleos Mexicanos’ production unit filed an amended
lawsuit against Shell Chemical Co., Marathon Petroleum Co. and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  Co. alleging they and other U.S. companies traded
natural gas condensate stolen from Mexico.  The substance, a mixture of hydrocarbon liquids produced
with natural gas that competes with light crude oil, is targeted
by Mexican drug cartels, stolen and imported to the U.S. by
companies previously sued by Pemex, as the company is known, it
said in its complaint.  Shell Chemical, a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ; Marathon;
and ConocoPhillips, named as defendants in the new complaint,
“appear to have been innocent” and dealt in the condensate
only after it was laundered, according to Pemex.  “Even absent knowledge or intent, however, the defendants’
use, purchase, and sale of stolen Mexican condensate in the U.S.
was without right or title from the Mexican government, and
therefore, was wrongful under the laws of Mexico and the U.S.,”
Mark Maney, an attorney for Pemex, said in the Jan. 27 amended
complaint filed in federal court in Houston.  Rich Johnson, a spokesman for ConocoPhillips, had no
immediate comment. A voice-mail message seeking comment about
the complaint left on the media line for Shell, wasn’t
immediately answered. Shane Pochard, a spokesman for Marathon,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking
comment about the case.  The cases are Pemex Exploracion y Produccion v. BASF 4:10-
cv-01997 and Pemex v. Big Star Gathering Ltd, 4:11-cv-2019, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Secretly Lent $2 Billion to His Firms, Witness Says  A former Stanford Financial Group Co. accountant testified
that he grew concerned about $2 billion R.  Allen Stanford 
secretly borrowed from his Antiguan bank after hearing the
company’s finance chief say repeatedly in 2007 and 2008, “The
emperor has no more clothes.”  “I interpreted that to mean Mr. Stanford didn’t have any
money to cover this debt, nor did the companies have the money
to pay it back, and the bank didn’t have the money to pay it
back,” Henry Amadio, the accountant, told jurors yesterday at
Stanford’s criminal fraud trial in federal court in Houston.  Stanford, 61, is accused of skimming more than $1 billion
in investor funds from his Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. to fund a billionaire’s lifestyle and private
businesses ranging from Caribbean airlines to cricket
tournaments. Stanford, who faces as long as 20 years in prison
if convicted of the most serious charges, denies all wrongdoing.  Amadio, testifying for the government, told jurors he
prepared monthly reports tracking the financier’s personal loans
from the Antiguan bank, which prosecutors claim was at the heart
of an alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme. The loans weren’t
disclosed to investors, he said.  Bank funds borrowed by Stanford flowed through several
intermediary companies before they were used to cover operating
losses and startup expenses at the financier’s affiliated
companies, Amadio testified. He said Stanford Financial Group
Chief Financial Officer James Davis instructed him to record
these loans as capital infusions into the companies rather than
as loans from Allen Stanford.  “There is not going to be repayment; there is no other
option,” Amadio said, reading to jurors from an e-mail he
received from Davis in 2007. In the e-mail, Davis said the
accounting treatment was directed by Stanford, the bank’s sole
shareholder.  Amadio said he worried that investors’ savings were being
secretly diverted to cover losses at Stanford’s other companies.  “The combined profits of the bank were not enough” to
provide Stanford sufficient legitimate profits to lend more than
$2 billion to his other businesses, Amadio testified. “The only
other conclusion was the money was coming from depositors’
accounts.”  Amadio told jurors he was ordered to strip all bank
records, including his reports tracking Stanford’s loans, from
computers at Stanford’s Houston headquarters and move them to a
portable hard drive in 2006, after U.S. securities regulators
began investigating the bank.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Tottenham Manager Redknapp Denies Cheating on U.K. Taxes  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  denied cheating on his
U.K. taxes, telling a London court that speeding fines were as
close as he has come to breaking the law.  The coach is accused of working with his co-defendant,
Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric, to evade U.K. taxes
when they were at Portsmouth soccer club. Redknapp took the
stand yesterday for the first time, and stopped his testimony to
accuse a police detective of starring at him “to cause me
trouble.”  Redknapp, 64, is fighting charges that Mandaric paid
$295,000 into a secret Monaco bank account named after the
manager’s dog Rosie to avoid paying income tax. Redknapp is the
favorite to replace England manager Fabio Capello after this
summer’s European Championships.  “I’ve always paid my tax,” Redknapp said. “I’ve always
gone to the best available people. I’ve employed the best firm
of accountants. I have always paid too much tax rather than not
enough.”  Redknapp’s trial is in its second week. This afternoon, he
accused detective Dave Manley, who led the investigation, of
trying to unsettle him on the stand.  “Mr. Manley, can you stop starring at me,” Redknapp said,
pointing a finger at Manley, who sat behind prosecutor John
Black.  “I know you’re trying to cause me a problem.”  Prosecutors claim the offshore account was opened to funnel
bonus payments from a player trade and performances, to Redknapp
without paying U.K. employment taxes. Mandaric claimed the money
was outside of his and Redknapp’s soccer relationship, and he
saw it as “seed capital” with which he could invest in U.S.
stocks on Redknapp’s behalf and solidify the pair’s friendship.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.S. Justice Department’s Greg Andres to Return to Davis Polk  Greg Andres, a former federal prosecutor and senior
official with the U.S. Justice Department, will rejoin  Davis
Polk & Wardwell LLP  in the law firm’s white-collar defense
group.  Andres, 44, who served as deputy assistant attorney general
in the Justice Department’s criminal division, will represent
clients in both civil and criminal trials, the New York-based
firm said yesterday in a statement. Andres was an associate in
Davis Polk’s litigation department from 1997 to 1999 before
leaving to become a federal prosecutor.  Andres’s responsibilities at the Justice Department
included supervision of the fraud and appellate sections,
according to the statement. His trials include the prosecution
of former Credit Suisse Group AG broker  Eric Butler  for
securities fraud. Butler was convicted in 2009 and sentenced to
five years in prison.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 