-- Oil Near Six-Week Low as U.S. Stockpiles Rise, Fuel Demand Slips
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-02T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/crude-trades-near-six-week-low-as-u-s-stockpiles-rise-fuel-demand-slips.html
Oil traded near the lowest in six
weeks as U.S. crude stockpiles increased more than estimated and
gasoline use fell to a 10-year low.  Brent crude  in London was at
the biggest premium to New York oil in 12 weeks.  Futures declined for a fifth day, losing as much as 1
percent after an Energy Department report yesterday showed  crude
supplies  in the U.S. rose by 4.2 million barrels last week.
Inventories were projected to increase 2.6 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Talks on  Iran’s nuclear
program  have made little progress, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a speech in Beijing today.  “The bears worried about poor demand after last night’s
data and prices weakened,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who expects Brent
crude to trade in a range of $110.50 to $112.50 a barrel this
week. “But  Iran  is still a cause for concern.”  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $97.21 at 1:41 p.m. London time after falling as
much as 95 cents to $96.66 a barrel, the lowest since Dec. 20.
The contract fell 0.9 percent yesterday to $97.61 a barrel.
Prices are down 1.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement was up 86 cents at $112.42 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It rose
58 cents yesterday to $111.56, the highest close since Jan. 11.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate futures increased to as much as $15.24, the widest
since Nov. 14. That compares with a record spread of $27.88 on
Oct. 14.  North Sea Oil  Brent’s premium to U.S. crude reflects unrest in  Nigeria ,
 Africa ’s top oil producer. Nigerian security forces arrested the
alleged spokesman of a militant Islamist group blamed for
bombings and gun attacks that killed hundreds this year, the
State Security Service said yesterday.  “Given the concerns in Nigeria, we can anticipate the
potential for this spread to retract lost ground and see it
heading back to $15 a barrel,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney.  More North Sea oil is being shipped to  Asia  than at any
time in the past eight years as prices fall to the lowest levels
in 15 months compared with Middle East alternatives, according
to shipping data.  Companies led by BP Plc and Vitol Group have sent at least
8 million barrels of North Sea oil to Asian ports since mid-
December, equivalent to six days of U.K. production, according
to ship-tracking data from AISLive Ltd. That’s the most for any
month since 2004, according to data from Galbraith’s Ltd., a
London-based shipbroker.  U.S. Employment  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show payrolls last
month rose by 145,000 and the  unemployment rate  held at 8.5
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 40 economists.  “If the data continues to show a lift in economic activity
then this should translate to a lift in demand for the
commodity,” Barratt said. “Oil potential could break out of
its trading doldrums.”  Bank of America Corp. raised its estimate for Brent to $108
a barrel from $100, and for WTI to $100 from $92.  “Supply remains exceptionally scarce,”  Francisco Blanch ,
the bank’s New York-based head of commodities research, said in
a note dated yesterday. “But demand is decelerating sharply and
our supply models indicate a ramp-up in volumes as we head in
the second quarter.”  Gasoline Demand Falls  Gasoline  consumption decreased  to 7.97 million barrels a
day, the lowest since September 2001, according to Energy
Department data. Stockpiles of the fuel increased 3.02 million
barrels last week, the report showed. They were projected to
rise 500,000 barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped by 135,000 barrels, the U.S. report
showed. They were estimated to decline 1.38 million barrels,
according to the  survey .  Oil initially climbed yesterday in  New York  after data from
the  Institute for Supply Management  showed manufacturing in the
U.S. grew in January at the fastest pace in seven months. The
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s manufacturing index rose to 54.1
from 53.1 in December. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 54.5.  China , the world’s second-largest oil user, may raise
retail fuel prices for the first time since April following
gains in the crude grades the government tracks.  The moving average of Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta
crudes, the three types in the country’s pricing basket, over
the past 22 working days climbed 4.3 percent as of yesterday,
according to C1 Energy, a commodity researcher based in
 Shanghai . That’s above the 4 percent target that could trigger a
fuel adjustment by the National Development and Reform
Commission, China’s top economic regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  