-- Cybersecurity Bill in U.S. Senate Falls Behind Reid Schedule
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-02T00:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/cybersecurity-bill-in-u-s-senate-falls-behind-reid-schedule.html
Senate cybersecurity legislation,
facing resistance from industry groups over its potential cost,
is falling behind schedule, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said.  The legislation, which has yet to be formally introduced,
was planned by Reid to be taken up by the full Senate before
Feb. 17. When asked if he still plans to meet that deadline,
Reid said today “it’d be hard to do,” adding that he didn’t
have a new time line.  “I’m just going to do it as quickly as I can,” Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said in an interview. “I always make mistakes
setting those deadlines.”  Congress and the administration of President  Barack Obama 
are pursuing measures designed to shield vital infrastructure,
including power grids and water-treatment plants, as hackers
step up assaults on government and corporate systems.  The Senate bill would authorize the Homeland Security
Department to identify infrastructure that’s considered critical
to U.S. economic and national security and develop standards
that must be met to protect them.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business-lobbying group, sent a letter to senators Jan. 30
saying that draft versions of the bill would be too costly and
asking lawmakers to delay consideration.  Reid’s remarks regarding the legislation’s timing came
after a classified briefing Wednesday by senior Obama
administration officials, including  Janet Napolitano , Homeland
Security Department secretary.  Classified Briefing  The briefing was meant to convey a sense of urgency to
senators for legislation, said Bruce McConnell, a counselor to
Napolitano on cybersecurity matters.  “What we were here today to do was make sure the Senate
understands the severity and importance of the threats that
we’re facing and the need for action,” McConnell said in an
interview. More than 50 senators from both parties attended the
briefing, he said.  “Time is the biggest threat to getting a bill,” McConnell
said. “I think it’s because the calendar is crowded.”  Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , the top Republican on
the Intelligence Committee, said he was not optimistic about
prospects for quick action on the measure.  “This is going to be a very complex bill, and we’ve got a
long way to go before we get to a bill that’s going to be
amenable,” he said in an interview.  In the House, a Homeland Security subcommittee today
approved a bill that would create a U.S. organization to
encourage government agencies and companies to share classified
data on cybersecurity threats.  Representative Dan Lungren, the California Republican who
heads the panel, said the bill’s intent is to use existing
regulatory structures to strengthen cyberdefenses rather than
create a new regulatory framework.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  