-- Czech Central Bank Board Voted 6-0 to Leave Rates; Cuts Forecast
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-02T13:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/czech-central-bank-board-voted-6-0-to-leave-rates-cuts-forecast.html
The Czech central bank board voted
unanimously to leave  interest rates  unchanged for a 14th meeting
as policy makers cut the outlook for economic growth in 2012 to
zero.  The policy makers voted 6-0 to leave the two-week benchmark
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, with Vice-Governor
Mojmir Hampl not present at the meeting, according to a
presentation given to reporters at a press conference today.  The bank reduced the forecast for growth in 2012 to zero
from 1.2 percent previously, less than a  Finance Ministry 
forecast released on Jan. 31 that expects the economy to grow
0.2 percent this year. The new quarterly central bank forecast
expects a rate of expansion next year of 1.9 percent, down from
2.7 percent in the last quarterly estimate.  “The Czech economy will stagnate this year as a result of
a marked slowdown in external demand and continuing fiscal
consolidation,” the presentation said. Growth will resume next
year “in connection with an external demand recovery.”  “Consistent with the forecast is stability of market
interest rates in the near future and a modest decline
thereafter,” the report  said . Risks to the central bank’s
forecast are balanced, according to the report.  The central bank’s “monetary policy” inflation rate,
which policy makers use to help in deciding the direction of
interest rates, will be close to the target over the entire
forecast horizon.  Inflation Outlook  Headline inflation is seen rising “temporarily” to just
above 3 percent in 2012 because of an increase in the value-
added  tax rate  before inflation slows again below the central
bank’s target in 2013, the report said.  Inflation by the end of the second quarter of 2013 may
reach 1.5 percent, unchanged from the previous central bank
forecast.  The koruna will weaken more than forecast in the previous
economic report, with the currency ending 2012 at 24.9 against
the euro, compared with 23.1 against the euro in the last
forecast. The koruna is seen ending 2013 at 24.3 against the
euro in the report.  Downside risks to the central bank’s forecast include the
possibility of additional “fiscal consolidation” efforts by
the government while faster growth of food prices is an upside
risk, the presentation said. The overall forecast will be
affected by economic developments abroad and the koruna exchange
rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  