-- Democrats Want to Let FDA Block Medical Devices Tied to Safety Recalls
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-02-02T21:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/democrats-want-to-let-fda-block-devices-tied-to-safety-recalls.html
U.S. regulators should be able to
block medical devices based on past products with safety issues,
said  House Democrats , citing injuries from transvaginal implants
like those made by  Johnson & Johnson  and  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)   A bill introduced this week would close a loophole that
lets devices win approval even when they’re similar to a product
already pulled from the market, the Democratic lawmakers, led by
Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts, said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Vaginal implants spurred a Food and Drug Administration
alert last year amid patient complaints of pain and internal
injuries. The devices were cleared by the agency’s 510(k)
system, which allowed them to be sold without human testing once
the FDA rules they are similar to existing products. In October,
Bloomberg News reported many implants trace their approvals to a
 Boston Scientific (BSX)  Corp. mesh recalled for safety issues in 1999.  “If an automobile is recalled for a major safety problem,
we wouldn’t allow future models to repeat this same flaw, and
the same should be true for the medical devices used in our
bodies,” Markey said in the statement. The bill ensures “that
devices do not mimic the mistakes made by other products.”  Messages weren’t returned by  Matthew Johnson , a spokesman
for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, or Scott Lowry, a
spokesman for C.R. Bard in  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey .  ‘Burdensome Provisions’  Manufacturers “share Congressman Markey’s interest in
ensuring the safety and effectiveness of medical devices,” said
Wanda Moebius, a spokeswoman for the  Advanced Medical Technology
Association , an industry trade group in  Washington , in an e-
mail. “However, we believe FDA already has abundant authority
to carry out its mandate and the burdensome provisions” in the
bill “will not contribute to patient safety.”  To become law, the legislation, HR3847, would need to pass
the Republican-controlled House and Democratic-led Senate and
then win President  Barack Obama ’s signature. Debbee Keller, a
spokeswoman for the Republican majority on the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, which has been holding hearings on medical
device rules, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Current law requires the FDA to clear a device for sale if
it’s “substantially equivalent” to a past device, known as a
predicate. Markey’s bill would let the agency say no if the
predicate, or past predicates in a series of equivalent devices,
were removed from the market or if the agency were in the
process of pulling it. It also would require companies to
explain why their products are different from recalled versions  ‘Devise Lineage’  The  legislation  also requires the FDA to review previously
cleared products to determine whether any have recalls in their
“device lineage.” A report would be due to Congress within
three years.  Vaginal meshes were implanted in about 300,000 women a year
to shore up pelvic muscles or treat incontinence. The FDA last
month ordered more safety studies from manufacturers, a group
led by J&J; C.R. Bard; and Boston Scientific, of Natick,
 Massachusetts .  Johnson, the J&J spokesman, said in a statement last month
that the company’s meshes were already among “the most-studied
devices on the market” and J&J would continue to conduct tests
to prove their worth to patients.  Markey’s bill is one of more than a dozen introduced in
Congress to overhaul device reviews, in response to consumer
advocates who say products need to be safer and industry groups
who say the process is too strict.  McCain-Casey Bill  U.S. Senators  Bob Casey  and  John McCain  introduced a bill
today that they said would streamline approvals. The legislation
would ease the “burdensome review” the FDA requires to see if
a new product is similar to one already on the market, the two
men said in a  statement .  “The FDA’s current approval process for medical devices
can be cumbersome, inconsistent and far too lengthy for patients
who need innovative technologies and for the companies that
develop them,‘‘ said McCain, an Arizona Republican. Casey, a
Democrat, is from  Pennsylvania .  The bill would also address safety issues by ensuring that
medical devices on the market before current safety rules
existed are properly classified in a timely manner, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  