-- Deutsche Bank Told to Pay $19.7 Million by Judge in Currency Option Ruling
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-02T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/deutsche-bank-ordered-to-pay-19-7-million-in-currency-options-lawsuit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
bank, was ordered to pay 15 million euros ($19.7 million) in a
lawsuit over a currency option product it sold to a client.  The Frankfurt Regional Court today ruled partly in favor of
German travel company Schauinsland-Reisen GmbH, which had sought
30 million euros. The judges ruled the company was experienced
in using options to hedge currency risks, so it was partly
responsible for its losses, court spokesman Arne Hasse said.  “When Deutsche Bank first sold the product it didn’t have
to warn about risks, as the structure of the option could be
easily understood,” Hasse said. “But when additional options
were bought after first losses and the risks increased, the bank
at some point should have warned its customer about the risk
accumulation.”  Germany ’s highest civil court last year said the Frankfurt-
based lender had to cover losses caused by a product it called a
“CMS Spread Ladder Swap” because the bank didn’t disclose the
product had an initial negative market value. The judges today
didn’t adopt the top court’s reasoning because the currency
derivatives weren’t as complicated as the CMS swaps, Hasse said.  Deutsche Bank failed to prove that it properly warned
Schauinsland-Reisen as the risks increased, Hasse said. About 60
follow-up derivatives were sold, he said.  Currency Hedge  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert said the lender
will only comment when it’s received the written judgment. It
will then decide whether to appeal, he said.  As a company active in the travel business, Schauinsland
has used options to hedge  currency risk  for a long time and must
be considered as experienced in these kinds of financial
transactions, said Hasse. That’s why the judges decided the
company was partly responsible and needs to shoulder half of the
losses, he said.  The product, which Schauinsland started to buy in June
2005, bet the dollar would fall against the euro. When the
dollar rose, the product turned negative for Schauinsland, which
was facing constantly rising liability risks under the terms.  The options “went phenomenally bad for a phenomenally long
time,” Presiding Judge Bruno Menhofer said at a hearing in
September. The travel company’s currency risks were about $20
million a year, a Schauinsland manager had told the court.  Repeatedly Restructured  To counter the rising risks Schauinsland faced, the deal
was repeatedly restructured. Because of the number of options
bought and the changing terms in each restructuring effort, the
liability risks accumulated over time.  At a peak in 2007, Schauinsland faced the risk of having to
buy 204 million U.S. dollars under the terms. Deutsche Bank and
Schauinsland agreed to dissolve the deal in 2008, leaving
Schauinsland with losses of 30 million euros.  Separately, Deutsche Bank today reported that fourth-
quarter profit fell 76 percent, more than analysts estimated, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbed trading and the company wrote down
holdings.  The bank fell as much as 3.1 percent in Frankfurt trading
after  reporting net income  of 147 million euros, below the 556
million-euro average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The investment bank posted a 422 million-euro pretax
loss.  Today’s case is LG Frankfurt am Main, 3-04 O 50/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Frankfurt at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 