-- Deutsche Bank Posts 76% Profit Drop as Sovereign-Debt Crisis Hits Trading
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-02T18:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/deutsche-bank-posts-76-profit-drop-as-sovereign-debt-crisis-hits-trading.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest
bank, said fourth-quarter profit fell 76 percent, more than
analysts estimated, as Europe’s debt crisis curbed trading and
the company wrote down holdings.  The bank fell as much as 3.1 percent in Frankfurt trading
after reporting net income of 147 million euros ($194 million),
below the 556 million-euro average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The investment bank posted a 422 million-
euro pretax loss.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , who steps down in
May, said 2012 will be another “challenging year.” With his
departure approaching, Deutsche Bank set aside funds for
litigation and wrote down holdings in Greek government bonds,
Icelandic generic drug maker Actavis Group hf, a Las Vegas
casino and its BHF-Bank AG unit. The charges led to a loss of
722 million euros at the corporate investments unit.  “Ackermann might be trying to clear the slate for the new
management, but it still doesn’t look pretty,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets in  Frankfurt .  The shares fell 0.4 percent to close at 33.895 euros in
Frankfurt. Deutsche Bank has advanced 20 percent since the
 European Central Bank  said Dec. 8 it would offer unlimited
three-year loans to lenders -- a decision Ackermann described to
CNBC last week as important in easing some of the banking
system’s “funding challenges.” Bloomberg’s 43-company European
banks index climbed 17 percent in the period.  ‘More Gratifying’  Anshu Jain, who takes over as co-CEO with Juergen Fitschen
in May, told reporters today at a press conference in Frankfurt
that January was “more gratifying” for the investment bank
than the second half of 2011.  Deutsche Bank wasn’t alone in reporting lower profit in the
final three months of last year. New York-based  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase &
Co., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, posted a 23 percent
decline in profit on lower  investment-banking  fees and revenue
from trading stocks and bonds. Earnings at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , also based in  New York , dropped 58 percent, leading the
firm to cut compensation in response to falling revenue. Among
the five largest Wall Street banks, only Morgan Stanley posted
an increase in trading income, excluding accounting gains, in
2011.  Debt Trading  Deutsche Bank scrapped its forecast for operating pretax
profit of 10 billion euros for 2011 in November and announced
500 job cuts amid a “significant and unabated slowdown in
client activity.” Ackermann’s purchase of  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB) 
and Sal. Oppenheim Group to build up consumer-banking and
wealth-management couldn’t make up for lower investment banking.  “The scale of the economic slowdown in  Europe  and around
the world will largely depend on further progress in solving the
sovereign debt crisis,” Ackermann said at the press conference.
This will be “another very challenging year.”  Deutsche Bank sees a pretax return on equity of about 15
percent to 18 percent in the near term because higher  capital
requirements  are weighing on the industry, Ackermann said. It
may be able to reach about 20 percent in terms of pretax ROE in
the longer term after it sheds legacy assets, he said today. In
the past, Ackermann had set a goal of 25 percent.  The investment bank’s loss compared with a 603 million-euro
pretax profit a year earlier and the 233 million-euro profit
estimate from nine analysts. Revenue from debt trading dropped
to 1.04 billion euros from 1.61 billion euros, missing the 1.47
billion-euro estimate of analysts, while equity trading revenue
decreased to 539 million euros from 872 million euros.  ‘Poor Quarter’  “Fixed income had a poor quarter because it’s so linked to
the sovereign debt crisis in Europe,” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA who has an
“underperform” rating on the stock. “That hit them hard.”  Deutsche Bank booked costs of 380 million euros at the
investment bank related to litigation and 154 million euros for
U.K. and German bank levies.  Investment banks won’t reach their previous peak revenue
levels in the foreseeable future even if market conditions
improve, Ackermann said. The German firm is in “an ideal
position to continue our growth and further increase
profitability” at the corporate and investment bank, he said.  Pretax earnings at the consumer banking unit climbed to 227
million euros from 222 million euros, missing the 384 million-
euro average estimate of analysts. The bank took charges on
Greek bonds held at Postbank. Profit from the asset and wealth-
management business rose to 165 million euros, missing the 180
million-euro estimate of analysts.  Capital Gap  Deutsche Bank cited a “more challenging market
environment” at the asset and wealth-management division.  In November, the company announced a strategic review of
its global asset-management division, excluding operations of
the DWS mutual fund unit in  Germany , Europe and  Asia . Executives
decided last month to pursue a sale of the businesses, which
have almost 400 billion euros in assets under management,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  European leaders are demanding that some of the region’s
largest banks increase reserves after financial firms agreed to
accept losses on Greek debt to help rescue the country. Deutsche
Bank was among six German banks told to raise a total of 13.1
billion euros to boost core Tier 1 capital as a ratio of risk-
weighted assets to 9 percent or more by June 30 after writing
down the value of sovereign bonds.  ‘Legal Risks’  The company said  Dec. 8  that it expected to plug the 3.2
billion-euro gap calculated by the European Banking Authority
six months early, without saying how it will meet the goal.  Deutsche Bank is “well capitalized and will be able to
meet the stricter regulatory capital requirements before the
relevant deadline,” Ackermann said, referring to the EBA
targets.  Germany’s largest lender expects savings to exceed 1
billion euros in 2012, strengthening its capital base and
creating “scope for investments in growth fields,” he said.  Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1 ratio at the end of 2011 was
9.5 percent under Basel 2.5 rules, a measure that differs in
some respects from the EBA criteria. Risk-weighted assets rose
by 44 billion euros in the fourth quarter as the bank adopted
the stricter rules and set aside 1 billion euros in capital for
potential losses related to lawsuits, according to the
statement.  “To protect the bank and the bank’s capital, we took the
decision to take this 1 billion additional capital hit, which
was agreed with our regulator,” Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said on a conference call today. “Either these losses
would materialize or we would work through further settlements
and the claims would go away, then obviously this capital charge
would go away again.”  Dividend Unchanged  The company plans a dividend of 75 cents a share for 2011,
unchanged from 2010, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank booked an impairment of 407 million euros
related to Actavis, 97 million euros in expenses related to BHF-
Bank and a 135 million-euro charge from the Cosmopolitan Resort
& Casino in  Las Vegas , which it took over in 2008 when the
developer defaulted on a loan. The lender took an 144 million-
euro impairment on Greek bonds at its private clients and asset
management unit, according to the statement.  Ackermann told reporters that the one-time writedowns in
the fourth quarter were partially a “farewell gift” to the
management team that will lead the bank when he leaves at the
end of May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  