-- Deutsche Bank Cuts Investment Bankers’ Pay as Earnings Slump
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-02-02T08:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/deutsche-bank-cuts-investment-bankers-pay-as-earnings-slump.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  cut pay for
employees at the corporate and investment bank by 15 percent in
2011 after income at the division plunged, following lower
compensation at Wall Street competitors.  Germany ’s biggest bank set aside 5.05 billion euros ($6.7
billion) for compensation and benefits compared with 5.91
billion euros in 2010, according to  company filings  today. That
was enough to pay an average of 332,785 euros to the 15,184
employees at the division, which includes transaction banking,
from 378,659 euros a year earlier,  company filings  show.  The world’s biggest lenders are curbing pay as Wall Street
firms grapple with lower revenue.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse
Group AG and Citigroup Inc. have all reduced senior investment
bankers’ pay for last year as revenue slows.  Deutsche Bank cited lower performance-related pay in
today’s release. The German firm reported a fourth-quarter loss
at the corporate and investment bank, leading to a 33 percent
decline in full-year pretax profit. Net revenue slumped 12
percent for the year amid a decline in fixed-income and equities
trading.  Financial firms worldwide are facing public and political
pressure to limit bankers’ compensation after taxpayers were
forced to bail out the industry during the financial crisis.
Deutsche Bank, which didn’t require direct state aid, is also
cutting costs and announced 500 job cuts at the investment bank
in October as tougher regulation weighs on profitability.  Anshu Jain, the head of the corporate and investment bank,
said on Jan. 26 the firm and its competitors haven’t seen a
“significant” loss in skilled employees as regulators put
restrictions on pay. He takes over as co-chief executive officer
at the end of May.  “We have not seen a significant diminution of talent in
the industry, I would dare say, and certainly not at Deutsche
Bank,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . “We’re committed to
paying competitively for the best talent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  