-- Mecca Show, Camden Cocktails, Lorca’s Mad Widow: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/discover-hidden-mecca-camden-cocktails-lorca-s-mad-widow-london-weekend.html
A dozen women in black chadors crowd
the home of a mourning widow and her unwed daughters.  The widow’s name is Bernarda. She’s the heroine of Federico Garcia Lorca’s “The  House of Bernarda Alba ,” transposed to
rural  Iran  in a new staging. The two cultures are not as
unrelated as you might think: Honor and virginity are paramount
in both. Replace the priests with mullahs and you’re there.  Well, almost. Bernarda is played by Iranian-born Oscar
nominee Shohreh Aghdashloo, whose English is heavily accented.
Her daughters, meanwhile, have posh English elocution -- and
tricky Persian names, like Asieh.  “The House of Bernarda Alba” is staged by British-Iranian
director Bijan Sheibani at the  Almeida Theatre . Information:
 http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404.  Saturday  Unless you’re Muslim, you will never experience the
pilgrimage to Mecca.  The  British Museum  gets you as close as possible in a
sweeping and engaging exhibition.  Choice items include an 8th-century Koran inscribed on
parchment with a reed pen; a milestone on the pilgrims’ road to
Mecca, also from the 8th century; and the broom and cloth that
convert Harry St. John Bridger Philby (father of British double
agent Kim Philby) used to clean the interior of Mecca’s holy
shrine, the Kaaba, a rare privilege.  There are 21st-century displays, too. A vitrine showcases
what today’s pilgrims wear -- plain cotton garb and blue flip-
flops. A notebook chronicles a schoolgirl’s time in Mecca. And
artist Ahmed Mater sums up the experience with a tiny magnetic
cube, representing the Kaaba, surrounded by metal filings (the
pilgrims).  Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org  or
+44-20-7323-8181.  Paramount is a restaurant and bar at the top of Centre
Point, a short walk from the British Museum. It used to be a
private club. Now anyone can enjoy the views from the venue,
which is on the 31st to 33rd floors. Advance booking is
required. Information:  http://www.paramount.uk.net  or
+44-20-7420-2900.  Saturday Night  Roots Manuva is back in London, the city where he grew up.
His tales of urban struggle, which gained extra relevance with
last year’s riots, are set against a tripping backbeat.  The star, who was born  Rodney Smith , will be looking back
at a career that includes hits with Gorillaz, Leftfield and
Coldcut. His style has evolved since his  debut album  in 1999,
“Brand New Second Hand,” and his Roundhouse show will echo
with hip-hop, funk, dubstep, pop and dance music.  The Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road, NW1 8EH. Information:
 http://www.roundhouse.org.uk  or +44-844-482-8008.  Made in Camden, inside the Roundhouse, is a good place to
eat or drink. Chef Josh Katz previously worked for Yotam
Ottolenghi, the restaurateur known for his light, seasonal
cooking. Share small plates -- such as soft-shell-crab tempura,
nori salt, jalapeno dressing -- or try inventive cocktails.
Information:  http://www.madeincamden.com  or +44-20-7424-9992.  Sunday  Get your credit cards out for the  VIP Art Fair .  The world’s first online contemporary-art bazaar (Feb. 3-8)
is an opportunity to buy $200 to $1 million items from the
comfort of your desktop.  Here’s hoping the fair will overcome the connection
problems it had last year, when a live-chat function froze.  Information:  http://www.vipartfair.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 