-- Don’t Fall for Persian Fairy Tales in IAEA’s Iran Talks: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/don-t-fall-for-persian-fairy-tales-in-iaea-s-talks-on-iranian-bomb-view.html
The  International Atomic Energy
Agency  has wrapped up its visit to Iran, with its chief
inspector, Herman Nackaerts, saying “we had a good trip” and
announcing plans for another “in the very near future.”  The Iranians are in agreement. “We’ve always tried to put
transparency as a principle in our cooperation with the IAEA,”
said  Ali Akbar Salehi , the country’s MIT-educated foreign
minister.  We’ve heard this Persian  fairy tale  before. Faced with
increasing international pressure, Iran makes nice with the
agency, trying to beguile its inspectors and 35-member governing
board with explanations and evasions. Judging by Iran’s
continuing failure to live up to its legal obligations under the
 Nonproliferation Treaty , the goal is to play for time until an
Iranian nuclear weapon is a fait accompli and the world lives
uneasily ever after.  Details of the IAEA’s mission will probably not be revealed
until its next quarterly report in a few weeks. In the meantime,
the agency has announced that another meeting will take place in
Tehran on Feb. 21-22.  Iran ’s receptiveness to the team’s visit
suggests a willingness to take seriously the allegations about
its nuclear program’s “possible military dimensions” -- to use
the IAEA’s almost-smoking-gun phrase from its  report  in November
-- rather than dismissing them out of hand as lies and
fabrications as it has in the past.  Sanctions That Bite  That gives us another hopeful sign: that the sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and its allies, including a European embargo
on Iranian oil to take effect this summer, are having an effect.
The isolation of Iranian banks from the international financial
system has sent prices of basic goods higher and cut the value
of the rial against the dollar by more than 50 percent, bringing
home to ordinary Iranians the consequences of their leadership’s
actions. Supreme leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  must weigh
whether Iran’s economy, and his regime’s rule, can withstand
such growing pressure over the one to two years that analysts
estimate Iran still needs to build a nuclear weapon.  If ever there were a place and time to, as  Richard Nixon 
famously said about  Chile , “make the economy  scream ,” it would
be Iran now. Given the dismal alternatives of military action or
a nuclear-armed Iran, sanctions must be stiff enough to lead
Iran’s supreme leader to the right conclusion. We welcome the
urgency that Congress has attached to this issue, with three new
bills in the works that target Iran’s oil industry and finances.  At the same time, sanctions must strengthen rather than
fracture the coalition behind them. To execute the delicate
diplomacy involved, President  Barack Obama ’s administration must
have leeway in enforcing such measures. To our minds, some of
the legislation that’s been proposed doesn’t provide the
necessary maneuvering room. The Senate Banking Committee will
mark up  draft legislation  Thursday that will, among other
things, impose a six-month deadline on investigating and
sanctioning any company listed on U.S. stock exchanges that has
conducted activities sanctionable under U.S. law, or has
affiliates that have done so. This is a tight timeframe and a
very wide net. Although the committee has taken pains to blunt
any charges of extraterritoriality, its far-reaching provisions
on foreign subsidiaries may raise hackles in  Europe  and
elsewhere.  There’s little doubt that the Iranians’ new willingness to
talk to the IAEA is an attempt to sow division between their
most hard-line critics and those countries still hoping Iran
will change its ways; dissension over potentially overreaching
sanctions could produce much the same effect.  Sharing Intelligence  In addition to laying on tighter, smarter sanctions, there
are steps the world can take to help the IAEA. These include
providing the agency with more intelligence evidence that it can
actually show the Iranians -- many intelligence agencies now
share information with the IAEA on the condition that it be kept
from Iran. This wouldn’t necessarily persuade the Iranians to
admit to illicit activities, but it would put a stop to Iran’s
complaints on that score and help to maintain the agency’s
present effectiveness and future credibility. (The debacle of
 Iraq , with its  slam dunks  and still-missing weapons of mass
destruction, has left the IAEA’s professional staff
understandably concerned about being led up the garden path.)  The IAEA should also be encouraged to use its authority for
so-called special inspections, which can be undertaken quickly
when the information provided by a state is inadequate, even
without the signing of an additional protocol. And, moving
forward, the agency’s board of governors needs to make its
voting records public. Let those member countries that have
refused to help in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons
confront greater public scrutiny -- as they will, ultimately,
history’s verdict.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 