-- Dow Chemical Earnings Trail Estimates After Demand Drops
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-02T21:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/dow-chemical-reports-unexpected-loss-after-sales-at-plastics-unit-decline.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, posted fourth-quarter results that trailed
analysts’ estimates after falling demand for materials used in
windmills and autos contributed to lower global sales volumes.  A net loss of 2 cents a share compares with net income of
37 cents a year earlier, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today
in a statement. Profit excluding an allowance for deferred taxes
in  Brazil , asset-impairment costs and other one-time items was
25 cents a share, trailing the 31-cent average of 17  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  is struggling with
higher costs for raw materials including ethane and lower orders
from  Europe  amid the continent’s sovereign debt crisis. Profit
tumbled 33 percent in the performance-materials unit on lower
demand from makers of  wind turbines  and auto parts.  “Performance materials reported the weakest earnings
relative to our expectations,” Don Carson, an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group who rates the shares “positive,”
said today in a note. Higher tax and interest expenses also
contributed to the earnings miss, he said.  Dow fell 1.2 percent to close at $33.54 in  New York . The
shares have gained 17 percent this year.  Prices Rise  Revenue rose 2.4 percent to $14.1 billion from $13.8
billion, as average prices climbed 5 percent and sales volumes
dropped 3 percent. Price gains fully recouped a $476 million
increase in costs for raw materials and energy, Dow said.  Sales volumes fell 4 percent in  North America , partly
because of asset sales, and 5 percent in the region that
includes Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , Dow said. Gains of
3 percent were posted in Asia Pacific and  Latin America . Plant
operating rates dropped on average 9 percentage points to 72
percent from a year earlier. Rates rebounded in December,
Liveris said on a conference call.  “The shortfall was due to macro-environment deterioration
starting mid-quarter as customers looked to de-stock inventory
heading into year-end,” Charles Neivert, a New York-based
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. who rates the shares “hold,”
said in a note.  Dow expects “challenges in Western Europe to persist in
the near term,” Liveris said in the statement. “We do not
anticipate material improvements in market conditions for the
first quarter of the year, but do project economic recovery will
gain momentum as we move through the second quarter and the
remainder of the year.”  Asian Demand  U.S. and Asia demand is rising in the current quarter,
particularly for materials used in electronics and autos,
Liveris said today in a telephone interview.  “Order books are looking good for January,” Liveris said
in the interview. “Asia is coming back.”  Fourth-quarter profit from plastics, Dow’s biggest unit,
tumbled 29 percent as costs rose for ethane and other raw
materials, squeezing margins for resins such as polyethylene.  Plastics margins should expand on lower ethane costs in the
first half, Liveris said on the call.  Ethane (LPGSMBPE)  will be “structurally” lower by 2013 when new
pipelines increase supply to the  Gulf Coast , he said. That
assessment is at odds with pipeline builder Enterprise Products
Partners LP, which has said demand from chemical makers will
keep ethane in short supply for several years.  Dow, which generated $2 billion in cash from operations in
the fourth quarter, is focused on funding announced projects and
paying dividends to shareholders, not on mergers and
acquisitions, Liveris said.  ‘M&A Averse’  “We are very, very M&A averse,” he said in the interview.  Dow and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. said in July they will
proceed with a $20 billion plan to build factories that make
petrochemicals from low-cost oil and gas derivatives at the
Saudi port of Jubail. Dow plans to expand production of plastics
ingredients ethylene and propylene in Texas and  Louisiana ,
including construction of an ethane cracker, its first U.S.
ethylene plant since 1995.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and linear low-
density  polyethylene  plastic. It’s the second-biggest chemical
maker by revenue behind  Germany ’s BASF SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  