-- Dutch Debt Deduction Threat Seen Undermining Stable Investments: Mortgages
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-03T14:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/dutch-debt-deduction-threat-seen-undermining-stable-investments-mortgages.html
For the Dutch, holders of the most
mortgage debt as a percentage of gross domestic product, tax
breaks on house payments are more than a government policy.
They’re a tradition under threat.  With  debt levels  at twice the European average, banks and
politicians are applying pressure to change or abolish home-loan
deductions, which have existed in the Netherlands since at least
1893. That’s making buyers hesitate, freezing sales in a
 property market  that’s declined for three years, said Boele
Staal, chairman of the  Dutch Banking Association .  Eliminating or phasing out the deduction will make it
harder for homeowners to keep up their payments and may hurt the
EUR289 billion ($380 billion) Dutch residential mortgage-backed
securities market,  Europe ’s second-largest and most
creditworthy, according to  Standard & Poor’s . The proposals come
as investor demand for Dutch RMBS is climbing, narrowing spreads
against benchmarks to the lowest in Europe.  “In the short term, measures to curb mortgage debt might
be credit negative because obviously anything you do which
hampers people’s ability to refinance or which reduces credit
availability might give them less financial flexibility,” said
Andrew South S&P’s London-based head of European structured
finance research. “Removing the deductibility of interest
payments could obviously make affordability more challenging
relative to  disposable income .”  Storm Prices  So far, investors don’t agree. The extra yield demanded to
hold top-rated Dutch mortgage securities over benchmarks has
narrowed 10 basis points this year to 155 basis points, or 1.55
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The spread
has contracted from 425 basis points at the start of 2009. That
compares to spreads of 610 basis points for Spanish home-loan
bonds and 585 for debt tied to Italian borrowers.  Rabobank Groep’s Obvion NV unit priced the first Dutch RMBS
deal this year on Jan. 26, a 1.2 billion euros transaction
called Storm 2012-I, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The deal was increased in size with a top-ranked 245 million
euros portion paying 110 basis points more than a lending
benchmark.  Changing the deduction and recent restrictions on interest-
only mortgages “could lead to lower prepayment rates as
borrowers are unable to refinance due to the additional monthly
cost of a part repayment mortgage,” said Dipesh Mehta, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  Spiraling Debt  As Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roils the region, the
prospect of rising unemployment and declining spending power is
spurring Dutch policy makers to rein in spiraling debt.  Homebuyers can claim  tax deductions  on mortgage interest
for 30 years, making it more affordable for them to stretch out
repayment. That’s also driven  mortgage debt  in the Netherlands
to 107.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, according to
the European Mortgage Federation, compared with more than 76
percent in the U.S.  “The pile of mortgage debt has gotten big, perhaps too
big,” said Piet Moerland, Chairman of Rabobank, the
Netherland’s biggest provider of home loans. “We need to adjust
the course of this tanker and start paying off debt. We think
it’s our responsibility to society to alert people.”  President  Barack Obama  said last year as part of his 2012
budget proposal he favors scaling back mortgage interest
deduction in the U.S., while some in Congress want to eliminate
a benefit that dates to the creation of the  tax code  in 1913.  Pressing Rutte  The Netherland’s two biggest mortgage lenders, the national
bank, the opposition Labor Party and Christian Union parties and
the biggest real-estate brokers group are pressing Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte ’s government to cut or revise the mortgage
deductions as part of a broader housing plan.  “No one believes the mortgage-interest deduction will
remain untouched and that’s keeping demand down,” Staal said.
“Uncertainty about the future and an expectation of further
price declines has caused a standstill on the housing market.”  The Dutch Central Bank today said it started a study into
the effect of a house price drop and rising delinquencies on
Dutch banks’ solvency. The regulator said it may demand that
lenders strengthen their capital if it becomes necessary,
according to a document outlining its priorities for 2012.  Record-low  interest rates  from 2003 to 2005, tax breaks and
competition between lenders helped fuel a Dutch mortgage boom.
Banks typically offered home buyers loans for more than 4.5
times their annual salary and as much as 110 percent of the
value of the property, allowing borrowing for renovations.  As many as 15 percent of Dutch homeowners now owe more than
the market value of their properties, said Central Bank
President Klaas Knot.  Unemployment Rising  “It will become a problem when you see  unemployment  rising
and consumers may get into trouble paying interest,” Knot said
in an interview on Dutch television on Jan. 5. “The second
problem is that the big mortgage debt distorts our  banks’
balance sheets .”  Unemployment in the Netherlands was 4.5 percent in 2011, up
from 3.7 percent in 2009 and is expected to rise to 5.25 percent
in 2012, the country’s Planning Agency said in December.  Dutch banks rely on external funding as there is a 480
billion-euro gap between savings deposits with banks and loans
to households and companies, according to the central bank. The
cost of raising funds has increased amid Europe’s debt crisis.
Investors demand a spread of 201 basis points to hold Dutch bank
debt, from 116 a year ago, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Pension Funds  Most Dutch savings go to the country’s pension funds as
employers and workers contribute to mandatory  retirement plans .
The funds had 835 billion euros in assets at the end of the
third quarter, according to central bank data. That strengthens
the capital of households even though the savings can’t be
accessed before retirement.  “An end to mortgage interest deductions is becoming a
reality suddenly, whereas some time ago no one wanted to talk
about it,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets. “Banks will have to lobby clearly to
defend their interests.”  Central Bank President Knot has suggested changing the tax
deduction so it gradually declines over the life of the
mortgage.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the country’s second-biggest mortgage
lender, has proposed phasing out mortgage deductions gradually,
accompanied by lower income taxes and an end to transaction
taxes on home sales.  Dutch  house prices  have been falling since the third
quarter of 2008 after more than doubling in the decade before
that. Values, which had risen since 1985, dropped 4.1 percent in
2011 and may fall by another 5 percent this year, according to
the Nederlandse Vereniging van Makelaars, a group representing
Dutch property brokers. That would be a 15 percent decline from
the 2008 peak.  Falling Market  About 227,000 homes were up for sale in the fourth quarter,
a 76 percent increase from the third quarter of 2008, the NVM
 said . About 118,000 homes were sold in all of 2011, it said.
Approximately 202,000 homes were sold in 2007, data from the
National Statistics Bureau showed.  “We had the wind in our back for 30 years, with rising
prices, decreasing interest rates and higher income,” NVM
Chairman Ger Hukker said in an interview. “Now we are in the
middle of a reset to a new reality that entails lower debts,
more repayments and lower disposable income.”  Buyers are steering clear of the housing market because
they don’t know what the various proposals to change the tax
system will mean for prices and their own loans, Hukker said.  Applications Decline  Mortgage applications fell 19 percent in 2011 to 163,500,
according to lender data compiled by Hypotheken Data Netwerk.
While foreclosure sales rose 35 percent in 2011, they still
represent less than 0.1 percent of existing housing stock.  The government has already taken steps to limit risk while
stimulating the housing market. Last year, mortgage lenders
agreed to limit home loans to 106 percent of the house price,
and the interest-only portion of mortgages was limited to 50
percent of the home value. The rules, which came into force as
of Aug. 1, apply to new mortgages and existing mortgages that
are increased.  In a bid to prevent the market from freezing further, it
temporarily reduced the transaction tax on homes to 2 percent
from 6 percent and increased the limit for loans covered under
the National Mortgage Guarantee to 350,000 euros from 265,000
euros. The guarantee compensated homeowners for 55 million euros
of losses due to forced sales in 2011, up from 39 million euros
in 2010.  The increasing calls to change the mortgage deduction come
after a decade of warnings from organizations and regulators
ranging from the Dutch Central Bank to the  International
Monetary Fund  to make debt levels more sustainable.  Government Resists  Prime Minister Rutte’s ruling bloc of Liberals and
 Christian Democrats  relies on an agreement with the anti-Islamic
 Freedom Party  for its majority in parliament.  Geert Wilders , the
Freedom Party’s leader, has threatened to pull his support if
Rutte tries to change tax rebates.  Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told parliament on Jan.
17 that the government plans to stick to its coalition
agreements. However, he also agreed to requests from lawmakers
to present a strategy for the housing market.  “The government offers a false sense of security by
promising not to meddle with the mortgage interest tax
deduction,” Staal of the banking association said. “People buy
a house over 20 years, not just a government term.”  Change Carries Risk  While an overhaul of the Dutch housing market is necessary,
tightening mortgage lending rules now carries a risk, according
to Peter Boelhouwer, professor of housing systems at the Dutch
University of Delft.  “All calls to limit households’ borrowing capacity may
have far-reaching consequences for the development of demand and
possibilities for new buyers to enter the market,” he said.
“Tightening mortgage lending rules in a time of crisis will
have big implications.”  Changes to the tax “could erode affordability and the
ability to pay as it results in an increase in debt service
payments in the near term,” according to a Jan 24 report from
 Fitch Ratings . It would also lower mortgage debt to gross
domestic product and discourage taking out riskier loans, the
report said.  While changes to deductions may have short-term
consequences for the residential mortgage backed  securities
market , an economic downturn is unlikely to be an issue for the
debt, S&P’s South said.  AAA Rating  “Given how well the collateral has performed over the last
few years and the bigger downturn in 2008 to 2009 I wouldn’t
anticipate the expected economic slump to be an issue for Dutch
RMBS,” South said. “We just affirmed the Netherlands’
sovereign rating, so country risk is currently not a significant
driver of Dutch RMBS ratings.” The country is one of only 12 in
the world with AAA ratings at S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch.  There are “some specifics about Dutch mortgages” that
also make the high loan to value ratios less risky than they
appear, South said. It’s “somewhat artificial because there is
normally something offsetting that. The borrower has a savings
plan or insurance for instance.”  In the longer run, a shortage of houses and a growing
population will help underpin house prices in one of Europe’s
most densely populated countries, Boelhouwer said.  “At some point that will make the market turn,”
Boelhouwer said. “It puts a bottom in prices and will spur a
faster recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  