-- ECB’s Game of Chicken on Crisis Has Risks, Fitch’s Riley Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-02-02T19:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/ecb-s-game-of-chicken-on-crisis-has-risks-fitch-s-riley-says.html
Policy makers’ efforts to end
 Europe ’s debt crisis face government backsliding and stretched
budgets, said  David Riley , head of European sovereign debt at
 Fitch Ratings . The region’s fiscal turmoil will last at least
another year, he predicted.  Riley, who’s based in  London , commented on the crisis at a
presentation in Toronto.  On the euro and crisis measures:  “We don’t believe the break-up of the euro is nigh, but we
do believe European economic and monetary union as currently
constructed needs reform.”  “It will be at least 12 to 18 months before we have
stabilization for the  euro zone . This is going to be a long,
hard slog punctuated by extreme market volatility. The  European
Central Bank ’s reluctance to be more interventionist in
sovereign bond markets is in part to keep pressure on
governments not to backslide on their fiscal austerity and
reform programs.”  “There are, though, risks with this sort of game of
chicken being played with the market and governments. But the
ECB bank-refinancing operations have been aggressive and clearly
positive in easing sovereign as well as bank funding
pressures.”  “A potential expansion of the so-called firewall by
bringing forward the European Stability Mechanism and possibly
adding to the remaining uncommitted guarantee commitments of the
European Financial Stability Facility would be positive. But
there are constraints on how far the balance sheets of AAA
sovereigns can be stretched.”  On  Portugal :  “‘Risks haven’t risen dramatically in the near term in the
way suggested by the way bond yields have. They have an
International Monetary Fund program in place, and they are
meeting its conditions. But medium-term risks are significant,
which is why we downgraded Portugal to sub-investment grade last
November and it remains on negative outlook.”  “They are opening up the economy to privatization and
trying to make it easier for foreign capital to enter the
country. One way to characterize that strategy is to think of it
as a debt-for-equity for the economy to reduce private-sector
and foreign indebtedness. It’s one way of thinking about how the
government is trying to reform the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  