-- Egypt Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 9.25% After Requesting IMF Loan
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-02-02T16:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/egypt-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-9-25-after-requesting-imf-loan.html
Egypt ’s central bank left its key
 interest rate  unchanged after the government requested a $3.2
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  and
parliamentary elections eased concerns over political stability.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight deposit
rate at 9.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at 10.25
percent, the central bank said today on its website. Three of
five economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg anticipated the move,
while two forecast an increase.  “Interbank rates and government borrowing costs continue
to rise, but the decline in the currency looks gradual and
measured, and pressures may ease somewhat following the
completion of the elections and in the event that external
financing starts to materialize,” Liz Martins, Dubai-based
senior economist at HSBC  Middle East , said in response to e-
mailed questions before the announcement.  The bank raised rates in November for the first time since
2008, citing inflationary pressures. The annual inflation rate
in urban parts of Egypt, the gauge that the central bank
monitors, rose to 9.5 percent in December from 9.1 percent.  Some economists said the rate increase was intended to stem
flight from the Egyptian pound, which retreated 3.8 percent in
2011, even as the central bank used up half of its  foreign
currency reserves . The bank says it guards the stability of
 currency markets  without targeting a level for the pound.  ‘Within Weeks’  Egypt has formally requested a $3.2 billion loan from the
IMF with an agreement expected “within weeks,” the minister
for planning and international cooperation, Faiza Aboulnaga,
said on Jan. 16. The central bank’s reserves dropped to $18.1
billion in December. Government borrowing costs for one-year
debt denominated in pounds have climbed close to 16 percent.  Egypt’s economy is expanding at the slowest pace for at
least a decade, as political instability persists after the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  a year ago. Growth dropped to 0.2
percent in the three months through September. Tourist arrivals
fell 33 percent last year.  The newly elected parliament, dominated by Islamist
parties, convened for the first time on Jan. 23 after seven
weeks of largely peaceful voting. Egypt’s benchmark stock index,
the worst performer in emerging markets last year, jumped 28
percent in January, the most for seven years.  -- With assistance from Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  and Ahmed A
Namatalla in Cairo. Editors: Ben Holland, Digby Lidstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  