-- HeidelbergCement Extends $4 Billion Credit Facility
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-02-02T09:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/heidelbergcement-extends-4-billion-credit-facility-correct-.html
(Corrects loan margin in second paragraph of story
published Feb. 1.)  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest cement maker, said it extended the maturity of its
3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) revolving credit facility by two
years in exchange for a higher interest margin and one-time
fees.  The loan, which is now due in December 2015, will pay an
extra 25 basis points of interest, making the margin 200 basis
points more than the euro interbank offered rate, according to a
statement from the Heidelberg-based company. All 17 existing
lenders approved the extension, and were joined by two further
banks, said the company. Royal Bank of Scotland Plc acts as
agent for the loan that was signed in April 2010, according to
Bloomberg data.  HeidelbergCement also agreed to pay 15 basis points to draw
on the facility, a 50 basis-point premium for borrowing in U.S.
dollars, as well as a one-time 45 basis point fee to lenders,
according to the statement. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The company lost its investment-grade rating in October
2008 because of a slowdown in the construction market. It has
since been upgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  three times in the past
three years and currently has a BB ranking, two steps below
investment grade, as well as a Ba1 grade from Moody’s Investors
Service.  “We were able to limit the margin increase to only 25
basis points in an overall difficult financing market
environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Bernd Scheifele  said in
the statement. This “underlines the trust of the institutions
in our company. With the extension of the credit facility, we
secure sufficient liquidity back-up for our company until the
end of 2015.”  Investment-grade companies typically maintain credit lines
to fund day-to-day operations or to back sales of other types of
debt such as short-term commercial paper. They don’t usually
draw on the loans. Money in a revolving credit can be borrowed
again once it’s repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  