-- Eksportfinans Stigma Fades as Kommunalbanken Boosts Bonds
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-02T10:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/eksportfinans-stigma-fades-as-kommunalbanken-boosts-bonds.html
The flight from Norwegian credits
triggered in November by the forced wind-down of Eksportfinans
ASA is showing signs of reversing.  Kommunalbanken AS, a municipal Norwegian lender, raised a
benchmark U.S. debt sale by 25 percent this week to meet demand.
The state-backed bank, also known as KBN, sold $1.25 billion in
three-year AAA rated notes yesterday, $250 million more than
planned, Chief Executive Officer Petter Skouen said. The 1
percent note sold at 75.1 basis points more than benchmark
government yields.  “We got in some very interesting investors, a lot of the
investors were actually public institutions, central banks and
so forth,” Skouen said in an interview. “It seems we have been
sort of decoupled from the Eksportfinans situation. Investors
see the difference between KBN and Eksportfinans.”  Norway ’s government stunned markets in November with its
plan to wind down the partly state-owned Eksportfinans,
prompting Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 22 to downgrade the
debt to junk while Standard & Poor’s cut its rating five levels
to BBB+. The downgrades sent tremors through bond markets as far
as  Asia  as investors balked at the changed status of their
bonds. Japan, Kommunalbanken’s main market, was slammed shut on
Norwegian issuers after investors were saddled with losses.  Samurai Opening  The yield on a 2.875 percent $1 billion Kommunalbanken bond
due in October 2014 rose about half a percentage point to 1.63
percent in December after the Moody’s downgrade of
Eksportfinans. It has since eased to about 1.11 percent.  Norway’s biggest bank,  DNB ASA (DNB) , which owns 40 percent of
Eksportfinans, last month became the first European lender to
sell Samurai bonds in three months. DNB sold 65 billion yen
($854 million) of 1.91 percent five-year bonds on Jan. 27. The
offering priced at 140 basis points more than the yen swap rate.
That compares with a 60 basis point spread paid in July by
Banque Federative du Credit Mutuel, a French lender with the
same  credit rating .  The downgrade to junk of Eksportfinans derailed DNB’s
original plan to sell the notes Dec. 8. Samurai bonds reported
their first annual loss in three years as the woes added to
concerns the European debt crisis may drag the global economy
into a recession, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Shunning Norway  “Some of the Japanese investors don’t appreciate the
Eksportfinans situation because Eksportfinans sold a lot of
bonds in the Asian and Japanese market,” said Skouen, who was
in  Tokyo  last week. “Some investors said they didn’t want to
have anything to do with Norway, but they were in a fairly big
minority.”  KBN got 46 percent of its funding from  Japan  in the first
half of last year, through the Uridashi market. Uridashi are
bonds issued outside of Japan and sold to individual investors
in the country, while Samurai bonds are sold in Japan by foreign
governments and companies.  Skouen said the Japan Securities Dealers Association has
sent a letter to the Norwegian government and Eksportfinans to
ask them to take measures to raise the rating of Eksportfinans
to “at least an investment level so that the damage in Japan
would be less.”  Elise Lindbaek, a spokeswoman for Eksportfinans, confirmed
receipt of the letter while declining to comment on its content.  ‘Keep Talking’  “We wanted to say Japanese investors are concerned because
two rating companies downgraded Eksportfinans,” Atsushi
Sakiyama, spokesman for JSDA, said by phone today. “Also, there
can be an impact on Kommunalbanken. We asked them to keep
talking to rating companies. If big share holders including the
government make it clear that they support Eksportfinans
properly or complement its credit, Eksportfinans can be upgraded
to an investment level.” The group declined to show Bloomberg
News the letter.  The government said it decided to dismantle Eksportfinans,
created in 1962 to aid exporters, after rejecting the lender’s
pleas to sidestep European capital rules limiting loans to
single industries. Under the new regulations, the company would
have had to increase capital levels fivefold, according to
 Standard & Poor’s , which is currently reviewing whether
Eksportfinans is in default on its euro medium-term notes.  Following Closely  Norwegian Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said he didn’t
want to comment on the content of the letter or the government’s
assessment. The government is considered whether to publish the
letter, he said.  “We’re following the situation very closely as we have done
since we have started the work on establishing this scheme for
the exporting industry,” he said. “The day-to-day management
of Eksportfinans is the responsibility of the present owners and
the administration in Eksportfinans and I think they have a good
handle on this.”  Norway has defended its move as necessary to safeguard the
export industry and said the lender still has the backing to
honor its obligations. Industry Minister Trond Giske said on
Dec. 6 that the company is “strong, solid and an important tool
for the Norwegian government in ensuring the export industry’s
good financing.” Asked whether there may be a default, Giske
said “that is not up to me to decide. I don’t think the
downgrade is justified.”  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the Norwegian
government. DNB holds 40 percent, while 23.21 percent is held by
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  Kommunalbanken issued about $23 billion in debt last year,
up from $21 billion in 2010, Skouen said.  “If we were able to fund ourselves with somewhat longer
maturities I would expect that we would be somewhat below $20
billion this year because we also are forecasting a somewhat
lower loan demand or lending for 2012,” he said. “I think we
will end up between $18 billion to $20 billion this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  