-- Electrolux Profit Misses Estimates on Appliances
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-02T07:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/electrolux-profit-misses-estimates-as-appliance-demand-struggles.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, reported fourth-quarter earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates as demand remains sluggish and the
company booked costs for restructuring.  Net income fell to 220 million kronor ($32 million) from
677 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based Electrolux
said in a statement today. Thirteen analysts on average
estimated profit of 581 million kronor in a  Bloomberg survey .
Sales rose 3 percent to 28.4 billion kronor. Electrolux booked
825 million kronor in charges in the quarter.  “While we expect the trend going forward to shift in a
more positive direction in the form of gradual improvements in
prices, mix and lower costs, we do not anticipate that demand in
mature markets will recover in the first half,” Chief Executive
Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a separate release. “There
could be a certain degree of improvement in the U.S. market by
the end of 2012, supported by a modest growth in the housing
market.”  The maker of Frigidaire refrigerators and AEG vacuum
cleaners has suffered from the decline in  consumer confidence  in
mature markets and high raw-material costs. Electrolux, which
has about 35 plants, will close several of them, mainly in  North
America  and  Europe , McLoughlin, an American who took over a year
ago, said in November.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s biggest appliance maker,
yesterday projected full-year earnings that exceeded analysts’
estimates. Cost reductions and price increases “positively
impacted” the results last quarter, the Benton Harbor,
Michigan-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  