-- Televisa May Seek Review After $1.6 Billion Iusacell Phone Deal Blocked
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-02T21:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/televisa-may-seek-review-after-1-6-billion-iusacell-phone-deal-blocked.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, fell for the 10th time in
11 days after Mexico’s antitrust agency rejected its $1.6
billion plan to enter the nation’s mobile-phone market.  Televisa dropped 3.9 percent to 50.86 pesos at the close in
Mexico City for the biggest daily slide since Sept. 5. The stock
has declined 6.1 percent since Jan. 25, the day El Universal
newspaper reported the antitrust decision, citing unnamed
sources. That compares to a 1.3 percent gain for Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index.  The decision by the antitrust agency, known as Cofeco,
prevents Televisa from converting the  debt  it holds from mobile-
phone carrier  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*)  into shares representing a 50
percent stake. Televisa hasn’t disclosed whether its agreement
with Iusacell includes a way it could get its money back if the
deal is rejected.  “This is negative news for Televisa, in our view, assuming
that Cofeco’s decision is upheld following the appeal process,”
said Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Santander SA, today
in a research note. “Televisa’s collection rights to the
already disbursed loan are not clear.”  The 3-2 vote by Cofeco to block the merger will hurt
efforts to bring down prices in the mobile-phone business,
Televisa said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The first step
to overturn the decision may be to ask Cofeco to review its
ruling,  Mexico  City-based Televisa said.  “This decision taken by Cofeco damages the potential for
competition in a key sector for Mexico’s development,” Televisa
said in the statement. “The lack of competition has deeply
affected the degree of adoption of these services and the
development of Mexico’s telecommunications infrastructure.”  Ruling Review  A government-commissioned study published by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development concluded
Mexico’s phone industry overcharged consumers $13.4 billion a
year between 2005 and 2009. The study called for greater
competition in mobile-phone and high-speed Internet services.  Under Mexican law, companies have 30 business days to ask
the antitrust agency to review a ruling. The agency then has 60
business days to answer the request. An antitrust official who
can’t be named under the agency’s policy declined to comment.  Closely held Iusacell’s debt owned by Televisa has an
interest rate of 2 percent, Televisa said yesterday. The mobile-
phone carrier, which is third in the market behind America Movil
SAB and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , sought a restructuring plan with
creditors in 2010 for the second time in four years.  Two antitrust commissioners who voted to allow the deal
affirmed that with a stake in Iusacell, Televisa could improve
competition in the mobile-phone market, Televisa said, citing
the ruling, which Cofeco hasn’t yet made public.  Alliance of Rivals  The commissioners also said the antitrust agency could
prevent any negative effects from the transaction by imposing
specific conditions, Televisa said.  The decision was based on “suspicions and hypothetical
assumptions,” Mexico City-based Iusacell said in a separate
statement, without providing details.  Iusacell is owned by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , who also
controls TV Azteca SAB, Televisa’s chief competitor in Mexico’s
broadcast television business.  An alliance would bring the nation’s two biggest over-the-
air TV networks closer together and could harm competition, said
critics including the Mexican Association for the Right to
Information. Televisa and Salinas’s group had said they would
continue to compete aggressively in broadcast TV.  Overturning the Decision  Televisa will eventually succeed in overturning the
decision, Tomas Lajous, an analyst at UBS AG in Mexico City,
said today in a research note. Cofeco commissioners might
reconsider their decision if Televisa and Azteca agree to
conditions to ensure they don’t collaborate, such as offering
their video programming to other wireless carriers, he said.  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  asked the antitrust
agency last year to look into whether Televisa and Iusacell had
already cemented the deal without waiting for antitrust
approval, which would be punishable by a fine of as much as 8
percent of each company’s Mexican sales. The complaints cited
Televisa’s appointment of at least one board member for Iusacell
and the investment.  Televisa already has the right to name one of Iusacell’s
four board members and can add a second when it converts the
wireless carrier’s debt into shares, the company confirmed last
month. The acquisition of debt isn’t a transaction that requires
the antitrust agency’s review, Televisa said.  Investigation Open  The antitrust agency still has an open investigation,
started in December, into agreements between companies in the
mobile-phone and broadcasting businesses. While the agency
hasn’t said which companies it’s probing, Televisa and Iusacell
believe they are being targeted, Francisco Borrego, a lawyer for
Iusacell, said last month.  Antitrust representatives delivered documents related to
the decision yesterday to Iusacell after a physical
confrontation. Guards punched and shoved antitrust lawyers
trying to enter Iusacell’s building in Mexico City, according to
a government official who asked not to be named because of the
antitrust agency’s policy.  Iusacell plans to file a complaint with Mexico’s attorney
general because of the incident because unidentified people
accompanying the antitrust officials were “aggressive,” the
company said in an e-mail yesterday. The company is reviewing
security footage of the incident, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  