-- TeliaSonera Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-02T09:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/teliasonera-profit-misses-estimates-as-fixed-line-sales-fall.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  reported profit that
missed estimates for a fourth consecutive quarter as Nordic-
region customers continued to shut off their fixed phone lines.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 4.97 billion kronor ($738
million) from 5.31 billion kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-
based TeliaSonera said in a statement today. Revenue rose 1
percent to 27.1 billion kronor, in line with estimates, and
TeliaSonera proposed a  dividend  of 2.85 kronor per share.  TeliaSonera is counting on higher-priced Nordic mobile
broadband services and growth of Eurasia subscribers to make up
for the decline in traditional telephone use. Investment in
faster 4G networks, which current smartphones aren’t equipped
for, and poor exchange rates for revenue in Russian rubles and
Turkish lira trimmed profits. The company forecast that sales in
local currencies, excluding acquisitions, will grow 1 percent to
2 percent this year, with an unchanged margin based on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “The outlook is somewhat disappointing,” said Andrew Hogley, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo. “The proposed
dividend of 2.85 kronor is below our forecast of 3 kronor and
there’s no mention of any further share buybacks which we’re
also viewing as disappointing.”  Share Performance  TeliaSonera fell  as much as 1.8 percent in Stockholm
trading and was down 1.2 percent at 45.60 kronor as of 9:38 a.m.  Analysts had  expected  profit of 5.2 billion kronor on sales
of 27 billion kronor, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. TeliaSonera reported full-year sales growth of 2.6
percent in local currencies, compared with a forecast of
“around 3 percent.” Revenue declined 2.5 percent when
converted to kronor.  “In  Sweden  our 4G services now cover 200 locations and
will expand by one city or village every day during 2012,”
Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said in the statement. “We
will continue to look for new opportunities within or
neighboring our existing footprint.”  Capital investments including licenses and fees increased
to 16.5 percent of sales for the year, up from 14 percent in
2010.  The company is increasing effective ownership in its
Kazakhstan unit to 61.9 percent, it said in a separate
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  