-- Temperatures Drop Below -36C in Eastern Europe as Death Toll Exceeds 100
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-02T16:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/temperatures-drop-below-36c-in-eastern-europe-as-death-tolls-exceeds-100.html
A cold snap sweeping through eastern
 Europe  has killed more than 100 people, stranded tens of
thousands in their homes and in transit and hampered road, rail
and sea traffic.  The death toll rose to 63 over the past six days in
 Ukraine , according to the Emergency Ministry’s  website , which
said 945 people were hospitalized with frostbite. The extreme
weather has claimed 35 lives in  Poland  since Jan. 24, according
to the police, while 22 citizens died in  Romania , many of them
homeless who refused to go into shelters, Realitatea TV said.  Temperatures fell to as low as minus 36 Celsius (minus 32.8
Fahrenheit) in parts of Ukraine, where the snow stranded more
than 40,000 people in eight villages in the Black Sea region of
Odessa. In  Hungary , 11 counties issued a first-degree alert
because of the cold and the weather service said temperatures
would plunge further next week, MTI news service reported.  “Temperatures have plunged since Jan. 25 and the extreme
cold will last until Feb. 4,” Mykola Kulbida, the director of
the Ukrainian Hydrometeorological Center, said in a phone
interview today. The coldest weather was recorded in the Crimean
region’s mountains, he said, adding that temperatures will rise
as much as 12 Celsius in a few days.  Electricity Consumption  Twenty-eight people have frozen to death since Nov. 1 in
Moscow and 128 people were hospitalized with hypothermia and
frostbite, Interfax agency reported yesterday citing unnamed
health care official. Most of those who died were homeless.
Temperatures in Moscow will be as low as -24 , according to
 Russia ’s meteo agency. The agency warned that temperatures may
drop in Magadan region to as low as minus 50.  Russian electricity consumption surged to an all-time
record yesterday amid a severe cold spell across much of the
country’s territory, OAO System Operator said today on its
website. Power use reached 156,964 megawatts as of 10 a.m.
yesterday in Moscow with outside temperature at minus 25
Celsius, the Russian power-network administrator said.  Serbia, Czech Republic  Six people died in  Serbia  and one person is missing because
of the extreme weather, police said. One of the dead was a 50
year-old woman whose body was uncovered by a snowplough clearing
the road near her home in Kursumlija, 292 kilometers (181 miles)
south of Belgrade. Six people have died because of the cold in
the  Czech Republic , the Lidove Noviny newspaper reported on its
 website , citing police. Temperatures plunged to minus 31 Celsius
in the mountains, according to the state meteorological service.  Heating pipes burst in the center of the Lithuanian capital
Vilnius, near parliament, threatening the heating of 146
buildings as day temperatures fell to minus 26 Celsius, Vilniaus
Energija, the heating company, said in a press release today.
Lithuanian gas utility  Lietuvos Dujos AB (LDJ1L)  increased Russian gas
imports to supply heating facilities, the company said in an e-
mail. Lietuvos Dujos added a temporary gas imports line via
Latvia to boost supplies through Belarus.  In  Georgia , more than 60,000 households were left without
power as heavy winds blew the roofs off of some buildings in the
capital Tbilisi, Avto Dvalishvili a spokesman for AO Energo-Pro
Georgia, said by phone.  Heavy Snowfall  The cold snap also blocked transportation across the
region. In Georgia, dozens of trucks were stranded for a 10th
day, the Rustavi 2 television station reported. Some rail tracks
were frozen and some train engines didn’t start in the Czech
Republic, delaying traffic.  Heavy snowfall closed four national roads in Romania, the
transport ministry said today. The A2 highway has been reopened
after a temporary closing earlier today. The two main highways
connecting Zagreb and the Croatian ports of Rijeka and Split
were partially closed and most ferry lines to islands were
suspended, HINA national news service reported.  Ship traffic resumed at  Luka Koper (LKPG)  d.d., Slovenia’s only,
port, as winds subsided, the spokesman for the port operator,
Sebastjan Sik, said in a phone interview. Ship traffic was
suspended yesterday, he said.  Winds in the southwestern part of Slovenia, nestled between
the Adriatic and the Alps, reached speeds of 140 kilometers per
hour (87 mph), forcing the closing of schools and nurseries in
the towns of Nova Gorica, Ajdovscina and Vipava, the environment
ministry said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  