-- Wen Says China Considers Contributing to European Stability Fund
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T12:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/merkel-reiterates-call-for-binding-budget-deficit-caps-in-europe.html
China  supports European efforts to
stabilize the euro and is looking into how it can help resolve
the region’s debt crisis, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a
briefing with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Wen said solving the European debt crisis is “urgent,”
and called for greater international cooperation. “China is
also considering more participation” in those efforts via the
European Financial Stability Facility and the European
Stabilization Mechanism, he said.  Merkel’s three-day visit comes as European leaders are
trying to raise money to address the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. China, owner of the world’s largest foreign currency
 reserves , has said that while it’s willing to help, it wants
more details on  Europe ’s plans, which could include setting up
funding through the  International Monetary Fund .  China is “investigating and evaluating ways, through the
IMF, to be more deeply involved using the ESM and EFSF channels
in solving the European debt issue,” Wen said.  In comments earlier today, Merkel said Europe risks
undermining investor confidence if it keeps rolling over debt
and should impose budget-deficit caps across the Euro area.  The common currency system requires countries to show
budget discipline and the region currently has no way to enforce
such restraint, Merkel said, reiterating her previous calls for
such limits.  Roll Over Debt  “The more debt that we took on in the past, the more
interest we will have to pay in the future and the less
confidence investors will have in us,” she said. “We cannot
simply roll over today’s debts.”  She said the  European Central Bank  can’t “just put in as
much money as possible because in the future someone has to pay
that.” The Greek government needs to reach a deal to reduce its
debt and secure a second European Union-led bailout by March 20,
when it faces a 14.5 billion-euro ($19.1 billion) bond payment.  Merkel had been expected to discuss the yuan  exchange rate 
and global imbalances when she met with Chinese leaders, a
German government official said in Berlin on Jan. 31, speaking
on customary condition of anonymity. She is scheduled to meet
President  Hu Jintao  tomorrow.  “How the yuan is going to be developed, how the yuan can
be freely convertible -- in these areas we can work together,”
she said today.  Chinese Imports  China’s  imports  from  Germany  rose 24.9 percent last year to
$92.7 billion, according to Chinese customs statistics. German
companies including Volkswagen AG and Siemens AG are among the
biggest foreign companies doing business in China.  German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter said a more
flexible exchange rate policy in China would make a “positive
contribution” to the health of the global economy.  “It’s quite clear that many in the western world see a
more flexible currency policy in China as a positive
contribution to global developments,” Kampeter said Jan. 31 in
 New York  in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  The yuan rose 1.5 percent against the euro last week,
following a 1.3 percent increase the week earlier. The yuan
traded at 8.2819 yuan to one euro today.  Merkel is scheduled to travel to southern China’s  Guangdong
Province  tomorrow, where she is set to meet with Wang Yang, the
top official in the country’s richest and most populous
province.  Merkel said there was no other way to handle the dispute
over  Iran’s nuclear program  except by imposing sanctions, and
urged China to “make better use of its influence” to make sure
Iran does not acquire nuclear weapons. In today’s briefing, Wen
said sanctions would not solve the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  