-- EU Biofuels Targets to Cost $166 Billion, Study Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-02T10:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/eu-biofuels-targets-to-cost-consumers-166-billion-study-says.html
European Union policies to promote
the use of biofuels for transportation will cost consumers as
much as 126 billion euros ($166 billion) between now and 2020,
two environmental groups said.  The fuels, gasoline substitutes derived from plants,
probably won’t cut  greenhouse gases  because forests are chopped
down to make way for biofuel plantations, Friends of the Earth
and ActionAid said today in an e-mailed statement. The European
Commission said that while biofuels cost more than fossil fuels,
it’s “reasonable” for motorists to pay extra.  The EU aims to get 10 percent of its transport energy from
biofuels, hydrogen and renewable power by 2020. The target aims
to help cut the bloc’s emissions 20 percent from 1990 levels.
The lobby groups said those goals will add a cumulative 94
billion euros to 126 billion euros just to fuel costs by 2020.  “Consumers and taxpayers are paying a premium for this
policy, which achieves very little and we think causes a lot of
damage to the environment as well as hunger and poverty,”
Robbie Blake, biofuels campaigner for Friends of the Earth
Europe, said in a phone interview. “What we really need to be
focused on is reducing transport energy use by improving  energy
efficiency  in cars and through better public transport.”  EU Response  EU energy spokeswoman  Marlene Holzner  said today in an e-
mail that the biofuels target may increase cereal prices by as
much as 6 percent and rapeseed costs by as much as 10 percent.  The commission is monitoring the effects on food prices.
She said efficiency improvements alone won’t achieve the carbon
cuts needed, and that pursuing renewables is necessary.  “Most renewable energy is at present more expensive than
fossil energy,” Holzner said. “It is important to recognize
the financing for renewable energy as growth-enhancing
expenditure that will provide greater return in the future. It
is reasonable to let the consumers of, in this case, motor
fuels, pay for the costs.”  Replacing gasoline with biofuels in the EU cuts emissions
21 percent, after land use changes have been taken into account,
Holzner said, citing a  study  prepared for the Commission in
October by the International Food Policy Institute. The EU in
June 2010 set up controls to prevent biofuels from damaging
forests, wetlands and nature reserves.  An independent consultant, Malcolm Fergusson, carried out
the cost analysis for Friends of the Earth and ActionAid. He
extrapolated analysis relating to the costs in the U.K. and
 Germany  across the EU. Fergusson was previously head of climate
change policy at the U.K. government’s environment agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  