-- Euro Falls on Concern Greek Talks Will Stall; Yen Approaches Postwar High
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-02T14:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/euro-weakens-on-concern-over-greek-debt-talks-yen-1-from-a-postwar-high.html
The euro weakened versus the yen and
the dollar as  Greece  struggled to reach an agreement with its
bondholders on cutting the nation’s debt burden, adding to
concern  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will deepen.  The common currency fell against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
said steps to tackle the debt crisis adopted at a summit on Jan.
30 were “largely insufficient.” The yen rose to within 1 yen
of a postwar high against the dollar, prompting speculation
Japan will intervene to limit the currency’s gains. The dollar
remained higher as claims for jobless benefits fell last week.  “The fact that it’s dragged on, people are taking that as
meaning that there could be more problems than they initially
thought,”  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas in New York at Standard Chartered Plc, said in
reference to the Greek talks. “The first quarter is when people
think that the crisis in Europe is going to be at the worst
point, so the yen still has its safe-haven status.”  The euro weakened 0.5 percent to 99.81 yen at 9:10 a.m. in
New York having dropped 1.8 percent over the past five trading
days. The common currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.3114. The yen
rose as high as 76.05 per dollar, approaching the postwar record
of 75.35 set on Oct. 31, before trading up 0.1 percent at 76.10.  Greece and its creditors are locked in talks over a debt-
swap deal for the nation. Bondholders last week lowered their
demands for an average coupon on the new debt they would get
after European officials demanded they take steeper losses. The
 European Central Bank  is likely to refuse to show its hand on
how it will help cut Greece’s debt burden until the deal is
reached, said economists from ING Group to Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Ultra Difficult’  “We are skewed to the point where Europe would react more
to negative news at this stage if it were to get any, and could
drift on no news,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA in London.  European Union leaders will need to take further steps when
they convene again in early March, Juncker, who leads the group
of euro-area finance ministers, said in a speech in Luxembourg
today. He said he seeks better coordination of economic policy
across the bloc and that Greek bond-swap talks with private
creditors are “ultra difficult.”  The euro also declined as Spanish bonds fell after a debt
sale.  Spain  auctioned 4.56 billion euros of debt due in 2015,
2016 and 2017, just surpassing its target of 4.5 billion euros
($6 billion). That compares with a 6.61 billion-euro sale on
Jan. 19, which was well above the target of 4.5 billion euros.
The Spanish 10-year  yield  climbed 11 basis points to 4.90
percent.  China’s Wen  The euro briefly erased losses after  China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his nation supports European efforts to stabilize
the 17-nation currency. China is still researching the best way
to participate in the European Financial Stability Facility, Wen
said at a briefing with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in
Beijing.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said he “can’t
overlook” speculative moves in the foreign-exchange market and
is ready take “decisive” actions if necessary. The Japanese
ministry sold the yen on Oct. 31 on concern its advance to a
record will hurt earnings at exporters.  Sharp Corp.,  Japan ’s largest maker of LCD panels, yesterday
forecast its worst annual loss since its founding a century ago,
with its president saying exporting is “nearly impossible”
with the strong yen.  ‘Intervene Again’  “If the dollar-yen falls quickly then the Ministry of
Finance might decide to intervene again,” said You-Na Park, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Until then we will hear continued verbal intervention since
the yen is quite strong.”  The yen has gained 6.1 percent over the past six months,
the second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 6.2 percent, and the euro dropped 2.4 percent.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments in the
U.S. dropped by 12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected
371,000.  Companies are slowing the pace of firing as the world’s
largest economy picks up, a necessary step toward bigger gains
in employment. Economists forecast a Labor Department report
tomorrow may show employers boosted payrolls in January and the
jobless rate held at an almost three-year low.  ‘On the Defensive’  The dollar may weaken a further 1.5 percent against the yen
after breaching a key trading level,  Karen Jones , head of fixed-
income, commodity and currency technical analysis at Commerzbank
AG in  London  AG, said, citing trading patterns.  “Dollar-yen has eroded the key Fibonacci retracement at
76.20,” she wrote in an e-mailed report. “This leaves the
market on the defensive and refocuses attention back to the
75.31 low and potentially psychological support at 75.”  The franc weakened against all except one of its 16 major
counterparts amid talk of possible intervention by the  Swiss
National Bank .  “The chatter is increasing whether the SNB will intervene
before 1.20” per euro, said Elizabeth Gregory, a market
strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “There’s still a
lot of discussion about how the SNB defends the exchange-rate
floor.”  The franc was little changed at 1.20454 per euro and
dropped 0.4 percent to 91.89 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  