-- Euro Strengthens Versus Dollar, Yen on Speculation U.S. Payrolls Increased
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-03T12:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/euro-is-set-for-weekly-drop-against-major-peers-on-greek-debt-concern.html
(Corrects third paragraph to say a delay in quantitative
easing would be positive for the dollar.)  The euro strengthened against the
dollar and the yen before a report economists said will show
U.S. employers increased payrolls in January, damping demand for
the safest assets.  The advance trimmed the euro’s weekly decline, after  Greece 
and its creditors struggled to reach an agreement on a deal to
reduce the nation’s debt. Japan’s currency traded within one yen
of a postwar high versus the dollar, boosting speculation the
country will act to weaken it. China’s yuan halted a four-day
gain as expansion in its non-manufacturing industries slowed.  “Payrolls will be the big event of the day,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “If we get stronger data it would improve risk
appetite, which is dollar negative, but at the same time it
would push back expectations of further quantitative easing,
which is dollar positive.”  The euro climbed 0.2 percent to $1.3176 at 10:51 a.m.
 London  time, paring its decline for the week to 0.3 percent. The
common currency was 0.3 percent stronger at 100.46 yen, trimming
its weekly drop to 0.9 percent.  The yen traded at 76.24 per dollar. It strengthened to
76.03 two days ago, approaching the post-World War II record of
75.35 set on Oct. 31.  Payrolls Boost  U.S. employers boosted payrolls by 140,000 in January after
an increase of 200,000 in December, according to the median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Unemployment probably held at 8.5 percent in January from the
previous month, a separate survey shows.  “An increase of 100,000 to 200,000 should be beneficial
for risk and see the dollar underperform,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 78.839.  Private payrolls probably rose by 160,000 in January, after
a 212,000 gain the prior month, a separate survey shows. That
would be the biggest back-to-back increase since March-April.  The euro headed for a weekly drop against all its major
peers with Greece still to conclude an agreement on a second
international bailout, including losses for bondholders. The
rescue plan, which European officials and creditors say may be
wrapped up in coming days, includes a loss of more than 70
percent for debt investors in a voluntary exchange and loans
likely to exceed the 130 billion euros ($171 billion) now on the
table.  Euro Forecasts  Finance ministers from the four euro-area countries with
AAA grades from all three major ratings companies --  Germany ,
 Finland , Luxembourg and the Netherlands -- will meet in Berlin
today, a German Finance Ministry spokesman, said yesterday. The
ministers won’t brief reporters after the meeting, according to
the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “The continuing uncertainty in Greece has contributed to a
slightly weaker euro this week,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at broker FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London.  Morgan Stanley cut its fourth-quarter 2012 forecast for the
euro to $1.15 from a previous projection of $1.20, according to
a research note published yesterday, saying efforts to control
government budgets will push the region into a recession.  Intervention Risk  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today he will take
decisive steps against one-sided moves in the yen if needed. The
currency’s level doesn’t reflect economic fundamentals, and
falling U.S. interest rates are increasing speculative yen
buying, he told reporters in  Tokyo .  Japan  sold the yen on Oct.
31 on concern its advance to a record would hurt exporters.  “Jawboning by the Japanese authorities has increased
significantly over the past week,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “We
judge that the near-term risk of direct intervention is now
high.”  The yen has gained 5.8 percent over the past six months,
the second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 6.3 percent and the euro dropped 2.7 percent.  China’s yuan halted a four-day gain after a report showed
expansion in the nation’s non-manufacturing industries slowed.  A purchasing managers’ index declined to 52.9 last month
from 56 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics and  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement today
in Beijing. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  The yuan was little changed from yesterday at 6.3028 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  -- With reporting by Masaki Kondo in  Singapore . Editors: Paul
Dobson, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  