-- Euro Drops on Greek Debt-Talk Concern Before Release of U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-02T22:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/euro-drops-on-greek-debt-talk-concern-before-release-of-u-s-jobs-data.html
The euro fell against the majority of
its most-traded counterparts as  Greece  struggles to reach an
agreement with its bondholders on cutting the nation’s debt
burden.  The 17-nation currency fell the most against its higher-
yielding counterparts, as  South Korea ’s won and the Brazilian
real rallied. The yen rose to almost a postwar high against the
dollar, prompting speculation  Japan  will intervene. The dollar
rose before a report tomorrow that may show employers boosted
payrolls in January and the jobless rate held at an almost
three-year low.  “It’s pretty well capped for the time being because we had
several days in a row where the euro failed to advance above
$1.32,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “The
market before payrolls data just doesn’t seem to have the
momentum to break out in either direction. It wants to see what
tomorrow’s data will be.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3144 at 5 p.m. in New York
after rising to $1.3197 earlier. The shared currency weakened
0.1 percent to 100.18 yen. The Japanese currency was little
changed at 76.22 yen per dollar and reached 76.05, approaching
the postwar record of 75.35 set on Oct. 31.  Support for the euro comes in at its 10- and 50-day moving
averages, at $1.3095 and $1.3059 respectively, Forcheski said.
The currency rose to as high as $1.3234 on Jan. 30.  ‘Popular Trades’  The won rallied 0.7 percent to 1,118.35 per dollar and
 Brazil ’s real gained 0.9 percent to 1.7189 against the
greenback.  “Some of the emerging-market vehicles that have been very
popular trades this year are definitely doing rather well,”
said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  The carry trade of selling the dollar to buy the currencies
of Australia, Mexico, Brazil and South Korea has more than
doubled returns so far this year, compared with a loss of 1.8
percent during 2011.  The single currency weakened earlier as Greece and its
creditors remain locked in talks over a debt-swap deal for the
nation. Bondholders last week lowered their demands for an
average coupon on the new debt they would get after European
officials demanded they take steeper losses. The  European
Central Bank  will probably to refuse to show its hand on how it
will help cut Greece’s debt burden until the deal is reached,
said economists from ING Group to Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Ultra Difficult’  “We are skewed to the point where  Europe  would react more
to negative news at this stage if it were to get any, and could
drift on no news,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA in London.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said steps to
tackle the debt crisis adopted at a summit on Jan. 30 were
“largely insufficient.” European Union leaders will need to
take further steps when they convene again in early March,
Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said in a speech in Luxembourg today. He said he seeks better
coordination of economic policy across the bloc and that Greek
bond-swap talks with private creditors are “ultra difficult.”  China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his nation supports
European efforts to stabilize the 17-nation currency. China is
still researching the best way to participate in the European
Financial Stability Facility, Wen said at a briefing with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Beijing.  Speculative Moves  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said he “can’t
overlook” speculative moves in the foreign-exchange market and
is ready take “decisive” actions if necessary. The Japanese
ministry sold the yen on Oct. 31 on concern its advance to a
record will hurt earnings at exporters.  “If the dollar-yen falls quickly then the Ministry of
Finance might decide to intervene again,” said You-Na Park, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Until then, we will hear continued verbal intervention since
the yen is quite strong.”  The yen has gained 6 percent over the past six months, the
second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
rose 6.5 percent, and the euro dropped 2.8 percent.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments in the
U.S. dropped by 12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected
371,000. Economists forecast a Labor Department report tomorrow
may show employers boosted payrolls in January and the jobless
rate held at an almost three-year low.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy has shown
signs of improvement while remaining vulnerable to shocks, and
he called on lawmakers to reduce the long-term  U.S. budget
deficit .  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said today, according to
prepared testimony to the House Budget Committee in Washington.
“The outlook remains uncertain, however, and close monitoring
of economic developments will remain necessary.”  The dollar may weaken a further 1.5 percent against the yen
after breaching a key trading level,  Karen Jones , head of fixed-
income, commodity and currency technical analysis at Commerzbank
AG in  London  AG, said, citing trading patterns.  “Dollar-yen has eroded the key Fibonacci retracement at
76.20,” she wrote in an e-mailed report. “This leaves the
market on the defensive and refocuses attention back to the
75.31 low and potentially psychological support at 75.”  The franc weakened against all except two of its 16 major
counterparts amid talk of possible intervention by the  Swiss
National Bank . The SNB in September said it would cap the franc
at 1.20 against the euro after it reached a euro-era record
1.00749 the previous month.  The franc was little changed at 1.20503 per euro and
dropped 0.2 percent to 91.68 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  