-- Euro-Region Producer-Price Inflation Slows as Growth Weakens
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-02T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/euro-region-producer-price-inflation-slows-as-growth-weakens.html
Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
slowed for a third month in December, adding to signs of easing
cost pressure across the region as growth weakens.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 4.3
percent from a year earlier after increasing a revised 5.4
percent in November, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. That’s in line with the median forecast
of 17 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  and the weakest gain
since October 2010. In the month, prices fell 0.2 percent.  European companies are under pressure to lower costs as the
region edges toward a recession and global export demand
weakens. Unemployment held at the highest in more than a decade
in December. The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark
 interest rate  a second time in two months and President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 12 that risks to the inflation outlook are
“broadly balanced.”  “Inflation will resume its decline in the coming months,”
said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam.
“Although the ECB is now in a wait-and-see stance and looks set
to keep rates on hold next week, there remains a chance of
additional rate cuts.”  In the 27-nation EU, prices increased 4.9 percent from a
year earlier after rising 6.4 percent in November, today’s
report showed. Prices fell 0.2 percent in the month.  Energy Costs  In  Germany (GRGDPPGQ) ,  Europe ’s largest economy, producer-price
inflation slowed to 4 percent from 5.2 percent. French prices
increased 4.6 percent, down from an annual 5.6 percent in
November, while Italy and Spain also reported a slowdown. In
Greece and Portugal, which both received external aid, producer-
price inflation also eased in December.  Energy prices at the producer level jumped 9.5 percent from
a year earlier after a 12.4 percent gain in November, today’s
report showed. The cost of intermediate goods such as  car
engines  and steel advanced 2.8 percent, while capital goods
including equipment and machinery were 1.5 percent more
expensive. Prices of durable  consumer goods  rose 2.3 percent.  The ECB, which has forecast inflation to slow this year,
will hold its next rate assessment on Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  