-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Serageldin Surprised by Charges, Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-03T05:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/ex-credit-suisse-cdo-head-charged-in-bonus-scam-says-he-helped-prosecutors.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head
of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a bonus-
boosting fraud tied to a $5.35 billion trading book, was
surprised by the U.S. indictment since he has been cooperating
with investigators for four years, his lawyer said.  Serageldin, 38, a U.S. citizen who lives in  England , was
charged in Manhattan federal court for masterminding a scheme to
fake collateralized debt obligation data to meet targets and
protect end-of-year bonuses. Two of his former subordinates,
David Higgs, 42, and Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty
Feb. 1 in New York to manipulating prices at Serageldin’s
direction. The men were also sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is
prosecuting the case, urged Serageldin after the indictment was
unsealed to come to the U.S. to face the charges. Serageldin’s
lawyer said his client was blindsided by Bharara’s prosecution
because he has been fully cooperating with U.K. and U.S.
investigators, including Bharara.  “I have been in touch with the government to discuss the
matter,” James McGuire, a lawyer for Serageldin in  New York ,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “He’s studying his
options.” Serageldin denied any wrongdoing.  Higgs and Siddiqui both implicated their former boss,
saying Serageldin told them to overstate the value of mortgage-
backed assets in a Credit Suisse trading book after the collapse
of the U.S. housing market. Both men, who have plea agreements
with the government, face sentences of as long as five years in
prison on one count of conspiracy, the U.S. said.  Conspiracy  Serageldin was charged with conspiracy, falsification of
books and records and wire fraud. While the conspiracy charge
carries a maximum five-year term, the wire fraud and
falsification of books and records counts each carry a term of
as long as 20 years in prison.  “We were surprised by the indictment if not the SEC
complaint,” McGuire said in the interview yesterday. “We only
learned of this last night for the first time. As you can
imagine, my client is studying the complaint, conferring with
counsel and considering his options.”  Serageldin learned he was the subject of criminal charges
and the SEC lawsuit last night, McGuire said.  The attorney said his client has done nothing wrong, and
has been cooperating with a four-year investigation by
regulators in the U.K. and in the U.S., as well as the  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney’s Office.  ‘Last Four Years’  “Through my colleagues in  London  and in the last four
years, he’s had no fewer than five to six lengthy interviews,
I’m talking meetings that lasted many hours at a time, where
these issues were discussed completely,” McGuire said. “He’s
cooperated fully, fully explaining what he knew, never taking
the Fifth Amendment,” he said, referring to the U.S.
constitutional right against self incrimination.  Bharara said at a Feb. 1 news conference announcing the
case that his office didn’t consider Serageldin a fugitive.  “We encourage him and his lawyer to come to the U.S. and
answer the charges against him,” Bharara said.  If Serageldin doesn’t come to New York, Bharara said the
U.S. will seek to extradite him.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Bharara, declined to comment on McGuire’s statement about
Serageldin’s cooperation with the U.S. attorney’s office.  Second-Largest Bank  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank said in 2008 it would
take writedowns on asset-backed securities after finding
“mismarkings” by a group of traders. The Zurich-based bank
said it would write down $2.65 billion after a review found
pricing errors on residential mortgage-backed bonds and CDOs
made “by a small number” of traders who were subsequently
fired or suspended.  Approximately $540 million of this write-down was
attributable to Serageldin’s trading book, which he oversaw, the
U.S. said. His subordinates said he directed them to
artificially increase the price of bonds in order to create the
appearance of profitability in the book, according to the
government.  Higgs and Salmaan Siddiqui said they manipulated the profit
and loss targets at Serageldin’s direction to meet daily and
monthly goals and increase their compensation. The bank said
that the three were fired in 2008.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  