-- MF Futures Customers Compete to Lead at Least Seven Suits Against Corzine
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-02T21:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mf-futures-customers-compete-to-lead-at-least-seven-suits-against-corzine.html
MF Global Inc. futures customers are
competing to lead a lawsuit against  Jon Corzine , the parent
company’s former chief executive officer, over the alleged theft
of $1.2 billion of their assets.  Court filings show at least seven actions against Corzine
by futures customers in  Manhattan  federal court. Plaintiffs
who’ve nominated themselves to lead a potential group suit
include Sapere CTA Fund LP, which sued Corzine and other former
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  executives for $90 million; Seattle
money manager  William Fleckenstein along with Kay P. Tee LLC, a
firm with a trading account at MF Global; and, together, Davide Accomazzo and Roberto Calle Gracey, who said in court papers
they filed the first action on behalf of futures customers.  Futures customers currently are trying to persuade a judge
that their suits shouldn’t be consolidated with an investor suit
led by the Virginia Retirement System. While investors allege
that Corzine made misleading statements that inflated the prices
of MF Global securities, futures customers allege that he and
other executives misappropriated customer funds, according to
court papers.  Even the defendants and the laws they are alleged to have
violated are different, lawyers for Kay P. Tee said in a letter
filed in court yesterday. Investors allege  securities fraud ,
while futures customers file claims under commodity and U.S.
racketeering law, they said. Exchange CME Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., banker to MF Global, are named in futures
customer suits, they said.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuits.  Combining Cases  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the
investor cases into one, saying they make similar claims that
Corzine and other company officials made misleading statements
about MF Global’s financial condition before its Oct. 31 Chapter
11 filing.  The Virginia Retirement System, chosen by Marrero to lead
the investor suit together with  Canada ’s Province of  Alberta ,
said in a filing the two together lost more than $19 million on
MF Global stock and debt.  MF Global filed the eighth largest U.S. bankruptcy listing
$41 billion in assets after making bets on European sovereign
debt and getting margin calls. The holding company is the parent
of a futures brokerage that is being liquidated in a separate
court proceeding.  Corzine and MF Global also have been sued by former
employees. A trustee liquidating the MF Global brokerage has
returned about $3.8 billion to customers after calculating that
$1.2 billion or more is missing from their accounts. Corzine has
said he doesn’t know where the missing money is and didn’t
authorize any misuse of customer money that may have occurred.  The main investor case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  