-- MF Global’s ‘Break-the-Glass’ Plan Outlined Options for Rating Downgrade
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-02T20:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mf-global-break-the-glass-plan-outlined-options-for-downgrade.html
Senior executives at  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , anticipating collateral calls on European debt
trades, raised the possibility of removing the transactions from
central clearinghouses designed to reduce risk, according to a
contingency plan drafted weeks before the firm’s bankruptcy.  The 23-page “break-the-glass” plan prepared by the
broker’s treasury, finance and risk divisions at the request of
the board of directors said the bets on European debt were “the
biggest draw on cash” as the company confronted a possible
credit crunch, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg news.  The undated document indicates the plan was designed to
address the effects of a credit-rating downgrade on the
company’s solvency and liquidity. The document instructed
employees to maintain daily records of segregated customer funds
and “communicate to key clients about safety of their excess
and margin balances.”  The company questioned if the firm should hedge the bets,
known as “repo-to-maturity,” or RTM, transactions, for up to
three months and move them out of clearinghouses run by
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. The plan concluded that the company
needed “a clear strategy and plan for RTM portfolio.”  “How will LCH respond, how much in excess margin will be
required, time period, can/will they force us out?” the plan
asked in a part of the document marked “immediate decision
making required.” The plan indicated the company could move
some of the cleared positions to the over-the-counter market
because of more favorable terms.  European Bets  Jon S. Corzine, MF Global’s former chairman and chief
executive officer, bet $6.3 billion on Italian, Spanish and
other European debt in an effort to transform the commodity
brokerage into an investment bank. When the firm collapsed, as
much as $1.2 billion in client funds set aside as collateral for
futures trades went missing.  Michael G. Stockman, the firm’s chief risk officer at the
time, said in congressional testimony today that the contingency
plan had been prepared in October at the board’s request. The
plan was provided to lawmakers, who have not made the document
public.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
serves as chairman of the Financial Services investigations
subcommittee probing the failures, said the plan represented
“much more aggressive scenarios” than had been considered by
the firm in the months prior.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,  Securities and
Exchange Commission ,  Justice Department  and bankruptcy trustee
overseeing the liquidation are investigating the missing money.  MF Global used about $700 million of customer funds to
“meet liquidity issues” in the days prior to the bankruptcy,
according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which had auditing authority over
the brokerage.  The CFTC and SEC are in the process of completing Dodd-
Frank Act regulations that aim to have most swaps guaranteed by
clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers. The 2010
financial overhaul aimed to reduce risk in the $708 trillion
private swaps market through the use of clearinghouses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net 
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  