-- MF Global U.K. Clients to Receive Initial Payout of 26 Cents on the Dollar
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-02T16:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mf-global-u-k-administrators-to-distribute-26-cents-on-dollar-to-clients.html
MF Global Holding Ltd.’s (MF)  U.K.
administrators plan to make the first payment to British clients
of the failed brokerage, returning 26 cents on the dollar.  KPMG LLP, the administrators of MF Global’s U.K. unit, said
the figure was the most it could return at this stage because of
“continued uncertainty” as to who can claim a share of the so-
called client money pool.  The money will be returned to customers who had allowed
claims for money in segregated, protected accounts, the firm
said  in a statement  today on its website. The administrators are
to give a report to a  London  court tomorrow on their progress.  KPMG has been under pressure to start returning money
frozen in U.K. customer accounts since MF Global collapsed into
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after making a $6.3 billion bet on
European sovereign debt. The trustee liquidating New York-based
brokerage MF Global Inc. in the U.S. has so far distributed
about $4 billion to customers, according to a spokesman.  While  KPMG  has recovered about $912 million, or 90 percent,
of money held in protected customer accounts at banks, exchanges
and clearinghouses, it hasn’t returned anything to clients, the
firm said in a  report .  Administrators in  New York  and London are involved in a
dispute over about $742 million of customer funds used as margin
collateral for American clients trading in  Europe . The U.S.
trustee of MF Global Inc. wants the money to come from the
client money pool, which would hamper the return of funds to
U.K. clients.  Subsequent Distributions  KPMG said if it weren’t for the MF Global Inc. claim it
would have been able to return 42 cents, rather than 26 cents,
on the dollar to U.K. customers.  “Subsequent distributions will be made in due course as
and when the resolution of issues and claims permits,” the firm
said.  Some types of account are given special status under U.K.
rules to prevent retail clients from losses if an institution
collapses. Large institutional clients had to specifically
request protection if they didn’t want MF Global to use their
funds.  KPMG has received 2,643 claims seeking a total of around
$2.1 billion from customers who say they had client-money
protection. Around 880 of those, with claims of about $550
million, don’t have that status, according to MF Global’s
records.  “Many creditors are claiming that their funds should have
been segregated, even though they were not,” KPMG said.  Largest Claim  A further 757 claims have been received from MF Global
customers without protected accounts, with a total value of
about $5.4 billion. The largest claim, for $4 billion, is from
an affiliate of the broker called MFG Finance USA and is related
to so-called repo-to-maturity transactions, KPMG said.  Clients without segregated accounts are being treated as
unsecured creditors, and won’t receive funds from the client
money pool.  The U.S. brokerage case is: Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  