-- U.S. Senate Adopts Measure to Ban Bonuses at Fannie, Freddie
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-02T23:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/fannie-freddie-executive-bonuses-are-banned-by-senate-after-taxpayer-aid.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed a prohibition
on executive bonuses at  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
government-controlled mortgage companies that are dependent on
taxpayer aid.  The Senate voted 96-3 to approve a bill including the ban
proposed by Republican John McCain of  Arizona  and Democrat John Rockefeller of West Virginia, which was added by voice vote
earlier today. The measure was introduced after the companies’
regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, approved nearly
$13 million in bonuses to 10 executives.  McCain, on the Senate floor this week, said he found it
“hard to believe” it would be difficult to find people to run
the firms “without the incentive of multi-million dollar
bonuses.”  “There are many examples of intelligent, well-qualified,
patriotic individuals working in our federal government who make
significantly less than the top executives at Fannie and Freddie
with just as much responsibility,” McCain said.  Lawmakers included the prohibition in a bill aimed at
reducing conflicts of interest and increasing disclosure on
investments by lawmakers and their staffs. The bill now moves to
the House, where representatives are scheduled to vote on it
next week, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement after the Senate vote. House members have
been weighing their options on a similar measure that has at
least 270 supporters, more than enough for passage.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  have been dependent on taxpayer
aid since 2008, when failing subprime mortgages pushed them to
the brink of collapse. They have required more than $153 billion
to fund their operations.  ‘Gradual Reductions’  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco, who is charged with
minimizing the costs to taxpayers, established a program in 2009
that cut senior executive pay by an average of 40 percent. He
has since promised “gradual reductions” in compensation while
defending the need to attract talent.  “I need to ensure that the companies have people with the
skills needed to manage the credit and interest-rate risks of $5
trillion worth of mortgage assets and $1 trillion of annual new
business that the American taxpayer is supporting,” DeMarco
wrote in a November letter to senators.  “Given the amount of money at risk here, small mistakes
can easily be amplified to losses far greater than the
compensation paid,” DeMarco wrote.  The House Financial Services Committee voted to suspend
executive compensation packages at the companies and bring their
employee pay system in line with one used by the U.S.
government.  Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, the Republican
chairman of the Financial Services panel, said the Senate vote
“moves us closer to stopping this outrage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  