-- Fed’s Evans Seeks Clearer Interest-Rate Pledge or ‘Ambitious’ Asset Buys
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-02-02T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/fed-s-evans-seeks-clearer-interest-rate-pledge-or-ambitious-asset-buys.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank needs a clear low-
rate commitment or a third round of purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds to further stimulate a still struggling economy.  People outside the Fed have “mentioned that maybe you
needed to do well over a trillion dollars in asset purchases in
order to begin to move things,” the regional chief told
reporters today during a meeting at the bank. “I don’t have a
particular number in mind, but it would be more ambitious than
most numbers being bandied about.”  Evans reiterated his view that the central bank should keep
the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until unemployment
falls below 7 percent or medium-term inflation rises above 3
percent, and underscored his position as the Fed’s most vocal
proponent for easing. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
the Fed was considering easing policy further to sustain the
recovery after the Fed extended its pledge to keep borrowing
costs low until at least late 2014.  “My preferred policy would be one where we are even
clearer in what our intentions are on the federal funds rate and
monetary policy,” said Evans, 54, who was the only member of
the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  to dissent in
favor of more stimulus in 2011.  “If the committee were not able to somehow refine our
forward guidance in a way that I think would impart more
monetary stimulus than what we currently have, I would favor
more asset purchases,” he said. “I would be very aggressive
over a six-month period of time” and “if it couldn’t be all in
MBS, then I would add some Treasuries in there,” Evans said,
without providing a specific timetable for when the purchases
would begin. He was referring to mortgage-backed securities.  Jobs Report  A Labor Department report will show tomorrow that the
 unemployment rate  held at 8.5 percent in January, according to
the median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The jobless level has remained stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.04 percent to
1,324.65 at 11:46 a.m. in  New York , after Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the  U.S. economy  has shown signs of improvement
while remaining vulnerable to shocks. European stocks climbed
for a third day as a report showed that U.S. jobless claims
dropped more than economists had estimated.  Impediments Seen  Other Fed officials have also warned that the employment
rebound may be slow. New York Fed President William C. Dudley
said Jan. 27 he sees “significant impediments to a robust
recovery” as the U.S. economy faces risks “skewed to the
downside.”‘  “Unemployment, both nationally and locally, is likely to
remain unacceptably high for some time,” Dudley said. “It is
unlikely that the faster growth experienced in the fourth
quarter of 2011 will be matched in the first half of 2012.”  In the meantime, some have warned about the risk of stoking
inflation. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented from
the central bank’s Jan. 25 pledge to keep  interest rates  low
through late 2014. The Fed may need to raise rates before then
to prevent an increase in inflation, he said last week.  ‘Economic Expansion’  “I expect that as economic expansion continues, even if
only at a moderate pace, the federal funds rate will need to
rise in order to prevent the emergence of inflationary
pressures,” Lacker said in a statement on the Richmond Fed’s
website.  Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , a non-voting member
on the FOMC this year, said Jan. 30 in an interview on CNBC that
the Fed may need to raise its benchmark borrowing cost as early
as this year. He added that last week’s pledge to keep rates low
wasn’t a firm a commitment.  Evans told reporters today that he isn’t concerned about
the risk of disinflation and that the normal channels of
monetary policy are “clogged.” He also said that while the
economic data are better now than they were around August and
September of 2011, the unemployment gap is “very large.”  If the Fed tied its low-rate pledge to unemployment falling
below 7 percent, “everybody would understand that we’re going
to be in this for as long as it takes,” he said.  The regional chief, who is not a voting member on the
policy-setting FOMC this year, has led the Chicago Fed since
September 2007 and has worked at the bank since 1991. The
district bank head represents a region that includes  Iowa  and
most of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  