-- Flaherty Concerned About Mortgage Practices by Some Canadian Institutions
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-02-02T20:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/flaherty-concerned-about-mortgage-practices-by-some-canadian-institutions.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said
he’s concerned about the loosening of standards by some Canadian
financial institutions on mortgages that don’t require borrowers
to verify income, and that steps are being taken to “correct”
the practice.  Flaherty said  Canada ’s banking regulator looked at the
practice, and he learned “what their assessment showed with
respect to a few financial institutions, which is a matter of
concern, and that is being corrected,” speaking in a conference
call with reporters today from  Tel Aviv .  Banks and other lenders are becoming “increasingly
liberal” with such mortgages and similar home-equity credit
lines, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, Canada’s banking regulator, said in documents
obtained by Bloomberg News under freedom of information law.  OFSI, which examined the issue in an August 2011 analysis,
compared the mortgages to “non-prime loans in the U.S. retail
lending market.”  The head of the Canadian Bankers Association, an industry
group, said he wasn’t aware of any steps being taken to restrict
 mortgage loans  that don’t require income to be verified.  “Those would be confidential discussions between
regulators and individual financial institutions and the CBA
would not be involved,” association president  Terry Campbell 
said in an e-mailed statement. “However, we do know that banks
are prudent lenders and carefully manage risk in their mortgage
portfolios.”  Housing Market  Canada’s housing market has surged since the 2009 recession
as near-record low  mortgage rates  fueled prices and home
purchases, unlike the U.S., where sales and values have fallen
since 2007. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said record
consumer debts are the greatest domestic threat to the country’s
financial institutions, even as the central bank has held the
 benchmark rate  at 1 percent since September 2010.  Canada’s banking system has been rated the soundest in the
world for four straight years by the  World Economic Forum , and
none of the country’s lenders needed public injections of
capital during the credit crisis, unlike U.S. banks, which
suffered losses on securities backed by subprime mortgages.  U.S. non-prime mortgages - which include both subprime and
“alt-A mortgages” - accounted for slightly more than a third
of originations at the peak of the market in 2006, according to
Inside Mortgage Finance, a Bethesda, Maryland-based company that
tracks residential mortgages. Loans that required little or no
documentation of income accounted for 46 percent of all U.S.
subprime mortgages that year, according to a Credit Suisse Group
AG report.  No Definition  While there is no common definition of subprime mortgages
in Canada, the proportion of such loans has probably fallen from
about 5 percent of the market since the financial crisis, said
Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in
Toronto.  A spokeswoman for OSFI, Leonie Roux, declined to comment on
Flaherty’s remarks.  Flaherty also said Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. remains
below the legal limit on the amount of  mortgage insurance  it can
offer. The federal housing agency said this week it is rationing
mortgage insurance due to “unexpected” requests by lenders for
large amounts of insurance on mortgages with low loan-to-value
ratios.  Federally regulated financial institutions must obtain
insurance on mortgages to borrowers who have a downpayment of
less than 20 percent of the property’s value.  “We monitor CMHC as part of the general monitoring of the
financial scene in Canada, and right now they’re still below
their lending limit,” Flaherty said.  CMHC had C$541 billion ($539 billion) of insurance in force
as of Sept. 30, the agency said. The organization’s legislated
limit is C$600 billion.  CMHC spokesman Charles Sauriol declined to comment on
Flaherty’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  