-- Fracking Rules on U.S. Lands Seen by Interior as Model
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-02T16:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/fracking-rules-on-u-s-lands-seen-by-interior-as-state-model.html
Federal rules for fracking on public
lands, set to be released in a few weeks, may serve as a model
for states to get companies to disclose the chemicals used in
the drilling process, an Obama administration official said.  The proposed federal standards will be compatible with
rules already in place in states such as Wyoming and  Texas , and
will allow limited exemptions for “legitimate  trade secrets ,”
 David Hayes , the deputy Interior secretary, said today.  “What we expect is that the momentum that you already see
in states for disclosure will be reinforced by what we do,”
Hayes said in an interview at the Washington office of Bloomberg
News. “Most folks would like to see an across-the-board
approach to deal with these issues.”  In hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, companies inject
water, sand and chemicals under high pressure thousands of feet
underground to break up shale-rock formations and release
trapped gas.  The U.S. Interior Department began consideration of
regulations for production of natural gas and oil from shale on
federal lands last year. In addition to chemical disclosures,
the rules will set standards for well construction, which is the
most important aspect to ensure that groundwater isn’t
contaminated, he said.  Gas Reserves  The U.S. holds an estimated 2,214 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for about a century at
current consumption rates, according to the Energy Department.
At least 90 percent of U.S. onshore natural-gas production comes
from fracking, according to Richard Spears, vice president of
the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based consulting company Spears & Associates
Inc.  Federal rules governing fracking have taken on new
importance following President  Barack Obama ’s advocacy in his
State of the Union address for drilling for natural gas in
shale, which he said will mean the country doesn’t have to
“choose between our environment and our economy.”  In that address, Obama highlighted the Interior
Department’s standards for the disclosure of the chemicals used
in fracking on public lands as one way the federal government
would protect the environment and reassure the public that the
process is safe.  “Leading companies recognize that this is an appropriate
thing to be asking,” Hayes said. Among those is  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of The Woodlands, Texas, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  