-- Fujifilm Braces for Olympus Snub as Komori Tries to Avert Own Kodak Moment
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-02-03T07:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/fujifilm-braces-for-olympus-snub-as-komori-tries-to-avert-own-kodak-moment.html
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  may get
snubbed by cross-town rival  Olympus Corp. (7733)  in its attempt to move
further away from the photographic film business that dragged
down industry pioneer  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)   “We aren’t too optimistic” that Olympus will welcome a
takeover approach or collaboration, Chief Executive Officer
Shigetaka Komori said in an interview at Fujifilm’s Tokyo
headquarters. “Olympus will most likely to want to run the
business by itself.”  The two companies together would control about 85 percent
of the global market for the  tiny cameras  doctors use to peer
inside the body, according to Komori. The 72-year-old CEO wants
to add Olympus, which lost more than half its  market value  last
year over an accounting scandal, to the 650 billion yen ($8.5
billion) of takeovers Fujifilm spent in the past decade to
buffer it from a collapse in color film demand that pushed Kodak
to the brink of bankruptcy last month.  Fujifilm is the best fit for Olympus, which has about 70
percent of the market for endoscopes, Komori said, adding that
antitrust implications would need to be worked out. The devices
are one of  six growth pillars  he has targeted for growth.  “Many of the things Kodak did were short-term and halfway
measures, and they weren’t enough,” Komori said. “Japanese
companies make long-term investments, looking 10 to 20 years
ahead. That’s the difference between us and Kodak.”  Investors aren’t convinced. The  shares  tumbled 40 percent
on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange in the past 12 months, more than
twice the drop of the Topix index. The stock was unchanged at
1,785 yen at the close in Tokyo trading, valuing the company at
919 billion yen. Olympus dropped 0.7 percent to 1,256 yen, the
lowest in two weeks, with a market value of 341 billion yen.  ‘Seeds for Growth’  “Fujifilm has planted the seeds for growth,” said Kogo Horie, a technology analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
in Tokyo, who has a “neutral” rating on Fujifilm. “But I
can’t see the overall strategy and synergies between the
businesses it bought. It’s not yet clear how they will
contribute to earnings.”  Komori, who joined Fujifilm in 1963 and became president in
2000, at the peak of global color film demand, has overseen more
than 40 acquisitions and partnerships in industries ranging from
pharmaceuticals to photocopy machines. Acquisitions include
stakes in FujiXerox Co. for 160 billion yen in 2001 and a
controlling stake in drugmaker Toyama Chemical Co. in 2008.  Fujifilm agreed to buy  SonoSite Inc. (SONO) , a maker of portable
ultrasound machines, for about $1 billion in December.  More acquisitions can’t be ruled out in pharmaceuticals and
medical devices if the right opportunities arise, Komori said in
the interview. The company, which he says should resemble a
conglomerate such as  3M Co. , has a four-person team in charge of
assisting with potential deals, he said.  Fuji Name Stays  Fujifilm, established in 1934, gets 44 percent of its
 revenue  from printing, 41 percent from flat-panel display
materials, optical devices, pharmaceuticals and medical systems,
and 15 percent from color films and digital cameras.  Komori says he’s most excited by the potential of an
experimental drug for  Alzheimer’s disease . The product, known as
T-817MA, is in mid-stage tests and may finish advanced studies
in two to three years, according to the executive.  Komori, who has yet to name a successor, says he will
probably run the company for at least another two to three
years, when his burgeoning business units are better
established. Meantime, Fujiflim, which has 2.2 trillion yen in
 annual sales  and 81,300 employees, isn’t likely to undergo a
name change, even as it tries to move away from the film
business.  “The business is based on the technologies we’ve
cultivated from developing color film,” said Komori. “Everyone
knows Fujifilm through photos. It’s still a popular brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at  