-- Gafisa Received Preliminary Proposal for Asset Acquisition
-- B y   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-02-02T21:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/gafisa-received-preliminary-proposal-for-asset-acquisition-2-.html
Gafisa SA (GFSA3) ,  Brazil ’s third-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, received a preliminary proposal for
asset acquisition from  Sam Zell  and  GP Investments Ltd. (GPIX)   The homebuilder is assessing the offer from investors which
was mentioned in a report on Exame magazine’s website, Gafisa
said in a regulatory filing today. Exame reported earlier this
week that Zell was in talks with GP for a partnership to buy
control of Gafisa, without saying where it obtained the
information.  Gafisa rose 5.9 percent to 5.35 reais after the close in
Sao Paulo today, reaching its steepest three-day gain since May
2009. In the previous two sessions, the stock also rose after
the company was said to receive a bid from an investment fund to
buy all of its shares.  The homebuilder received a bid from an investment fund and
the proposed deal will be announced soon, a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private said earlier this week. The person declined to identify
the bidder.  Gafisa said it has no information about any public offering
for the acquisition of its shares, according to the filing
today.  GP declined to comment, according to an e-mailed statement
sent by an external press officer in  Rio de Janeiro . Equity
International also declined to comment, spokeswomen Allison
Davis said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News.  Zell, through Equity International, sold his remaining
stake in Gafisa after previously owning as much as 23 percent of
the Sao Paulo-based homebuilder, according to an August
statement.  Rivals’ Proposal  In a separate story published today, Exame said Gafisa also
got proposals for asset acquisition from Brazilian rivals Cyrela
Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes, PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participaçoes, Ez Tec Empreendimentos &
Participacoes and  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA. (BISA3)  The report cited
unidentified executives close to Gafisa.  Cyrela doesn’t confirm the interest in Gafisa, according to
an e-mailed statement sent by the company’s external press
office in Rio de Janeiro. Ez Tec denied it sent a proposal for
the acquisition of Gafisa assets, according to an e-mailed
statement sent by its external media relations company.  Brookfield declined to comment, according to a statement
sent by its external media relations company. PDG didn’t
immediately returned phone calls asking for comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Telma Marotto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  