-- Garanti Leads Profit Gain at Turkish Banks on Rates, Vakifbank May Lag
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-02-02T16:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/garanti-lead-turkey-banking-profits-higher-in-4th-quarter-on-bonds-loans.html
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  led
Turkish banks reporting earnings growth in the fourth quarter,
posting an increase after pushing up  interest rates  on loans and
earning more from inflation-linked bonds.  Turkiye Vakiflar
Bankasi TAO (VAKBN)  may say profit declined.  Net income at Garanti, the biggest listed bank by market
value part-owned by Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
advanced an annual 13 percent to 790.5 million liras ($450
million.) Earnings were calculated according to full-year profit
filed to the Istanbul Stock Exchange today minus income reported
for the first nine months. Garanti was expected to earn 786.2
million liras ($447 million), the  average estimate  of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg showed. Garanti was the first
Turkish bank to report fourth-quarter earnings.  “Garanti’s interest income is a little higher and so are
the margins,” Bulent Sengonul, an analyst at Is Investment,
 Turkey ’s biggest broker by trading volume, said by telephone.
“The bank has benefited from the CPI-linked bonds and the re-
pricing of loans is higher. There’s a strong outlook for the top
line of Garanti’s balance sheet.”  Prices Lag  Garanti closed 2.4 percent higher at 6.86 liras, extending
gains this year to 16 percent. While the main banking index has
advanced 20 percent since Dec. 31, the ratio of price to book,
at 1.38, still lags the average of 1.58 for the  MSCI emerging
markets banks index , which rose 14 percent this year. The ratio
measures a stock’s market value to its book value.  Turkish banks  charged higher rates of interest on loans to
businesses and consumers in the last three months of 2011, as
inflation accelerated to 10.5 percent in December from 4 percent
at the end of the first quarter. Banks increasing the amount of
inflation-linked bonds in their portfolios, such as Garanti,
benefited more.  Interest income from loans advanced 24 percent to 6.59
billion liras in the whole of 2011, Garanti said in the filing.
Revenue from trading in capital markets climbed 57 percent to
317.1 million liras, the bank said. Derivatives income almost
tripled last year to 353.2 million liras, it said.  Profit Increase  Turkey’s top six listed banks probably posted an average
increase in profit of 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter, with
state-run  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  and  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS 
also reporting a gain in earnings, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Yapi Kredi, jointly owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Koc Holding AS, Turkey’s biggest group of companies, is the
biggest riser this year on the banking index, climbing 28
percent.  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO, a state-run bank, may report
an annual 26 percent slide in net income to 288.6 million liras,
faring the worst among the largest six banks, an average of
seven analyst estimates showed. Vakifbank’s price-to-book ratio
is 0.8, the lowest among major banks in the country.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, Turkey’s biggest bank by assets, and
 Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , may also post a
decline in earnings in the fourth quarter compared with the same
period of 2010, according to estimates.  Banks should expand their loan books by about 16 percent
this year as the economy grows, helping earnings and offsetting
an expected increase in the percentage of non-performing loans
in their balance sheets, said Sevgi Onur, an analyst at Global
Securities in Istanbul.  “I foresee flattish net interest margins for 2012 but I
think the banks still have strong fundamentals and will
outperform global peers,” said Sevda Sarp at Erste Securities,
a unit of  Austria ’s Erste Group Bank AG, which focuses on
investment in central and eastern  Europe . “Any weakness in
their share price should be seen as a buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  