-- Garuda Indonesia Gains to Record on Jets Order: Jakarta Mover
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-02-02T08:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/garuda-indonesia-gains-to-record-on-jets-order-jakarta-mover.html
PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA) , the nation’s
biggest carrier, rose to record in Jakarta after it said it is
in final talks with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on an order for as many as
25 small planes.  Garuda advanced 8.6 percent to 630 rupiah as of 2:51 p.m.,
set for the highest close since its trading debut on Feb. 11,
2011. The Jakarta Composite index rose 1.1 percent.  Garuda, which raised $530 million in an initial public
offering last year, expects to announce a deal at the Singapore
Air Show this month, Chief Financial Officer Elisa Lumbantoruan
said today by phone. Garuda plans to buy the planes by 2015 with
delivery starting in October or November this year, he said.  Demand for  air travel  may rise in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy, where domestic consumption accounts for about 56
percent of gross domestic product.  Indonesia  may spend at least
3 trillion rupiah ($331 million) on airports in 2012, Herry Bakti Gumay, director general of aviation at the transport
ministry, said Dec. 7.  “Garuda’s shares gained today on its plan to expand its
fleet with smaller planes, amid the expectation more people will
fly with Garuda,” Maxi Liesyaputra, an analyst at PT BNI
Securities in Jakarta, said by phone today. “With smaller jets,
it will mean fewer passengers at a higher yield.”  Jakarta-based Garuda intends to use the smaller planes to
access more domestic routes among Indonesia’s 17,000 islands
that span 5,150 kilometers (3,200 miles), the distance from
 Florida  to  Alaska . Garuda wants to bypass larger  airports  in
Jakarta, Surabaya and Bali’s Denpasar by offering direct flights
among smaller regional airports, Lumbantoruan said March 31.  “We want to be able to land on shorter runways,”
Lumbantoruan said at the time. “We want to fly tourists to
regions around Bali.”  The efficiency and the economy of the Bombardier plane are
attractive, Lumbantoruan said today.  Garuda expects sales to rise 21 percent this year from last
year’s unaudited total of 27.1 trillion rupiah, Chief Executive
Officer Emirsyah Satar told reporters in Jakarta Jan. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberng.net  