-- Geithner Says Dodd-Frank Opponents Add to Uncertainty in Financial Markets
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/geithner-systemically-risky-firms-to-be-named.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  criticized opponents of new financial industry
regulations and said the first non-banks deemed systemically
risky will be named this year.  “Those who are working to slow the pace of reform will
only increase uncertainty, and they will damage our efforts to
try to get the rest of the world to adopt a level playing
field,” Geithner said in Washington yesterday.  Geithner defended the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and said
regulators are “making considerable progress in implementing
reform.” The law has come under attack from Republicans in
Congress and presidential candidates.  “We have forced a necessary and fundamental restructuring
of the financial system,” Geithner told reporters at the
Treasury Department. “But even with these changes, and even
with the remaining damage caused by the financial crisis, our
financial system is once again helping support economic growth
by meeting the growing demand for credit and capital at lower
cost.”  The financial industry has fought Dodd-Frank, arguing that
the regulatory overhaul imposes excessive  capital requirements 
on banks. President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats say
it tightens oversight of financial markets and companies in the
wake of the credit crisis that led to the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Repeal Dodd-Frank  Republican presidential candidates  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  have said they would seek to have Dodd-Frank repealed.  Of the 400 rulemaking requirements in the law, regulators
as of Feb. 1 had missed the deadlines on 164 of them, according
to a report by law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP. Regulators
have put into final form 93 of the 400 rules, the report said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, headed by
Geithner and often referred to by its acronym FSOC, released in
October a proposed rule setting standards for determining which
non-bank financial firms require Federal Reserve scrutiny.  Banks with more than $50 billion in assets were
automatically deemed risky to the financial system in the event
of their failure. FSOC is a council of regulators that also
includes Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the chairmen of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  Housing Finance  Geithner also said he will lay out a plan to move forward
with broad legislation to replace the GSEs, or government-
sponsored enterprises, and overhaul the rest of the housing-
finance system. A year ago, he presented a paper that listed
three options for the GSEs while refusing to endorse a
particular one. Congress has yet to act on broad housing
legislation.  “Our plan will wind down the GSEs and bring private
capital back into the market, reducing the government’s direct
role in the housing market and better targeting our support
towards first-time homebuyers and low- and moderate-income
Americans,” Geithner said, referring to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac .  Obama announced on Feb. 1 a package of proposals designed
to boost the housing market, his latest effort to reignite the
economy after four years of foreclosures and falling home prices.  Fannie Mae  On Jan. 27, the administration announced a revision of the
Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, that relaxes the
rules on a federal loan-modification program and triples its
incentives to banks by paying Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
forgive debt on homes that have lost value. The  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  has resisted principal reductions and released on
Jan. 23 a report saying that forgiving mortgage debt on Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac loans would cost the taxpayer-funded
companies almost $100 billion.  “Neither the president or I have the power to compel them
to act. What we can do is help explain why it’s in the interest
of the taxpayer not just the broader housing market and where we
have the chance to create some incentives for that, we’re going
to try to do that,” Geithner said.  Geithner criticized the failure of customer account
segregation rules, saying they were unable to protect customers
from the loss of funds at MF Global Holdings Ltd. The Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, SEC,  Justice Department  and a
bankruptcy trustee are investigating MF Global, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Oct. 31.  Geithner also discussed the difficulty of setting rules on
foreign financial firms with operations in the U.S.  Tougher Reforms  “Because in some areas U.S. reforms are tougher or just
different from the rules forthcoming in other markets, we need
to figure out a sensible way to apply those rules to the foreign
operations of U.S. firms and the U.S. operations of foreign
firms,” Geithner said. “This is very complicated and another
example of where we need a clearly articulated common approach
across the U.S. regulatory agencies.”  The Dodd-Frank ban on proprietary trading, known as the
Volcker rule, has been criticized by foreign governments for its
proposed restrictions on trading of sovereign debt.  While foreign  government bonds  would fall under the rule as
proposed,  U.S. government debt  would be exempt. Officials from
 Canada ,  Japan , and the U.K. have sent letters to the Treasury
Department and U.S. regulators saying the measure would harm
their ability to raise money.  Geithner said the goal of FSOC is not to prevent the
failure of an individual firm. Instead, he said the goal is to
create an innovative structure that is safer and more robust to
resist such failures.  Not Attempting  “We are not attempting to design a financial system that
takes out the risk of failure of individual firms who take too
much risk,” Geithner said. “That is not possible and it is not
desirable.”  The U.S. and European Union are imposing new sanctions to
pressure  Iran  into abandoning any effort to develop nuclear
weapons. The 27-nation EU agreed Jan. 23 to bar the purchase,
transport, financing and insurance of Iranian oil exports.
Geithner said he was encouraged by efforts to reduce dependency
on Iran’s oil.  “You’re also seeing very substantial efforts collectively
to help tighten the financial sanctions on Iran and we’re going
to keep at it, keep working on it, but I think the broad arc of
at least the initial response so far is somewhat encouraging,”
Geithner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  