-- Geithner Says Systemically Risky Firms to Be Named in 2012
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-02T23:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/geithner-says-systemically-risky-firms-to-be-named-in-2012-2-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the first non-bank financial companies deemed
systemically risky will be named this year, and the department
will release more plans for an overhaul of housing finance.  “Those who are working to slow the pace of reform will
only increase uncertainty, and they will damage our efforts to
try to get the rest of the world to adopt a level playing
field,” Geithner said in Washington today.  Geithner praised the progress on the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
and said regulators are “making considerable progress in
implementing reform.” The law has come under attack from
Republicans in Congress and presidential candidates.  “We have forced a necessary and fundamental restructuring
of the financial system,” Geithner told reporters. “But even
with these changes, and even with the remaining damage caused by
the financial crisis, our financial system is once again helping
support economic growth by meeting the growing demand for credit
and capital at lower cost.”  The financial industry has fought the Dodd-Frank Act,
arguing that the regulatory overhaul imposes excessive  capital
requirements  on banks. President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats say it tightens oversight of financial markets and
companies in the wake of the credit crisis that led to the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Repeal Dodd-Frank  Republican presidential candidates  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  have said they would seek to have Dodd-Frank repealed.  Of the 400 rulemaking requirements in the law, regulators
as of yesterday had missed the deadlines on 164 of them,
according to a report by law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP.
Regulators have put into final form 93 of the 400 rules, the
report said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, headed by
Geithner, released in October a proposed rule setting standards
for determining which non-bank firms require Federal Reserve
scrutiny. Banks with over $50 billion in assets were
automatically deemed risky to the financial system in the event
of their failure. FSOC must designate non-bank financial
companies.  Housing Finance  Geithner also said he will lay out a plan to begin to move
forward with broad legislation to replace the GSEs and overhaul
the rest of the housing-finance system. A year ago, he presented
a white paper that listed three options for the GSEs while
refusing to endorse a particular one. Congress has yet to act on
broad housing legislation.  “Our plan will wind down the GSEs and bring private
capital back into the market, reducing the government’s direct
role in the housing market and better targeting our support
towards first-time homebuyers and low- and moderate-income
Americans,” Geithner said in  Washington  today, referring to
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , known as government-sponsored-
enterprises.  Obama announced yesterday a package of proposals designed
to boost the housing market, his latest effort to reignite the
economy after four years of foreclosures and falling home
prices.  Fannie Mae  On Jan. 27, the administration announced a revision of the
Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, that relaxes the
rules on a federal loan-modification program and triples its
incentives to banks by paying Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
forgive debt on homes that have lost value. The  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  has resisted principal reductions and released on
Jan. 23 a report saying that forgiving mortgage debt on  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac loans would cost the taxpayer-funded
companies almost $100 billion.  “Neither the president or I have the power to compel them
to act. What we can do is help explain why it’s in the interest
of the taxpayer not just the broader housing market and where we
have the chance to create some incentives for that, we’re going
to try to do that,” Geithner said.  Geithner criticized the failure of customer account
segregation rules, saying they were unable to protect customers
from the loss of funds at MF Global Holdings Ltd. The Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission,
 Justice Department  and a bankruptcy trustee are investigating MF
Global, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Oct. 31.  Financial System  Geithner said the goal of FSOC overseers is not to prevent
the failure of an individual firm. Instead, he said the goal is
to create an innovative financial system that is safer and more
robust to resist such failures.  ”We are not attempting to design a financial system that
takes out the risk of failure of individual firms who take too
much risk,” Geithner said. ”That is not possible and it is not
desirable.”  The U.S. and European Union are imposing new sanctions to
pressure Iran into abandoning any effort to develop nuclear
weapons. The 27-nation EU agreed Jan. 23 to bar the purchase
transport, financing and insurance of Iranian oil exports.
Geithner said he was encouraged by efforts to reduce dependency
on  Iran ’s oil.  ”You’re also seeing very substantial efforts collectively
to help tighten the financial sanctions on Iran and we’re going
to keep at it, keep working on it but I think the broad arc of
at least the initial response so far is somewhat encouraging,”
Geithner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  