-- Genworth Financial Swings to a Profit as Mortgage-Insurance Unit Improves
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-02T21:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/genworth-financial-swings-to-a-profit-as-mortgage-insurance-unit-improves.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the mortgage
guarantor and life insurer, swung to a fourth-quarter profit as
it faced fewer new claims for U.S. homeowners who fell behind on
loan payments. The company climbed in extended trading.  Net income was $107 million, or 22 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $161 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier,
Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth said today in a statement.
Operating income, which excludes some investment results, was 17
cents a share, missing the 19-cent average  estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The housing market continues to be weak, although new
claims appear to be declining,” Edward Shields, a Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP analyst, wrote in a Jan. 30 note. Shields
assigns a “buy”  rating  to Genworth with a $9 price target.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer, 53, who’s run
Genworth since its initial public offering in 2004, has reversed
a slide in the  stock price . He sold a holding in a Canadian
operation, set plans to dispose of an Australian-unit stake and
retreated from variable annuities. Genworth has scheduled two
investor conference calls for tomorrow and one for Feb. 10.  Genworth rose as much as 5.6 percent in after-hours trading
following the announcement. It gained less than 1 percent to
$8.04 in regular New York trading and has risen 23 percent this
year to lead the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   U.S. Mortgage Business  The U.S. mortgage-insurance segment’s loss narrowed to
$94 million in the fourth quarter from $352 million a year
earlier, the company said. U.S. life insurance posted a
$114 million profit.  “Fourth-quarter earnings improved from the prior year
driven by U.S. life insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance,”
Fraizer said in the statement.  Insurers are struggling to generate investment returns as
the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  near zero. The central
bank said last week that economic conditions are likely to
warrant “exceptionally low levels” for rates “at least
through late 2014.”  Results at life insurers will “be pressured in 2012 due to
low interest rates, increased hedging costs and ongoing market
volatility,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement on the industry
in December.  Mortgage insurers pay lenders when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Genworth’s rivals including
PMI Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc. were forced by regulators
to stop selling new coverage when capital fell short of required
levels. MGIC Investment Corp.,  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  and American
International Group Inc. also guarantee home loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  