-- German Stocks Rise for Third Day; Deutsche Boerse, K+S Climb in Frankfurt
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-02T16:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/german-stocks-fluctuate-linde-rises-as-deutsche-bank-falls.html
German stocks  gained for a third day,
extending a six-month high, as a decline in claims for U.S.
jobless benefits indicated the recovery in the world’s largest
economy is on track.  K+S AG (SDF) ,  Europe ’s largest potash maker, paced gains.  Linde
AG (LIN)  advanced after Credit Suisse Group AG advised buying shares
in the supplier of industrial gases.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  surged 4
percent amid speculation the exchange operator may pay a special
dividend following its failed takeover of NYSE Euronext.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  declined after profit slumped.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index rose 0.6 percent to 6,655.63 at the close in
Frankfurt, the highest since Aug. 2. The gauge has  jumped 13
percent  this year, advancing the most in January since the
benchmark measure started in 1988, amid speculation the global
economy will withstand the impact of the euro area’s debt crisis
and as central banks acted to fuel growth. The  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also
climbed 0.6 percent today.  “It looks like the market is pretty resilient and this
rally can continue for a couple of weeks,” said Urs Eilinger,
who helps oversee $3 billion as chief investment officer at
Infidar Investment Advisory Ltd. in Zurich. “The U.S. economy
will surprise positively.”  A Labor Department report showed  claims  for U.S. jobless
benefits fell last week, a sign the labor market is improving.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 46
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected 371,000.  Signs of Improvement  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy
has shown signs of improvement while remaining vulnerable to
shocks, and he called on lawmakers to reduce the long-term  U.S.
budget deficit .  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said today, according to
prepared testimony to the House Budget Committee in  Washington .
“The outlook remains uncertain, however, and close monitoring
of economic developments will remain necessary.”  K+S climbed 3.2 percent to 38.86 euros.  Linde, the world’s second-biggest supplier of industrial
gases, rose 0.9 percent to 123.40 euros. Credit Suisse rated the
shares “outperform” in new coverage, citing the company’s
market share in Asia and its share-price discount to peers.  Deutsche Boerse Rallies  Deutsche Boerse gained 4 percent to 47.31 euros. Analysts
at WestLB AG wrote in a report that the operator of the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange may pay a special dividend of 2 euros a
share or resume buybacks after the European Commission yesterday
blocked the company from acquiring NYSE Euronext. Bank of
America Corp. recommended buying the shares.  “Given  Deutsche Boerse ’s business mix towards what we view
as higher growth areas such as derivatives and post-trade
services coupled with limited exposure to competitive pressures
in cash equities, we continue to view the standalone valuation
as undemanding,” the brokerage wrote in a report today.  Deutsche Bank dropped 0.4 percent to 33.90 euros, after
yesterday gaining 5.1 percent.  Germany’s biggest lender  said
profit slumped 76 percent in the fourth quarter as the
sovereign-debt crisis sapped trading.  Net income  fell to 147 million euros ($193 million) from
601 million euros a year earlier, the Frankfurt-based company
said. That missed the 556 million-euro  average estimate  of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The investment bank had a 422
million-euro pretax loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  