-- Get the Church Out of America’s Kindergartens: Katherine Stewart
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   S t e w a r t
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/get-the-church-out-of-america-s-public-kindergartens-katherine-stewart.html
A radical religious ideology is
rapidly gaining momentum in America’s public elementary schools.
Largely unbeknownst to parents, and poorly understood by school
administrators, conservative groups within the evangelical
Christian movement are carrying out an organized campaign to
capture the hearts and minds of children and subvert the
separation of church and state.  Now, the battle is moving to the New York State Senate,
which is considering  legislation  that would effectively grant
evangelical Christian groups privileged access to the state’s
schools.  Only 3 1/2 years ago, I would have found such a state of
affairs hard to imagine. My awakening came when an after-school
group called the  Good News Club  set up shop offering “Bible
study” in my daughter’s public elementary school in  Santa
Barbara ,  California . It rapidly became clear that the group’s
aim was to convert young children and use them to spread its
fundamentalist version of Christianity. The club wanted to be in
the school to foster the impression among children that its
religion was endorsed by the school.  Legal Armor  The club was part of a larger organization known as the
Child Evangelism Fellowship. Founded more than 70 years ago, the
CEF had only a small presence in public schools until 2001, when
the U.S. Supreme Court  ruled  that the exclusion of such clubs
from after-school programs represented a violation of their
free-speech rights. This legal armor has given them an advantage
over regular clubs that offer sports or crafts, because school
administrators are now legally compelled to grant access. In
2010, there were 3,439 Good News Club groups, almost all in
public K-6 schools around the country.  Among the clubs’ teachings: There is only one “right” way
to live, and that is to believe in Jesus; anyone who fails to
conform will go to hell. The activists I met who work with the
CEF have an especially restrictive view of who qualifies as a
Christian. Among the “unchurched,” they include most Catholics,
U.S. Episcopalians, United Methodists, liberal
Congregationalists and Presbyterians, as well as Mormons --
anyone who doesn’t meet their understanding of “Bible-believing”
Christianity.  Needless to say, this intolerant approach has proven highly
divisive on the playground and at Parent Teacher Association
meetings. Parents have reported many instances in which children
tell playmates of other faiths that they will go to hell. If
these folks were Islamists intending to inject their
fundamentalism into America’s schools, and calling for Shariah
law, I have little doubt they would be stopped. And yet what the
evangelists are doing is identical in all but name.  “If you want to change the face of the planet…you want to
focus on those children ages five through twelve; it is the most
strategic age group that we have,” Mathew Staver, the founder
and chairman of  Liberty Counsel , which provides the Child
Evangelism Fellowship with much of their legal firepower, said
at a 2010 conference. “Knock down all of the doors, all of the
barriers, to all of the 65,000-plus elementary schools in the
country and take the gospel to this open mission field now! Not
later. Now!”  The clubs are not the only way that evangelical Christians
are getting their message into the schools, which I discovered
after I moved with my family to  New York . Just last week, when I
joined a music class in the auditorium of my son’s school on the
Upper East Side, I found myself staring at posters and other
paraphernalia for the  Morning Star Church of New York . The
church, which turns the school into a house of worship on
Sundays, uses a cordoned-off area of the stage as storage space,
for which the Department of Education does not collect rent.  Storage Space  As I listened to my son sing and clap with his class, I
turned over a number of questions in my mind. How much does a
couple of hundred square feet of storage cost in New York? How
much would it be worth to  Pizza Hut  to have large posters
scattered around the school? How long would promotional
materials for a mosque last in the same space?  In all, 160 houses of worship operate in New York public
schools. They pay no rent or utilities, just a small custodian
fee. Though limited to off-hours, the churches have in many
instances made their presence in the school distinctly
noticeable. Some have approached schoolchildren directly. Many
are associated with national church-planting movements that are
on the extreme end of the theological spectrum. In my children’s
public school, for instance, congregants are regularly
instructed to pray that America’s systems of government,
education, finance, law and media will be brought under
Christian control.  New York’s Board of Education has long taken a stand
against religious-worship services in schools, for the same
reasons that it excludes partisan political groups. In June
2011, after many years and much legal effort, the board won an
 appeal  in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit that
allowed it to pursue its policy despite the 2001 Supreme Court
ruling. Supporters of the church-planting movement have framed
the New York court’s decision as an act of persecution and
discrimination.  State legislators are entering the fray. The Senate
Education Committee, with the vocal backing of Bronx City
Councilman Fernando Cabrera, has approved a bill that would
amend state education policy and allow houses of worship to
occupy the schools. The experience of the Good News Club
suggests that if this bill passes, all schools will eventually
be forced to adopt churches, and taxpayers will be supporting
one of the largest church networks in the state.  The Education Committee of the New York City Council is
 scheduled  to meet today and consider whether to support the
bill. If council members fail to recognize it as a threat to
freedom of religion and secular democracy in America, hopefully
legislators in Albany will.  (Katherine Stewart is a journalist and author of “The Good
News Club: The Christian Right’s Stealth Assault on America’s
Children.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Katherine Stewart at  writekaths@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  