-- Gingrich 46-State Strategy Doesn’t Reflect Reality of Resources
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/gingrich-46-state-strategy-at-odds-with-reality-of-his-campaign-resources.html
Newt Gingrich ’s campaign distributed
blue signs to supporters that read “46 States to Go” before he
took the stage the night of his loss to  Mitt Romney  in Florida’s
Republican presidential primary this week.  The slogan underscores that just four states have voted in
the nomination race. It also doesn’t square with the reality of
a Gingrich campaign lacking the money and organization to
effectively compete in all the upcoming contests.  “It was reminiscent of ‘ Baghdad  Bob’ touting the
invincibility of the Iraqi Army during the fall of Baghdad,”
said Tim Miller, an aide to the now-defunct campaign of Jon Huntsman Jr., referring to the information minister for dictator
Saddam Hussein.  “The reality is Newt hasn’t learned from his past
mistakes, and he’s completely unwilling to run the type of
disciplined campaign necessary to win,” said Miller, whose
former boss endorsed Romney after exiting the Republican race on
Jan. 16.  Gingrich arrived in  Nevada  yesterday after finishing 14
points behind Romney in  Florida (STOFL1) ’s Jan. 31 primary. At a rally in
Reno, he cast his plans for a continuing fight with his rival as
one of historical significance within the Republican Party, with
parallels to the battle then-insurgent  Ronald Reagan  waged
against then-President Gerald Ford 36 years ago.  ‘Fundamental Question’  “This is as big a debate as the Reagan-Ford debate of
1976,” Gingrich said. “This is a fundamental question about
the future of the country, the future of the Republican Party
and the future of the conservative movement.”  Reagan, after losing the party’s first five primaries,
stormed back to upend Ford in  North Carolina  and carried his
quest for the nomination all the way to the national convention,
where he was finally thwarted.  In his race, Reagan had the advantage of united
conservative support. Gingrich still must compete for anti-
Romney voters with former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania  and U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas .  Reagan also could spotlight an issue that clearly
differentiated himself from Ford and fired up the conservative
base: his opposition to the talks Ford conducted to give Panama
control of the Panama Canal. Gingrich lacks such a clarifying
issue in his race against Romney.  Miller, the former Huntsman aide, is skeptical about
Gingrich’s ability to articulate a winning appeal to voters. The
former U.S. House speaker, he said, is “liable to spend more
time complaining than actually delivering a message to voters.”  Long Campaign  Gingrich reiterated his commitment to a protracted campaign
in his nighttime speech to supporters in Orlando after it was
clear Romney had triumphed in  Florida .  “We are going to contest every place and we are going to
win, and we will be in Tampa as the nominee in August,” he
said.  His proposed war of attrition doesn’t mesh with the
requirements of competing against Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor and business executive who has
constructed a campaign that is already built-out in the next
primary and caucus states and vastly better funded than
Gingrich’s.  Romney raised $57 million in 2011 for his campaign,
including $24 million during the year’s final three months,
according to Federal Election Commission reports. He ended 2011
with $20 million in his campaign bank account.  The Gingrich camp raised $12.7 million in 2011, including
$9.8 million during the final quarter. At year’s end, he had
$2.1 million in the bank and $1.2 million in reported debts.  Adelson Donations  Gingrich has remained viable in part because of $10 million
contributed to Winning Our Future, a political action committee
supporting his candidacy, by  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife.
Adelson, a casino executive based in  Las Vegas , hasn’t said
whether he plans to make additional donations.  Gingrich dismissed Romney’s money superiority in his Reno
comments yesterday, telling his backers, “We are going to pit
people power against money power in this campaign.”  Referring to the spending disparities between the campaigns
in Florida, Gingrich also said, “I don’t think Governor Romney
can afford to outspend us 5-1 everyplace in the country.”  Still, as the Republican candidates head into contests in
late February and early March that will award hundreds of the
1,144 delegates needed for the nomination, the next few weeks
will be especially challenging for Gingrich.  Debate Effect  His surges in support have coincided with strong debate
performances. So far, only one debate is scheduled this month:
Feb. 22 in Mesa,  Arizona .  Romney, meanwhile, rebounded from his 12-point loss to
Gingrich in South Carolina’s Jan. 21 primary in part because of
a more aggressive stance he took in two debates preceding the
Florida vote. Romney said yesterday his performances, aided by
recently hired debate coach Brett O’Donnell, had
“overwhelmingly the biggest impact” on the outcome in Florida.  February’s six delegate selection contests start with this
weekend’s  Nevada (STONV1)  and  Maine  caucuses. Colorado and  Minnesota  hold
caucuses on Feb. 7, followed by primaries in Arizona and
 Michigan (STOMI1)  on Feb. 28. A nonbinding primary also occurs Feb. 7 in
 Missouri ; the state’s delegates will be allotted through a later
caucus process.  Delegate Allocation  Many of the upcoming contests will award delegates on a
proportional basis, rather than winner-take-all as was the case
in Florida, which gives all three of Romney’s rivals an
incentive to stay in the race. Still, Maine offers a glimpse of
the staffing challenges Gingrich faces in the delegate hunt.  “Both Romney and Paul have an extensive team here,” said
Charlie Webster, chairman of the state’s  Republican Party .
“Neither Santorum nor Newt seems to have any great presence.”  The primaries at month’s end will garner the most attention
because of the size of  Michigan , the nation’s eighth most
populous state, and Arizona, the 16th. Romney has potential
advantages in both states.  Born in Michigan, he was raised in a Detroit suburb and his
father served as the state’s governor. The tough stance he has
taken on combating illegal immigration should help in Arizona,
where Republican officials pushed into law a crackdown measure
that the federal government is suing to block.  The results in Florida -- the first contest that offered a
model of the diverse American electorate -- provided worrisome
trends for Gingrich in a big state.  Romney beat Gingrich in the urban centers of Miami,  Fort
Lauderdale  and Palm Beach County, in the cities of Southwest
Florida, across a swath of Central Florida from Tampa to  Orlando 
and Daytona Beach, and in northeast Jacksonville. Gingrich
defeated Romney in 35 less-populated counties, painting a
contrast between Romney’s urban and suburban support and
Gingrich’s appeal to rural Republicans.  The signs at Gingrich’s Orlando appearance notwithstanding,
his 46-state strategy already faces one insurmountable obstacle.
Gingrich, along with Santorum, failed to meet the qualification
requirements to appear on Virginia’s March 6 primary ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Las Vegas at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  