-- Glencore Said to Be Near Agreement to Combine With Xstrata
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-02-02T04:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/glencore-said-to-be-near-xstrata-agreement.html
Glencore International Plc is nearing
an agreement to combine with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , adding mines from
 Africa  to  Asia  to the world’s largest listed commodity trader,
said two people with knowledge of the plan.  The two Switzerland-based companies may announce a deal as
early as this week, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans are confidential. The combined
company may be valued at 52 billion pounds ($82 billion) after
excluding Glencore’s 34 percent stake in Xstrata.  Joining Zug-based Xstrata with Glencore, located two miles
away in Baar, would reunite two groups which separated a decade
ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South African
assets for $2.5 billion and went public in London. A deal may
generate savings of as much as $704 million, Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a report in October.  “Combining gives them that much more scale to compete
against some of the bigger players,” including BHP Billiton
Ltd. and  Rio Tinto  Group, Cameron Peacock, a Melbourne-based
market analyst at IG Markets Ltd. said today by phone.  Glencore shares gained 5.1 percent to HK$53.25 at 11:47
a.m. local time in  Hong Kong .  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for
Glencore, and Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Xstrata, declined
to comment.  Glasenberg, Davis  Combining the companies would connect Glencore Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 55, with his Xstrata
counterpart Mick Davis, 53. Glasenberg, a former coal trader who
led the company to a $10 billion initial public offering in May,
said in August the commodities trader is “aggressively”
seeking mergers and acquisitions as market valuations slide.  The group would report net income of about $11.2 billion in
2012 and Glencore would control about 65 percent of a merged
company, assuming a merger with no premium attached, Credit
Suisse said in October.  The talks between Xstrata and Glencore are ongoing and an
agreement could still fall apart, one of the people said.
Glencore was studying a merger with Xstrata to gain more access
to financing, two people familiar with the matter said in May
2010, 12 months before Glencore’s IPO.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace aging deposits and  China ’s industrial growth stokes
metals demand for construction, cars and appliances. Global
mining deals swelled to $98 billion last year, the highest level
since 2007, from $75.8 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Anglo Offer  A deal would be the biggest for Xstrata since it ended a
29.2 billion-pound offer for London-based Anglo American Plc in
October 2009 after Anglo’s board snubbed the approach. BHP
withdrew from a $66 billion offer for Rio Tinto in 2008.  “There’s really nothing technically that should be
preventing large-scale M&A activity,” Daniel Rohr, an analyst
at Morningstar Investment Services Inc. in  Chicago , said by
telephone yesterday. “Balance sheets across the industry are in
rather rude health and large miners have massive cash balances
that seem to grow larger with each passing quarter.”  Xstrata, which also mines metals including copper and
nickel, produced 85.3 million metric tons of coal last year.  Its first-half profit climbed 27 percent after commodity
prices advanced, it said in August. It had $1.4 billion in cash
and near cash as of June 30, and signed a $6 billion  credit line 
in October to renew outstanding facilities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore Profit  Glencore, which owns mines, plants and warehouses, had a
first-half profit of $2.5 billion, up 68 percent on a year
earlier. It may post adjusted net income of $4.4 billion for
2011, according to the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Metal prices have declined 13 percent in the past year and
mining companies have dropped 12 percent in the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xstrata previously bought  Australia ’s Jubilee Mines NL for
A$3.1 billion ($3.3 billion) in 2008, and  Colombia ’s Prodeco
coal assets for $2 billion in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  