-- Glencore-Xstrata Bankers May Reap Up to $140 Million for Advice on Merger
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-02-02T20:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/glencore-xstrata-bankers-may-reap-up-to-140-million-for-advice.html
Six investment banks are set to reap
total fees of as much as $140 million for advising on commodity
trader  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s proposed merger with  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , in what would be the mining industry’s largest deal.  Xstrata, which said today that Glencore had approached it
regarding an all-share transaction, is working with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Nomura International Plc (8604) , while Glencore has tapped  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Combined, Glencore and Xstrata may be valued at about 52
billion pounds ($82 billion), and the deal could signal a
turnaround in mergers and acquisitions activity. The value of
global takeovers dropped to the lowest level in more than a year
in the fourth quarter, with deals slumping 14 percent from the
previous three months to $473 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is pent-up demand for strategic deals, cash on
balance sheets and strategic initiatives that need M&A in order
to be implemented,” said Scott Moeller, a professor at Cass
Business School in  London . “Boards are finally realizing that
it’s better to do a deal in a market trough on an upswing than
at the peak on a downswing.”  In addition to seeing their names on a highly visible deal,
banks advising Glencore and Xstrata can expect multimillion-
dollar payouts for their work. The banks may earn an estimated
$50 million to $70 million on either side of the deal, or as
much as $140 million in total, according to data from New York-
based researcher Freeman Consulting Services.  Commanding a Premium  “The bulge-bracket firms are going to command premium
pricing and I see no evidence of that changing,” Moeller said.  Depending on the exact value of Xstrata shares, Glencore’s
all-share swap for the miner’s stock may match or exceed the
size of the largest mining deal so far:  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s $38
billion takeover of  Canada ’s Alcan Inc. in 2007.  While six investment banks are presently said to be
advising on the deal, others may be added before the transaction
is completed. Glencore and Xstrata’s combined valuation excludes
the commodity trader’s existing 11 billion-pound stake in the
miner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  