-- Glitch at Tokyo Bourse Is No Payday for Japan’s Alternative Trading Venues
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-02-02T15:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/glitch-at-tse-no-payday-for-japan-s-alternative-trading-venues.html
Japan’s alternative trading platforms
missed out on a potential payday as regulators stopped them from
fielding orders when a computer error caused the biggest trading
disruption in six years yesterday at the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  The glitch at TSE disabled trading of 241 companies
including  Sony Corp. (6758)  for 2 1/2 hours. Japan’s biggest bourse
hasn’t yet been able to measure the impact on trading, Chief
Information Officer Yoshinori Suzuki said yesterday in Tokyo.
The  Japan Securities Dealers Association  shut trading on
alternative platforms SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan on concern
shares couldn’t be priced fairly without the main bourse, said
spokesman Atsushi Sakiyama.  The malfunction in a server and its backups was Tokyo’s
worst since 2006, a year before alternative venues started in
Japan. The disruption came as the Fair Trade Commission reviews
the effect on competition of a planned merger between the
exchanges in Tokyo and  Osaka , where transactions went on as
normal.  “Investors don’t want those other platforms shut,” said
Edwin Merner, president of Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. “People always want to have a market of some
kind, even if they don’t use it. They want to have it there. It
makes better liquidity and it shows fairness.”  The glitch at TSE occurred the day after European Union
regulators vetoed  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s plan to
create the world’s biggest exchange, concluding the merger would
hurt competition. Populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of
the most volatile markets on record prevented the completion of
six proposed transactions valued at more than $37 billion
involving public exchange companies in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on deals of $1 billion or more.  ‘Fully Operational’  Chi-X Japan was “fully operational” and could have
executed orders had the regulator not stepped in, said Yasuo Hamakake, representative director for Chi-X Japan in Tokyo. SBI
Japannext was also capable of processing trades during the
outage, said Chief Operating Officer Hiroshi Sensaki.  Shares of Sony, which announced Feb. 1 that it was
replacing Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer , could still
be bought and sold on the Osaka Securities Exchange during the
Tokyo halt. Osaka wasn’t affected because it uses a different
system, according to Masahiro Yada, an Osaka spokesman.  Shares of the electronics company rose 0.7 percent  in Osaka 
during that time, when volume in the stock was 150 times the
three-month average for the bourse, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Sony fell 2.6 percent in Tokyo after trading
returned to normal at 12:30 p.m. and closed the day 5.2 percent
lower in Osaka.  ‘Appropriate Pricing’  “We made the judgment to halt off-exchange trading because
we were afraid appropriate pricing might not be made with prices
unavailable through the TSE,” JSDA’s Sakiyama said by phone.
The broker’s association, which  regulates  securities firms and
off-exchange venues, will consider allowing trading when the
main exchange malfunctions depending on feedback from investors,
he said.  The association has no authority over  Japan ’s traditional
exchanges in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka and Sapporo.  Off-exchange venues, which last handled 7.8 percent of
Japan’s trades, have shown their worth on days when individual
stocks were unable to be bought and sold in Tokyo. Four times as
many shares of Olympus Corp. traded away from the main bourse
after a rush of sell orders forced Tokyo to cancel its opening
auction on Nov. 10, when the scandal-hit optics maker was warned
it might be delisted.  Alternative Venues  Still, alternative venues might not have received extra
business yesterday even if the platforms had been allowed to
take the orders, according to  SBI Japannext ’s Sensaki. When
Tokyo went down, investors turned off their so-called smart-
order routers, which use computer programs to find the cheapest
places to trade, he said. Many of those algorithms don’t work
without the main bourse as a reference point.  “In theory, it is clear that the market should have some
venues available,” Sensaki said. “In reality, the whole system
is architected around the primary exchange. The Japanese market
needs to evolve.”  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. and Osaka Securities
Exchange Co. cited cost savings from integrating computer
systems as a reason for merging when they announced the deal on
Nov. 22. Osaka may review system arrangements before a merger
with Tokyo, spokesman Masahiro Yada said by phone after the
outage.  “Even though the PTSs were ready, willing and able to
trade - the regulator decided not to let them,” Glenn Lesko,
chief executive officer in  Asia  for Instinet told Bloomberg
News. “It’s a new experience and there’s no explicit regulation
to guide the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  