-- India Prepared for Rate Cut on Visible Easing Inflation: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   D a n i e l   M o s s
-- 2012-02-03T03:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/gokarn-says-visible-drop-in-indian-prices-will-trigger-reduction-in-rates.html
Reserve Bank of India  Deputy Governor
 Subir Gokarn  said the monetary authority will cut interest rates
once it’s confident inflation will keep slowing.  “The stance now is that we have reached the peak and any
further action will be toward easing,” Gokarn, 52, said in an
interview at his office while discussing the rupee, the
government’s budget deficit and bond repurchases. The central
bank isn’t concerned about the currency’s record monthly advance
in January “because in a sense it’s a correction,” following
last year’s 16 percent decline, he said.  Emerging-markets have stepped up efforts to shield growth
from the impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis, with  Brazil ,  Russia  and
the Philippines cutting rates in recent months. The Indian
government can help reduce borrowing costs by narrowing its
 budget deficit  as the pace of price increases slows to 7 percent
by March from 9.68 percent a year earlier, according to Gokarn.  Once the central bank has confidence that the “direction
will continue, that’s really going to be the trigger,” Gokarn
said in the interview yesterday. “The visibility of the decline,
I think, is the most important indication.”  Higher government spending on subsidies in the run-up to
federal elections in two years threatens to stoke prices and
limit the scope for monetary policy easing to support growth in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy. The nation’s budget deficit
reached 92.3 percent of the fiscal-year target in the nine
months through December, a report showed this week.  “The comments clearly indicate the direction of the
monetary policy is towards reducing rates,” said Shubhada Rao,
Mumbai-based chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  “The timing and
the quantum of rate cuts will still be dependent on the cut in
the budget deficit.”  Asian Stocks Slip  Asian stocks fell as Greece and its creditors struggled to
reach an agreement on a debt swap and companies from Mazda Corp.
to Nippon Sheet Glass Co. forecast losses. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index declined 0.21 percent as of 12:23 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere in Asia, a gauge of  China ’s non-manufacturing
industries expanded at a slower pace in January, a report showed
today. The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell to
52.9 from 56 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
in Beijing. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Australia ’s services industry expanded in January, snapping
three straight months of declines, a report showed today. The
performance of services index advanced 2.9 points to 51.9 in
January, the highest reading since August, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia and the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Sri Lanka Raises  The Central Bank of  Sri Lanka  unexpectedly boosted  interest
rates  today for the first time since 2007 to curb credit growth
and ensure inflation stays low. It raised the reverse repurchase
rate to 9 percent from 8.5 percent and the repurchase rate to
7.5 percent from 7 percent. All seven economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted rates would be unchanged.  In  Indonesia , growth probably exceeded 6 percent for a
fifth quarter, a Bloomberg survey showed ahead of a government
report due Feb. 6. Gross domestic product increased 6.45 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 6.5
percent pace in the previous three months, according to the
median of 17 estimates.  In Europe, a rescue plan for  Greece  may be completed in
coming days, European officials and creditors say. The plan may
include a loss of more than 70 percent for bondholders in a
voluntary exchange and loans likely to exceed the 130 billion
euros ($171 billion) now on the table.  Fastest in BRIC  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank will seek to keep prices rising at a 2 percent
rate and rejected suggestions that it would sacrifice its
inflation goal to boost employment.  India ’s benchmark  inflation  rate of 7.47 percent is the
fastest among the so-called BRIC nations, even as it slowed to a
two-year low in December. Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in
Brazil, 6.1 percent in Russia and 4.1 percent in China the same
month.  “While we have a medium-term goal of 4 to 4.5 percent for
inflation, that’s not a threshold that we have to reach before
we consider action,” Gokarn said in his office, adorned by
photographs and books, including a biography of Apple Inc.
founder Steve Jobs. “It’s the directionality.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of half the cars sold in
India, has raised prices of all its models this year, citing
higher raw material costs and the decline in the currency.  Indian Bonds Climb  The yield on the 8.79 percent  government bonds  due November
2021 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.12
percent in Mumbai today, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  The rupee plunged 16 percent last year, making it the worst
performing currency in Asia and prompting the central bank to
clamp down on speculation. It rose 0.1 percent to 49.10 against
the dollar today after gaining 7.3 percent in January.  The central bank last year tightened rules on trading in
the domestic currency-forwards market and said it will reduce
the amount of open positions dealers can maintain overnight.  “The measures we have taken always come at a cost,”
Gokarn, a former Asia-Pacific chief economist with  Standard &
Poor’s , said. When markets return to “normality, then of course
these measures will be considered and taken back.”  Yesterday the central bank asked lenders to “rigorously
evaluate” risks from their clients’ unhedged foreign-exchange
positions. Gokarn in the interview said the central bank wants
to encourage hedging.  Cash Injection  To control inflation, the  Reserve Bank  raised borrowing
costs by a record 375 basis points in 13 moves from mid-March
2010 before pausing for a second straight meeting in January.
Last month, it cut India’s growth forecast to 7 percent in the
year through March from the 7.6 percent predicted in October. It
kept the inflation estimate at 7 percent.  The central bank lowered the cash reserve ratio to 5.5
percent from 6 percent, reducing the amount of deposits lenders
need to set aside as reserves for the first time since 2009 in a
move it estimated would add about 320 billion rupees ($6.5
billion) into the banking system.  In an indication of  cash shortages , banks borrowed 1.3
trillion rupees on average a day from the monetary authority in
January, compared with 1.16 trillion rupees in December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overnight  rates  surged
to 9.45 last week, near a three-year high.  To ease the cash squeeze in the banking system, the Reserve
Bank resumed open-market purchases of government notes after 10
months in November and has so far purchased 719 billion rupees
of the securities in auctions, official data show.  Indian bonds fell the most in 26 months on Jan. 24 on
speculation the central bank will halt buying government bonds
after reducing reserve requirements for banks.  “To the extent that pressures remain, we are always open
to carrying out” bond repurchases, Gokarn said. “The other
form of liquidity infusion is to buy dollars. If circumstances
are right, we’ll certainly consider it. When we’ll have those
circumstances is difficult to say.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Moss in Washington at 
 dmoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  