-- Goldman Munching Naan Marks Cafe Spice’s Quest to Feed America
-- B y   D a v i d   S a x
-- 2012-02-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/goldman-munching-naan-marks-cafe-spice-s-quest-to-feed-america.html
In the cafeteria of Hurley Medical
Center, in Flint,  Michigan , a doctor walks up to the steam trays
at the  Cafe Spice  kiosk, takes a spoon, and flicks two grains of
rice pulao into his mouth.  He chews for several seconds, then walks to the other side
of the counter and samples another batch. After careful
deliberation, the doctor forgets the rice, takes two naan
breads, douses his plate with mint chutney, and sits at a table
with his colleagues -- doctors from  India ,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh ,
and Nepal.  All of them have been eating curries, biryanis, and other
Indian staples every day for lunch and dinner since the Cafe
Spice kiosk opened here last summer, Bloomberg Businessweek
 reports  in its Feb. 6 issue.  “Before, we were eating a lot of mac and cheese,” groans
Dr. Rao Mushtaq, a general practitioner originally from
Pakistan.  “My first year here my cholesterol shot up dangerously
high,” Dr. Vishwas Vaniawala, an Indian pediatrician, says.
“Honestly, I used to skip lunches because I was sick of eating
salads and sandwiches and chips.”  The South Asian doctors, who, as at many U.S. teaching
hospitals, make up the majority of residents at Hurley,
eventually demanded more familiar food from Steve Dunn, the
cafeteria’s executive chef. While Dunn, an employee of the
French catering company  Sodexo (SW) , had never even tasted Indian
food, he made samosas, saag paneer, and chickpea masala from
scratch.  Not Uncle Ben’s  “I couldn’t do it every day,” he says, even though
doctors responded enthusiastically.  “I mean, it takes a hell
of a lot of time and knowledge. It took my staff three weeks to
learn how to make basmati rice, because they were used to Uncle
Ben’s.”  So Dunn turned to Cafe Spice, America’s largest Indian
food-service company, which has a branded partnership with
Sodexo, an Issy-les-Moulineaux, France-based company. Each month
he receives a shipment of frozen Indian dishes that his staff
heats and serves in a kiosk designed and installed by Cafe
Spice.  What’s happening in Flint is spreading across the nation as
Cafe Spice owners Sushil Malhotra and his son Sameer place their
curries in supermarkets, hospitals, colleges, and corporate
cafeterias.  Goldman, Morgan Stanley  Cafe Spice’s 17 current locations include  Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology,  New York University , and the  New York 
headquarters of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The
company’s food is sold without the brand name in another 400
cafeterias and in more than 250  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  stores.  In the past year, Cafe Spice’s revenue grew 40 percent, to
about $20 million. While that’s tiny compared with sales at a
food giant like McDonald’s Corp., which moves $20 million worth
of product about every six-and-a-half hours, should Cafe Spice’s
expansion continue, Sushil Malhotra may fulfill a dream he’s had
for 40 years: To make his beloved Indian cuisine mainstream in
the U.S.  “It could be as big as the sushi invasion,” he says.  Malhotra, 63, moved to New York from Bombay in 1966 to
study engineering at  City College , and later worked at Shell Oil
and  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  In 1970 he and his father opened
a spice trading shop, supplying New York’s curry houses with
spices, chutneys, and papadums.  Indian Fine Dining  When he and his wife, Lata, had American friends over to
their house for dinner, the guests would ask him why they
couldn’t get food this simple and fresh at Indian restaurants
around town. Neighborhood Indian restaurants, their decor
inevitably designed to evoke the  Taj Mahal , tend to serve
identical menus, often from a buffet.  “There was, and is, no professionalism to these places,”
Sushil says in his Irvington, New York, living room, which has
carved elephants, heaps of embroidered cushions, and a formal
waiter serving onion bhaji. “They bastardized the food.”  To showcase Indian cooking, Sushil opened a fine-dining
restaurant in  Manhattan  called Akbar in 1976, and another,
Dawat, eight years later. He brought in cookbook author Madhur
Jaffrey -- the Julia Child of Indian food -- to design the menu.  While Dawat was a critical and financial success, Sushil
wanted to emulate what was happening in the U.K., where curry
was supplanting fish and chips as the national food. He dabbled
in other mass-market concepts, including a takeout spot called
Curry in a Hurry, before opening Cafe Spice near NYU in 1998.  Grand Central  The restaurant, since sold, was revolutionary in its design
and simplicity: a modern Indian bistro, priced between the
greasy buffets and Dawat. A year later the company opened its
first Cafe Spice Express in Grand Central Terminal. Sushil soon
saw the potential to put these quick-serve counters where Indian
restaurants had never ventured.  “Sushil’s at the cutting edge of getting the message
out,” says restaurateur Drew Nieporent, who changed the image
of Japanese food in America with his Manhattan restaurant Nobu.
“By bringing Indian food to supermarkets and cafeterias,
Sushil’s also made it more acceptable and accessible.”  American taste buds have proven resistant to curry’s
charms. There may be more than one reason. Indian isn’t the
prettiest of cuisines: A tray of chickpea curry doesn’t have the
same visual appeal as, say, a California roll. Fairly or not,
Americans also seem to associate it with indigestion.  In the 2011 survey of chefs by the  National Restaurant
Association , the No. 1 hot gastronomic trend is “locally
sourced meats and seafood.” Indian food ranked No. 173, between
absinthe and kimchi.  Bharath M. Josiam, an Indian-born professor of hospitality
management at the University of North Texas, is confident,
however, that a change in attitudes is underway.  The Mexican Effect  “Indian food is now very much in sync with major trends in
American food,” he says. “Thanks to the proliferation of
authentic Mexican restaurants and products, Americans are
consuming a greater variety of spices and are more willing to
try new foods.”  Brad Edmondson, a demographics consultant based in Ithaca,
New York, explains why he thinks Indian food will finally hit it
big in a video recently posted on the website of the  Private
Label Manufacturers Association .  “Ethnic food is successful when immigration combines with
international travel and restaurants to create a buzz loud
enough for food manufacturers to hear,” Edmondson says, holding
up a plate of samosas.  This cultural exposure has directly affected America’s
taste for Indian food. According to research provided by the
Mintel Group, 13 percent of U.S. consumers surveyed in 2010
prepared Indian meals in their homes at least once a month.  More Like ‘England’  Sukhi Singh, founder of Bay Area-based Sukhi’s Gourmet
Indian Foods, Cafe Spice’s main competitor, says her company
recently introduced its frozen meals at a  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
store in a Hispanic neighborhood of  Los Angeles . She’s delighted
with the results.  “I don’t think there’s barriers in any places now,” Singh
adds. “It’s kind of snowballing, and, say, maybe in 10 years,
it’ll be like it is in  England .”  Cafe Spice’s food is prepared in a 50,000-square-foot
industrial kitchen in New Windsor, New York, just up the  Hudson
River  from  West Point . Inside, more than a hundred workers fold
samosas, fry potato pakoras, grind spices, and stir giant vats
of curry.  “At the end of the day, I’m not making one batch for the
 University of Massachusetts , one for Goldman Sachs, and one for
Whole Foods,” says Sameer Malhotra, 33, who runs the day-to-day
business with his wife, Payal. “It’s all the same 300-pound
batch, and the Indian grad student at Georgia Tech is getting
the same spice level as someone in Tulsa.”  It’s the Spice  Spice is a delicate issue. It’s the main reason Americans
will, or won’t, try Indian food.  “If I don’t spice it enough,” Sushil says he’ll get a
call from someone who has been to India who’ll say “ This isn’t
a vindaloo! If you say it’s a vindaloo, it better damn well be
hot.”  Rather than lower the heat on its entire menu, Cafe Spice
bases its dishes on four main simmering sauces. Malhotra says
that variety is enough to satisfy 90 percent of diners. To cover
everyone else, the company has installed condiment bars with
chutneys -- the hottest being sriracha-spiked tomato --customers
can add to taste.  Ghee-Free  That’s one of several adjustments the Malhotras have had to
make to broaden the food’s appeal and streamline production.
Curries are usually made with ghee, the clarified butter at the
heart of Indian cooking; Cafe Spice is ghee-free. Using
vegetable oil instead is cheaper, meets the low-fat requirements
of Whole Foods, and opens up sales to vegans -- a key
demographic.  While traditional Indian restaurants typically bake naan
and roast meats in cylindrical tandoor ovens, the techniques are
difficult to teach and thus too costly to scale. Instead, frozen
naan is imported from Toronto, and the chicken tikka is baked in
a convection oven.  The company’s chefs have begun experimenting with less-
traditional fare, such as naan sandwiches.  “It’s catered to the global palate,” says Payal one
morning in a small office at the processing plant. She’s taste-
testing sandwiches -- potato with turmeric, chicken tikka, and
crumbled paneer cheese with Monterey Jack. After she picks a
chunk of green chili out of the paneer sandwich, she makes a
note to have the workers chop the chilies into smaller pieces.  Entry-Level Naan  “If someone bites into that,” she frowns, “they might be
put off our food for a while.”  She describes the naan sandwich as Cafe Spice’s entry-level
item.  “To the consumer, it’s just another flatbread sandwich
with a different filling,” says Payal. “People eat it, and
then say, ‘This sandwich had chicken tikka in it, and I like
that, so what else is comparable?’”  Sameer envisions 50 Cafe Spice-branded kiosks in campus and
corporate cafeterias nationwide by 2016. The new locations will
be designed to resemble a market stall, complete with faux-worn
wooden trim. Customers will be able to build plates, bowls, or
sandwiches around base entrees. It’s like an Indian version of
the Mexican chain  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)   “I’ve tried everything,” says Sushil Malhotra, animating
his words with a flurry of hand gestures. “This will be my
final project.” Capturing the American appetite, he feels, is
finally within reach. “It’s there, it’s there.”  Winning Over Nurses  At the Hurley Medical Center cafeteria in Flint, it’s clear
Cafe Spice has won over Tracy Daviek, a nurse who had never
tried Indian food until Cafe Spice opened this summer.  “I tried it on the first day,” she says, dipping a piece
of naan into bhindi okra masala. “My favorite is the chicken,”
she says, and turns to Steve Dunn. “You know, the one in the
red sauce?”  “Chicken tikka masala,” Dunn says.  “Yeah, and the mango smoothies,” Daviek says.  “Lassi,” Dunn says.  Another nurse comes and eyes Dunn’s plate of chicken
vindaloo.  “Hey Steve,” she says, “I don’t know what it is, but I
want a taste of that tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Sax via Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net  