-- Great Portland Weighs Partnerships to Help Finance Its West-End Projects
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-02T10:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/great-portland-may-bring-in-partners-to-fund-projects-in-london-s-west-end.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , the
developer focused on London’s West-End district, may bring in
joint-venture partners for its Hanover Square and Rathbone Place
developments to raise capital for the projects, according to
Chief Executive Officer Toby Courtauld.  The company will need to look at all available financing
options for the developments because of their size, the CEO said
today in an interview. No deal will materialize in the short-
term, he said.  “We’re still seeing a significant amount of equity capital
coming into London from overseas, which is keeping property
yields low,” Courtauld said. Prices are unlikely to fall soon
“because demand levels are still very high, particularly from
overseas investors such as sovereign wealth funds.”  Great Portland appointed Ken Shuttleworth’s Make Architects
to work on a revised plan for the Rathbone Place site north of
the Oxford Street shopping district after buying the asset for
120 million pounds ($190 million) in September. The company may
bring in sovereign wealth funds or financial institutions as
investors in Hanover Square and Rathbone Place, JPMorgan
Cazenove analyst Harm Meijer said in a Jan. 31 note.  The developer expects to submit a new planning application
for Rathbone Place in the second half, Courtauld said. The
company has permission to develop more than 200,000 square feet
of offices, apartments and shops at its Hanover Square site in
Mayfair.  The CEO spoke after Great Portland reported that the value
of its buildings appreciated by 2.6 percent excluding
acquisitions and disposals in the quarter through December as
overseas buyers fueled demand for  London  properties.  Bishopsgate Tower  Great Portland is in talks with potential buyers for half
of the company’s 50 percent stake in 100 Bishopsgate, an office
tower project in the City of London financial district,
Courtauld said. Construction won’t proceed until a tenant agrees
to lease at least a “significant” amount of the building in
advance, the CEO said in November.  “There are not that many tenants looking for pre-let space
in the City, as you might expect given the financial services
community is having a rough ride. However, there are some, and
we will be talking to them,” he said.  The remaining 50 percent stake in 100 Bishopsgate is owned
by  Brookfield Office Properties (BPO) , lower  Manhattan ’s largest
landlord. The company doesn’t plan to increase the stake, Martin Jepson, senior vice president for development and investment,
said by e-mail on Jan. 19.  Great Portland will look at a “mixed bag” of acquisitions
this year, including distressed assets. The CEO doesn’t expect a
surge in forced sales.  “That’s partly because London has typically not been a
highly levered investment market, it tends to be quite a high
equity market,” Courtauld said. “You have to look very hard.
You have to dig around in the undergrowth to find interesting
deals and that’s what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 