-- Greece Seeks Second Rescue, Fights for Euro
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-03T11:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/greece-seen-as-struggle-even-after-2nd-rescue.html
Greece ’s fight to win its second
international bailout may only open a new chapter in its
struggle to remain in the euro area.  The rescue plan, which European officials and Greek
creditors say may be wrapped up in coming days, includes a loss
of more than 70 percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt
exchange and loans likely to exceed the 130 billion euros ($171
billion) now on the table.  That won’t stanch the bleeding, say economists including
Holger Schmieding of Berenberg Bank in  London . Greece will be
saddled with too much debt, too little growth and too large a
budget hole to do without even more money that euro nations led
by  Germany  are increasingly reluctant to offer, they say.  “Greece is in deep trouble,” Schmieding said in a Jan. 30
report. “The current Greek adjustment program is failing.
Excessive austerity, a lack of supply-side reforms,
administrative incompetence and political deadlock have pushed
the Greek economy into an apparent death spiral. More of the
same will not work.”  As Greek officials negotiate with representatives of the
so-called troika -- the European Commission, the European
Central Bank and the  International Monetary Fund  -- Deutsche
Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  may travel to
 Athens  this weekend for talks over a swap involving Greek debt
with a face value of about 200 billion euros.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said today the country
is close to completing the bailout talks.  ‘Final Phase’  “We are in the final phase of this very critical process
to shape a new financing program for Greece and to complete the
loan agreement which will lighten the burden of public debt and
ensure funding for years to come,” Papademos said in a
statement posted on his website.  The euro is headed for a weekly decline against all of its
16 major peers. It rose 0.2 percent to $1.3169 at 11:45 a.m. in
London. The yield on Germany’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 1.5
basis points to 1.84 percent, while the yield on Italian 10-year
bonds declined 2 basis points to 5.58 percent.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet. The aim is to cut
Greece’s debt load to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020 from 162 percent in 2011. The alternative is an
uncontrolled default that may lead to deeper losses and ripple
effects throughout  Europe .  Agreement Seen  An agreement could be reached “in the coming weeks, maybe
days,” said Ackermann, also chairman of the Institute of
International Finance. The group, based in  Washington , has more
than 450 financial firms as members and is representing private
creditors in the talks.  Meantime, the finance ministers of the AAA-rated euro
countries -- Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Finland --
are set to meet today in Berlin to discuss options.  “We can’t pay into a bottomless pit,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday. “Greece needs a new
program, there’s no question about that, but Greece must create
the conditions for it.”  Greece remains in intensive care more than two years after
triggering Europe’s debt crisis, testing the patience of other
European Union nations. Last November, when discussing the Greek
situation, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for the first time raised the prospect
of a country’s exit from the euro.  Contagion  Failure to control Greece’s troubles helped to push Ireland
and Portugal into rescue programs, to raise borrowing costs for
Italy and Spain, to embroil the  European Central Bank  in a
controversial program of sovereign-bond purchases and to prompt
 Standard & Poor’s  to strip  France  of its top  credit rating .  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country is in
its fifth year of recession, with a  budget deficit  still close
to 10 percent of gross domestic product and unemployment of
around 18 percent.  Bond Payment  Facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20 and
general elections as soon as April, Papademos’s caretaker
government must heed familiar calls by the euro area and the IMF
for tighter austerity to complete the talks on a second aid
package. The demands are also for lower wage costs and the
deregulation of professions including lawyers and truck drivers.  The cuts risk triggering a “social explosion,”
Hieronymos II, the head of Greece’s Orthodox Church, said in a
statement posted on the website of the  Archdiocese of Athens .  “We are being asked to take even larger doses of a
medicine that has proven to be deadly and to undertake
commitments that do not solve the problem, but only temporarily
postpone the foretold death of our economy,” the Archbishop
said.  Greece will default on its debt and is likely to leave the
euro, Nobel economics laureate  Paul Krugman  said yesterday at a
conference in Moscow.  “The Greek situation is essentially impossible,” Krugman
said. “They will default on their debt. In fact they already
have. The question is whether they will also leave the euro,
which I think at this point is more likely than not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  