-- Ticketmaster Rival Ticketfly Doubles Concert Sales on IPO Path
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/ticketmaster-rival-ticketfly-doubles-concert-sales-on-ipo-path.html
Ticketfly Inc., the online ticket
service, says it is winning venues from  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s Ticketmaster and weighing an initial public
offering.  The four-year-old company has signed about 70 halls that
were previously with Ticketmaster, including The Troubadour in
Los Angeles and the 9:30 Club in  Washington , said  Andrew
Dreskin , co-founder and chief executive officer.  “The momentum has been overwhelming, and we’ve gotten
where we are today faster than we had envisioned,” Dreskin said
in an interview. “I could see this being a public company.”  The 2010 merger of Ticketmaster, which dominates event
ticketing, and Live Nation, the world’s biggest concert
promoter, has led some live-music venues to look for
alternatives, Dreskin said. Ticketfly, where about a fifth of
the locations are former Ticketmaster clients, doubled revenue
and the number of tickets sold in 2011 from a year ago, he said.  The San Francisco-based company, founded by Dreskin and Dan
Teree in 2008, said in April it raised $12 million from
investors led by Mohr Davidow Ventures. High Peaks Venture
Partners was among the earlier investors who added more. The
funding brought the total  capital  raised to $15 million.  Before Ticketfly, Dreskin created TicketWeb, an online
ticker seller that he sold to Ticketmaster in 2000 for $35.2
million.  Facebook Sales  Ticketfly allows venues, promoters and artists to sell
tickets directly through their own websites and pages on
Facebook Inc.’s social network. They only have to enter the
information once, and Ticketfly will automatically send messages
on Twitter Inc.’s micro-blogging service. It also manages
clients’ e-mail newsletters.  “I can post an event from my iPhone and it’s immediately
on sale,” Jonathan Halperin, talent booker at  The Glass House ,
an 800-capacity venue in Pomona,  California , that switched about
two years ago, said in an interview. “That just wasn’t possible
with Ticketmaster.”  Ticketfly charges lower fees and some artists and promoters
prefer it over Ticketmaster, which has irritated customers with
surcharges, Halperin said.  Venues using Ticketfly sold 16 percent more tickets on
average in 2011 than a year earlier, compared with an
industrywide gain of about 2.7 percent, the company said.  “We’re seeing a transformation in ticketing, a moment of
great disruption,” Dreskin said. “I’m not sure we’ll see this
kind of opportunity again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  