-- Lightspeed Raising $875M for U.S., China Funds
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/lightspeed-venture-said-to-be-raising-875-million-for-u-s-china-funds.html
Lightspeed Venture Partners , an
investor in LivingSocial.com, has almost completed raising two
funds, one in the U.S. and one in China, totaling about $875
million, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The  Menlo Park , California-based firm’s U.S. fund is
gathering about $675 million, with the remaining $200 million
going to the China fund, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Venture capital firms are luring investors after the
biggest year for U.S. Internet initial public offerings in more
than a decade. In the past two months, Peter Thiel’s Founders
Fund, Andreessen Horowitz and  Canaan Partners  have raised funds
ranging from $600 million to $1.5 billion. Lightspeed, which has
offices in the U.S.,  China , India and Israel, raised its last
fund in 2008, when it pulled in $800 million.  A call for comment placed to Lightspeed wasn’t returned.  The firm disclosed in separate regulatory filings in
December and January that it was seeking commitments of $675
million for  Lightspeed Venture Partners IX , and that it had
already amassed $84.4 million for  Lightspeed China Partners I .  Lightspeed was an early investor in  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) , a maker
of flash-memory technology that held its IPO in June. Lightspeed
owns a 9.2 percent stake, valued at $184.7 million, in the Salt
Lake City-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lightspeed is also an investor in daily-deal site
LivingSocial.com and owned a stake in Playdom Inc., the social-
game company purchased in 2010 by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   In China, the firm invested in 99Bill, an online-payment
company.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  