-- Miliband Will Ask Parliament to Vote on U.K. Bank Bonuses
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-03T13:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/miliband-will-ask-parliament-to-vote-on-u-k-bank-bonus-culture.html
Ed Miliband , the leader of the
opposition Labour Party, will ask lawmakers to vote next week on
a motion saying that pay at all British banks is out of control
and urging curbs from any institution benefiting from an
implicit government guarantee.  While the vote in the House of Commons on Feb. 7 won’t be
binding on the government or any bank, Miliband has succeeded
before in using Parliament to express public outrage. In July,
 News Corp . dropped its bid for the remainder of British Sky
Broadcasting Plc before a debate called by the Labour leader,
and on Jan. 29,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester  said he’d give up his bonus after
Miliband called for a vote on it.  “The kind of huge bonuses which have caused such
controversy recently should not be handed out for just doing
your job,” Miliband said in a speech in London today. “Too
many are getting bonuses which are too big, too often.”  Miliband argued that even though lenders such as  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  weren’t bailed out by the state in
2008 like RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , they’re still
benefiting from unspoken government backing and should behave
accordingly. He said that voters expect them to exhibit
restraint in a time of austerity.  ‘Paying the Price’  “The consequences of the financial crisis are felt every
time a library closes, every time a school can’t afford a new
book, and every time a policeman or policewoman is taken off the
beat,” Miliband said.  “The lesson of this week is to recognize the wider
environment in which banks are operating,” he said. “People
who did not cause the financial crisis are paying the price. Too
many of those who did cause the financial crisis are not.”  As banks enter their bonus season, they’ve been on the
receiving end of a public backlash. Two days after Hester waived
his bonus, his predecessor,  Fred Goodwin , was stripped of the
knighthood he’d been awarded in 2004 for “services to banking”
because of his role in RBS’s downfall.  Miliband praised RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  for turning
down a 1.4 million-pound ($2.2 million) stock award. Hampton
said today the lender had failed to grasp how people in Britain
would view the bonus awarded to Hester.  “It is true we underestimated the scale of the public
reaction,” Hampton told the “Today” program on BBC Radio 4.
He said that bankers’ pay had been “high for too long” in
general, though it was now falling. He added that Hester’s
compensation wasn’t excessive relative to other senior bankers.  Barclays is already planning to cut compensation for the
24,000 employees at its investment banking unit by as much as 30
percent, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  “This is a call for banking to recognize it has reached a
crossroads,” Miliband said today. “To recognize that
continuing on its current path will lead to further isolation
from society, greater public anger -- and an economy which does
not pay its way in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  