-- January Retail Sales Exceed Estimates on Post-Holiday Deals
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-02-02T21:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/limited-target-sales-exceed-estimates-on-post-holiday-deals.html
Same-store sales at U.S. retailers in
January topped analysts’ estimates, led by  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) 
and Target Corp., as shoppers took advantage of post-holiday
discounts.  Sales at Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of the
Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain, climbed 9 percent, beating the
average projection for a 2.7 percent gain from analysts surveyed
by researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Target, the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, posted a 4.3 percent increase in same-
store sales, topping the 2.4 percent estimate.  More shoppers cashed out their holiday gift cards and
sought out clearances on winter apparel, according to a
Bloomberg Industries report. The consumer comfort index improved
in December, meaning shoppers were more inclined to spend,
according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. weekly retail note.  “The consumer continues to be resilient and sought out all
the good deals, propelled by momentum for a strong holiday
season” Alison Paul, retail sector leader at  Deloitte & Touche
LLP  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “Milder winter
weather could have encouraged people to get out and shop.”  Gap Inc. (GPS) , based in  San Francisco , beat estimates as sales
fell 4 percent compared with an estimated decline of 5 percent.
The largest U.S. apparel chain said it expects fourth-quarter
earnings to be as much as 42 cents per share. That beats the 35-
cent estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gap Gains  Gap  rose  11 percent to $21.52 at the close in New York for
the biggest gain since Nov. 21, 2008.  Excluding  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , same store
sales for the 20 companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-
based Retail Metrics advanced 4 percent, beating estimates for a
3 percent gain.  J.C. Penney didn’t report monthly results today, while
Walgreen won’t report until tomorrow.  Limited rose 3.8 percent to $43.51 at the close in New
York.  Target (TGT) , based in  Minneapolis , rose 1.1 percent to $52.  Department store chain  Macy’s Inc. (M)  missed estimates with a
2.4 percent gain, compared with a 3.8 percent prediction.
 Dillards Inc. (DDS) , the  Little Rock , Arkansas-based department store,
also trailed expectations, reporting little change in sales.
Analysts had predicted a 3 percent gain.  Department-Store Miss  “Expectations for the department store sector might have
been too high,” Paul said in a telephone interview. “Those
stores rely on winter attire such as heavy coats, which haven’t
been as necessary this year.”  North America ’s weather is the  third-warmest  in 50 years,
according to Planalytics, a Wayne, Pennsylvania-based market
research firm.  Macy’s shares rose 3.7 percent to $35.23 in  New York .
Dillards rose 3 percent to $45.22.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  