-- Impala Fires 17,200 Workers at World’s Biggest Platinum Mine
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-02T17:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/impala-fires-17-200-workers-at-world-s-biggest-platinum-mine-1-.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,
producer of about a quarter of global platinum, fired 17,200
workers after an illegal pay strike halted its Rustenburg mine,
the world’s biggest for the metal.  The number includes 13,000 employees who joined the
stoppage, declared illegal by court order, after they failed to
return to work by yesterday’s deadline, the Johannesburg-based
company said in a statement today. The strike is costing Impala
about 3,000 ounces of platinum daily, the equivalent of $4.9
million in sales a day.  The Rustenburg operation, northwest of Johannesburg,
accounts for half of Impala’s total production and about two-
thirds of its profit. The mine produced 941,200 ounces in
Impala’s last fiscal year.  South Africa  is the world’s largest
producer of the metal used in car components and jewelery.  Impala fell 2.5 percent to 170.68 rand by the close of
Johannesburg trading, compared with larger rival  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ’s 0.5 percent decline.  Disruptions at the mine, which employed 46,653 permanent
and contract workers last year, started on Jan. 20 when about
5,000 rock-drill operators began a strike over pay. They were
dismissed. By Jan. 26, about 15 percent of them returned to work
at the mine.  The strike widened this week when the majority of staff
didn’t report for duty, Impala said Jan. 30, adding the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, which isn’t
formally recognized by Impala, “attempted to gain recognition”
at the mine.  ‘Big Battle’  The  National Union of Mineworkers , which represents most
Impala workers and is recognized by the company, dispatched a
team “to help normalize the situation,” NUM spokesman  Lesiba
Seshoka  said yesterday.  “It will be a very big battle,” Seshoka said, and
production is unlikely to resume soon.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, whose NUM
affiliate represents most employees at the operation, asked
Impala to reinstate the jobs.  “A process of rehiring for those employees who wish to
reapply for their positions will be undertaken in due course,”
Impala said today.  Jeff Mphahlele, general secretary for the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union, which represents some of the
rock drill operators, couldn’t immediately comment when reached
by mobile phone. Dumisani Nkalitshana, the union’s national
organizer, didn’t respond to a message left on his mobile phone.  Rock-drill operators went on strike because they weren’t
given the same pay increases other categories of worker were
awarded, Seshoka said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  