-- India’s Supreme Court Scraps Mobile Licenses Amid 2G Probe
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-02-02T11:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/india-court-cancels-mobile-phone-licenses-issued-from-2008.html
India ’s  Supreme Court  canceled 122
mobile-phone permits whose sale in 2008 sparked the nation’s
biggest corruption investigation and led to the jailing of a
former minister.  Shares of  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , part of the group that bought
licenses used by  Norway ’s Telenor ASA for its operations in
India, slumped in Mumbai as the court scrapped the permits and
ordered operators to pay as much as 50 million rupees ($1
million) as penalty, according to the ruling by judges G.S.
Singhvi and A.K. Ganguly.  India’s auditor said in a 2010 report the sale of the
airwaves lacked transparency and ineligible bidders bought them
at “unbelievably low” prices, denying the treasury of as much
as $31 billion.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest wireless
operator, surged the most in 19 months on speculation the
carrier may win more spectrum when the government reallocates
the frequencies released by the cancellations.  “Finally, some action is being taken on the scam,” said
Deepti Chaturvedi, executive director of equity research at CLSA
India Ltd. in Mumbai. “I wouldn’t jump to the conclusion” the
cancellations would help incumbents like Bharti, since the
spectrum would likely be auctioned, she said.  Weakened Government   The corruption allegations have weakened Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government and stalled the legislative agenda
for most of the last 14 months, while sparking street protests
and hunger strikes for an anti-graft law.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , who has
denied all wrongdoing, is in jail in New Delhi facing trial,
while former officials in his ministry and a lawmaker got bail.  Unitech slumped 6.9 percent, the most since Dec. 16, to
25.10 rupees at the close in Mumbai, while  Telenor (TEL)  had its
biggest intraday drop in three months in Oslo.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , India’s second-biggest carrier, fell 3.7
percent to 96.70 rupees.  `Unfairly Treated'  Uninor, the Indian venture between Telenor and Unitech
Group, said it had been “unfairly treated,” according to an e-
mailed statement today. It will continue operations for the time
being and “exercise all options available to ensure that Uninor
continues to operate in India.”  The court’s verdict was in response to petitions from non-
government organizations and individuals, who questioned the
validity of the licenses.  The Supreme Court canceled permits held by companies
including  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , Unitech Wireless Pvt., Etisalat DB
Telecom Pvt., Loop Telecom Ltd., Videocon Telecommunications,
Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd. and S Tel Ltd. The court said
the companies may continue with their operations for four
months.  “The Supreme Court has made up its mind to put in some
level of transparency and some level of discipline in terms of
how this industry is run,” said Kamlesh Bhatia, an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in Mumbai. “Clearly, being at the center stage of
a lot of the social and financial inclusion programs the
government’s investing in, telecom is a very important industry
and should have sustained levels of investment.”  Penalties  Tata Teleservices Ltd., Unitech Wireless, and  DB Realty
Ltd. (DBRL)  have each been ordered to pay 50 million rupees in
penalties, while Loop Telecom and Sistema Shyam Teleservices
have been ordered to pay 20 million rupees each.  The court today asked the Telecom Regulatory Authority of
India to recommend to the government the next course of action.  The government will abide by the court’s verdict and
prepare rules for auctioning the airwaves,  Kapil Sibal , minister
of communications and information technology, told reporters in
New Delhi today. The ministry will “delink” the spectrum it
provides to carriers from the permits, he said.  India delayed by six months the announcement of a new
national telecommunications policy, which Sibal says will set
guidelines for the pricing of spectrum and standardize a
procedure for the sale of airwaves.  `A Curse'  The paucity of spectrum availability for wireless operators
in India was “a curse to the industry,” Samaresh Parida,
director of strategy at  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Indian unit, said
last month.  Sibal was appointed to the post after former minister Raja
resigned in November 2010, two days before the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India said in a report that the airwaves were
sold in 2008 for 123.9 billion rupees, causing a loss of as much
as 1.5 trillion rupees to the nation.  Bharti surged 6.8 percent, the most since July 2010, to
close at 385.85 rupees. The stock was the  best performer  on the
benchmark BSE India Sensex, which rose 0.8 percent.  “The next step is, what is the government going to do?”
said Hemant Joshi, partner at Deloitte Haskins & Sells. “They
have a window of opportunity through the national telecom policy
-- hopefully they can bring some clarity through that.”  -- With assistance from Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi .
Editors: Subramaniam Sharma, David Merritt  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  