-- India’s Rupee Rises to Three-Month High on Manufacturing Pickup
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-02-02T11:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/india-s-rupee-rises-to-three-month-high-on-manufacturing-pickup.html
India ’s rupee climbed to a three-
month high after a private report showed the nation’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in eight months.  The currency rose for a third day, strengthening past 49
per dollar for the first time since Nov. 4, after HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics reported yesterday that the  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index rose to 57.5 in January from 54.2 the previous
month. Overseas investors bolstered holdings of Indian shares by
$2.2 billion in January, exchange data show.  “The manufacturing data are supporting investor sentiment
and the expectation of inflows” and helping the rupee gain,
said  Paresh Nayar , Mumbai-based head of money-market and
currency trading at FirstRand Bank Ltd. After rising past the
“important psychological level” of 49, the rupee may find
technical resistance at 48.80, he said. Resistance refers to a
level on a price chart where sell orders may be clustered.  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 49.16 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
48.95 earlier, the strongest level since Nov. 1, and has
appreciated 7.9 percent this year in  Asia ’s best currency
performance.  The rupee also advanced after reports yesterday showed
manufacturing picked up last month in the world’s biggest
economies. The official Chinese purchasing managers’ index
increased to 50.5 from 50.3 in December. In the U.S., the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to 54.1
from 53.1 in December.  India’s central bank asked commercial lenders to
“rigorously evaluate” the unhedged foreign-currency exposures
of their clients and charge a premium for such risks while
extending credit to them, according to a statement on its
website today.  Three-month onshore forward contracts traded at 50.16 a
dollar compared with 50.31 yesterday. Offshore non-deliverable
forwards were at 50.08 versus 50.30. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  