-- India Court Adds to Singh Flip-Flop as Telenor Sees Investment in Jeopardy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-02-03T12:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/india-court-adds-to-singh-flip-flop-as-telenor-risks-jeopardy.html
The Indian  Supreme Court ’s decision
yesterday to scrap tainted phone licenses is spurring concern
frequent policy flip-flops will deter foreign investment when
the economy needs about $1 trillion over the next five years.  The top court yesterday decided that mobile permits won by
11 companies in a 2008 sale, the subject of a probe by federal
auditors and investigators, would be canceled and will be
auctioned at a later date. The court issued the ruling 14 months
after the auditor said the state may have lost as much as $31
billion from the sale at “unbelievably low” prices.  “The fact that the court has voided these contracts as a
consequence of the government’s failure in the court’s eyes to
achieve best price could have a chilling effect on foreign
investment,” said Thomas Britt, head of the India practice of
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in  Hong Kong . “Foreign investors want
predictability and certainty about enforceability for their
contracts.”  Policy U-turns, including Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
decision under coalition duress in December to halt the entry of
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Carrefour SA, have sapped investor
confidence in the $1.7 trillion economy. The rupee slumped 16
percent last year in its worst performance of the region,
touching a record low, while the benchmark  stock index  slid 25
percent, even as the corruption allegations sparked protests and
hunger strikes for a powerful anti-graft bill.  Personal Benefit  The Comptroller and Auditor General said in a report
submitted on Nov. 16, 2010, that the cut-price, first-come,
first-served sale four years ago to ineligible bidders was
“arbitrary and lacked transparency.” Jailed former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  and bureaucrats and
company officials on bail are facing charges they conspired to
grant permits for personal benefit. All deny any wrongdoing.  The ruling puts at risk, among others,  Telenor ASA (TEL) ’s $1.2
billion investment in India through a venture with real-estate
developer  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  “When we have not caused any of the
faults found by the courts, it is obvious to everyone that our
investment must not be jeopardized,” the Fornebu, Norway-based
operator, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The Supreme Court canceled permits held by companies
including  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , Unitech Wireless Pvt., Etisalat DB
Telecom Pvt., Loop Telecom Ltd., Videocon Telecommunications,
Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd. and S Tel Ltd.  Unitech rose 3.6 percent to 26 rupees at close in Mumbai
after falling as much as 6.4 percent earlier today. Telenor
declined 1.6 percent to 92.2 kroner as of 1:21 p.m. in Oslo.  ‘Get Out’  Telenor “really needs to get out because shareholders
worry that capital discipline will be broken in  India ,” said
Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at  Societe
Generale  in  London . He estimates that the operator may have to
pay an additional $2.1 billion to rebid for the permits
rescinded by the court.  “We look at this as an attack on the process and the
execution of the process and not as an attack directly on
Telenor,” Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas said in a
phone interview yesterday. “But it creates an enormously high
level of insecurity for investments in this sector and also into
other industry sectors in India. Particularly for foreigners who
are in need of a certain level of protection when you move into
a new country.”  Tata Teleservices Ltd., Unitech Wireless, and DB Realty
Ltd. have each been ordered to pay 50 million rupees in
penalties, while Loop Telecom and Sistema Shyam Teleservices
have been ordered to pay 20 million rupees each.  ‘Money Power’  The court yesterday asked the Telecom Regulatory Authority
of India to recommend the next course of action, after saying
those who earlier obtained the licenses had “ money power ” and
the “ability to manipulate the system.” The decision to repeal
the licenses was fair because the sale was rigged, said Pavan Duggal, a Supreme Court lawyer specializing in
telecommunications law.  “Never before in the history of independent India has
something so valuable been sold at such low prices,” New Delhi-
based Duggal said. “This is a huge rebuke to the government and
an indictment of the ad hoc manner in which governmental
procedures were deliberately tampered with.”  The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
said in a statement yesterday that the court’s decision ends the
uncertainty over policy and will pave the way for investment
into the country, though “it may take some time.”  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  criticized
Singh’s administration yesterday after the verdict.  Global Doubts  “The verdict has not only put a question mark on the
government’s morality, but has also created doubts worldwide of
the country’s economy and its functioning,” said  Arun Jaitley ,
leader of the opposition in parliament’s upper house.  The government needs foreign investment to double planned
spending on infrastructure to $1 trillion in the five years to
accelerate growth 10 percent and lift living standards in the
nation. India is currently ranked 89th among 142 nations by the
 World Economic Forum  for infrastructure quality.  P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at Angel Broking Ltd. based
in  Mumbai ., said the Supreme Court’s decision presents “a very
bad image” to the international investment community and will
make foreign companies think twice about investing in the
country’s  telecommunications industry.  “It’s going to lead to lots of questions from investors,”
said Sekhar. “Investors are going to be disturbed by the fact
that you can follow the government’s policies and then tomorrow
a court may scrap that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  