-- Indonesia Growth Probably Exceeded 6% as Domestic Strength Counters Europe
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-02-03T08:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/indonesia-economy-growth-probably-exceeded-6-for-fifth-quarter.html
Indonesia ’s growth probably exceeded
6 percent for a fifth quarter as domestic demand helped
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy withstand the European debt
turmoil that has hurt exports across Asia.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.45 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 6.5 percent pace in
the previous three months, according to the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  ahead of a government
report due Feb. 6.  Bank Indonesia  will keep its benchmark rate
at a record-low 6 percent, according to 11 of 15 estimates
before a Feb. 9 decision.  Indonesia is outperforming its neighbors including  Thailand 
and the  Philippines (PHGDPYOY) , as two rate cuts in the last quarter aided
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s efforts to increase gross
domestic product by an average 6.6 percent a year. The country
regained investment-grade rating from Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings for the first time since the Asian financial
crisis in recent weeks, boosting investment prospects as it
plans transport and utility projects.  “The government needs to continue to build up
infrastructure to sustain this kind of growth,” said Leslie
Tang, an economist at OSK-DMG Group in  Singapore . “Rising
incomes are feeding into consumption which is supporting the
domestic economy. There is no necessity for the central bank to
cut rates further unless the external situation deteriorates
significantly.”  Monetary, Fiscal Stimulus  Indonesia’s policy makers have signaled they are prepared
to support the economy with monetary and fiscal stimulus as
 Europe ’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis threatens global
expansion and crimps demand for Asian exports.  Bank Indonesia, which kept its benchmark rate unchanged in
January for a second month after reductions in October and
November, has widened the lower range of its interbank lending
rate since then to push borrowing costs lower. The government
said in September it was preparing a stimulus package, and
Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the  finance
ministry , said last month the country will increase spending to
bolster growth and limit the impact of a global slowdown.  The nation’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 8,985 per dollar
as of 3:02 p.m. Jakarta time, according to the local prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.8 percent last
month.  Profits Climb  Lower borrowing costs have bolstered profit at lenders
including PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia. The nation’s second-biggest
bank by market value expects net income to have risen by at
least 15 percent last year, it said Jan. 24.  Growth in many Asian countries is weakening.  South Korea ’s
economy grew the least in two years last quarter and  China 
reported last month its weakest expansion in 10 quarters.
Philippine GDP rose 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, while Thailand’s grew 3.5 percent in the third
quarter.  Yudhoyono’s push to boost infrastructure and curb
corruption has lured funds, helping the nation’s bonds return
more than 5 percent this year, the biggest gainers among 10
local-currency debt indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The
Indonesian rupiah reached a three-month high last month.  Indonesia’s parliament approved in December a land-
acquisition bill that will allow the government to accelerate
road, port and airport projects.  Moody’s raised Indonesia’s sovereign debt rating to Baa3
from Ba1 last month. Fitch upgraded its rating to BBB- in
December, citing “strong and resilient” growth and declining
public-debt ratios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  