-- Intercontinental West Texas Crude Trade Drops 52% in January
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-02-02T18:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/intercontinental-west-texas-crude-trade-drops-52-in-january-1-.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures market, said U.S. West Texas
Intermediate crude oil futures volume fell 52 percent in
January, compared with a year ago.  Average daily volume of WTI contracts, the grade of oil
that sets wholesale prices in the U.S., was 157,027 last month,
down from 326,694 a year ago, the Atlanta-based company said in
a statement today. Intercontinental’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange offers trading in WTI and Brent crude oil, the grade
that sets wholesale prices worldwide.  “The fall in volume is indicative of less money flowing
into the market,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group, a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “A lot
of the funds had a very poor year.”  Claire Miller, an Intercontinental spokeswoman in London,
declined to comment.  Intercontinental Exchange’s competitor  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
world’s largest futures marketplace, saw January WTI volume fall
30 percent compared to last year, said Damon Leavell, a
spokesman.  Trading was “unusually high” in January 2011 because of
investor concern that the Arab Spring uprisings would cut oil
supply, Leavell said, a trend that persisted for all of the
first quarter last year. Open interest, or the amount of active
WTI contracts, was up this year, which typically means volumes
will increase, he said.  Total volume at ICE Futures Europe fell 5.4 percent last
month, compared with a year earlier. At the three futures
exchanges owned by Intercontinental, average volume dropped 5.7
percent, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 