-- Intelligence Doesn’t Support Obama’s Upbeat View of Afghanistan
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-02-02T01:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/intelligence-doesn-t-support-obama-s-upbeat-view-of-afghanistan.html
Intelligence reports are at odds with 
claims by President  Barack Obama  and other top U.S. officials 
that the Taliban are in retreat, Afghan security forces are 
growing stronger and the Afghan government is becoming more 
effective.  A National Intelligence Estimate given to Obama last month
concluded that the Taliban remain resilient and determined to
re-impose their brand of harsh Islamic rule on the country, and
that Afghan forces and the civilian government are still plagued
by corruption and ineffectiveness. The estimate, the consensus
view of the intelligence community, was described by two U.S.
officials who have read it and agreed to discuss it only
anonymously because it’s classified.  In his Jan. 24 State of the Union message to Congress,
Obama said the “the Taliban’s momentum has been broken,”
enabling a transition to the Afghan government and security
forces.  “We’ve begun to wind down the war in  Afghanistan ,” Obama
said, drawing applause from lawmakers. “Ten thousand of our
troops have come home. Twenty-three thousand more will leave by
the end of this summer. The transition to Afghan lead will
continue, and we will build an enduring partnership with
Afghanistan, so that it is never again a source of attacks
against America.”  Other top American officials have underscored the White
House message. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  yesterday said 
the U.S.-led NATO coalition in Afghanistan aims to end most of 
its combat role starting in the middle of next year, ahead of 
the planned withdrawal of all U.S. forces by the end of 2014.  Atlantic Alliance  Much of the Atlantic alliance is saying the same thing, as
Panetta and other NATO defense ministers gather today in
Brussels. Coalition forces are making good progress in
Afghanistan and their Afghan counterparts will take
responsibility for all security by the end of 2014, a senior
NATO official told reporters yesterday.  Testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Jan.
30, Director of National Intelligence  James Clapper , whose
office prepares all National Intelligence Estimates, was less
optimistic.  The Taliban’s losses have come mainly in areas where
coalition forces are concentrated, he said, and the militant
Islamist group “remains resilient and capable of challenging
U.S. and international goals.”  “Taliban senior leaders continue to enjoy safe haven in
Pakistan, which enables them to provide strategic direction to
the insurgency and not fear for their safety,” he said.  While coalition assistance has begun to show “signs of
sustainable progress at the tactical and ministerial levels,”
Clapper said, “corruption as well as poor leadership and
management will threaten Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF)
operational effectiveness.”  ‘Incremental Improvements’  The Afghan government has made only “incremental
improvements extending the rule of law” and provinces still
struggle to provide essential service, he said.  Moreover, “access to official governance is primarily 
limited to urban areas, such as district and provincial 
capitals, leaving much of the rural population isolated from 
the government,” he said.  As for its economy, Clapper said, “Afghanistan is the
largest supplier of illicit opium to the world market and
probably produces enough to fulfill yearly global demand for
illicit opiates. Afghans earned $1.8 billion from the opiate
trade, equivalent to 12 percent of the licit GDP in 2010,
according to the U.S. government,  International Monetary Fund 
and United Nations estimates.”  Other intelligence reports are similarly downbeat.  Taliban Victory ‘Inevitable’  “State of the Taliban,” a NATO report based on
interrogations of thousands of captured Taliban prisoners, said
that some Afghan soldiers are collaborating with the Taliban,
even selling weapons and vehicles and providing intelligence on
coalition forces, the  BBC  reported yesterday.  Once the coalition withdraws, “the Taliban considers
victory inevitable,” according to an excerpt of the report
posted on the BBC website.  NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu declined to comment on a
classified document during a briefing in Brussels yesterday.  Separately, a U.S. Defense Department report provided to
the U.S. House Armed Services Committee yesterday said that
Afghan army and police forces or civilian contractors have
attacked U.S.-led coalition forces at least 46 times since May
2007, including an attack yesterday in which an Afghan soldier
shot and killed a U.S. Marine in the southern province of
Helmand.  ‘The Insider Threat’  “The insider threat is an issue of increasing significance
to coalition forces and Afghan national security forces
operating in Afghanistan,” David Sedney, the deputy assistant
secretary of defense for Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and Central Asia,
and other Pentagon officials said in prepared testimony. “It
creates distrust between our forces and their Afghan
counterparts during a critical juncture in Afghanistan.”  Panetta and other officials don’t dispute the intelligence
estimates. They argue instead that the latest is already
outdated because such documents take months to prepare. In
addition, they said, the National Intelligence Estimate doesn’t
include a look at what might happen if the U.S. and its allies
provide more support to the Afghan government and security
forces after 2014.  “The problem with an NIE is that you basically take a
picture of a situation at a given time, and sometimes it doesn’t
take into consideration what’s happening at the moment,”
Panetta told reporters yesterday.  No Rapid Improvement  The other problem “is that I think their conclusion was
based on the fact that we would have no presence beyond 2014,
which is not going to be the case, and we pointed that out as
well,” he said.  Still, the NIE doesn’t forecast rapid improvements in
Afghan security forces or governance, or a Taliban defeat, even
at the current levels of foreign assistance, said the two U.S.
officials. Both domestic politics and budget pressures in the
U.S. and  Europe  make it unclear whether even those levels can be
sustained, they said.  Last week, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said his nation
will withdraw its troops a year before the 2014 date that NATO
set at a 2010 meeting in Lisbon.  Sticking with the plan to pull out most coalition forces on
schedule is a more popular course in the U.S. and Western Europe
than trying to slow the withdrawal, given waning public,
congressional and European support for the war.  “Absent some big set of events in Afghanistan, I think the
withdrawal narrative is a positive one for the president,” said
Democratic political consultant  Tad Devine  in a telephone
interview. “If nothing big happens, he can talk about how he
oversaw the end of the war in  Iraq  and now is ending the war in
Afghanistan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  