-- Lira Drops First Time in 3 Days on Profit-Taking, Importer Bids
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-02T16:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/lira-drops-first-time-in-3-days-on-profit-taking-importer-bids.html
The lira weakened for the first time
in three days as traders took profits after the currency
recorded its biggest gain this year yesterday and importers
began buying dollars.  The lira depreciated 0.2 percent to 1.7585 at 5:20 p.m. in
Istanbul, paring its rise this year to 7.5 percent. The currency
strengthened 1.2 percent yesterday, its biggest increase this
year.  “We’re seeing importers on bid again and also some profit-
taking,” Eren Yardimci, an emerging-market currency trader at
UBS AG in Zurich, said in e-mailed comments.  The lira fell 18 percent against the dollar last year, the
biggest decline among global currencies, after the country’s
current-account deficit widened to a record as imports surged.
The currency has strengthened this year as promises for more
liquidity from global central banks increased capital flows to
 emerging markets  and alleviated investors’ concerns that  Turkey 
may struggle to finance its deficit.  Continued inflows into emerging markets will result in a
stronger lira, though the currency remains “fundamentally under
pressure,” according to a report by Renaissance Capital analyst
Natasha Zagvozdina today. The Russian investment bank sees the
lira falling to 1.85 per dollar by year-end, the report said.  Inflation in Turkey was 10.5 percent in December, the
highest in three years. The current-account deficit declined to
$8.1 billion in January from $8.7 billion in December. It
remains higher compared with November when the reading came in
at $7.5 billion.  Yields (TRABNBM)  on benchmark two-year Turkish bonds rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.37 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  