-- Iran Atomic Tensions Get Respite After IAEA Books Tehran Return
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-02T15:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/iran-atomic-tensions-get-respite-after-iaea-books-return-visit-to-tehran.html
Tension over  Iran ’s alleged atomic-
weapons work may ease in the next month after United Nations
inspectors said they would return for more talks in Tehran and
Israel committed to evaluate the effect of sanctions.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors are preparing
for more talks over the “possible military dimensions to  Iran’s
nuclear program ,” the Vienna-based agency said late yesterday
in a  statement  after a three-day visit that ended Jan. 31. The
team will return to Tehran for talks on Feb. 21 and Feb. 22.  The developments indicate military tensions will ease in
the months ahead, Hague-based  Heinrich Matthee , who advises
governments and companies on risks in the  Strait of Hormuz , said
today by telephone. Still, “it will be difficult to turn down
the rhetoric in the next few months,” he said, citing the U.S.
presidential campaign and Iran’s legislative elections in March.  Iran has threatened to shut down the strait, through which
a fifth of the world’s oil supply passes. Israel says it is
willing to destroy Iran’s atomic infrastructure to prevent
Tehran from building a bomb. Military threats against Iran have
become part of the West’s strategy to convince Iran to abandon
its nuclear program.  Oil dropped to the lowest in six weeks today in  New York .
Crude for March delivery declined $1.01, or 1 percent, to $96.60
a barrel at 9:14 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Futures fell as much as 1.3 percent to $96.30 a
barrel, the lowest level since Dec. 20. Prices are down 2.3
percent this year.  Board Meeting  The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors meets March 5 in
the Austrian capital to discuss Iran. While the agency confirmed
Iran hasn’t used its declared uranium stockpile to make weapons,
inspectors said they have credible intelligence showing the
country studied how to make a nuclear bomb. Iran denies the
charges and says it only wants atomic power.  “While we do not advocate an Israeli military strike, we
believe a more credible Israeli threat can only increase the
pressure on Iran to negotiate,” retired General Charles Wald,
who served the U.S. European Command, said in a written
statement. Wald and former Democratic Senator Charles Robb
advocated selling weapons to  Israel  in a report from the
Bipartisan Policy Center’s National Security Project.  Limited Progress  A European ban on Iranian oil imports and a freeze on
Iranian central bank assets will take “months” to evaluate,
Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said last month. The
country must be “willing to deploy its military against Iran
within a year, Israeli Army Chief of Staff Lieutenant-General
Benny Gantz said yesterday.  Talks over Iran’s nuclear program have made little
progress, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a speech in
Beijing today.  ‘‘We believe that in recent years discussions have not led
to any significant advancement,’’ she said. ‘‘So far we do not
see the transparency of Iranian nuclear plans.’’  By offering to discuss their nuclear program, the Iranians
may willing to step beyond boundaries they’ve set in the past,
said Robert Jordan, a partner with  Baker Botts  and a former U.S.
ambassador to  Saudi Arabia . Iran insisted sanctions be lifted
before substantive talks began about its nuclear program at its
last set of negotiations with  Germany  and permanent members of
the  Security Council  in January 2011.  ‘‘The rhetoric has toned down a bit, but we’ve seen that
roller coaster before,” Jordan said in a Jan. 30 interview from
his office in Dubai. “Often Iran appears to be offering an
olive branch only for the purpose of delay. We’ll just have to
see how legitimate their efforts are to try to reach an
accommodation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  