-- Iran-Turkey Ties Under Increasing Strain From Mideast Sunni-Shiite Divide
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/iran-turkey-ties-under-increasing-strain-from-mideast-sunni-shiite-divide.html
Turkey ’s ties with  Iran  are under
growing strain as the countries split on sectarian lines over
Middle East conflicts, depriving the Islamic republic of an ally
against western nuclear pressure.  Turkey hosts opposition groups seeking to unseat Iran’s
Syrian ally, President Bashar al-Assad. In Iraq, its defense of
Sunni Muslim politicians drew a denunciation of Turkish
“meddling” from Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, a Shiite
formerly exiled in Iran. Turkey is taking legal action over the
price Iran is charging it for gas, while an Iranian commander
warned that a NATO missile shield in Turkey may be a target.  The quarrels undermine a showpiece of premier  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s policy of “zero problems” with Turkey’s neighbors.
Two years ago, Erdogan resisted U.S. pressure and angered
President  Barack Obama  by opposing sanctions on Iran. Now the
U.S. and European Union are tightening curbs, saying they need
to stop Iran developing atomic weapons, and prompting Iran to
warn it may choke off oil trade. Turkey is avoiding the choice
between its biggest crude supplier and main military ally.  “In the long run, if tensions between Iran and the U.S.
continue, or in the end if there’s a military conflict over
Hormuz, Turkey’s current position will become unsustainable,”
said Bulent Aliriza, director of the Turkey Project at the
Center for Strategic & International Studies in  Washington . For
now, he said, Turkey is maintaining its U.S. alliance and
cordial ties with Iran in a “precarious triangle.”  17th Century Peace  Disputes between Turkey and Iran aren’t new. Two of the
 Middle East ’s oldest and most powerful states, they have been
rivals for centuries while avoiding open conflict since a 1639
treaty fixed today’s border. Enmity predominated in the two
decades after Iran’s 1979 revolution, as secular Turkish leaders
accused their neighbor of seeking to export an ideology of
militant Islam.  Erdogan, a politician with Islamist roots, presided over a
détente. Trade surged 12-fold in the last decade to $14.9
billion, and the share of Turkey’s  exports  sold to Iran tripled.
More than half of Turkey’s oil imports and almost a quarter of
its natural gas came from Iran last year.  As ties warmed, the two countries discussed joint ventures,
though most haven’t materialized. A $2 billion venture by  Petkim
Petrokimya Holding AS (PETKM) , Turkey’s biggest petrochemicals company,
to access cheaper raw materials was canceled. Plans for joint
power plants and refineries, a car-making project and Turkish
development of a  gas field  in Iran have been shelved.  Syria Divide  The failure of those economic initiatives underlies the
worsening in relations that became visible during the Arab
uprisings, said  Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst at the
Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk. “ Syria  was the
point that really showed deterioration kicking in,” he said.  Erdogan, who used to vacation with Assad, ditched his
former ally as the Syrian premier refused to end a crackdown on
protests that has killed more than 5,400 people since March,
according to United Nations estimates. He now backs the Syrian
National Council, based in Istanbul and including members of the
Muslim Brotherhood, a Sunni group.  The majority of Syria’s population, like Turkey’s, is
Sunni. Assad’s family are Alawites, an offshoot of the Shiite
branch of Islam that predominates in Iran. Assad’s government is
Iran’s closest regional ally and fellow backer of the Lebanese
Hezbollah movement and Hamas in the  Gaza Strip .  Sectarian divisions have brought a revival of violence in
 Iraq , where bombings and other attacks have killed more than 200
people since President Barack Obama announced the end of
military operations in December. Maliki has pushed out Sunni
ministers and sought to jail the top Sunni politician, Vice
President Tariq al-Hashimi, on terrorism charges. Turkey called
the move “unacceptable.”  Not Aimed at Neighbors  Also contributing to tensions is a radar for the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization hosted in Malatya, southern Turkey,
as part of a defense system that U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  says is intended to protect against missiles from Iran.  Turkey insists the measure isn’t aimed at its neighbors.
Ali Hajizadeh, commander of the air defense division of Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps, said in November the installation
would be a target for Iran “if there is a threat.”  The U.S. and its ally  Israel  haven’t ruled out military
action against Iran, while officials from the Islamic republic
have warned they may shut the  Strait of Hormuz , conduit for a
fifth of global oil trade, in response to a threatened U.S. and
EU embargo on crude sales.  No Opposing Interests  Whatever the rhetoric, “deep down Iran doesn’t see Turkey
as a strategic threat,” said Kayhan Barzegar, director for
international affairs at the Tehran-based Center for Middle East
Strategic Studies. “They don’t have opposing interests.”
Instead, he said, Iran sees Turkey as a transit route for energy
to  Europe  and a communications bridge for nuclear talks.  The latest western sanctions followed an International
Atomic Energy Agency report in November which said Iran may have
studied the development of a nuclear bomb, perhaps as recently
as 2010.  They may increase pressure on Ankara-based  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-owned lender which facilitates oil payments,
and  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , Turkey’s main
refiner, whose lead supplier is Iran.  Tupras shares  have lagged
behind the Turkish benchmark this year, adding 5.8 percent
compared with a 17 percent jump on the ISE-100 Index.  Turkey, which secured waivers for Halkbank and Tupras from
previous U.S. sanctions, hasn’t discussed exemption from the new
ones in full detail, a Foreign Ministry official said in
Istanbul last week on customary condition of anonymity. Turkey’s
official policy is to abide only by UN sanctions.  Smile, Then Stab  “If Turkey takes sides with the EU and the West, it will
harm its interests and go against its regional policies,” said
Barzegar.  Differences over Iraq and Syria haven’t halted diplomacy.
Turkey and Iran signed trade accords on Jan. 19, and at the
ceremony in Ankara, ministers pledged closer banking ties.
Turkey offered to host an immediate resumption of international
talks on  Iran’s nuclear program .  The pattern of simultaneous engagement and argument is
historically typical, said Soli Ozel, a lecturer at the
international relations department of Kadir Has University in
Istanbul.  “They have a relationship where they smile at each other’s
face and then stab one another in the back -- it’s always been
like that,” he said. This time, though, “Turkey may have to
take harsher measures than it would like against Iran, because
of developments that it cannot control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 