-- Iraq’s Oil Law May Be Pushed Till End of 2012, Ghadhban Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-02-02T16:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/iraq-s-energy-law-may-be-delayed-for-rest-of-year-ghadhban-says.html
Iraq ’s proposed energy law, intended
to spur foreign investment in the world’s fifth-largest holder
of oil  deposits , will be delayed for the rest of this year due
to political divisions, the prime minister’s top adviser said.  The draft law, held up since 2005, may resolve a dispute
about oil revenue and sovereignty between the central government
and the country’s semi-autonomous Kurds that has blocked an
agreement with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Thamir Ghadhban said in an
interview in Baghdad. Kurdish authorities in northern Iraq
angered the government by signing a separate contract with
Exxon, which operates one of the nation’s largest oil fields.  “I am not optimistic that the energy law will be adopted
in the coming months, and I would be happy if it is adopted by
the end of the year,” Ghadhban said today. “The more the law
is delayed, the more we will have problems such as the one with
 Exxon Mobil .”  Iraq has awarded 15 licenses for drilling rights to foreign
companies since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted President
 Saddam Hussein  in 2003. The Arab nation is the third-largest oil
producer in OPEC, pumping 2.75 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Exxon, with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , operates the West Qurna Phase 1 field in
southern Iraq.  Measures Against Exxon  Authorities in Baghdad have refused to recognize
production-sharing agreements between foreign companies and the
Kurdistan Regional Government. Iraq was “weighing measures”
that it may take against Exxon after the company signed what the
central government considers to be illegal contracts with the
Kurds, Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for energy
affairs, said last month.  Ghadhban, a former oil minister, said Iraq’s capacity to
produce crude will increase by 400,000 barrels a day this year
to exceed 3 million barrels a day by the end of December.
Production capacity will rise next year by an additional 500,000
barrels a day, and crude exports in 2013 will reach 2.6 million
barrels a day, including 175,000 barrels a day from the Kurdish
region, he said.  Iraq’s first of four new single-point mooring facilities
will start operating next week once the contractor completes
work “such as linking the pipelines,” Ghadhban said. Each of
the four offshore loading points, which are due to be installed
by 2013, will add 850,000 barrels a day of capacity.  New Export Route  Iraq is determined to pursue plans to open new crude export
routes from neighboring  Syria , following threats by  Iran  to
close the  Strait of Hormuz  in response to international
sanctions on its  energy industry . “The Oil Ministry has been
working for a while with Syria, regardless of the current events
there, to open new routes to export crude oil, and which is part
of the plan to increase export capacity,” he said.  Ghadhban said the government has not been able to attract
investors to build new refineries for the last few years, even
if it has offered some financial incentives, he said. The Oil
Ministry may offer partnership agreements to foreign companies
to encourage them to invest in new refineries, he said. Iraq
currently imports 9 million liters of benzene a day and 3
million liters of gasoil a day to meet local demand, which
exceeds production capacity, he said.  Iraq has  oil deposits  of 115 billion barrels, making it the
world’s fifth-biggest holder, according to BP Plc data that
include Canadian  oil sands .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  