-- Israel Inflation Bets Rise to 1-Week High on Energy Costs, Rate
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   S u s a n   L e r n e r
-- 2012-02-02T12:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/israel-inflation-bets-rise-to-1-week-high-on-energy-costs-rate.html
Israeli inflation expectations soared
to the highest in more than a week on speculation consumer
prices will climb as energy costs rise and  interest rates  fall.  The one-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government notes of
similar maturity, jumped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 217 at 2:19 p.m. in Tel Aviv. That is the highest
since Jan. 25 and implies an average annual inflation rate of
2.17 percent. The yield on the inflation-linked bonds due June
2013 dropped four basis points to 0.257 percent, the lowest
level in almost a year.  Electricity prices may be increased by 6.6 percent this
month to offset higher costs due to disruptions in shipments of
natural gas from  Egypt  and an expected reduction in supply from
the local Yam Tethys site, the  Public Utility Authority  said
Jan. 26. Israeli self-serve gasoline prices rose 3.2 percent
yesterday. Bank of  Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer yesterday
said there is “plenty of room” to cut interest rates if
needed.  “The trend of rising energy costs and interest rates going
down makes inflation-linked bonds more attractive,” said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments
Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations were at 2.3
percent, the central bank said Jan. 17. The  annual inflation 
rate fell to 2.2 percent in December, the lowest in more than a
year. The central bank’s monetary committee, led by Fischer,
lowered the  benchmark lending rate  to 2.5 percent on Jan. 23,
the third reduction in five months.  Corporate Bonds  The  Tel-Bond 40 index  of corporate bonds advanced 0.1
percent to 264.79, the highest since July, as optimism for a
global recovery fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  The short-term economic situation in Israel is “under
control” as  Europe ’s situation is improving, Fischer said
yesterday. Corporate-default risk fell to a five-month low in
Europe yesterday as growth in production from America to China
fuels optimism that companies will withstand the euro-area
sovereign crisis.  “European leaders seem to be advancing steps to solve the
crisis and global growth data seems to be improving which is
driving investors’ appetite for riskier assets,” said Guy Lazarovich, a bond trader at I.B.I.  The yield on the 5.5 percent bonds due in January 2022 was
unchanged at 4.46 percent. The shekel rose 0.1 percent to 3.7305
a dollar.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, gained three basis
points to 2.47 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  