-- Israel, U.S. Divided Over Timing of Potential Military Strike Against Iran
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-03T21:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/israel-defense-chief-barak-says-world-understands-need-to-act-against-iran.html
The U.S. and  Israel  are publicly
disagreeing over timing for a potential attack on Iran’s
disputed nuclear facilities, as that nation’s leader said it
won’t back down.  The U.S. and Israel have a “significant analytic
difference” over estimates of how close Iran is to shielding
its nuclear program from attack,   Aaron David Miller , a former
Mideast peace negotiator in the Clinton administration, said
today.  “There’s a growing concern -- more than a concern -- that
the Israelis, in order to protect themselves, might launch a
strike without approval, warning or even foreknowledge,” he
said in an interview.  The differing views were underscored by public comments
this week by senior Israeli and U.S. defense officials.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said yesterday that
Israel must consider conducting “an operation” before Iran
reaches an “immunity zone,” referring to Iran’s goal of
protecting its  uranium enrichment  and other nuclear operations
by moving them to deep underground facilities such as one at
Fordo, near the holy city of Qom.  ‘Nearing Readiness’  “The world has no doubt that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
steadily nearing readiness and is about to enter an immunity
zone,” Barak said in an address to the annual Herzliya
Conference at the Interdisciplinary Center campus north of Tel
Aviv. “If the sanctions don’t achieve their goal of halting
Iran’s nuclear weapons program, there will arise the need of
weighing an operation,” Barak said.  The U.S. holds the view that “there is still time and
space to pursue diplomacy” with Iran over its nuclear program,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said today in Washington.
He added that the U.S. “is absolutely committed to preventing
Iran from getting nuclear weapons.”  In Iran, Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said today
that his nation won’t abandon its nuclear efforts and warned
that a strike against the nuclear program would damage U.S.
interests in the  Middle East  “10 times over,” according to the
 Associated Press . He said, without providing details, that he
would disclose a letter that he said President  Barack Obama  sent
Iran’s leaders.  Referring to Israel as a “cancerous tumor,” Khamenei said
in his Friday sermon that “if any nation or any group confronts
the Zionist regime, we will help.” He said that Iran has
assisted anti-Israel groups such as Hezbollah and the
Palestinian Hamas.  SWIFT Sanctions  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee unanimously approved
yesterday a bill that would increase the economic pressure on
Iran. The proposal targets Iran-related banking transactions,
Iran’s national oil company and leading tanker fleet, joint
ventures in mining and energy projects. It also would require
corporate disclosure of Iran-related activity to the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  One provision calls on the administration to provide a
report to Congress within 60 days detailing Iran-related
financial transactions facilitated by the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication, the Belgian member-owned
institution known as Swift, and its competitors. The measure
would give the president authority to sanction Swift to cut off
such services. A similar bill, with stronger language mandating
the imposition of sanctions, was submitted in the House
yesterday.  Within Israel, there isn’t consensus that striking Iran is
either good or necessary. Ephraim Halevy, a former head of
Israel’s Mossad security agency, is one of two former
intelligence chiefs who have spoken against a strike.  Panetta’s Concerns  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  declined to comment
directly on a report by  Washington  Post columnist David Ignatius
that Panetta believes there is a strong likelihood Israel will
strike Iran in April, May or June. Panetta and other U.S.
officials have repeatedly warned Israel not to act alone.  “Israel has indicated that they’re considering this”
through public statements, Panetta told reporters traveling with
him yesterday in Brussels. “And we have indicated our
concerns.”  Israelis think Iran will reach the immunity zone in “half
the time the Americans think it will,” Miller said. “To take
that difference and talk about a growing rift” between Israel
and the U.S. “is by and large an overstatement,” he said.  Obama-Netanyahu Relations  Tension between Obama and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  may be complicating communications on the issue, a
U.S. defense official said. “There’s no love lost between the
two of them, and there’s a trust deficit,” said the official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized
to speak to the news media.  Defense officials have been concerned that Obama hasn’t
warned Netanyahu directly enough about the risks of a Israeli
preemptive strike on  Iran ’s nuclear facilities, including for
U.S. interests in the region such as bases in in Kuwait, Bahrain
and Qatar, according to the official.  James Clapper , the U.S. director of national intelligence,
said Jan. 31 that communication with Israel was good. “We’re
doing a lot with the Israelis, working together with them,” he
told the Senate intelligence panel.  Unknown Intentions  The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, General
Martin Dempsey, has said it is “premature” to resort to
military force because sanctions are starting to have an impact
on Iran. In a Jan. 26 interview with National Journal, Dempsey
said he delivered a similar message of caution to Israel’s top
leadership during a visit to the Jewish state in early January.  U.S. intelligence agencies think Iran is developing
capabilities to produce nuclear weapons “should it choose to do
so,” said Clapper.  “We do not know, however, if Iran will eventually decide
to build nuclear weapons,” he said.  While leaders of both countries agree that time must be
given to gauge the impact of the latest set of economic
sanctions on Iran, Israel’s patience is shorter than that of the
U.S., Ephraim Kam, deputy director of  Tel Aviv  University’s
Institute for National Security Studies, said.  ‘Too Late’  “It will take at least six months to see whether sanctions
are effective and by then it may be too late,” said Kam, author
of the 2007 book, “A Nuclear Iran: What Does it Mean, and What
Can be Done.”  “We’re definitely using different clocks,” he said.  Israeli Army Chief of Staff Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz
told the Herzliya conference on Feb. 1 that his nation must be
“willing to deploy” its military assets because Iran may be
within a year of gaining nuclear weapons capability. Gantz said
international sanctions are starting to show some results.  Moshe Yaalon, Israel’s vice prime minister and its former
top military commander, played down Iran’s ability to shelter
its activities from a military attack. “It’s possible to strike
all Iran’s facilities, and I say that out of my experience as
IDF chief of staff,” he said at the conference, referring to
the Israeli Defense Forces.  The U.S., its European allies and the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  have challenged the government in Tehran to prove
that its nuclear work is intended only for energy and medical
research, as Iranian officials maintain.  Mehdi Khalaji, an Iran specialist at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in an interview that he
doubts that the U.S. or Iran will launch a military strike this
year. Rather, he cited the possibility than Iran might stage a
provocation and use any response as an excuse to launch an
asymmetrical attack against U.S. and Israel targets using
proxies such as Hezbollah.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  