-- J&J Hid Risperdal Studies to Boost Drug Sales, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-02T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/j-j-hid-risperdal-studies-to-boost-drug-sales-lawyer-says-at-n-j-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson  hid studies showing
its Risperdal anti-psychotic drug caused diabetes to protect
billions of dollars in sales, a lawyer said in the first
personal-injury claim over the medication to go to trial.  Researchers at J&J’s Janssen unit knew as early as 1999
that a study found Risperdal caused diabetes at a higher rate
than a competing drug and failed to hand over the results to
regulators probing links between the disease and anti-psychotic
medicines,  Fletch Trammell , a lawyer for a former Risperdal
user, told a New Jersey jury today in opening statements.  “The evidence will show Janssen buried studies for a
competitive advantage,” Trammell told jurors in state court in
 New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . J&J, the world’s second-largest
health-products maker, is  based  in the city.  The trial of Gary Skala’s claims that his 14 years’ worth
of Risperdal use caused his diabetes began two weeks after J&J
agreed to pay $158 million to settle Texas officials’ claims
that it fraudulently marketed the drug.  While J&J has faced four states’ claims that it defrauded
Medicaid programs by misleading doctors and regulators about
Risperdal’s diabetes risks, Skala’s case is the first brought by
an individual patient to be presented to a jury.  The drugmaker contends that the study evaluating
Risperdal’s diabetes risk against that posed by  Eli Lilly &
Co .’s Zyprexa anti-psychotic medication was flawed and that’s
why it wasn’t made public, one of the company’s lawyers told
jurors today.  ‘Nothing Was Buried’  “Nothing was buried, nothing was hidden and no one was
tricked,”  Jeffrey Peck , a lawyer for J&J, said in his opening
statement.  Risperdal, once J&J’s best-selling drug, generated
worldwide sales of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010, reaching
$4.5 billion in 2007. Afterward, J&J lost patent protection and
sales declined.  Lawyers for Risperdal patients contend J&J officials
aggressively pushed the drug for unapproved uses and lied about
its links to diabetes to pump up sales.  A judge in  South Carolina  who reviewed claims about the
company’s Risperdal marketing campaigns concluded last year that
J&J officials “allowed the profit-at-all-costs mentality to
cloud” their judgment about the handling of the drug.  Attempted Suicide  Skala’s lawyers said the 56-year-old Nebraska resident
started taking Risperdal in 1996 after attempting suicide by
taking an overdose of anti-anxiety medicine. The former college
maintenance man steadily gained weight while on the drug and was
diagnosed with diabetes in 2002, Trammell said. Skala wasn’t
obese when he started Risperdal and didn’t have a family history
of the disease, the lawyer said.  “He went to them for help and they gave him diabetes,”
Trammell said of J&J.  Peck countered that Skala’s weight gain and diabetes was
caused by his excessive alcohol use and sedentary lifestyle
rather than by Risperdal. After Skala stopped drinking in 2010,
“he lost 25 pounds,” the J&J lawyer said.  The presentation of evidence in the case, which is being
overseen by Judge  Jessica Mayer , is expected to last two weeks.  J&J faces more litigation over Risperdal next month when
the state of  Arkansas ’s claims that the drugmaker misled doctors
and Medicaid supervisors about the medicine’s health risks are
set for trial.  Litigation Record  In 2010, the company lost a Risperdal case in  Louisiana ,
where on top of a $257.7 million jury award the judge ordered
the company to pay $73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and costs. A
year later, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in damages after a jury found its Risperdal
marketing practices violated fraud and  consumer protection laws .  J&J also has agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the U.S.
and a number of states to end a civil probe into its Risperdal
marketing practices, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News on Jan. 6.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company engaged
in so-called off-label marketing of the medication, J&J has said
in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  filings . The company
said it has been negotiating with the U.S. to resolve the
investigation.  The New Jersey case is Skala v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , MID-
L-6820-06 (MT), Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
 Middlesex County  (New Brunswick).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  