-- J&J’s Zytiga for Prostate Cancer Too Expensive, U.K. Cost Agency Says
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-02-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/j-j-s-zytiga-cancer-drug-too-expensive-u-k-cost-agency-says.html
A  Johnson & Johnson  prostate-cancer
medicine discovered in  England  and developed with funds from
U.K. charities is too expensive for the country’s  National
Health Service .  The NHS shouldn’t pay for Zytiga because the drug’s
benefits don’t justify the cost even after the manufacturer
agreed to cut the price, the  National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence  said in a statement today. The agency, known
as NICE, advises the state-run medical system on which
treatments it should pay for. J&J and the public have a chance
to comment on the decision, which is preliminary, NICE said.  Advocates for cancer patients criticized the ruling, saying
the drug helps keep men alive after chemotherapy has failed to
stop their cancer. Zytiga, which costs 2,930 pounds ($4,640) for
a 30-day supply, may extend life by more than three months
compared with a placebo, and can be taken orally at home,
London-based NICE said. The agency isn’t disclosing the discount
that  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J agreed to provide.  “We’re hugely frustrated that NICE felt the drug wasn’t
good value for money,” Harpal Kumar, the chief executive
officer of the charity  Cancer Research UK , said in a separate
statement. “Generous public donations to  Cancer Research  UK and
other organizations paid for the initial development of the drug
and we feel extremely let down that the drug’s manufacturer
couldn’t offer NICE a price they could agree on.”  Zytiga Sales  Zytiga’s U.S. sales may reach $1.28 billion in 2015,
according to  Larry Biegelsen  of  Wells Fargo (WFC)  Securities LLC. The
drug, also known as abiraterone, won approval in the European
Union last year for use in combination with prednisone or
prednisolone for men whose prostate cancer didn’t respond to
chemotherapy. U.S. regulators approved the treatment in April.  “It is an expensive drug and the independent advisory
committee that made this decision did not feel the drug provided
enough benefit to patients to justify the price the NHS is being
asked to pay, even with the discount that the manufacturer has
offered,” said  Andrew Dillon , NICE’s chief executive, in the
statement.  J&J can consider cutting the price further, NICE said. The
agency declined to comment beyond the statement.  The decision “is the first step in the appraisal process
and we will be actively participating in this consultation as we
strive for a positive outcome for patients,” J&J said in an e-
mail. The company said its proposed discount meets NICE’s
requirements for cost-effectiveness for late-stage cancer
medicines.  Drug Discovery  The drug was discovered at the London-based  Institute of
Cancer Research  in work that was funded by grants from Cancer
Research UK, the Medical Research Council and  BTG Plc (BGC) , according
to Cancer Research UK. Those and other groups helped fund
subsequent clinical trials, the charity said.  Cancer Research UK is entitled to royalties on the drug,
which will be reinvested in research, the group said in today’s
statement. BTG, a London-based drugmaker, licensed the drug to
Cougar Biotechnology Inc., which was acquired by J&J in 2009.  NICE’s decisions apply to the NHS in England and Wales. The
Scottish Medicines Consortium advises the NHS in  Scotland  on the
cost-effectiveness of drugs.  Northern Ireland  considers NICE’s
advice and distributes it to doctors and hospitals after a
review by local officials.  If the standard chemotherapy, docetaxel, doesn’t work
against prostate cancer, the other treatment options are
mitoxantrone, a generic drug, and re-treatment with docetaxel,
NICE said. Re-treatment isn’t recommended by NICE, and the
agency hasn’t produced guidance on mitoxantrone.  NICE this month reiterated a decision to reject Jevtana, a
prostate-cancer drug made by Paris-based  Sanofi. (SAN)   About 10,000 men are diagnosed with advanced prostate
cancer each year in the U.K., according to Cancer Research UK.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  