-- Jaguar Land Rover Said to Plan Production Partnership With Chery in China
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-02-02T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/jaguar-land-rover-said-to-plan-partnership-with-chery-in-china.html
Jaguar Land Rover, the luxury vehicle
unit of  India ’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , plans to partner with Chery
Automobile Co. to build vehicles in  China , two people with
direct knowledge of the matter said.  The companies have applied for regulatory clearance to
establish the joint venture, the people said, declining to be
identified because the deal has not been finalized. The
partnership may be officially announced as early as April at the
Beijing auto show, they said.  Tata Motors said in May it had shortlisted unidentified
partners in China to fuel expansion in the world’s largest auto
market. China requires overseas carmakers to work with local
manufacturers, who must own at least 50 percent of joint
ventures, to set up production. Locally built vehicles are
cheaper because they’re not subject to  import duties .  “It’s a smart move by Tata Motors,” said Juergen Maier, a
Vienna-based  fund manager  at Raiffeisen Capital Management that
oversees about $1.1 billion of emerging-market assets, including
Tata Motors shares. “It makes sense for Tata to have local
production in China as it helps reduce the prices as well as
cater supply more closely to the Chinese demand.”  Jin Yibo, a spokesman for Wuhu, China-based Chery, said he
had “no information to disclose” when contacted yesterday by
phone. Paul Chadderton, a Jaguar Land Rover spokesman based in
Whitley,  England , said there was “no news at this time” on the
company’s plans to produce cars in China.  China Sales  Land Rover  deliveries in China rose 63 percent to 17,812,
while Jaguar climbed 92 percent in the first half of the fiscal
year beginning April 1, the company said in an  investor
presentation  on its website. The company expects China to become
the second-largest market for Land Rover, and the third-largest
market for Jaguar in the year ending March 31, the presentation
said.  Chery, the sixth-largest automaker in China, was founded in
1997 and began making cars in 1999, according to the company’s
website. Chery assembles passenger cars, commercial vehicles and
minivans, the website said.  Luxury carmakers are turning to China to boost growth.
German luxury-car manufacturers’ sales last year were propelled
by demand in China, where they all posted sales gains of at
least 30 percent, led by a 65 percent jump for Stuttgart-based
Porsche. Audi Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler estimated
last month that China’s car market will expand about 8 percent
in 2012.  Majority of Revenue  Tata Motors paid $2.4 billion in June 2008 to buy the
Jaguar and Land Rover brands from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
subsequently combined them into a single division. The unit
generated 57 percent of Tata Motors’ revenue for the year ended
March 31, 2011, up from 53 percent the previous year.  Jaguar and Land Rover’s global deliveries rose 45 percent
in December, the biggest monthly gain since June 2010, boosted
by the new Evoque compact sport-utility model, Tata Motors said
last month. Their sales gained 22 percent to 216,412 vehicles in
the nine months through December.  The Range Rover Evoque, which was introduced in September,
was named the North American truck of the year last month in
 Detroit . It received 32,000 initial orders,  John Edwards , Land
Rover brand director said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  