-- Japan Inc. Supply Chain Bleeds Jobs as Strong Yen Batters TV, Chip Profits
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-02-03T07:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/japan-inc-suppliers-bleed-jobs-as-yen-batters-tv-chip-profits.html
Japan Inc. is suffering and the
supply chain is bearing the cost.  Sumco Corp. (3463) , a supplier to  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,
said yesterday it will cut 1,300 jobs. Auto windshield maker
 Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) , which sells to  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , said
it will cut 3,500 jobs. They join  NEC Corp. (6701) , a Japanese maker of
telecom equipment and components, which said last month it would
eliminate 10,000 positions.  The yen’s 7 percent surge against the dollar in the past 12
months has widened losses at Panasonic Corp. Sony, Mazda and
 Sharp Corp. (6953) , which plans to halve TV production at its biggest
factory to reduce inventory. Manufacturers have been forced to
both relocate production outside of Japan and to press their
suppliers for cost cuts.  “Once giants like Sony and Sharp fail, the entire supply
chain falls into the red,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “The yen is killing Japan’s manufacturing base.”  Sumco forecasts a full-year loss of 85 billion yen ($1.1
billion) and asked  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405) , which owns a
28 percent stake, to buy preferred shares. Sumco will also take
a charge of 58.2 billion yen for the restructuring and close two
plants in Japan.  Nippon Sheet Glass now expects a loss of 3 billion yen for
the year ending March 31, compared with a previous forecast of
14 billion yen in profit, it said in a statement yesterday. The
Tokyo-based company said the  job cuts  will cost about 25 billion
yen, with an expected benefit of 20 billion yen annually  after
reforms take effect .  ‘Biggest Catastrophe’  NEC, forecasting its third annual loss in four years, said
Jan. 26 it would cut 7,000 jobs in  Japan  and 3,000 abroad, amid
slumping demand for its handsets and wireless gear. The cuts
equal about 8.6 percent of the Tokyo-based company’s workforce.  “No Japanese manufacturing company can make profit at the
yen’s current level around 75 to the dollar,”  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Research
Institute, said yesterday by telephone. “This is the biggest
catastrophe for Japanese manufacturers since the war.”  Nippon Sheet Glass plunged to the lowest level in almost 35
years, declining 12 percent to 132 yen, after announcing its job
cuts yesterday after the market closed. Sumco rose the most in
more than three years, surging 17 percent, reversing yesterday’s
15 percent plunge, after announcing job cuts and as its Taipei-
based affiliate Formosa Sumco Technology Corp. said some
capacity would be moved to factories in Taiwan.  Job Losses  Sharp rose 2.8 percent, the first gain in six days, while
Sony surged 8.1 percent and  Hitachi (6501)  Ltd. climbed 7.5 percent
amid expectations the electronics makers’ vows to exit
unprofitable businesses would succeed in reviving growth.  Japanese unemployment rose to 4.6 percent in December,
compared with the five-year average of 4.4 percent, as job
losses were offset by an increase in the number of people
leaving the workforce having reached  retirement age .  The job cuts announced this earnings season included the
heads of both Sony, which lost about 480 billion yen on TVs in
the past seven years, and Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera
maker. Canon President Tsuneji Uchida will leave his post
effective March 29, while Sony Chief Executive Officer  Howard
Stringer  will be replaced by  Kazuo Hirai  on April 1.  Sony more than doubled its annual loss forecast yesterday
to 220 billion yen, underscoring the challenge for Hirai in
reviving Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter.  Sony, Samsung  The company blamed a stronger yen, cuts in production
caused by last year’s floods in  Thailand  and the cost of exiting
a display-panel venture with Samsung Electronics Co. for causing
its estimated annual loss to widen from the 90 billion yen
deficit it forecast in November. The loss in the 12 months
ending March will be the fourth in a row, a first since the
Tokyo-based company was listed in 1958.  Sony, maker of Bravia TVs, has lost ground to South Korea’s
Samsung and LG Electronics Inc., both of which sell TVs
profitably. Sony and Japanese television makers Sharp and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  have been crippled by the strengthening yen,
which prompted Sharp to predict a record $3.8 billion loss for
the year ending March 31.  Hitachi, which already plans to close its remaining
television plant in Japan by September, said third-quarter
profit dropped a more-than-expected 45 percent.  Hitachi, Panasonic  “Our TV business unit is already slimmed down, but we will
cut it even more,” Executive Vice President Takashi Miyoshi
said yesterday. “Hitachi doesn’t expect a profit in the TV
segment next fiscal year, and we can only hope to become
profitable in TVs in the future.”  Panasonic, the world’s biggest maker of plasma televisions,
widened its annual net loss forecast to a record 780 billion yen
today, citing the stronger yen, along with Thai floods and
slower global economic growth.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  posted a fifth straight quarterly loss
and said it expects to reach an agreement for further support
from the government and lenders. The largest maker of dynamic
random access memory after South Korea’s Samsung and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. needs 92 billion yen to repay bonds and loans
by April, according to a filing in June.  “These companies have been under pressure because of
profitability, so management are now making the decisions,”
said  Yoji Takeda , who oversees about $1.1 billion at RBC
Investment Management ( Asia ) Ltd. “When other companies are
doing the same, it’s easier to execute. It’s not just a one-off
this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  