-- Japan Escalates Warnings on Yen’s Advance as Sharp’s Earnings Collapse
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-02T06:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/japan-can-t-overlook-yen-speculation-azumi.html
Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
escalated his warnings against strengthening in the yen toward a
postwar high, and signaled that the  Federal Reserve  is partly to
blame for its recent advance.  “Speculative moves are increasing in the market and we
can’t overlook them,” Azumi told reporters in Tokyo today as
the yen heads for its biggest six-day jump since mid-August
against the dollar. Against the “backdrop” of the Fed’s plan
to keep  interest rates  exceptionally low until 2014, “short-
term speculative buying” has increased, contributing to the
yen’s gain, he said in parliament today.  Azumi’s comments may indicate Japan is closer to resuming
foreign-exchange intervention after a record round of yen sales
late last year. The admonition comes a day after  Sharp Corp (6753) .,
Japan’s largest maker of LCD panels, forecast its worst annual
loss since its founding a century ago, with its president saying
exporting is “nearly impossible” with the strong yen.  “Yen-selling is still in the cards, but it’s becoming
harder for Japan to do it because of external pressure,” said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. At the same time, “speculative trading
could get out of control” and accelerate yen gains if investors
think Japan won’t intervene, he said.  The yen traded at 76.12 per dollar as of 3:23 p.m. in
Tokyo, up about 2 percent since the advances began on Jan. 26
and drawing closer to October’s high of 75.35. Yesterday, Azumi
said that he was ready to take “decisive steps” on the
currency if necessary.  Treasury Criticism  The U.S. Treasury Department criticized Japan in a December
report for unilaterally selling its currency in August and
October, saying the Asian nation should focus on steps to
“increase the dynamism of the domestic economy.” The U.S.
joined Group of Seven nations in coordinated yen sales in March
last year to quell what the body called “disorderly movements”
in the  currency market  after the magnitude-9 earthquake.  “We’re not considering immediate action to respond to the
yen’s appreciation” because movements can be “volatile,” BOJ
Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said at a press conference
today in Takamatsu, western Japan. Concern about the outlook for
the  U.S. economy  is causing the currency to strengthen and the
central bank will monitor movements “closely,” he said.  The BOJ has eased monetary policy in the past to combat the
yen’s gains. It intervenes in currency markets at the behest of
the  Finance Ministry , which is responsible for setting currency
policy.  Yen Sales  Japan’s yen sales totaled 14.3 trillion yen ($187 billion)
last year, the third-largest annual amount after 20.43 trillion
yen in 2003 and 14.83 trillion yen in 2004, ministry data
showed. In the month through Nov. 28, Japan sold 9.09 trillion
yen, the biggest intervention on a monthly basis in data going
back to 1991.  Like Sharp, rivals  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are
forecasting losses because of weakening demand for televisions,
while the stronger yen erodes the repatriated value of their
overseas sales of liquid-crystal displays, mobile phones and
solar cells.  “Exporting from Japan is nearly impossible as the more we
sell the more we lose money,” Sharp President Mikio Katayama
said yesterday in Tokyo.  The currency’s strength is undermining Japan’s recovery
from last year’s earthquake and tsunami by eroding exporters’
profits and encouraging companies to shift manufacturing abroad.
 Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal display
panels, plunged to the lowest level in more than 31 years in
Tokyo trading today after forecasting a record loss.  ’Break 76’  “It looks like the yen will break 76 per dollar, and there
is the possibility it could reach 75,”  Hideo Kumano , an
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said in
a phone interview today.  Japan  should limit intervention because a strong currency
pares the cost of fuel imports as the nation’s nuclear capacity
dwindles, Richard Koo, chief economist at Nomura Research
Institute in Tokyo, said in an interview on Jan. 27.  The  Bank of Japan , which carries out intervention on behalf
of the government, last month reduced its economic growth
forecast for the year starting in April, citing a slowdown
overseas and the stronger yen.  Gross domestic product will probably expand 2 percent in
fiscal 2012, the central bank said. That compares with an
October estimate of 2.2 percent and a 0.4 percent contraction in
the year ending this March, according to the central bank.  Japan’s trade deficit for 2011 was the first since 1980.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  