-- JPMorgan Sued by Asset Management Fund Over Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-02T20:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/jpmorgan-sued-over-515-6-million-of-mortgage-backed-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by
Asset Management Fund over claims it gave faulty information
involving $515.6 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The suit, filed in New York state  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan yesterday, accuses JPMorgan of making “material
representations and omissions” regarding underwriting standards
used to make  mortgage loans  that were pooled into the
securities.  Asset Management Fund, based in  Chicago , said it bought the
securities from May 2003 to May 2007, from the defendants, which
also include Bear Stearns & Co. and  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , both
of which were acquired by JPMorgan.  “Plaintiffs did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” lawyers for Asset Management Funds said in
court documents. “Defendants’ wrongdoing has led directly to
plaintiffs’ damages, which include loss of market value on the
securities.”  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Other Lawsuits  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  DZ Bank AG, Dexia SA and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ’s John
Hancock Life Insurance unit are among companies that have also
sued JPMorgan over residential mortgage-backed securities in New
York state Supreme Court this year.  Asset Management Fund does business as AMF Funds, according
to court documents. The firm, which is managed by Shay Assets
Management Inc., had about $590 million in  assets  under
management in 2011, according to its website.  The case is Asset Management Fund v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
650320/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  