-- JPMorgan Funds Drop $700 Million Claim for Losses Against Bankrupt Lehman
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/jpmorgan-funds-drop-700-million-claim-in-lehman-bankruptcy.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , conceding
arguments it should recoup losses suffered by fund affiliates on
investments in  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , will drop a $700
million claim against the bankrupt firm.  The agreement, filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan, ends JPMorgan’s claim that the affiliates lost the
money on bonds and other investments with Lehman entities, and
have valid claims on the defunct firm.  As part of the agreement, the funds’ claims will be
reassigned “free and clear of any adverse claims” brought by
Lehman, according to the filing.  “Rather than litigate the issues,” Lehman and the funds
“have agreed to settle their dispute,” lawyers for Lehman
wrote in the filing. The agreement requires court approval.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, is receiving the rights to
claims in return and there will be no financial impact on the
company,  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mail.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the filing.  Lawyers for the funds in December asked the court to
overrule Lehman’s objection to the claims and allow the funds to
recoup the losses by using some of the $8.6 billion in
collateral that Lehman deposited with the bank before it failed.  Lehman argued the funds aren’t affiliates, “merely
investment vehicles” for JPMorgan clients who bore the losses,
and can’t use the collateral to repay themselves.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  