-- Kenya Shilling Gains for 8th Day on Low Dollar Demand, Rate Hold
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-02T09:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/kenya-shilling-gains-for-8th-day-on-low-dollar-demand-rate-hold.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for an
eighth day, the longest winning streak in 18 months, on low
dollar demand and as the central bank kept rates on hold.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.4 percent and was trading 0.1 percent stronger at
83.50 per dollar at 11:03 a.m. in the capital Nairobi, headed
for the longest series of gains since August 2010.  The central bank left the key lending rate at a record high
for a second month to support the shilling and ensure consumer
prices continue declining, it said yesterday in an e-mail
statement. Kenya’s  inflation rate  fell for a second month to
18.3 percent in January from 18.9 percent in December, the
Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on Jan
31.  “The shilling is gaining on account of low dollar demand
and the decision to leave the central  bank rate  unchanged by the
central bank, an indicator that the market is still responding
to the tightening measures,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at
Nairobi based NIC Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Tanzania’s shilling weakened, depreciating as much as 0.7
percent and last traded 0.1 percent lower at 1,594 per dollar.  Uganda’s shilling advanced on increased dollar inflows by
investors in  government securities . The currency of the third-
biggest economy in East Africa appreciated as much as 0.5
percent and was trading 0.3 percent stronger at 2,325 per
dollar.  “The shilling gaining because of market sentiments, with
expectations of some conversions of dollars by offshore players
who participated in yesterday’s bond auction since today is the
settlement day,” Taib Lubega, a currency trader at Stanbic Bank
 Uganda  Ltd. said by phone from the capital Kampala.  The East African nation yesterday sold 95 billion shillings
($41 million) worth of 5-year bonds with a yield of 17.9573
percent.  -- With assistance from Fred Ojambo in Kampala. Editors: Peter Branton, Ash Kumar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  