-- Kenyan Shilling Snaps Seven-Day Rally on Increased Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-02T15:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/kenyan-shilling-snaps-seven-day-rally-on-increased-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling snapped a seven-day
rally on increased demand for dollars whose recent weakness
brought in buyers.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
0.2 percent at 83.75 per dollar as of 5:02 p.m. in the capital,
Nairobi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The shilling has weakened as buyers come in to accumulate
dollars at the favourable rates witnessed in the last couple of
days,” Duncan Kinuthia a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial
Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Kenya’s  inflation rate  fell for a second month to 18.3
percent in January from 18.9 percent in December, the Nairobi-
based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on Jan 31. The
shilling has strengthened 1.6 percent this year after weakening
5.3 percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tanzania’s shilling rose for a second day this week on
lower dollar demand. The currency of the second-biggest economy
in  East Africa  appreciated as much as 0.3 percent and traded 0.1
percent higher at 1,590 per dollar as of 4:02 p.m.  “The shilling has gained due to low dollar demand by
businesses clearing their monthly payments,” Hamis Mwakibete,
Head Trading Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said today
by phone from Dar es Salaam, the commercial Capital.  Uganda ’s shilling advanced on increased dollar inflows from
investors in  government securities . The currency of the third-
biggest economy in East Africa gained as much as 1 percent
before paring its gain to 0.7 percent at 2,317.50 per dollar as
of 4:18 p.m.  “The shilling gained because of market sentiments, with
expectations of some conversions of dollars by offshore players
who participated in yesterday’s bond auction since today is the
settlement day,” Taib Lubega, a currency trader at Stanbic Bank
Uganda Ltd., said by phone from the capital Kampala.  -- With assistance from Fred Ojambo in Kampala and David
Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam .
Editors: Ash Kumar, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  