-- Kinder Morgan Lapping Enbridge in Canadian Pipeline Race: Energy
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-02T21:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/kinder-morgan-lapping-enbridge-in-canadian-pipeline-race-energy.html
Kinder Morgan (KMP)  Inc., which this year
will become the largest U.S. pipeline company after its $20.7
billion purchase of  El Paso Corp. (EP) , aims to extend its lead over
competitors in transporting oil across Canada for export to
higher-paying markets in Asia.  Kinder is pressing forward with plans to expand its Trans
Mountain pipeline, the only conduit connecting Canada’s oil-
sands region to the Pacific Coast, to take advantage of
regulatory setbacks that stalled competing projects at
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , both of Calgary.  Kinder, whose Houston-based pipeline partnership, Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP, has jumped 13 percent since the end
of October, is seeking commitments from Canadian oil drillers so
it can double the line’s capacity to 600,000 barrels a day.  “We’re seeing a real sense of outrage” in  Canada , Chief
Executive Officer Richard Kinder said at a conference in Houston
this month about TransCanada and Enbridge’s delays.  The Trans Mountain line is expected to produce $169.4
million in distributable  cash flow , or the money it has
available for payments to its unitholders, in 2012, up 15
percent from 2009, Kinder Morgan said in a presentation to
analysts last month.  “We believe longer-term growth potential exists through
the proposed expansion,” Elvira Scotto, an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets LLC in New York, wrote in a Jan. 29 note to
clients. Kinder is seeking 15- to 20-year commitments from
shippers, which would provide a predictable source of  cash flow .  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners fell 6 cents to $85.64 at the
close in  New York . The shares have climbed 19 percent in the
last 12 months.  El Paso Acquisition  Kinder is awaiting regulatory approvals in the U.S. to buy
El Paso and plans to close the transaction in the second quarter
this year. The partnership’s units rose 20 percent in the past
12 months, compared to the  Cushing 30  pipeline index, which rose
3.0 percent in the same period.  With the world’s third-largest oil reserves after  Saudi
Arabia  and  Venezuela , the Canadian government is eager to better
connect foreign buyers to its  oil-sands  region, located in the
landlocked province of  Alberta , Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
has said. Oil production is projected to grow to 3.5 million
barrels a day in 2015, from 2.9 million in 2011, according to
the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Kinder plans to decide by midyear whether to seek the
Canadian government approvals it will need to enlarge its Trans
Mountain line.  Competing Plans  TransCanada, meanwhile, is readying a new plan to ship
Canadian oil south across the U.S. after its Keystone XL line
was rejected by President Barack Obama’s administration over
environmental concerns. A third proposal by Enbridge called
Northern Gateway that would extend west from the oil sands to
Kitimat, British Columbia, is facing opposition from aboriginal
groups and a regulatory decision has been delayed until 2013.  Canada’s oil exports rose 8.7 percent last year to 2.1
million barrels a day, according to the  National Energy Board .  About 99 percent of those exports went to the U.S. via
pipelines, trucks and rail cars. Only about 10,000 barrels of
crude a day went to  Asia  on the Kinder line, according to Wenran
Jiang, a researcher at the University of Alberta.  Shipping more oil to Asia is “a fundamental strategic
objective of this government,” Canadian Natural Resources
Minister Joe Oliver said Jan. 27 in Toronto. “It is
encouraging, I think, to see that there are a lot of other plans
in the works.”  The “green furor” over proposals from Enbridge and
TransCanada may benefit Kinder Morgan because its proposal
follows an existing route, Bradley Olsen, an analyst with Tudor
Pickering & Holt Inc. in Houston, wrote in a note to clients.  Previous 2008 Expansion  The Trans Mountain line opened in 1953 and was expanded in
2008. It carries gasoline and other refined products, as well as
conventional and so-called heavy crude from the oil-sands
region, according to  Kinder Morgan . About 26 percent of its
volume in 2010 was heavy crude.  The company will wait until it gets commitments from
shippers before applying for permission to build the line in
2013. It will spend more than a year working with native and
environmental groups about the route, Kinder Morgan Canada
President Ian Anderson said at the conference. The route may be
altered in some places, such as urban areas where there’s no
right of way to expand the existing line, he said.  Among Canadian environmental groups, Kinder’s possible
Trans Mountain expansion isn’t viewed as an acceptable green
option. Kinder has had a good safety record and has plans in
place to handle any problems, said Lexa Hobenshield, a
spokeswoman for Kinder in Canada.  Chance of Spills  An enlargement of the Trans Mountain line would increase
the chance of a spill in Vancouver harbor and possibly lead to
dredging the harbor to accommodate larger tankers, said Ben
West, a campaigner for the Wilderness Committee, an
environmental group.  “Kinder Morgan has done as little as possible to let
people know what they’re planning,” West said. “There’s
probably no one happier right now than  Richard Kinder , as all
the attention has gone to Keystone and Enbridge and he quietly
gets all the contracts going to him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  