-- Korean Teachers’ Credit Union Plans to Buy London Property in First Half
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-02-02T00:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/korean-teachers-credit-union-plans-to-buy-london-property-in-first-half.html
The Korean Teachers’ Credit Union ,
with 20.9 trillion won ($18.5 billion) of assets, plans to buy a
12-story office building in  London  in the first half as
declining property prices boost returns.  The credit union will visit the site this month and may
team up with three or four Korean institutional investors to buy
the property worth 299 million pounds ($471 million), said Lee
Kun Ho,  executive director  at the Seoul-based organization that
provides loans and insurance to its members. He declined to
identify the tower as he’s still in talks.  “The price is still attractive enough for us to earn
around 6 percent annually, and possibly further returns upon
selling the building after a few years,” Lee said in an
interview on Jan. 31, adding that prices for some properties are
falling as banks put more buildings that were repossessed
earlier up for sale to increase liquidity.  The credit union is planning its purchase as a two-year
recovery in U.K.’s commercial property values petered out in the
second half amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. The average
value of the nation’s commercial real estate dropped 0.02
percent in November from October, the Investment Property
Databank said last month. Values fell 44.1 percent from June
2007 to June 2009 and then rose by 17.9 percent in the following
months through November.  Investment Opportunities  The investment will be made while London, Europe’s most-
active commercial property market since the start of the global
financial crisis, is losing some of its allure as rising prices
and prospects of a U.K. recession deter investors. The city
slipped to 10th place in a ranking of 27 European cities,
according to a survey of more than 600 brokers, investors and
money managers compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “Asian investors with sufficient liquidity can seize the
investment opportunity amid financial turmoil in Europe and the
U.S.,” Lee said.  The 41-year-old credit union joined a group of investors
that bought a San Francisco office tower occupied by  Wells Fargo
& Co . in 2010 for $333 million in the city’s biggest commercial
property deal in three years.  Other South Korean funds have also been seeking out
property assets overseas. Korea Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund also known as KIC, spent about 70 million
pounds ($111 million) in December to buy a building in London’s
financial district. Scott Kalb, chief investment officer of KIC,
said in an interview last month that European assets are
“attractive” and he may buy more real estate.  Unhealed Wounds  “The global financial market is at a state where wounds
are yet to be healed, but we don’t expect another huge crisis,”
Lee said, adding that the union aims for a 5.9 percent return
from its investments this year.  The credit union that looks after the nation’s teachers and
other school employees is targeting to increase overseas
investments to 6.8 percent of its holdings this year from 4
percent in 2011, according to a statement on asset allocations
on Jan. 10.  It will cut Korean bond holdings to 28.6 percent from 30.3
percent, while boosting those in stocks to 12.5 percent from
10.1 percent.  “A majority of our investment is still in financial assets,
and we seek to diversify as bond yields are low and stock
markets volatile,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  