-- Kuwait Votes in Parliament Elections as Opposition Rides Wave of Protests
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-02T17:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/kuwait-votes-for-fourth-assembly-in-six-years-as-protests-boost-opposition.html
Kuwaitis voted today in parliamentary
elections, the fourth in less than six years, with opposition
groups expected to gain seats.  Men and women lined up at segregated polling stations
across five districts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. local time to cast
votes for the 50-seat National Assembly. About 400,000 people
were entitled to vote in a country where a third of the
population of 3.6 million is Kuwaiti.  Voter turnout was 59.5 percent an hour before polls closed,
the state news agency  KUNA  reported. Total turnout last time
around, in 2009, was about 58 percent.  The ballot follows months of unprecedented anti-government
demonstrations sparked by corruption allegations against  Sheikh
Nasser  Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah, who quit as prime minister of the
Persian Gulf state in November. That prompted Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, his uncle, to dissolve parliament
and call elections.  “The opposition has been doing a good job fighting
corruption,” said Ahmed Ali Al-Habib, a 33-year-old engineer
who was voting in Salwa, south of  Kuwait City . He said he wants
to see the opposition win 65 percent of the seats. Saeed Bilal
Moussa, a 57-year-old retiree voting in a next-door room, said:
“I don’t want trouble-makers in the new parliament, and that’s
what I voted for.”  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, created the Gulf’s first elected
parliament half a century ago.  Corruption Allegations  Protests were fueled by allegations that lawmakers received
millions of dollars of unexplained payments and that Sheikh
Nasser transferred public funds into his foreign bank accounts.
The government of Sheikh Nasser, who was replaced by Sheikh
Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah after his resignation, denied the
accusations.  The opposition has vowed to use its strength in the
assembly to press for measures that would legalize political
parties and let the elected assembly choose a government.
Currently,  Kuwait ’s emir appoints the premier, and parliament
has more powers to block legislation than initiate it.  The opposition may win 33 of the 50 seats, based on a
synthesis of available opinion polls, Talal Al-Kashti, who
manages the Ittejahat Center, a Kuwait-based research group,
told Bloomberg on Jan. 31. In the previous parliament, the
opposition averaged about 20 lawmakers.  Of the 286 candidates running in five districts, 23 are
women, including four lawmakers who were the first women to be
elected when the last vote was held in May 2009.  ‘Things That Matter’  “I voted for liberalism and feminism,” Dalia Essa, 38,
said. “I want things to get done, I don’t want any more drama
and debates. I want things that actually matter to happen, like
education, health and development.”  Opposition candidates including veteran lawmaker Ahmed Al-
Saadoun have accused the government of delays in implementation
of its $111 billion investment plan, which includes expanding
oil and gas production and building transport networks, cities,
universities, hospitals, a new port and airport, and power
stations.  The opposition movement includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups who cite inspiration from
the Arab protests that swept away longtime leaders in Tunisia,
Egypt and  Libya . Some groups demand a constitutional monarchy
and elected government. Others say their focus is fighting
corruption and are calling for political reform without amending
the constitution.  “I want more Islamist and opposition candidates to win,”
said Mona Khalaf, a 43-year-old housewife, wearing the
traditional black abaya, or cloak, and full-faced veil known as
niqab. “A number of lawmakers are supporting anti-Islamic
issues, they want alcohol,” which is banned, she said.
“Tensions will continue because governments have always been
against people’s wishes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  