-- Kyle Bass Urges Texas Fund to Hold Gold Hedge
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-02T21:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/kyle-bass-urges-texas-endowment-fund-to-hold-gold-hedge-as-assets-shrink.html
Kyle Bass, the Dallas hedge-fund
manager, urged overseers of  Texas (STOTX1) ’s state university endowment,
the second-largest U.S. college fund, to stick with a $1 billion
investment in gold bullion even as the fund’s assets decline.  “I’m against selling any of the gold,” Bass said today at
a meeting of fund directors in Austin, citing the need for a
hedge against mounting risks driven by government deficits in
the U.S. and  Europe . “As every day goes by, I see deflation in
the things you own and inflation in the things you need.”  The $19.1 billion in endowment funds overseen by the
 University of Texas  Investment Management Co., or Utimco, lost
almost 3.8 percent on invested assets in the four months through
December, preliminary figures distributed today show. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of shares gained almost 4 percent
over the same period, including reinvested dividends. In 2011,
the Texas fund’s allocations rose in real estate, natural
resources and hedges to protect against slumping equities.  “Ho-hum performance is how I’d characterize our hedge fund
portfolio,” said  Bruce Zimmerman , Utimco’s chief executive
officer, referring to second-half 2011 performance.  Hedge funds 
manage about $7.5 billion of the $19.1 billion. Their results
aren’t indicative of their abilities and no major change in the
roster of funds is being considered, he said in an interview.  Wary Outlook  Charles Tate, chairman of Capital Royalty LP in Houston,
and other Utimco trustees echoed the wary outlook held by Bass,
citing concern that the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to keep  interest
rates  low for two years may only delay an economic decline.  The Fed’s governors, led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, “are
scared as they can be of deflation,” said Ardon Moore,
president of Lee M. Bass Inc., an energy company in  Fort Worth ,
Texas. “This is a grand experiment and they typically never end
well.”  People with large amounts of private wealth are holding
more cash than most endowments and public pensions, expecting
equity prices to decline over the next few years, said Moore,
who based his assessment on conversations with asset managers.
His company is owned by Lee Bass, whose $2.1 billion net worth
in September  ranked  him among the world’s 600 wealthiest people,
according to Forbes magazine.  Kyle Bass, a managing partner at Hayman Capital Management
LP and a Utimco trustee who isn’t related to Lee Bass, faulted
the world’s biggest central banks for expanding the  money supply 
by what he said was $15 trillion during the past five years. In
April, he advised the fund on holding gold bars rather than
futures contracts.  Gold futures for April delivery, the most-active contract
traded on the Comex today in  New York , touched $1,763.80 an
ounce, the highest price since Dec. 2. The metal, which reached
a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6, climbed 11 percent last month,
the biggest January rally since 1983.  The University of Texas and the Texas A&M University
systems are subsidized by endowments overseen by Utimco. Harvard
University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, had the biggest U.S.
college endowment in 2010, the latest figures available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas , at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  