-- MTN Says Turkcell May File Lawsuit Over its Iranian License
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-02-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mtn-says-turkcell-may-file-lawsuit-over-its-iranian-license.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, said  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  may
file a lawsuit against it over the acquisition of an operating
license in Iran.  Turkcell “believes it has a claim against MTN,” and
Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator has “indicated an
intention to bring such a claim before a U.S. court,” MTN said
in a statement yesterday.  MTN said Istanbul-based Turkcell alleges the Johannesburg-
based company made “improper payments to an Iranian and a South
African government official,” during 2004 and 2005 in order to
secure a license in that country. MTN says the suit, which is
yet to be filed, lacks merit.  The company’s Iranian unit, MTN Irancell, contributed 5
billion rand ($655 million) in revenue in the six months to June
30, or about 9 percent of MTN’s sales, and 2.1 billion rand in
earnings before tax, interest, depreciation and amortization.
MTN had 33.3 million subscribers in  Iran  as of Sept. 30.  Koray Ozturkler, deputy chief executive officer in charge
of corporate affairs at Turkcell, wasn’t immediately available
when called by Bloomberg.  “Irrespective of the validity of Turkcell’s claims, the
very fact that such allegations have been made is serious,” MTN
Chairman  Cyril Ramaphosa  said in a separate statement today. MTN
has set up a special committee to probe the claims.  Share Price  On Jan. 4 and Jan. 5 MTN posted its biggest two-day decline
in three years in Johannesburg on concern about possible
sanctions that may be imposed by the U.S. and the European Union
against Iran and over a strike in  Nigeria , its biggest market,
over the removal of fuel subsidies, which could cut  consumer
spending .  “The negative news flow around MTN’s name seems to be
gathering momentum,” Johan Snyman, an analyst at Renaissance
BJM in Johannesburg, said in an interview. “People will be
watching the MTN share price.”  MTN rose 2.1 percent to 138.29 rand in Johannesburg
yesterday, giving the company a market value of 261 billion
rand, the second-biggest of any South Africa-based company. The
statement was released after the market closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  