-- Nasdaq in Finland Implores Companies to List in IPO Drought
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-02T08:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nasdaq-in-finland-implores-companies-to-list-in-ipo-drought.html
Nasdaq OMX Helsinki (HEX)  Oy, home to Nokia
Oyj, is pleading with companies to list their shares on
 Finland ’s main exchange and end a drought in initial public
offerings that threatens to send equity investors elsewhere.  “Investors are crying out for more companies to list” in
Finland, Lauri Rosendahl, the president of the exchange, a unit
of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , said in an interview at the bourse on
Jan. 31. “There is a  capital market  out there that is willing
to invest in good companies.”  Last year, there were “zip, zero” new companies selling
shares on the Helsinki exchange and only one spinoff in 2010, in
which a firm listed a part of its business separately, Rosendahl
said. That compares with a total of 53 entrants during the
information technology boom of 1999 and 2000. In neighboring
 Stockholm , there were 29 IPOs last year.  The European debt crisis “has definitely hurt listings”
both in  Europe  and the U.S., Rosendahl said. The benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index slid 11 percent last year, while the Nasdaq OMX
Helsinki all-share index plunged 30 percent. Both indexes have
risen this year.  Rosendahl said companies are reluctant to list in part
because of a perception that such a move brings with it stricter
regulatory requirements and increased costs. Also, “there’s a
little bit of a culture where companies are used to growing
based on the  cash flow  they can produce themselves,” he said.  The latest listings in Helsinki include Finnish bank Aktia
Oyj in Sept. 2009, and builder SRV Oyj, which sold shares in
2007 to help fund expansion into  Russia . Paint maker Tikkurila
Oyj was spun off from chemicals producer Kemira Oyj in 2010.  Angry Birds  Rovio Entertainment Ltd., the creator of the Angry Birds
games and a poster child for Finnish startups, has mentioned New
York and  Hong Kong  as possible venues for a future listing.  “Of course I would love to get Rovio on the exchange,”
said Rosendahl, a former telecommunications analyst for Carnegie
Investment Bank AB and Deutsche Bank AG. “Nasdaq OMX can offer
any company a dual listing in the U.S. or even a triple listing
opportunity.”  The exchange accounts for more than half the volume of
shares in Nokia, whose American Depositary Receipts are also
listed in  New York , Rosendahl said. Finland’s 130-security  all-
share list  includes nine companies with a market value of more
than 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion), two of which are Swedish
dual listings. Average volume over the last 10 years has been
about 58 million shares a day.  ‘Really Interested’  “I would be very happy to see new IPOs on the Helsinki
exchange this year,” said Timo Ritakallio, deputy Chief
Executive Officer of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance, by e-
mail. He helps manage 27.1 billion euros of investments. “As an
institutional investor, we are really interested” in new
opportunities in Finland, Ritakallio said.  About 20 to 30 companies in Finland “are breaking into the
range where they could justify a public offering,” said Will Cardwell, head of the Aalto University Center for
Entrepreneurship.  “We have more discussions than we have had for many
years” with potential IPO candidates, Rosendahl said. “We
started two and a half years ago with a list of 75 companies
that could be on our main market over the next three to five
years. We’ve done a lot of legwork discussing the pitch story
even with smaller companies.” He declined to say whether there
could be IPOs this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  