-- National Oilwell May Be Weeks Away From Pair of Acquisitions
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-02-02T21:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/national-oilwell-may-be-weeks-away-from-pair-of-acquisitions-1-.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the
largest U.S. maker of oilfield equipment, may be weeks away from
a pair of acquisitions valued between $250 million and $750
million.  “We probably look at seven deals for every one that we
do,” Pete Miller, chairman and chief executive officer of
Houston-based National Oilwell, said in a phone interview today.
“We’re probably pretty close to a couple right now.”  The company’s interest in expanding its capability to
supply equipment comes as U.S. oil and natural-gas production
increases. Helped in part by hydraulic fracturing of shale rock,
or fracking, U.S. oil production rose 1.7 percent last year and
total gas output sold increased 7.4 percent, according to the
 Energy Information Administration .  National Oilwell decided against buying makers of fracking
gear and instead developed its own pumps to help inject water,
chemicals and sand underground to free trapped hydrocarbons,
Miller said.  The company spent $1.4 billion in cash on nine acquisitions
last year, Chief Financial Officer Clay Williams said on an
investor conference call today. National Oilwell completed its
largest 2011 purchase, the acquisition of Ameron International
Corp. for about $777 million, on Oct. 5.  The deals currently being discussed may fall apart at the
last minute, Miller said.  National Oilwell  climbed  3.2 percent to $77.08 at the close
in  New York . The shares have 29 buy and 3 hold ratings from
analysts.  FPSO Equipment  One area National Oilwell is seeking to increase its supply
capability is for facilities that pump oil and gas in deep
waters, Miller told analysts today on the conference call.
Floating production, storage and offloading vessels, or FPSOs,
are a “clever substitute for pipelines,” he said.  The company’s unit that sells fracking gear and drilling
fluids, bits and pipes is expected to increase operating profit
margin to more than 20 percent in the first quarter, the CFO
said. The margin was 19.4 percent in the same period last year.  The global market for fracking will increase 19 percent
this year to a record $37 billion, according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based  Spears & Associates .  National Oilwell’s new fracking pumps are lighter, more
durable and produce greater power, Miller said. About 24 of them
have been bought and are currently in use, he said.  The company reported fourth-quarter earnings today of $574
million, or $1.35 a share, compared with $440 million, or $1.05,
a year earlier. Excluding transaction costs, per-share earnings
were 7 cents more than the average of 27 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  