-- Nationwide Title Clearing Sued by Illinois Over Foreclosure Documents
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-02T19:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nationwide-title-clearing-sued-by-illinois-over-documents-1-.html
Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., a Florida company
she claims caused the filing of faulty documents with county
clerks.  “The practices that NTC used were a key contributor to the
mortgage crisis by undermining the integrity and accuracy of the
mortgage servicing and foreclosure process,” Madigan said today
in a statement.  Nationwide Title Clearing prepares documents for mortgage
servicers to use against borrowers in default, foreclosure and
bankruptcy, Madigan said. Among the documents are mortgage
assignments used by lenders in foreclosures.  NTC employees signed forms used in Illinois foreclosures as
officers of the foreclosing financial institutions and not
Nationwide, often without reading or verifying the documents
they signed, Madigan said.  “NTC creates documents through an assembly-line process,”
Madigan said. “NTC signers typically have little or no role in
the actual creation of documents that they sign.”  Their sole role is to affix their signatures, she said.  The complaint, which accuses the Palm Harbor, Florida-based
company of unfair and deceptive acts, was filed today in state
court in  Chicago .  Diane Stein, a spokeswoman for Nationwide, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the allegations because company
officials hadn’t yet seen the complaint.  Fines Sought  Madigan seeks a court order barring those practices and
requiring the company to find and fix any documents created
through the “unlawful” method. She also wants the company to
account for and disgorge the revenue earned from their creation.  Madigan also seeks imposition of $50,000 fines for each
finding that the company breached Illinois’s Consumer Fraud and
Deceptive Business Practices Act with the intent to defraud, or
a single fine of $50,000 if the court finds the company violated
the act without intending to commit fraud.  The case is Illinois v. Nationwide Title Clearing Inc.,
12CH03602, Illinois Circuit Court, Cook County,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  