-- Neon Fashions Challenge Black Amid 4% Growth
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/neon-fashions-challenge-black-as-4-apparel-growth-seen-retail.html
Brace yourselves, black-fashion
addicts. Color may be making its biggest comeback since the
1960s.  Women’s clothes, handbags and shoes appearing at chains
from Bloomingdale’s to  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  are more colorful than
usual for a spring season. The collections to be unveiled when
New York Fashion Week begins Feb. 9 may push the trend into
fall.  The multicolored palette will help spur a 4 percent gain in
women’s apparel sales this year, faster than the 2.5 percent
increase to $109.6 billion recorded in the 12 months ended in
November, according to NPD Group Inc. It will generate faster
bag and shoe sales, too, the  Port Washington , New York-based
market research firm said.  “Designers recognize that dramatic change is what drives
growth,”  Marshal Cohen , NPD’s chief industry analyst, said.
“When the recession is coming, you get conservative. When the
recession is happening, you start designing with bold changes.
Then it takes a year for it to hit the market.”  Women’s apparel dominates the floors of U.S. department-
store chains. At Nordstrom, it represented about a third of the
chain’s estimated $10.7 billion sales in the most recent fiscal
year.  Industry watchers have predicted a color comeback before,
only to be proved mostly wrong by black-garbed fashionistas.  Lisa Pak, proprietor of a  Manhattan  boutique called Patron
of the New and a devotee of all things black, is a skeptic.  “My shop’s spring orders reflect my and my clients’ taste:
We all love black,” she said.  Fashion Stranglehold  Black has had a “stranglehold” on fashion for more than
30 years, according to David Wolfe, creative director of Doneger
Group, a New York-based fashion forecaster. In the early ‘80s
Japanese designers including Yohji Yamamoto invaded Paris with
their all-black collections, he said. Then came so-called Heroin
Chic, and black became hip.  “When the general public finally latched on to the notion
that everybody can be cool, black was locked in,” Wolfe said.  Still, two trends may reverse black’s momentum, Wolfe said.
Consumers suffering post-recession blues need a lift, and Latin
America culture, with its colorful emphasis, is influencing
American tastes, he said.  Bright colors have risen in the Pantone Color Institute’s
twice-yearly top-10 color ranking since 2009, pushing neutrals
down, said Leatrice Eiseman, its  executive director . Tangerine
Tango orange, Solar Power yellow and Bellfower purple topped the
list for this spring. The ranking included only two neutral
shades, Driftwood and Starfish, which rated ninth and tenth,
respectively. The Carlstadt,  New Jersey , firm polls designers to
make its forecasts.  Cobalt Blues  Wolfe, 70, hasn’t seen designers fall this hard for color -
- from bold cobalt blues to soft peony pinks -- since the Pop-
driven ‘60s and the time in the early ‘80s when French designer
Christian Lacroix was important, he said.  Retail websites already are touting their spring colors.  Macy’s Inc.’s (M)  Bloomingdale’s showed what it called
“totally shocking” items with “color-charged punch,”
including a Marc by Marc Jacobs leather messenger bag in
“electro blue,” white and black for $498. “Get some color,”
 Gap Inc. (GPS)  urged, touting neon-green bordered scarves for $29.95.  At Nordstrom, demand for extra-colorful items appeared last
fall and is growing even faster into spring, said Jeffrey
Kalinsky, the Seattle-based chain’s executive vice president of
designer merchandising.  Kalinsky says he’s optimistic that more women have
developed the same kind of confidence in wearing color that
celebrities have exhibited, as  Natalie Portman  did with the hot
pink Lanvin gown she wore to the Golden Globes.  “Who wants to walk into a party and fade?” Kalinsky said.  Amanda DiLauro, 25, a marketing coordinator in Manhattan,
says she loves black because it has a couture-like aesthetic and
brings maturity to her wardrobe.  Still, she said she’s “loving the neon accessories this
season. I’m thinking of pairing hot pink accessories, like belts
and bangles, into my spring styles, but definitely not all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 