-- Netherlands Returns Paintings Looted by Goering to Jewish Heir
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-02T16:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/netherlands-returns-two-paintings-looted-by-hermann-goering-to-jewish-heir.html
The Dutch government said today it
will return two paintings that were looted more than 70 years
ago by Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering for his country estate to
the descendants of a Jewish antiques dealer in Paris.  Edouard Leon Jonas shipped the contents of his Paris
antiques store to Bordeaux for safekeeping after the 1940 Nazi
invasion. One of Goering’s art advisers seized them and sent
them to  Germany . Among them were an anonymous 16th-century oil-
on-wood “Portrait of a Man With a Dog,” and Theobald Michau’s
18th-century “Landscape With Cattle in a Shallow River.”  The Dutch Restitutions Committee, which advises the
government on Nazi-era art claims,  recommended  the paintings be
returned to Jonas’s heirs, whom it didn’t name. It said the
heirs’ title to the paintings is “proved with a high degree of
probability” and “possession of them was lost involuntarily
due to circumstances directly related to the Nazi regime.”  Goering stashed as many as 1,800 artworks at Carinhall, his
country home outside Berlin, many of them stolen from French
Jewish families. About 80 percent of his loot -- most of which
was safely evacuated before his home was bombed -- has since
been traced and returned to the rightful owners, according to
Nancy Yeide, author of a comprehensive catalog of Goering’s art.  He deluded himself that he wasn’t stealing. “During a war,
everybody loots a little bit,” he said in an interview with a
psychiatrist in Nuremberg, where he was convicted of crimes
against humanity after the war and committed suicide before he
was to be executed. “None of my so-called looting was
illegal.”  Duped by Forgery  The Dutch Restitutions Committee said the two claimed
paintings also featured on a list of 140 works that Goering
forfeited in his fervor to get hold of a work by Johannes
Vermeer. He traded them in 1944 for what he believed would be
the jewel in his collection, a Vermeer called “Christ and the
Adulteress.”  It later turned out to be the work of master forger Han van
Meegeren. As a result of that ill-advised exchange, the two
paintings found their way to the Amsterdam dealership that had
traded with Goering, Goudstikker-Miedl. After the war, they
entered the Netherlands National Art Collection. One was housed
in a government depot; the other was on loan to a museum in
Maastricht.  The Netherlands was one of 44 countries that, in 1998,
endorsed  international principles  on returning art stolen from
the mainly Jewish collectors who were victims of  Adolf Hitler ’s
regime. To implement the guidelines, the Dutch government
founded a Restitutions Committee in 2002. The panel since has
made recommendations on 107 claims for art in state hands.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 