-- New York City Stretches Out Pension Payments in $68.7 Billion Budget Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-02T21:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/new-york-city-stretches-out-pension-payments-in-68-7-billion-budget-plan.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said
his $68.7 billion  preliminary budget  for the next fiscal year
would avoid new taxes or cuts to vital services by stretching
billions of dollars of increased pension costs over 22 years.  The mayor, 69, who presented his 11th budget today at  City
Hall , said New York has reduced its anticipated spending for
pensions by $850 million through June 2013. That’s because the
city had set aside more money than would be needed if the state
Legislature, City Council and unions agree to his plan to
amortize the payments over more than two decades.  Those savings -- combined with $180 million in reduced debt
service, spending cuts, more state aid and $500 million in
freed-up reserves -- helped close a $2 billion deficit in the
fiscal year that begins July 1, he said. Bloomberg projected a
$3 billion gap in the following year.  “It is a responsible budget that continues to make
responsible spending cuts while protecting the core services and
investments that have helped make our city the place to be,
helped us to weather the national recession better than most
other places,” the mayor said.  When prepayments are included, city officials’ anticipate
spending $70.3 billion in fiscal 2013, Bloomberg said.  City Council  The budget anticipates firing 120 workers as part of a plan
to reduce the city-funded payroll to 251,909. The dismissals
don’t include teachers, firefighters or police officers,
Bloomberg said.  City Council members, who must approve the plan, would
oppose the mayor’s proposal to close 20 fire companies, and
would work to restore some, if not all, of $74 million cut from
libraries and $41 million from cultural institutions, said
Domenic Recchia, a Brooklyn Democrat and chairman of the council
Finance Committee.  Pensions and fringe benefits for police, firefighters and
sanitation workers now exceed their salaries, and will equal 116
percent of wages by 2016, Bloomberg said. For all city workers,
benefits equal about 75 percent of salaries and wages, he said.  The city’s pension contributions have increased 500 percent
to about $8 billion this year from $1.3 billion in 2002,
Bloomberg said. That represents about $450 million less than
previously estimated, because of the actuary’s new methods for
stretching out the payments, even though the ultimate cost has
increased, the mayor said.  Too Optimistic  The city owes its pensions more than previously anticipated
because officials have been too optimistic in assuming an 8
percent return on the $115.2 billion that the five funds hold in
assets, Chief Actuary Robert North has determined. A more
realistic expectation would be 7 percent, which, if taken all at
once, would have increased the city’s current liability by about
$2 billion in one year, North said in a telephone interview.  To reduce the revised rate’s impact, the increased
liability may be spread over 22 years, with 3 percent increases
annually, taking into account variables such as market
performance, worker attrition,  life expectancy  and retirement
age, North said. The mayor set aside $1 billion last year,
anticipating such an adjustment in fiscal 2013.  In November, while facing a $4.6 billion gap through June
30, 2013, Bloomberg cut spending by $2 billion and set in motion
a plan to reap $1 billion from sales of new taxi medallions. New
York is also paying current hospital costs by tapping $2 billion
through 2014 from a  fund  set up to pay future retiree health-
care obligations.  The mayor, an independent, has called upon the state to
approve a new schedule of pension benefits for future employees
that Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has proposed. The proposal
would reduce state and city costs by requiring more worker
contributions, increasing the  retirement age , reducing some
benefits and offering a voluntary defined-contribution program
similar to a 401(k) plan.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  