-- New Jersey Assembly Democrats Still Corralling Votes to Pass Gay Marriage
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-02T15:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/new-jersey-assembly-democrats-still-corralling-votes-to-pass-gay-marriage.html
Backers of a New Jersey bill to allow
gay marriage say they are still trying to gather votes to pass
it out of the Assembly even as they expect it to clear a
committee today.  “There is no question” the Judiciary Committee will
approve it, setting up a vote in the full chamber, Assemblyman
John McKeon, a Democratic member of the panel and a bill
sponsor, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  has vowed to veto the measure.  Democrats have about 34 Assembly votes of the 41 needed to
pass the measure and “are picking up more every minute,” said
Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a Democrat and a co-sponsor.  The bill needs 21 Senate votes to move to Christie’s desk.
Senate Democrats have scheduled a Feb. 13 vote by the full
chamber, Derek Roseman, a spokesman for Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , said in an e-mail.  The governor, 49, said last week that he would urge
Republican lawmakers to support a measure to put the issue
before voters in a November referendum.  Court rulings or legislation led to the change in the six
states and the  District of Columbia  where it’s already legal --
jurisdictions that include neighboring  New York . Voters have
rejected legalization in all 31 referendums on the issue,
according to Freedom to Marry, a New York-based national
advocacy organization.  Marching As One  Democrats said gay marriage is a civil right that shouldn’t
be subject to a popular vote.  Republicans have “thus far walked in lockstep with his
direction,” said McKeon, of  West Orange .  “The governor needs to release members to vote their
conscience,” Gusciora, who represents Trenton and is one of two
openly gay New Jersey lawmakers, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Democrats, who control the Senate and Assembly, have made
same-sex marriage a priority. Two years ago, they failed to pass
a bill permitting the practice and supported by then-Governor
 Jon Corzine , a Democrat.  Corzine enacted a measure in 2006 to allow civil unions,
after the state’s high court ordered lawmakers to extend marital
rights to same-sex couples. The law is being challenged in court
by  Lambda Legal , a national advocacy group that says unions
don’t provide marriage’s benefits and protections.  McKeon said Democrats are proceeding, even though they know
Christie will veto it.  “If a majority of the Legislature votes for it, that might
in some way impact the  Supreme Court  when they look at this
issue,” he said. “This is not a religious issue, it’s a matter
of civil rights. It’s the right thing to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  