-- New York Times Co. Quarterly Profit Drops 12% as Print Advertising Shrinks
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-02T22:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/new-york-times-profit-drops-as-print-advertising-shrinks-1-.html
     Feb. 2 (Bloomberg) --  New York  Times Co., publisher of the
namesake newspaper, reported a 12 percent drop in fourth-quarter
profit, capping a year marked by shrinkage of print advertising.  Net income fell to $58.9 million, or 39 cents a share, from
$67.1 million, or 44 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said in a statement today. Excluding some items, profit
was 45 cents a share, compared with the 42-cent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, also owner of the Boston Globe and About.com,
has looked to expand its Internet business amid declining print
ad sales. A so-called paywall, up since March on the New York
Times website, bolstered digital advertising and lifted the
publisher’s total paying online subscribers 25 percent to
406,000 at Dec. 31 from 324,000 a quarter earlier.  The performance was better than expected, Douglas Arthur,
an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “But the outlook for first quarter is
disappointing,” he said of Times Co. guidance on a conference
call that this month will be similar to last.  Sales dropped 2.8 percent to $643 million. Analysts on
average had estimated $646.8 million, according to a  survey  by
Bloomberg.  Leadership Vacuum  The December departure of Chief Executive Officer Janet Robinson, who was granted an exit package totaling more than $21
million, left a leadership vacuum. The company is faced with
falling revenue, profit squeezed by pension costs, and pressure
from members of the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which controls the
board, to restore a dividend once worth more than $20 million a
year to them. Times Co., headed by Chairman Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr., hasn’t paid any dividend since 2008.  “They need to find a CEO,” said Evercore’s Arthur, who
rates Times Co. shares “overweight” and doesn’t own any.  The company is looking for a non-family member to be CEO,
two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News for an
article published on Jan. 27. The two declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Having an executive with digital expertise is important at
a time that print advertising is seeing declines, said Ken Doctor, media analyst with Newsonomics and Outsell Inc.  Gannett Co., the publisher of 82 newspapers, including  USA
Today , on Jan. 30 reported a 5.3 percent drop in publishing
revenue for the fourth quarter.  “You’re going to see lower newspaper advertising right
across the sector,” said  Edward Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York, in a telephone interview on Jan. 27.  Times Co. shares dropped 1 percent to $7.59 today at the
close in New York. The shares have declined 29 percent in the
last 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  