-- Newcastle Climbs in English Premier League; Arsenal Extends Winless Run
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-02T00:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/newcastle-climbs-in-english-premier-league-arsenal-extends-winless-run.html
Newcastle beat Blackburn 2-0 to climb
to fifth place in the English Premier League, and Arsenal
extended its winless run to four games.  Newcastle got an own goal and a late score from Gabriel
Obertan last night to move above Liverpool and Arsenal, which
tied 0-0 at Bolton, in the standings. Sunderland beat Norwich 3-
0,  Aston Villa  came from behind to tie QPR 2-2 and Fulham and
West Brom drew 1-1.  Newcastle made it three wins out of four to pull within
three points of fourth-place Chelsea in the race for the final
spot in the Champions League.  The Magpies took the lead after 12 minutes when Ryan
Taylor’s long shot deflected off  Scott Dann  for an own goal.
Goalkeeper Tim Krul then stopped David Dunn’s penalty kick to
keep his team in front at the half.  Blackburn had several good chances to score in the second
half before Obertan clinched the win in stoppage time.  Though Arsenal controlled play at Bolton, it was unable to
end its winless run. Bolton earned points for the fourth time in
five games to move two points clear of the relegation zone.  Fraizer Campbell and Stephane Sessegnon scored first-half
goals as Sunderland made it six wins in eight league matches
since  Martin O’Neill  took over as manager last month. The Black
Cats moved up three spots to eighth place.  Charles N’Zogbia  scored in the 79th minute as Aston Villa
rallied for the home tie. QPR took a 2-0 lead on a score from
Djibril Cisse, who joined the club yesterday from Lazio, and an
own goal by Stephen Warnock before Villa’s Darren Bent scored
just before halftime.  Somen Tchoyi’s goal with eight minutes left earned West
Brom the draw at Fulham, which got a goal from American Clint Dempsey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 