-- News Corp.’s Times Being Probed for Computer Hacking, Lawmaker Watson Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-02T12:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/news-corp-s-times-being-probed-for-computer-hacking-lawmaker-watson-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Times newspaper  in
Britain is being investigated by police over possible computer
hacking by a reporter, spreading the company’s media scandal to
a third Rupert Murdoch paper in the U.K.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  is investigating the Times
over e-mail hacking, Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson  said in an
e-mail. Officers from Operation Tuleta, which is probing
possible computer hacking, said they have been in contact with
Watson, police said in a separate e-mail.  It’s the first time the Times has come under police
scrutiny since a phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to
shutter the 168-year-old News of the World tabloid in July. A
parallel probe of police bribery by reporters led to the arrests
of four current and former employees at New York-based News
Corp.’s Sun tabloid  in  London  five days ago.  Watson, a member of the U.K. Parliament’s Culture, Media
and Sport Committee that is investigating the interception of
mobile phone voice mails by reporters, said in August he thought
computer hacking would become the next scandal facing Murdoch’s
U.K. publishing business.  The Times’s editor, James Harding, told a separate judge-
led inquiry into media ethics last month that a reporter at the
227-year-old newspaper had gained unauthorized access to an e-
mail account to get information for a story.  ‘Fallen Short’  “When it was brought to my attention, the journalist faced
disciplinary action,” Harding said in written testimony for the
inquiry. “The reporter believed he was seeking to gain
information in the public interest, but we took the view he had
fallen short of what was expected of a Times journalist.”  Harding will be asked to give additional testimony to the
inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, a person familiar with the
situation said today. The inquiry was called for by Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in response to the phone-hacking scandal.  “The culture at the Times is very different than at other
papers at News International -- I’d be surprised if it was more
than just a rogue reporter,” said Niri Shan, a media lawyer at
Taylor Wessing LLP in London. “It’s a serious issue in itself
and they’ll be concerned where it leads.”  Former British Army intelligence officer Ian Hurst sued
News Corp.’s London-based News International unit over claims it
hired a computer expert to hack into his e-mail. Actress  Sienna Miller  told the judicial inquiry last year that she suspected
her computer had been accessed by the media in 2008, though she
didn’t say which paper.  News Corp. spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to comment.  The probe comes days after News International submitted new
evidence to Watson’s committee describing the deletion of an
internal e-mail that later resurfaced and contradicted claims by
News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch.  Saturday E-Mail  The e-mail from former News of the World editor  Colin Myler 
suggested James Murdoch was made aware in 2008 that phone-
hacking at the News of World was more widespread than the
company claimed. Murdoch, who says he didn’t read the e-mail
because it was sent on a Saturday, told the committee he wasn’t
aware of widespread phone-hacking before the scandal erupted.  Myler’s copy of the message was “lost from the e-mail
archive system in a hardware failure” in March 2010, while
 James Murdoch ’s copy was deleted by a member of News
International’s IT staff in January 2011 as part of an “e-mail
stabilization” program, according to the company’s law firm.
The police probe started less than two weeks later.  Judge Geoffrey Vos in London, who is overseeing civil
phone-hacking cases filed by victims, said at a hearing last
month that News International should be treated as “deliberate
destroyers of evidence” and ordered the company to search more
computers.  ‘Rogue’ Journalist  When the phone-hacking scandal started in 2006 with the
arrest of a News of the World reporter and a private
investigator, the company claimed the practice was limited to a
“rogue” journalist. Evidence obtained in civil lawsuits later
revealed others were involved and triggered a new police probe.  London police, who are still contacting hundreds of
possible phone-hacking victims, have arrested more than 20
people in the three related probes, including the News of the
World’s former editors, Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  