-- NHL Investigating Clock Error Leading Up to Last-Second Los Angeles Goal
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nhl-investigating-clock-error-leading-up-to-last-second-los-angeles-goal.html
The  National Hockey League  has begun
a “thorough review” of a clock malfunction that extended a
game by about one second and allowed the host  Los Angeles Kings 
to score a game-winning goal against the  Columbus Blue Jackets ,
league spokesman Frank Brown said in an e-mail.  Brown said yesterday that there was no scenario in which
the Kings’ victory would be removed from the standings or
portions of the game replayed.  The Kings broke a 2-2 tie with 0.4 seconds remaining two
nights ago when defenseman Drew Doughty beat Columbus goalie
Curtis Sanford following a scramble in front of the net. Replays
show that the clock stopped for roughly one second with 1.8
seconds remaining.  Columbus coach Todd Richards said after the game that he
thought the goal would not have counted had the clock not
stopped.  “Something happened, and it’s really disappointing because
I thought our guys battled and worked hard,” Richards said.
“They fought for 60 minutes, they deserved something.”  Colin Campbell, senior executive vice president of the NHL,
told the Columbus Dispatch yesterday that the goal should not
have counted. He said that while the league did not question the
integrity of the clock operator at the Staples Center, it was
sending staffers to  Los Angeles  to look into how the error
occurred.  The Kings (25-16-10) have 60 points this season and are
seventh in the Western Conference. The Blue Jackets (13-32-6)
have a league-low 32 points. The top eight teams in each
conference make the playoffs.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  