-- No Women on Facebook Board Shows White Male Influence
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-02-03T01:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/no-women-on-facebook-board-shows-white-male-influence.html
Most of  Facebook Inc. ’s more than 800
million users are women. You wouldn’t know it from looking at
the  board , whose seven directors are all men.  The disconnect puts the social-media company at odds with
others in the industry that have at least one female director,
including LinkedIn Corp. and Google Inc., and from most big
public companies in the U.S. Just 11.3 percent of the Fortune
500 had male-only boards last year, according to Catalyst, a New
York-based nonprofit that researches women and business issues.  “We’re long past having to defend or explain why women
should be on boards, given all the data that shows how companies
with female as well as male directors perform better,” said
 Anne Mulcahy , former chairman and chief executive officer of
Xerox Corp. and a director at Johnson & Johnson Co., Target
Corp. and Washington Post Co. “It’s unfortunate when companies
with a large percentage of women constituents don’t reflect that
in their boardrooms.”  A Catalyst survey of Fortune 500 companies found that those
with three or more female directors outperformed those with
fewer between 2005 and 2009, achieving on average 43 percent
better return on equity. As Facebook prepares to raise $5
billion in an initial public offering, the composition of its
board shows its business strategy is faulty, said Susan Stautberg, co-founder of New York-based Women Corporate
Directors, which promotes female board membership.  “It doesn’t make sense for a company that claims to be so
forward looking to not have any women directors,” she said.
“If they just have an old boy’s network in the boardroom, they
won’t have access to diverse ideas and strategies.”  Female Public Face  Facebook, which began eight years ago in a Harvard
University dorm room, had sales of $3.7 billion in 2011. Fifty-
eight percent of its users are women, according to a 2010 survey
by the Pew Internet and American Life Project that found women
spend more time than men making status and profile updates and
commenting on others’ posts.  The board’s makeup is surprising considering Facebook’s
chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, is an outspoken
advocate for  gender equality , said Malli Gero, executive
director of  2020 Women on Boards . The public face of the  Menlo
Park , California-based company, Sandberg, 42, is Facebook’s
best-paid senior executive, receiving $30.9 million in
compensation last year. She may own up to 1.7 percent of the
company after the IPO, and at the top end of the valuation range
expected for the offering, her stake may be worth $1.7 billion.  Social Mission  “It’s surprising and disappointing that Facebook has zero
female directors because Sandberg is so powerful at the company
and so outspoken in favor of women advancing,” said Gero, whose
Boston-based nonprofit is campaigning for 20 percent female
representation on U.S. boards by 2020.  Sandberg, a Walt Disney Co. director, was co-chairman of
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . Her activism on
gender issues extends to her personal network. Last year, when
her friend and EBay Inc. CEO John Donahoe asked for her to
recommend a woman to join EBay’s board, she referred him to
candidates including Katie Mitic, an executive at Facebook, said
John Pluhowski, a spokesman for  San Jose , California-based EBay.
Mitic joined the EBay board in September.  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on the board’s composition.  ‘More Diverse Representation’  Its makeup clashes with the networking website’s ambition
to be an agent for equality and openness, Stautberg said.  Mark Zuckerberg , the 27-year-old founder, chairman and
chief executive officer, wrote in a letter submitted with the
IPO filing that Facebook’s “social mission” is “to make the
world more open and connected” and “give everyone a voice and
to help transform society for the future.”  Zuckerberg has 56.9 percent voting control of Facebook
shares, which some corporate-governance experts have said gives
one person too much power.  The other directors are Donald E. Graham, chairman and CEO
of The Washington Post Co.; venture capitalist Marc Andreesen,
co-founder of Netscape Communications Corp., James W. Breyer,
CEO of Breyer Capital; Peter A. Thiel, co-founder of Palantir
Technologies Inc. and a  fund manager  at Clarium Capital LLC;
 Reed Hastings , chairman and CEO of Netflix Inc.; and Erskine B. Bowles, president emeritus of University of  North Carolina .  It’s a board drawn largely from the male investor
community as is often the case at Silicon Valley start-ups, said
Mulcahy, who groomed  Ursula Burns  to succeed her at Xerox, where
four of 11 directors are women.  As Facebook and other young companies mature, “they need
to break out of this pattern and have more diverse
representation,” said Mulcahy, who is chairman of Save the
Children Inc. “And women also need to be better represented in
the private equity industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  