-- Nomura Jumps After Unexpected Profit Increase, Cost Cutting: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-02T07:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nomura-jumps-after-unexpected-profit-increase-cost-cutting-tokyo-mover.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  rose the most in
three months after reporting an unexpected quarterly profit
increase from cost cuts and the sale of private-equity
investments.  Shares of Japan’s biggest brokerage  jumped  7.1 percent, the
biggest increase since Oct. 27, to 300 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of  Tokyo  Stock Exchange trading.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
the country’s top banks also rose. The Topix index gained 0.6
percent.  Nomura’s  net income  climbed 33 percent to 17.8 billion yen
($233 million) for the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based bank said in a statement yesterday. The
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a 2 billion yen loss. Trading and brokerage commissions plunged
and overseas losses widened, it said.  Chief Financial Officer Junko Nakagawa said yesterday the
bank doesn’t plan to deepen its $1.2 billion of proposed expense
reductions. Nomura is trimming payroll costs that surged after
taking over Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. assets in 2008.  “Nomura’s results showed the brokerage is physically fit
and capable of generating profit in various ways, including
investment sales,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at
SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “We are also starting to
see more benefits from the company’s cost-cutting efforts.’  Personnel costs fell 11 percent last quarter from a year
earlier to 127.8 billion yen, Nomura said yesterday. Global
 headcount  dropped to 34,933 employees as of Dec. 31 from 35,697
three months earlier.  Financial Shares Climb  Shares of Daiwa, Japan’s second-biggest brokerage,
increased 4.5 percent to 281 yen in Tokyo.  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s biggest lender by market
value, climbed 2.5 percent after posting higher nine-month
profit.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  gained 2.1 percent
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  rose 2.6 percent.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange suffered its biggest disruption in
almost six years as a computer glitch forced the suspension of
trading in 241 companies. It resumed trading of the stocks at
12:30 p.m. local time, about 4 1/2 hours after the bourse said
the error was detected.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s net income jumped 48 percent in the nine
months ended Dec. 31 to 815.8 billion yen from a year earlier,
the lender said yesterday in a statement. The bank reaped a 28
percent profit increase from sales and trading of bonds and
other securities. It also benefited from a 291 billion yen gain
in the first quarter after converting preferred stock in Morgan
Stanley for common shares.  Skylark Sale  Daiwa and Mizuho said this week that they are eliminating
more brokerage jobs as Europe’s debt crisis roils markets.
Mitsubishi UFJ yesterday joined Mizuho and  Sumitomo Mitsui  in
posting lower lending income for the quarter as Japan’s sluggish
economy hampered borrowing demand.  Nomura’s net income rose 33 percent last quarter from a
year earlier. Revenue climbed 25 percent to 481.5 billion yen,
the bank said. Gains from private-equity investments totaled
34.6 billion yen, spurred by the 128 billion yen sale of
Japanese family restaurant chain Skylark Co.  Brokerage commissions fell 26 percent from a year earlier
to 74 billion yen, the bank said. Investment-banking fees
dropped 49 percent to 17.2 billion yen. Trading profit declined
24 percent to 80.1 billion yen.  Nomura may be  downgraded  by Moody’s Investors Service,
which began a review in November, citing overseas losses and a
failure to generate returns from Lehman assets in  Europe  and
 Asia  that the Japanese bank bought in 2008. Moody’s rates Nomura
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade.  Maki Hanatate, senior credit officer at Moody’s in Tokyo,
declined to comment on Nomura’s earnings.  Question Remains  ‘‘The question remains whether the profit Nomura made this
time is sustainable, and whether it will be able to boost
revenue in future,” said Katsunori Tanaka, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo with a neutral rating on
Nomura. He said it was “positive” to see that the company
pared personnel expenses.  Nomura continued to lose money abroad. Pretax losses from
 overseas operations  widened to 19.4 billion yen from 3 billion
yen a year earlier.  “Nomura bounced back after being caught by turbulence in
Europe in the previous quarter,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Visibility is still cloudy,
and the bank may struggle to raise revenue, including at its
retail and asset management businesses.”  Cost-Cut Impact  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe is trimming
payroll costs that surged after his company inherited 8,000
Lehman employees.  “We expected the impact of expense reduction to emerge
from the fourth quarter, but a small impact was reflected in
third-quarter results,”  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a report after earnings were reported. Credit
Suisse raised its rating on the stock to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  Two of the highest-ranking former Lehman employees stepped
down in January.  Jesse Bhattal , who was chief of wholesale
banking, left Nomura after his division bore the brunt of the
losses. Tarun Jotwani’s global markets division was split into
equities and fixed income after he resigned.  Daiwa posted on Jan. 31 a fourth straight quarterly loss
and said it will cut a further 200 jobs overseas, taking total
dismissals for the current fiscal year to 500. Mizuho,  Japan ’s
third-biggest bank by market value, said it will eliminate 300
more positions at its brokerage arm by March 31, bringing total
cuts to 1,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  