-- NRC Advances Southern Co. Bid to Build U.S. Nuclear Units
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-02T23:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nrc-advances-southern-co-bid-to-build-first-u-s-nuclear-units.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission has scheduled a vote for Feb. 9 on  Southern Co. (SO) ’s
application for the first construction permit to build nuclear
reactors in more than 30 years.  The NRC’s announcement, posted today on the agency’s
website, is required seven days before a public meeting. The
Nuclear Energy Institute expects the application to be approved,
Marvin Fertel, chief executive officer of the Washington-based
industry group, said Jan. 18 at a conference in Washington.  “The commissioners have the tools they need to issue” the
license, Steve Higginbottom, a Southern spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Southern is planning to build two reactors at its Vogtle
power plant, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) southeast of
Augusta, Georgia. The Atlanta-based company said the first unit
would be in operation by 2016 with the second reactor working a
year later. Construction will cost about $14 billion.  The NRC also is considering a license for  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of
Cayce, South Carolina, to build two reactors at an existing
plant, as the agency weighs new safety rules for the U.S.
nuclear-power industry after  Japan ’s disaster last year.  Preliminary Work  Southern, which applied for the license to build and
operate the reactors in March 2008, had begun preliminary work
on cooling towers and structures unrelated to nuclear safety as
it awaited the NRC’s review of the construction and operation
permit. The U.S. Energy Department in February 2010
conditionally approved an $8.3 billion loan guarantee to help
the company build the two reactors.  The NRC’s scheduled vote at a public meeting is tentative,
according to the website. The five commissioners will be voting
to affirm their written positions on the application, which are
circulated among colleagues to reach consensus before the
meeting.  The last operating reactor to win a construction permit was
 Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s Shearon Harris plant, about 20 miles
southwest of Raleigh,  North Carolina , in 1978, Scott Burnell, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  A partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island plant near
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in 1979 stalled development of U.S.
nuclear power, which accounts for about 20 percent of all
electricity produced in the U.S., according to the Energy
Information Administration.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011
caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, triggering an NRC review of
safety rules for U.S. plants. It was the world’s worst civil
atomic disaster since the 1986 Chernobyl catastrophe in what is
now Ukraine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  