-- NYSE Is Niederauer Dilemma as Deal Fails
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-02-02T16:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/nyse-is-niederauer-dilemma-as-deal-fails.html
Duncan Niederauer , poised for the
past year to become chief executive officer of the world’s
biggest exchange company, is back in charge of No. 6.  European regulators yesterday blocked NYSE Euronext’s
merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , a deal that at its peak would
have created a company worth more than $26 billion. The
companies terminated the transaction today. Alone, NYSE
Euronext’s value of $6.9 billion leaves it 42 percent as big as
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  in Chicago and 53 percent the size of  BM&FBovespa
SA (BVMF3)  in  Sao Paulo . The New York Stock Exchange owner is the sixth-
largest operator of equity and derivatives venues.  Losing the Deutsche Boerse deal leaves Niederauer, a former
executive at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with one fewer option for
closing the gap with CME and BM&FBovespa, companies with stock
valuations as much as 86 percent higher because of the
profitability of trading and clearing derivatives.  “I’m sure the investment bankers and his old friends at
Goldman are going to be egging him on to get more deals,” James Angel, a professor of finance at Georgetown University’s
McDonough School of Business in  Washington , said in a phone
interview. “This is a mature business, most product lines are
fairly mature business lines, and that’s the challenge they
face. How are they going to grow?”  Diverging Margins  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in New
York, declined to comment. NYSE’s shares rose 0.9 percent to
$26.67 at 11:20 a.m. New York time. Before today the shares had
risen 1.7 percent since Dec. 20, the day before two people
familiar with the matter said European Union regulators told
NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse that new concessions they
offered to allay antitrust concerns didn’t go far enough.  The advantage of derivatives trading can be seen in NYSE
and CME’s financial statements. In the nine months ended Sept.
30, 2011, NYSE had net revenue of $2.04 billion and earnings of
$506 million, for a profit margin of 25 percent, according to a
company statement. CME had $2.54 billion in sales and $1.07
billion in profit, a 42 percent margin, the company said.  NYSE Euronext’s captures 68 cents per contract in its
London-based NYSE Liffe derivatives business, compared with 4
cents for 100 shares in U.S. equity trading, according to a
third-quarter presentation from the company. The operating
margin for futures and options is 57 percent, about 13
percentage points higher than it is for equities, the data show.  CME, BM&FBovespa  That helps explain the relative values for the world’s
biggest markets. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. is the
largest at about $19 billion, followed by CME Group at $16.4
billion and BM&FBovespa at $13.2 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Deutsche Boerse is fourth at $11.9 billion.
Merging with the Frankfurt-based company would have given
Niederauer more than 90 percent of exchange-traded derivatives
in  Europe .  Unions among the biggest companies are unlikely after
yesterday’s rejection by antitrust regulators “set back large
global exchange consolidation for two to three years,” wrote
 Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
New York. A combination between NYSE and ICE, which teamed with
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  on a hostile bid for the New York Stock
Exchange last year, is a “possibility,” he wrote.  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for New York-based Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.,  Lee Underwood  of  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and
 Michael Shore  of CME declined to comment. Naomi Kim of Deutsche
Boerse didn’t reply to a request.  Sevenfold Surge  Higher margins have translated into gains for CME
shareholders, who have seen the stock appreciate more than
sevenfold since its 2002 initial public offering, 13 times the
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. NYSE has fallen 67
percent since March 8, 2006, its first trading session as a
public company, compared with an 3.6 percent gain in the  S&P 500 
over the period.  “NYSE is extremely competitive in its core businesses, but
does now need to make some acquisitions to become more
vertically integrated,” Tim Hoyle, director of research at
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., which manages $6
billion and owns NYSE Euronext shares, wrote in an e-mail.  Rejection of the Deutsche Boerse deal by the European Union
may leave Niederauer focused on cost cuts for now, after $37
billion in proposed industry takeovers failed in the last 15
months. NYSE Euronext will resume a buyback and present “pretty
detailed 2012 plans” when it reports quarterly results next
week, he said in a phone interview yesterday.  LSE, LME  Given the regulatory environment, NYSE Euronext may
consider a strategic alliance with  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE)  or a deal with an exchange in Asia,  Larry Tabb , chief
executive of financial services research firm Tabb Group LLC in
New York, said in a phone interview. Buying a smaller venue that
has drawn takeover interest, London Metal Exchange, wouldn’t be
a “game changer,” he said.  There are “lots of assets that are available right now,”
Niederauer said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 27. “Everyone will take a look at
LME,” he said, declining to comment on whether NYSE would bid.  Deutsche Boerse will develop products and expand, CEO Reto Francioni told reporters in Frankfurt yesterday, calling
regulators’ decision “a black day for Europe.” Directors of
NYSE Euronext are “fully supportive” of Niederauer, Jan- Michiel Hessels, the chairman, said in an e-mail. There are “no
grounds for any fundamental shift” at  Deutsche Boerse , wrote
Manfred Gentz, chairman of the supervisory board.  Cross-Border Mergers  Exchanges will have a hard time pursuing cross-border
mergers, said Brian Barish, president of Cambiar Investors LLC
in Denver, which manages about $7 billion including about 4.2
million shares of NYSE Euronext. Instead, NYSE should capitalize
on a push by regulators to move over-the-counter derivatives
onto exchanges, he said.  “There are growth opportunities, not through M&A, I don’t
think,” Barish said yesterday. “There’s still room to
consolidate derivatives and futures markets.”  Derivatives venues derive their advantage from clearing
trades, the process where transactions are guaranteed by an
entity that becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to
every buyer. Most futures exchange operators including Deutsche
Boerse, CME and ICE own their own clearinghouses and don’t
permit similar contracts traded on other venues to be processed
with their own. That creates a barrier to competition that
allows the exchanges to charge more.  Writing Rules  Regulators around the world are writing rules to drive most
bilaterally negotiated transactions among market participants
into clearinghouses to reduce the fallout of a default. NYSE
Euronext may now pay closer attention to over-the-counter
derivatives as off-exchange trading is pushed toward electronic
platforms called swaps execution facilities, Tabb said.  Exchange-traded derivatives globally were worth about 12
percent of the $708 trillion over-the-counter market at the end
of June, according to  data  from the Bank for International
Settlements. CME accounted for 44 percent of volume traded in
the 10 most active exchange-listed interest rate derivatives
contracts globally in the first half of last year, compared with
39 percent for Eurex and Liffe together,  data  from the
Washington-based Futures Industry Association show.  CME, ICE, London-based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and New
York-based Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. already have
businesses and offerings focused on over-the-counter
derivatives. ICE, based in Atlanta, clears most credit-default
swaps globally, while LCH.Clearnet dominates the interest rate
swaps market.  OTC Derivatives  NYSE could gain a presence in over-the-counter derivatives
by acquiring an interdealer-broker as ICE did in 2008 when it
bought Creditex Group Inc. The deal gave ICE a platform that
processed credit derivatives swaps completed privately among
securities firms.  “Why aren’t these guys building out CDS trading
platforms?” Michael Vogelzang, who oversees $2.1 billion
including NYSE Euronext shares as chief investment officer at
Boston Advisors LLC, said in a phone interview. “This is what
they should be doing as opposed to trying to figure out whether
they should take over  Germany .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  