-- Obama Uses Housing as Foil to Romney’s ‘Hit Bottom’ Strategy
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-02T16:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/obama-uses-housing-as-foil-to-romney-s-hit-bottom-strategy.html
President  Barack Obama  is escalating
the fight over how to revive the housing market, a sector of the
economy that has dragged down growth for six years running,
eroded  consumer confidence  and wiped out $7 trillion in American
wealth.  Opponents said the president’s plan, announced yesterday,
was as much about politics as the policy goal of easing access
to refinancing for homeowners with negative equity. It helps the
White House frame differences with Republican presidential
candidates and with Congress, which for two straight years has
rejected a bank tax that he said would be used to finance the
program.  “This housing crisis struck right at the heart of what it
means to be middle class in America: our homes,” Obama said in
a speech in the Washington suburb of  Falls Church ,  Virginia .
“We need to do everything in our power to repair the damage and
make responsible families whole.”  Paul J. Miller, a bank analyst at FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia, said that while it doesn’t “have a prayer
in hell of passing,” the proposal may help Obama score
political points. A bank tax is “bad public policy, but it’s
populism at its highest,” he said.  Even if it passes Congress, the program might be too small
to accelerate the recovery. “It’s not necessarily a game
changer for the economy,” said  Mahesh Swaminathan , a fixed-
income analyst with Credit Suisse in  New York .  Market Reaction  Government-backed mortgage bonds had almost no reaction to
Obama’s announcement.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Ginnie Mae securities,
which would be damaged by homeowners refinancing into lower-cost
loans, gained, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates for  30-year  U.S. mortgages declined to the lowest
level on record after Obama’s announcement. The average rate for
a 30-year fixed loan fell to 3.87 percent, the lowest in records
dating to 1971, from 3.98 percent in the week ended today,
 Freddie Mac , the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance
company, said in a statement.  The housing slump that began in 2006 was a catalyst for the
worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression and a persistent
obstacle to a rapid recovery. Slow growth and  joblessness  still
at 8.5 percent has kept economic issues atop voters’ concerns as
the presidential election approaches.  Housing Plans  The Obama administration already has tried to bolster the
housing market with initiatives from loan modification programs
to temporary tax credits for home purchases.  Obama used the unveiling of his latest plan to sharpen the
contrast with his opponents, echoing language from the leading
Republican candidate,  Mitt Romney .  The former Massachusetts governor told the Las Vegas
Review-Journal in an interview published Oct. 17 that the
housing market should “run its course and hit the bottom.”  Obama said yesterday, “it is wrong for anyone to suggest
that the only option for struggling, responsible homeowners is
to sit and wait for the housing market to hit bottom.”  The plan likely will hit a roadblock in the Republican-
controlled House, where Speaker  John Boehner  dismissed it as a
continuation of failed policies.  “None of these programs have worked, and I don’t know why
anyone would think that this next idea is going to work,” the
Ohio Republican said.  No Sweeping Change  If Obama’s plan was enacted, Swaminathan estimated that
about 150,000 borrowers would take advantage, refinancing about
$30 billion worth of principal.  “It will benefit those borrowers, but it’s not this
sweeping change that some might read into at first blush,” he
said. If every borrower saved 2 percentage points on interest,
the total savings would top out at $600 million, he said.  Residential real estate values have dropped 33 percent from
their July 2006 peak and have left about 11 million households
owing more on their homes than the properties are worth. Earlier
this month, the Federal Reserve Board called the housing market
“depressed.”  The housing slump “has kept the economy from gaining
steam,” Celia Chen, housing economist at Moody’s Analytics in
 West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview. “Builders see
that there’s no demand for housing because there’s an excess of
unsold homes that we’re still working off. The drop in equity
has also been a big drag on  consumer spending .”  Housing reduced U.S. economic growth by an average of 0.7
percentage point per year between 2006 and 2011 -- six
consecutive deductions -- when accounting for the value of  home
construction  along with home prices’ effect on consumer
spending, according to Moody’s calculations.  Political Battleground  The housing market collapse has resonance in several states
that Democratic and Republican strategists have identified as
presidential election battlegrounds.  Nevada  had the highest portion of homeowners with
“underwater” mortgages at 58 percent of all mortgaged
properties, followed by  Arizona  at 47 percent,  Florida  at 44
percent and  Michigan  at 35 percent, according to CoreLogic data
for the third quarter.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has appealed for
more action to revive housing as the U.S. central bank helps to
push down  interest rates  on mortgages. The Fed said in a  paper 
sent to Congress last month that previous administration efforts
to make  refinancing  easier have failed to go far enough.  Home construction and property sales led the way out of the
previous seven recessions going back to 1960, according to  PMI
Group Inc (PPMIQ) ., a mortgage insurer in Walnut Creek,  California . New-
home sales improved an average of eight months before the
beginning of economic growth, and single-family housing starts
improved seven months before recovery.  Residential Investments  For 2010, the first full year of the current recovery,
residential investment fell 4.3 percent, according to the
Commerce Department. Going back to the Great Depression, it
gained an average of 22 percent in the first year of expansion,
excluding 1946, when it tripled as soldiers returned from World
War II.  The centerpiece of Obama’s new housing initiative would
allow borrowers, even those who owe more than their homes are
worth, to refinance into loans guaranteed by the  Federal Housing
Administration .  Bank Tax  To pay for the program, Obama said he will ask Congress for
a tax on financial companies with more than $50 billion in
assets. Congress has refused to act on similar tax proposals.  The streamlined refinancing would make new mortgages less
expensive and limit paperwork. Appraisals and tax returns would
not be required, according to the White House fact sheet.  The program would be open only to “responsible”
homeowners current on their payments and with no more than one
delinquency in the previous six months, the document said.  The program increases risks for taxpayers, even if a bank
fee raises $10 billion in new FHA funds. If a million borrowers
refinance, the default rate would have to be less than 5 percent
to be covered by the new funds, Swaminathan said.  “Clearly the taxpayer is going to be on hook for this
exposure,” even with funds from the bank fee, he said.  The FHA, created in 1934 with the goal of expanding
homeownership for under-served communities, charges lenders and
borrowers a fee in exchange for a guarantee that mortgages will
be paid. The agency has grown rapidly since the 2008 subprime
lending collapse and now insures more than a third of U.S.
mortgages. At the same time, the agency’s cash reserves hit a
record low of $2.6 billion last year.  Since the 2008 subprime lending collapse, the FHA has paid
$37 billion in claims related to defaulted mortgages, according
to an independent audit released in November.  In addition to the refinancing plan, Obama laid out actions
that the administration will take without congressional
approval. One is a Homeowners Bill of Rights, which will make it
easier to shop for a loan by simplifying mortgage forms and
improving disclosures on costs and fees. The Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau last year began work to establish standards.  Obama also is promoting a pilot program to sell foreclosed
properties in bulk to investors who maintain the homes as
rentals. It will be limited to homes owned by  Fannie Mae , the
mortgage company under government conservatorship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  