-- Obama Vows to Cut Lender Red Tape Stymieing Homeowner Borrowing: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/obama-vows-to-cut-lender-red-tape-stymieing-homeowner-borrowing-mortgages.html
Anthony Andrade was forced to rent
the San Antonio, Texas home he planned to buy after  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  approved a  mortgage  and then scuttled three
closings over two months with last-minute document requests.  “It was crazy,” said the 54-year-old Army veteran whose
travails ended Jan. 10 after he switched to a local mortgage
broker who got the loan backed by the Department of Veterans
Affairs approved. “My wife was in tears because I had to sign
the same things over and over. If we were superstitious people,
we would have thought this house was not meant to be ours.”  The loose lending that fueled the  real-estate boom  has
given way to underwriters amassing paper trails to justify loans
to even the most creditworthy in a process home-loan buyer
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s chief economist calls “the mortgage inquisition.”
The  Mortgage Bankers Association  forecasts that refinancing may
drop 32 percent this year to $583 billion from 2011, even as the
 Federal Reserve  pushes borrowing costs to record lows and
President Obama urges steps to remove obstacles for homeowners.  “It suppresses a recovery,” said Anthony B. Sanders, a
professor of real-estate finance at George Mason University in
Fairfax, Virginia and former head of mortgage bond research at
Deutsche Bank AG. “The pendulum has swung from one direction to
another. We’ve gone to outrageous red tape.”  Obama said yesterday he will ask Congress for legislation
to clear barriers to help more homeowners refinance into lower-
rate loans, even with limited documentation. The plan may reduce
annual home loan payments by about $3,000 for the average
household, Obama said.  ‘Responsible Homeowners’  It will “help millions of responsible homeowners who make
their payments on time but find themselves trapped under falling
home values or wrapped in red tape,” Obama said in Falls
Church,  Virginia . The proposal doesn’t call for changes to the
underwriting of loans for home purchases.  Lenders have solid financial reasons for their caution
these days. About 90 percent of new home loans are part of
programs in which government-supported mortgage guarantors
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and U.S. agencies, including the VA
and Federal Housing Administration, are supposed to bear default
risks. The catch is that lenders can be forced to repurchase
loans if they make underwriting mistakes.  That’s a key reason behind tighter lending, according to a
Federal Reserve paper that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sent to
Congress in January.  Defective Mortgages       Bank of America , based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said
last month that  unresolved demands  from investors who accuse the
company of selling defective mortgages jumped 22 percent in
three months to $14.3 billion. Total outstanding demands on
lenders by Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac in
McLean, Virginia stood at $12.2 billion as of Sept. 30,
according to their securities filings.  Concern that delinquent loans will prove costly for
servicing departments is helping to constrain lenders, according
to the  Fed paper , as regulations meant to ensure borrowers
better understand loan terms and fees also serve to delay
transactions.  “I call it the mortgage inquisition,” said Douglas Duncan, Fannie Mae’s chief economist. What’s changed “is the
massive amount of documentation that now must be done against
the potential legal liabilities in the system. That’s what makes
it feel that it’s that much harder.”  ‘No Doc’ Loans  The benefit is that new loans are performing well because
lenders have tightened their standards in the wake of the era of
“no doc” loans that didn’t require borrowers to prove income
or even that they had jobs, Duncan added. About 5 million
properties were lost to  foreclosure  since 2006, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller.  Andrade, a real-estate agent, said Bank of America asked
for an extension three times, one or two days before settlement,
seeking revised inspection reports and bank statements and
employment verification information that he had faxed earlier.  While none of the requests were out of the ordinary, they
should not have come in just before the scheduled closing,
Andrade said.  The lender is “focused on improving efficiency and
continues to add resources to its fulfillment process in order
to improve the experience for our customers,” Bank of America
spokesman  Terry Francisco  said in an e-mailed statement.  Analysts at Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley see little chance of Obama’s latest plan
succeeding amid a divided Congress. House Speaker John Boehner,
a Republican, told reporters the plan won’t work, after at least
four government initiatives to help homeowners failed.  Bondholders Expect  About 900,000 borrowers with loans in private securities
might be eligible, and benefit from one part of the proposal
requiring legislation, according to data from Amherst Securities
Group LP analyst  Laurie Goodman .  Bondholders expect limited results from an attempt last year
by Obama to expand refinancing for mortgages backed by Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac . Fannie Mae’s 6 percent securities, which
would be damaged by homeowners refinancing into lower-cost
loans, have risen almost one cent on the dollar since Nov. 14,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes have declined 36
percent since 2005. Even as  transactions  rose for a third month,
climbing 5 percent to a 4.61 million annual rate, the National
Association of Realtors said Jan. 20, contracts are increasingly
falling through.  Contract Cancellations  In a survey of about 3,000 Realtors in December, 53 percent
of respondents said they’ve had at least one transaction delayed
or canceled in the previous month, up from 35 percent a year
earlier, according to Walter Molony, a spokesman for the
National Association of Realtors.  Members reporting contract cancellations jumped to 33
percent in December from 9 percent a year earlier. While the top
factors cited were appraisal and mortgage problems, other issues
included a job loss or credit score drop before the scheduled
closing, he said.  Lenders are holding up deals with requests for years-old
bank statements, canceled checks and updated paperwork, said
Casey Williams, an agent for Essex Homes, a Lexington, South
Carolina-based homebuilder, who now refers to scheduled closings
as “target” dates. “Closing on time is like playing darts and
trying to hit the bull’s eye,” he said.  ‘Ultra-High Credit Score’  Having an “ultra-high credit score” and multiples of the loan
amount in personal assets didn’t mean things were easy when Ryan
Carlson, a 31-year-old independent trader of futures contracts,
started refinancing in July, he said. When he was questioned
about cash he’d deposited in his bank account when he closed a
brokerage account, he said he figured documents showing debits
and credits in the same amount on the same day would be
sufficient. They weren’t. “I had to chase more documentation,”
he said.  A client of Brian Tata, a mortgage broker in Warwick,  Rhode
Island , was required to come up with the canceled check to show
the source of a $1,000 annual payment from his parents to help
cover their grandchild’s school expenses.  One homeowner was asked to explain why he lived in  Maryland 
and worked in bordering Virginia, a common commute in the
Washington, D.C. area, said Ray Romano, Freddie Mac’s chief
credit officer through mid 2011, of an acquaintance.  Chris Neuswanger, who runs the Vale,  Colorado  office of
mortgage broker Macro Financial Group, has had closings delayed
after settlement documents listed the name of the lender funding
a mortgage as ending with a “Co.,” not “Company” and because
paperwork listed a condominium unit as both “4-B” and “B-4.”  Often, the process can take so long that underwriters may
request fresh appraisals.  Damaging Housing  The “new world order” damages both housing demand and
 financial companies , said Cliff Rossi, executive-in-residence at
the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  “People talk to each other, so it impacts perspective
borrowers, particularly first-time homebuyers who say, ‘It looks
like an insurmountable process for us to qualify, so why even
bother trying?’,” Rossi said. “It also certainly doesn’t help
banks’ reputations” in general, he added  Rossi was a senior risk officer at three of the largest
mortgage lenders -- Countrywide Financial Corp., Washington
Mutual Inc. and Citigroup Inc. -- during the boom that has since
given way to a slump that  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20Y%)  index data show
wiping about 33 percent from U.S. property values.  First-time buyers fell to 31 percent of transactions in
December from 35 percent in November; they were 33 percent in
December 2010.  Buying Too Complicated  When asked about the “major” reasons they haven’t yet
purchased a property, 26 percent of renters listed, “The
process of buying a home seems too complicated” as an issue,
according to a survey conducted for Fannie Mae from July through
September.  The U.S.  homeownership  rate fell to 66 percent for the
quarter ending Dec. 31, as low as 1998 levels and down from a
peak of 69.2 percent in December 2004, according to a U.S.
Census Bureau report.  The Fed has strengthened rules on disclosures of loan terms
under the Truth in Lending Act, while the Department of Housing
and Urban Development beefed up those for closing costs, known
as Good Faith Estimates. Lenders must send updated disclosures
as items change and can’t close until three days afterward.  The changes forced a wait for one of Neuswanger’s clients
in Colorado after a borrower’s annual percentage rate on their
adjustable-rate mortgage declined following a drop in the index
it would track, he said.  Every Document  While not all originators believe that offering a better
rate requires re-disclosure, some do, said Matt Woods, president
of  Genpact Mortgage Services. (G)  Woods, whose firm does outsourcing
work for lenders including two of the top five, said it would be
good if borrowers could waive the waiting periods, especially
after being scrutinized by underwriters.  “Every document you provide seems to lead to another
document we need,” he said.  The situation is “clearly harming the housing recovery,”
said Christopher Mayer, a real estate professor at Columbia
Business School in  New York .  “People do read the paper and talk to friends and
understand how rough this process is,” he said.  Richard K. Green, a real estate professor at the University
of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles , said his own refinance
took about four months and required a new appraisal because so
much time had elapsed from application to approval.  Appraisal Process  Appraisals, which already lag the market during a recovery
because they depend on completed comparable sales, have been
dragged down by all-cash sales, he said. Cash buyers, who
account for about a third of sales nationally, typically pay
about 8 percent less, Green said.  “I’m all for well-documented loans, but you can confirm
the documents in a pretty short period of time,” Green said.  Bob Buie, senior vice president of loan originations at
Midland Mortgage Corp. in Columbia,  South Carolina , says the
banks he sells his mortgages to now require his underwriters to
pull an updated credit report for each borrower 48 hours before
closing.  “I tell my clients that ‘this will be the most trying,
tedious process you’ve ever been through in your life,” Buie
said. “We can no longer use the ‘reasonable man’ method of
documentation and approving loans. We have verifications to
verify verifications that verify verifications.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  