-- Obama Doesn’t Name Names in Campaign
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-02T16:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/obama-doesn-t-name-names-in-starting-campaign-against-romney.html
President  Barack Obama  doesn’t utter
Mitt Romney’s name in speeches and public remarks. He just uses
the Republican front-runner’s words.  “It is wrong for anyone to suggest that the only option
for struggling responsible homeowners is to sit and wait for the
housing market to hit bottom,” Obama said yesterday in Falls
Church,  Virginia , announcing his latest housing proposal.  That “anyone” is the former Massachusetts governor, who
last year told a newspaper in Nevada, the state with the highest
foreclosure rate, that he wouldn’t intervene in the housing
market.  “Let it run its course and hit the bottom,” Romney said
in an  interview  published Oct. 17 by the Las Vegas Review-
Journal.  As he seeks a second term, Obama shares the advantage
afforded incumbents including former Presidents  Bill Clinton  and
 George W. Bush , allowing him to pursue his re-election while
trying to avoid overt campaigning against an opponent.  “You don’t want to use the president in a way that makes
he and Romney seem on the same plane, because it’s one of the
advantages of running as president,” said Matthew Dowd, former
strategist for Bush’s 2004 re-election campaign and now a
Bloomberg contributor.  At the same time, by using official events and policy
speeches to attack Romney, Obama runs the risk of ceding the
presidential high ground too early.  ‘Too Cute’  “It’s a little bit too cute by half,” Dowd said.  The White House communications director,  Dan Pfeiffer ,
declined to comment. The  Republican National Committee , along
with Republican lawmakers such as Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan, have dubbed Obama the “campaigner in chief.”  Today, as Romney defended himself over a statement he made
about the country’s poor, that word made its way twice into
Obama’s remarks at the annual National Prayer Breakfast in
 Washington . The president and his advisers are seeking to frame
the 2012 election as a “values” debate.  “Caring for the poor and those in need,” Obama said.
“These values are old.”  In a CNN interview yesterday, Romney said: “I’m not
concerned about the very poor” because they have many programs
to help them. He later told reporters on his campaign plane that
the comment was taken out of context and said he meant that poor
people have an “ample safety net,” including  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) , housing
vouchers and food stamps.  Romney Response  Obama’s approach shows that he knows Romney will be his
biggest threat in November, Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the
Republican, said.  “Rather than focusing on  job creation  and helping the
middle class, President Obama and his allies are focused on
attacking  Mitt Romney ,” Saul said in an e-mail.  As the leader in the race for his party’s nomination,
Romney has focused his rhetoric on Obama as much as his main
Republican rival, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich . The
criticism includes Obama’s call for higher taxes on the wealthy,
the government bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC and the administration’s housing policy.  Obama’s campaign advisers have said they view Romney as
Obama’s most likely opponent in November. The president and his
surrogates haven’t let attacks by the Republican go unanswered.  ‘Politics of Envy’  Over the past week, Obama has used six speeches to rebut
Romney’s assertion, made in his victory speech after winning the
New Hampshire primary, that president’s economic and tax
policies are rooted in “the bitter politics of envy.”  “Just yesterday,  Bill Gates  said he agrees with me that
Americans who can afford it should pay their fair share,” Obama
said of the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Jan. 26 in Las Vegas.  “I promise you, Bill Gates does not envy the rich,” Obama
said, prompting audience laughter. “This has nothing to do with
envy. It has everything to do with math.”  One of the contrasts with Romney that Obama repeatedly has
drawn is on the auto industry bailout. The administration says
it saved 1 million jobs. Many of those are them in  Michigan (BLM0MJ19)  and
 Ohio , two swing states that are crucial to amassing the 270
electoral votes needed to win the White House.  Obama, who last week made his 10th trip to  Michigan  since
taking office, ties the resurgence of the auto industry since
the bailout to his plans for expanding U.S. manufacturing.  Auto Bailout  “It’s good to remember the fact that there were some folks
who were willing to let this industry die,” Obama said Jan. 31
when he visited the Washington Auto Show.  While Romney isn’t the only critic of the bailouts, the
Republican candidate has said a government rescue “was the
wrong way to go” and GM and Chrysler should have gone through a
“managed bankruptcy process, a private bankruptcy process.”  Michigan’s primary is Feb. 28. Romney has ties to the
state. His father, the late George Romney, was a former
governor.  “He’s engaging in the debate without engaging Romney,”
said Tad Devine, a senior strategist for the president campaigns
of Democrats  Al Gore , the former vice president, and
Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry . “There’s a need to begin to
present a contrast between what Romney is telling people and the
way the president views these same issues.”  Slow Recovery  The tactic puts Obama on the offensive against a challenger
while setting up a defense of his record for the campaign. His
remarks on housing, made as he announced an initiative to help
homeowners refinance underwater mortgages, are aimed at
countering Romney and address one of Obama’s vulnerabilities:
the state of the economy.  Residential real estate  values  have dropped 33 percent from
their July 2006 peak and have left about 11 million households
owe more on their mortgages than the properties are worth.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech in
 Minneapolis  on Sept. 8 said weakness in the housing market is a
key reason “for the frustratingly slow pace of the recovery.”  One of the states hardest hit by the housing crisis,
 Nevada , is a battleground that Obama won in 2008 and his
campaign is targeting for November. It’s also the site of the
next Republican nominating contest on Feb. 4.  “There’s some thought put into this,” Devine said. “They
understand they can give the stage to Romney himself, which he
would dominate, or they can provide a contrast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  