-- Oil May Beat Expectations on OPEC Subsidies, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-02-02T15:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/oil-may-beat-expectations-on-opec-subsidies-deutsche-bank-says.html
Crude oil prices may rise faster than
expected because surging domestic demand in OPEC nations,
boosted by subsidies, will soak up supply, according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  Last month, Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s decision
to remove fuel subsidies triggered violent protests, and a week-
long strike by labor unions, highlighting the difficulty of
cutting allowances for other nations in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, said  Mark Lewis , a Paris-based
managing director at the bank.  A failure to cut subsidies may lead to a faster increase in
crude prices than currently reflected in the market, he said
today in a telephone interview. “You’ve got a greater demand
for a declining pool of crude,” he said. Lewis declined to
forecast by how much prices would probably beat estimates by
other analysts.  Brent crude oil prices have jumped 91 percent in the past
five years. Demand in  Saudi Arabia , with a population of about
26 million, rose by 1.2 million barrels a day in the decade
through 2010, according to Lewis’s analysis. That’s more than
the 1.1 million-barrel advance in  India , with 1.2 billion
people. Front-month Brent rose 1 cent today to $111.59 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as of 1:21 p.m.  Direct subsidies on crude oil in the world amounted to $192
billion in 2010, more than 70 percent of which was in major
exporting nations, the report said, citing IEA data.  The  International Energy Agency  assumes nominal crude
prices may reach $247 a barrel by 2035, almost twice the $133
expected by OPEC, even as forecasts for demand converge,
according to documents prepared by the Riyadh-based
 International Energy Forum  before a meeting of the IEA and OPEC
last month in the Saudi capital.  ‘Frustrated Demand’  “The rise in real  oil prices  since 2005 mainly reflects
frustrated demand,” Lewis said today. “Subsidies on domestic
oil consumption have been instrumental in driving a very
material increase in domestic demand within OPEC and other oil-
exporting countries over the last decade,” he said.  The continuing increase in domestic consumption in
exporting countries explains why global exports of crude have
been on a “downward trajectory” since 2005, the report said.  Demand is frustrated because even though supply of oil is
apparently sufficient, high prices are discouraging consumption,
Lewis said. Some importing nations also introduced climate-
protection measures to curb oil demand and boost other fuels
with lower energy density, such as natural gas liquids and
biofuels, according to Lewis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  