-- Oil-Tanker Rents Slide for Seventh Session as Crude Demand Slows
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-02T17:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/oil-tanker-rents-slide-for-seventh-session-as-crude-demand-slows.html
Charter rates for the biggest tankers
hauling Middle East oil to  Asia  fell for a seventh session, the
longest streak since September, on weaker demand for crude and a
surplus of available vessels.  Hire costs  for very large crude carriers, each able to hold
2 million barrels, on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage
slid 2 percent to 49.18 industry-standard Worldscale points
today, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.  Stronger oil buying boosted VLCC rates before Chinese
markets closed last week for the Lunar New Year holiday. Demand
has since failed to recover, according to Oslo-based investment
bank RS Platou Markets AS. Charter rates have dropped 25 percent
since Jan. 20, this year’s high and the last session before the
Chinese holiday, and have lost 16 percent this week.  “Earnings are down about 30 percent from the peak, as
post-Chinese holiday activity has been unable to provide support
for ship owners,” Platou said in an e-mailed report.  Daily income for VLCCs  on the benchmark route decreased for
a ninth session, sliding 12 percent to $8,118, according to the
exchange. Returns have plunged 75 percent from Jan. 20 to the
lowest level since Nov. 9, its figures show.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed changes
aimed at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ main expense.
Owners can curb those expenses, boosting returns, by slowing
ships on return journeys after unloading of cargoes.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, decreased 0.1 percent
to $698.50 a metric ton, the third straight decline, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
decreased 0.2 percent to 801.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  