-- Oil Declines to Six-Week Low as U.S. Inventories Climb Amid Weak Demand
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-02T21:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/oil-declines-to-six-week-low-as-u-s-inventories-climb-amid-weak-demand.html
Oil declined to a six-week low in New
York as U.S. supplies climbed and fuel demand tumbled.  Brent
crude  in London traded at the biggest premium to the American
benchmark grade in 12 weeks.  Futures fell for a fifth day, capping the longest stretch
of downward moves since August, after the Energy Department
reported yesterday that  oil supplies  rose to a three-month high
last week.  Fuel use  dropped 8.3 percent to 17.7 million barrels
a day, the least since 1999. Tension over  Iran ’s nuclear program
may ease after UN inspectors announced more talks in Tehran.  “The market is looking heavy because supplies are rising
and demand is very weak,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “A major reason for the recent rise in
prices was concern about Iran. The hyperbole about the Iranian
situation has calmed down.”  Crude oil for March delivery declined $1.25, or 1.3
percent, to $96.36 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since Dec. 19. Prices are down 2.5 percent
this year.  Brent oil for March settlement rose 51 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $112.07 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest close
since Jan. 11.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate futures widened to $15.71, the most since Nov. 10.
Brent’s premium rose to a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14 before
narrowing to $6.82 in intraday trading on Jan. 3.  Dramatic Move  “The Brent premium to WTI came in quite dramatically late
last year,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at
 Societe Generale  in New York. “It looks like we’re trying to
find a balance after that big move. I don’t think the spread is
heading for $20 or $25 again.”  Gasoline  consumption decreased  to 7.97 million barrels a
day, the lowest level since September 2001, according to Energy
Department data. Stockpiles of the fuel increased 3.02 million
barrels last week, the report showed yesterday.  “Gasoline supplies rose 3 million barrels even though
production was down because demand is so weak,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania .  Crude oil supplies rose 4.18 million barrels to 338.9
million in the week ended Jan. 27. Inventories at  Cushing,
Oklahoma (DOESCROK) , the delivery point for New York-traded futures,
advanced 1.48 million barrels to 30.1 million last week, the
biggest gain since March.  Weak Demand  “Demand looked weak across the board, which is going to
weigh on the entire U.S. energy complex,” Wittner said. “It’s
now February and refineries have already started planned
maintenance, which explains the rise in Cushing supplies.”  Refineries operated at 81.8 percent of capacity, down 0.4
percentage point from the week before. It was the lowest
operating rate since May. Units are often idled for maintenance
in February as attention shifts away from heating oil and before
gasoline use rises.  “The bears worried about poor demand,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London , who
expects Brent crude to trade in a range of $110.50 to $112.50 a
barrel this week. “But Iran is still a cause for concern.”  Oil in New York surged to $103.74 a barrel on Jan. 4, the
highest level since May 11, on concern that rising tension
between Iran and the West would lead to a disruption of
shipments from the  Persian Gulf . The country has threatened to
close the Strait of Hormuz, the transit point for about a fifth
of global oil, if its exports are banned.  UN Inspectors  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors are preparing
for more talks over the “possible military dimensions to  Iran’s
nuclear program ,” the Vienna-based agency said yesterday in a
 statement  after a three-day visit that ended Jan. 31. The team
will return to Tehran for talks on Feb. 21 and Feb. 22. The IAEA
is the  United Nations ’ nuclear agency.  “The scheduled return of the UN inspectors to Iran is
calming the market,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “We
don’t know yet if this is just stalling, or whether this will
lead to negotiations. Sanctions are hurting the Iranian economy
and they might be ready for a deal this time.”  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  will
export 23.52 million barrels of crude a day in the four weeks to
Feb. 18, 1.1 percent more than the 23.26 million barrels in the
period to Jan. 21, Halifax, England-based tanker-tracker Oil
Movements said in an e-mailed report. The figures exclude Angola
and Ecuador.  OPEC  production  rose to a three-year high of 30.9 million
barrels a day in January as Libyan output rebounded, a Bloomberg
News survey showed on Jan. 31.  “OPEC keeps increasing production,” Flynn said. “There’s
no shortage of oil.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 654,558
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 618,838
yesterday, 6 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.42 million contracts, the most in three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  