-- Oil Royalty Raise on U.S. Lands ‘Not Imminent,’ Agency Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-02T16:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/oil-royalty-raise-on-u-s-lands-not-imminent-agency-says.html
A proposal to increase royalty rates
for energy production on federal lands isn’t imminent and won’t
be included with President Barack Obama’s 2013 budget proposal
this month, an administration official said.  Environmental groups including the  Wilderness Society  said
the administration should consider raising the payments to as
much as 20 percent. The federal government collects 12.5 percent
of the value of oil produced on federal land and 18.75 percent
offshore.  “We’re working on a proposal,” Deputy Interior Secretary
 David Hayes  said during an interview at Bloomberg News’
Washington office. “It’s not imminent, but we’re working on
it.”  Revenue raised by the agency this year will be boosted by
the lease sales in the central  Gulf of Mexico , which will be “a
blockbuster,” Hayes said. The administration will offer access
to about 1 billion barrels in June. The previous auction in the
same area, in March 2010, brought  $949.3 million  in high bids.  Hayes also said he’s in “final stages” of evaluating
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s (RDSA)  oil-spill response plan for exploration
off the coast of  Alaska . The Hague-based company plans to start
drilling this summer if it receives the necessary permits.  Alaska Drilling  Shell hopes the response plan will be approved in the first
quarter, spokesman Curtis Smith said in an e-mail last month.
The company needs about 35 permits to start drilling in the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas, which may hold about 25 billion
barrels of oil.  The Pew Environment Group  said the company should first
build and test a containment system to make sure oil from a
damaged well could be collected under water surface in arctic
conditions. Hayes declined to comment on specific elements of
the company’s application.  Shell hasn’t been permitted to drill in the Arctic leases
it purchased from the Interior Department for more than $2
billion in 2005 and 2008.  Imports of oil have declined during the Obama
administration, and while offshore production slowed after the
April 2010  BP Plc (BP/)   oil spill , the number of rigs in the Gulf of
Mexico is expected to reach the pre-spill level by the first
quarter, Hayes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  