-- Gun Operation Documents Weren’t Provided, U.S. Lawmaker Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/holder-to-face-questions-about-withheld-gun-operation-documents.html
The U.S. Justice Department has
denied congressional investigators access to witnesses and
documents in a probe lawmakers are conducting of a federal gun
operation, said Representative  Darrell Issa .  Issa, a California Republican and chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said he will question
Attorney General Eric Holder about withheld evidence at a
hearing today in Washington. Holder has said the Justice
Department has been responsive to congressional requests for
information.  Committee Republicans also want access to “numerous
witnesses” who participated in the “Fast and Furious”
operation that allowed illegal U.S. gun purchases to end up in
the hands of Mexican drug cartels, Issa said in a statement
yesterday.  “There is now broad bipartisan agreement that the
congressional investigation into Operation Fast and Furious has
exposed a serious and deadly failure of government,” Issa said.  Issa said in a Jan. 31 letter that his committee may hold
the attorney general in contempt of Congress “if the department
continues to obstruct the congressional inquiry.”  The  Justice Department  has made “substantial efforts” and
“devoted significant resources” to complying with committee
requests, including the production of 6,400 pages of documents,
Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said in a letter to Issa
yesterday.  The oversight committee “has obtained no evidence that
Operation Fast and Furious was conceived and directed by high-
level political appointees at the Justice Department,”
according to a Jan. 31 report released by committee Democrats.  Two of about 2,000 guns that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives allowed to be carried away were
found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report. ATF is part of the Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  