-- Holder Clashes With Lawmaker Over Gun Operation Documents
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-02T19:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/holder-clashes-with-lawmaker-over-gun-operation-documents-1-.html
Republicans demanded today that the
Obama administration turn over documents on a federal gun
operation that the U.S. attorney general said the executive
branch isn’t required to provide to Congress.  At a hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, Republican lawmakers said the  Justice Department 
denied their investigators access to witnesses and documents on
the law enforcement operation known as Fast and Furious.  “It appears as though we’re being stonewalled and there’s
something that’s being hidden,” said Representative Dan Burton,
an Indiana Republican.  The dispute between the Justice Department and Republicans
began last year after the operation became public. Today’s
hearing marked the sixth time that Attorney General Eric Holder
has testified before lawmakers on the topic. Holder said he has
been responsive to lawmakers’ requests for documents, and cited
constitutional concerns about turning over certain additional
materials.  The U.S. gun operation, based in Phoenix, targeted Mexican
drug cartels between 2009 and January 2011 and allowed more than
2,000 guns to be carried away. Two of the weapons were found at
the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border Patrol
agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a congressional
report. Other guns were found in  Mexico .  ‘Unprecedented Access’  The Justice Department has provided “virtually
unprecedented access” to documents related to the gun
operation, Holder said at the hearing.  “I want to make clear there is no attempt at any kind of
cover up,” Holder said.  The Justice Department has made available more than 6,400
pages of documents, including those related to the creation of a
February 2011 letter to Congress about the operation that later
was withdrawn by the department as inaccurate.  Holder cited “acute” concerns over the constitutional
separation of powers because of requests for information about
open criminal investigations. The separation of powers is the
principle dividing responsibilities among the legislative,
executive and judicial branches of government and was designed
to ensure that no branch wields too much power.  Internal Deliberations  Prior administrations also have recognized that releasing
documents detailing internal deliberations may deter future
communications, Holder said.  Holder, who repeated his previous statements that the
tactics used in Fast and Furious were “flawed,” has directed
the Justice Department’s inspector general to investigate the
matter last year.  The inspector general’s office has received more than 10
times as many documents as the oversight committee, Burton said.  “You’re hiding behind something here that will not stand
up, so you ought to give us the documents,” Burton said.  The panel’s chairman, Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, said, “When is the primary investigative
committee of Congress, of the U.S. House, going to be allowed to
have the same access that your own self-appointed -- essentially
self-appointed -- inspector general has?”  Republican Raul Labrador of  Idaho  said Holder had been
“grossly incompetent” and should resign.  Issa said there are Justice Department political appointees
who “need to go” because of their role in the operation or the
department’s response to the Congressional investigation.  The hearing provided no new evidence of Holder’s knowledge
of the operation, said Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the
committee’s top Democrat.  “The attorney general did not know about” the tactics
employed in Fast and Furious, which “was a bottom-up
operation,” Cummings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  