-- Honda Drafts Bueller, Seinfeld for Super Bowl Ads in Bid for U.S. Rebound
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-03T21:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/honda-drafts-ferris-bueller-jerry-seinfeld-for-u-s-rebound-bid.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , coming off its worst
year in the U.S., has produced two offbeat  Super Bowl  ads with
stars Matthew Broderick and  Jerry Seinfeld  to revive interest in
its brands.  Honda will air the two 60-second spots during Feb. 5’s
Super Bowl after sitting out last year’s game. A commercial
promoting its CR-V crossover has actor Broderick behaving like
his character in 1986’s “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.” An Acura
ad has car collectors Seinfeld and “Tonight Show” host Jay
Leno competing for the first NSX supercar.  Honda is counting on the ad campaign to help it wage a
comeback in the U.S. market, where its share fell to 9 percent
in 2011 from 10.6 percent the year before due to natural
disasters in  Asia  as well as critical reviews for its Civic
compact. The carmaker is looking to replenished dealer supplies
and revamped models such as the CR-V and mid-size Accord to fuel
a 27 percent U.S. sales increase in 2012.  “What we wanted to do with these Super Bowl spots is
announce Honda and Acura are open for business,” Mike Accavitti, Honda’s vice president of U.S. marketing, said in an
interview.  Market share gains by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Ford Motor Co., which have improved their compact and mid-size
cars mean Honda can’t coast on its reputation, said Brad Adgate,
head of research at New York-based Horizon Media Inc.  “When you think of Honda, you still think of well-built
cars, but brands like Hyundai seem to have promoted themselves
much more heavily,” Adgate said. “It’s not that Honda has to
reinvent the brand image, but they need to take a page from
Hyundai and some others and ramp it up a little.”  ‘That’s Inertia’  Recent marketing efforts by Honda have been “unimaginative
and forgettable,” said Jim Hall, principal of 2953 Analytics
Inc., an auto consultant in Birmingham,  Michigan .  U.S. sales success for Honda’s Accord and Civic models
stretching back to the 1980s meant the Tokyo-based company
didn’t have to work hard to promote its products, Hall said.
“They got by selling on word of mouth.”  Improvement in the quality, designs and technology of
competitors’ vehicles have eliminated Honda’s advantages, Hall
said.  “The company has been getting by on its lingering high
brand value,” Hall said. “That’s inertia.”  Accavitti, who joined Honda last year after working
previously for Chrysler Group LLC, won’t be able to change
Honda’s circumstances in the U.S. with advertising unless top
management in  Japan  recognizes how much better competitors have
become, Hall said.  Honda’s American depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent to
$35.60 at the close in  New York . They’ve gained 17 percent this
year.  Brand Value  Honda’s sales plunged 6.8 percent last year while total
U.S. vehicle deliveries grew 10 percent. Natural disasters in
Japan and  Thailand  brought production delays at the company’s
plants, leaving Honda short of vehicles to sell.  Honda, reliant on the U.S. for the biggest portion of its
global sales, reported a 2.5 percent decline in North American
revenue for the quarter that ended Dec. 31, and 21 percent drop
in regional sales in the first three quarters of its fiscal year
than ends March 31.  Honda President Takanobu Ito told reporters at the Detroit
auto show last month that 2011 had been the company’s worst in
the U.S.  “It was like we were jinxed,” Ito said.  A redesigned version of the Civic compact also drew an
unfavorable review last August by Consumer Reports, a magazine
that historically favored most Honda and Acura vehicles. The
review contrasted Civic with Hyundai’s Elantra, which is among
the small cars the publication currently prefers.  Highly Rated  The Honda brand, after its travails, remains among the
highest rated by consumers, according to  Strategic Vision  Inc.,
a market-research company in  San Diego .  In 2011, 37 percent of consumers considering buying a
vehicle would “definitely consider” a Honda, according to
Strategic Vision, which annually surveys about 300,000 adults.  Only  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Toyota brand ranks ahead of
Honda, with 41 percent of people surveyed by Strategic Vision
saying they would “definitely consider” a Toyota model.  The company reported an 8.8 percent sales gain in January,
its first such increase after eight consecutive monthly
declines. A 50 percent sales surge for Civic led the
improvement.  Among automakers, Honda ranked fifth in ad expenditures
last year. Honda spent $642.2 million for U.S. advertising from
January through November 2011, the latest period for which data
are available, according to Kantar Media.  Giants Versus Patriots  In the same period, General Motors Co. spent $1.55 billion;
Chrysler followed at $1.07 billion; Toyota spent $996.2 million;
and  Ford (F)  spent $949.4 million. Hyundai was sixth in ad spending
at $609.1 million, according to Kantar.  Honda’s marketing budget is higher this year, Accavitti
said, without elaborating.  “We’ll have the resources we need,” he said. The
executive is based in Torrance,  California , where Honda has its
U.S. headquarters.  This year’s  National Football League  championship match
between the  New York Giants  and New England Patriots may draw as
many as 115 million viewers, potentially the largest U.S.
television audience in history, Adgate said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC has sold out its advertising spots for
the game, getting as much as $4 million per slot, according to
Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for NBC Sports. The average 30-
second ad for the game in Indianapolis sold for $3.5 million, he
said.  ‘Ferris’ Revisited  Honda’s Accavitti declined to say how much the Tokyo-based
company spent to make its new ads and is paying to air them.  The ad based on “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off” emphasizes the
“youthful” nature of Honda vehicles, and the brand’s
traditional attributes of “clean, safe and fun,” Accavitti
said.  Broderick, who turns 50 in March, in the commercial fakes
being sick to take a break from filming a movie, similar to the
film where Ferris Bueller plays hooky from high school.  The Broderick spot has been criticized on the Internet. A
parody titled “Save Ferris From Honda” was uploaded to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, where somebody playing the actor accuses him of
selling out. Enough Twitter.com users have attacked the ad that
there’s a hashtag, or keyword for grouping posts, of
#saveferris.  The competition for the NSX in the Seinfeld commercial
promotes the “got-to-have-it quality we want people to
associate with Acura,” Accavitti said. Honda has said the NSX
will go on sale within three years.  While the ads are intended to get attention during the
Super Bowl, they’ll run more heavily on Honda’s website and in
lower-cost Internet promotions, Accavitti said.  An extended 2:26 version of the Broderick ad uploaded Jan.
26 by Honda to YouTube drew 10.3 million views at 4:30 p.m. New
York time today while a 1:52 version of the Seinfeld-Leno ad
uploaded Jan. 30 had 10.8 million views.  “By the time this campaign is over, we may have had over a
billion viewings across all formats,” Accavitti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  