-- Obama Saves Auto-Show Love for U.S. Leaving Asian Makers Fuming
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/honda-kia-fume-as-obama-saves-auto-show-love-for-u-s-makers.html
As President  Barack Obama  planned a
visit to the Washington Auto Show for Jan. 31, non-U.S.-based
automakers including Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
hustled to show off for him.  On about two days’ notice, they flew in executives from as
far away as  California . They trucked in their most fuel-
efficient vehicles, as requested by White House staff.  Obama walked in, strolled past cars made in the U.S. by
foreign companies and spent much of his half-hour tour being
photographed with a Dodge Dart, a Ford Mustang Shelby GT500, a
Chevrolet Silverado pick-up, a  Jeep Grand Cherokee , a Chevrolet
Corvette ZR-1, a Ford C-Max Energi plug-in hybrid and a
Chevrolet Malibu.  Representatives of Honda,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , Mercedes-Benz
and other automakers waited in a “bullpen” to be called upon
to answer Obama’s questions about their vehicles. None were,
said  Michael Stanton , chief executive officer of the Association
of Global Automakers.  “Many of our members bent over backwards to meet the
request from the White House,” Stanton said. “We were just
terribly disappointed that the president refused to recognize
the commitment that our members and others have made to the
manufacturing base of the  United States .”  Obama’s visit to the show at the Washington Convention
Center came one day before Honda, based in  Tokyo , announced a
$100 million plant expansion in Ohio to make components for 
more-efficient transmissions and add 150  jobs . That’s part of 
$500 million in upgrades in  Ohio  in the past 18 months.  The Association of Global Automakers’ members, which
include Honda, Kia and Toyota, have invested  more  than $43
billion and have more than 80,000 employees in the U.S., Stanton
said. The group is based in Washington.  Sandra Abrevaya, a spokeswoman for the White House, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Honda From California  Honda, which brought in a FCX Clarity fuel-cell car from
California to show the president, says it has invested $11.1
billion in the U.S. Kia flew in an executive from its U.S.
headquarters in California to be available to talk about the
2012 Optima hybrid it had on display for Obama.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz transported a fuel-cell car from  New Jersey  to
show the president.  The non-U.S. automakers had been told by White House staff
that the president wanted to see green cars, Nancy McLernon,
Organization for International Investment chief executive
officer, said in an interview.  “Because as a group they were ignored, it was
problematic,” McLernon said.  Reviving U.S. Automakers  Obama and officials of his administration this year,
including in speeches at last month’s North America
International Auto Show in Detroit, have taken credit for
reviving U.S. automakers.  “When you look at all these cars, it is testimony to the
outstanding work that’s been done by workers, American workers,
American designers,” Obama said at the show, according to a
transcript. “The U.S. auto industry is back. The fact that GM
is back, number one, I think shows the kind of turnaround that’s
possible when it comes to American manufacturing.”  GM and Chrysler in 2009 emerged from bankruptcy after
receiving an $82 billion bailout that Obama led. The U.S.
government still owns 32 percent of GM. Chrysler is now
majority-owned by Fiat SpA, based in Turin,  Italy .  “I don’t believe it was an intentional snub,” said John
O’Donnell, executive vice president of the  Washington  Area New
Automobile Dealers Association, which organizes the Washington
auto show. “I think he was checking up on the investment that
he made from kind of fiduciary standpoint. He made the
investment in the domestics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  