-- London Restaurants Lure With Enticing Lunch Menus: Richard Vines
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/london-restaurants-lure-lunch-crowd-with-enticing-set-menus-richard-vines.html
Many of us tend to avoid ordering the
set lunch in smart restaurants, be it for reasons of choice,
embarrassment or pride.  What are we missing? At Pollen Street Social, you’d be
missing what for me was the best meal of the year so far.  I’ve tried the inexpensive option at seven well-known
establishments in London and -- to make my misery complete --
insisted on drinking only tap water and the cheapest wines: a
glass each of red and white per person.  You’ll find that you are offered plenty of opportunities to
spend more on items from an aperitif to tea or coffee. There may
be supplements. Some places will ask if you’d like a side order
with your main, which a good set lunch shouldn’t need. About 30
pounds ($48) was the ceiling price I set for the food.  Here’s what I discovered, sticking to my bargain guns:  COQ D’ARGENT  http://www.coqdargent.co.uk/   The restaurant: This large rooftop establishment near the
 Bank of England  is usually packed with City executives. Chef
Mickael Weiss’s cooking is of a high standard.  The food: There’s a wide choice of four dishes per course.
The starter of game terrine with celeriac, hazelnut remoulade
salad and cranberry jam was enjoyable and wittily presented.
Roast salmon wrapped in pancetta and crushed herb potatoes with
red-wine butter sauce was also good, though I’m bored with
salmon. Frozen violet-and-blackberry parfait with violet sorbet
stood out, and I don’t normally eat desserts.  The wines: Garganega Torre del Falasco, Veneto, 2010;
Barbera del Piemonte Amonte, Cantine Volpi, Piemonte 2009, at
5.95 pounds each.  Verdict: This was a very good meal, with plenty of choice.
I’d readily consider it anytime I eat lunch at Coq d’Argent.  The bottom line: Lunch is 25 pounds for two courses and 30
pounds for three. The bill for one was 47.14 pounds.  DINNER BY  HESTON BLUMENTHAL   http://www.dinnerbyheston.com/   The restaurant: Heston Blumenthal’s London venue opened in
the Mandarin Oriental hotel more than a year ago, with a menu
inspired by historical British cuisine. Executive Chef Ashley
Palmer-Watts helped develop the dishes and runs the kitchen.  The food: The starters were lemon salad with goat’s curd,
buckler sorrel and raisins; or ragoo (sic) of pigs’ ears with
anchovy, onions and parsley. This was a good choice between a
dish that is light and fresh and another that assaults you with
full-on flavor. It was similar on the mains: cured salmon with
beetroot; or slow-cooked pork belly with potato puree, black
pudding and sauce Robert. The desserts -- prune-and-tamarind
tart or orange buttered loaf -- were superb, particularly the
latter. More options and more menu changes would be welcome.  The wines: The red was Esprit de Pavie Bordeaux 2008, a
merlot blend, and the white was a gruener veltliner, Lois Loimer
Kamptal 2010, at 7.50 pounds each. These were among the most
enjoyable wines I tried.  The verdict: The dishes are as imaginative as you might
expect and this was the second-best meal. But I’ll never eat at
Dinner without ordering Meat Fruit, which costs 14.50 pounds.  The bottom line: The set menu is as much as 32 pounds for
three courses. Lunch for two cost 103.79 pounds.  GOODMAN CANARY WHARF  http://www.goodmanrestaurants.com/   The restaurant: This is the third  London  branch of Goodman,
one of London’s three finest steak restaurants. (The others are
CUT and Hawksmoor.)  The food: Dishes are individually priced, with starters of
braised beef fritter and salad (6 pounds) or cream-of-parsley
veloute, with a poached hen’s egg (5 pounds). The main was a
choice of steak with fries or salad (18 pounds) or fillet of
mackerel on marinated fennel and capers with a salsa verde
(14.50 pounds.) Dessert was vanilla panna cotta (4.5 pounds) or
ice cream (3.50 pounds). The food was generally good apart from
some chalky chunky chips and oddly mushy sorbets.  The wines: Pinot Grigio, Tramin, 2010; El Campesino,
Cabernet/Carmenere,  Chile , 2010, both at 6 pounds. For red, I
would have paid the extra 1 pound for a California Zinfandel.
For white, there was nothing I wanted under 10 pounds.  The verdict: If I were on a budget at Goodman, I’d order a
low-priced starter (such as lobster-and-corn chowder, at 7.50
pounds) and the burger (13 pounds) rather than the lunch menu.  The bottom line: Lunch for two cost 88.88 pounds.  MASSIMO  http://www.massimo-restaurant.co.uk/   The restaurant: Massimo Riccioli, of La Rosetta in  Rome ,
opened this opulent establishment last April. You can see from
the beautiful room that you are deep in luxury land. The place
does little lunchtime business, so the set lunch is a bargain.  The food: There’s a choice of four dishes per course. I had
sardines beccafico-style (rolled in breadcrumbs) with grilled
mackerel fillet, sweet-and-sour sauce; linguine with clams,
prawns, squid, mussels and tomatoes; sweet and salty ginger
creme brulee.  The wines: Muscadet-Sevres-et-Maine sur Lie, Domaine de la
Quilla, Loire, 2010, 7 pounds; Vino Rosso, Ottavio Rube,
Piedmont 2009, 6.50 pounds. (The red is organic and a bold
choice: It has character.)  The verdict: The dishes on the set menu show real thought.
Don’t expect any buzz in this 100-seater seafood restaurant.  The bottom line: Lunch is 18 pounds for two courses and 21
pounds for three. The bill for one was 38.81 pounds.  POLLEN STREET SOCIAL  http://www.pollenstreetsocial.com/   The restaurant: Jason Atherton created Maze for  Gordon Ramsay  before opening Pollen Street Social less than a year ago.
Atherton is a creative chef who believes food should be fun.  The food: Every diner is served with canapes, a pre-dessert
and petits fours and there is a choice of three dishes for each
course. I ordered Colchester crab mayonnaise, avocado, sweet-
corn sorbet, caviar; Yorkshire partridge, game bolognaise,
carrots, spiced plum jam; chocolate “Black Forest” fondant,
praline, liqueur sponge, cherry sorbet. The combination of
Atherton’s creativity and luxury ingredients with his generosity
as a restaurateur made this a standout meal.  The wines: Maria Gomes, Luis Pato, Bairrada, Portugal 2010,
7.50 pounds; Vin de Pays des Collines Rhodaniennes Syrah, Pierre
Gaillard 2010, 6.50 pounds: excellent-value wines that worked
well with the food. This is the best of the bunch.  The verdict: In London, the finest luxury lunch is at Le
Gavroche, whose 52 pound meal (including wine, water and coffee)
is booked out months in advance. Within the  price range  here,
Pollen Street was best.  The bottom line: Lunch is 22 pounds for two courses and
25.50 pounds for three. The bill for one was 44.44 pounds.  QUO VADIS  http://www.quovadissoho.co.uk/   The restaurant: This Soho classic has a new chef, Jeremy
Lee, whose move from Blueprint Cafe is big news in the London
food world, where he is highly respected. The model Claudia Schiffer and “X Men” director husband Matthew Vaughn were
seated to my left and former Sun editor Kelvin Mackenzie to my
right. Quo Vadis is that sort of place.  The food: There’s a choice of two dishes per course, which
is why I started with celeriac-and-fennel soup. It was fine. The
marinated chicken with mint, courgette and onions was something
else: The skin was crispy, the meat moist, the salad full of
character and the whole dish big on flavor. I skipped dessert --
almond cake or chocolate brownie -- as both sounded heavy.  The wines: Riva Leone Gavi Piemonte, 2010 and Chateau
Fontareche Vieilles Vignes Corbieres, 2009, each at 4 pounds.  Verdict: Little choice but good value and inspired cooking.
If I worked near Quo Vadis, I might go back every day. The
challenge would be to stick to the set lunch.  The bottom line: Lunch is 17.50 pounds for two courses and
20 pounds for three. The bill for one person for two courses was
28.69 pounds.  TOM AIKENS   http://www.tomaikens.co.uk/   The restaurant: Tom Aikens is known for his sophisticated
food and his affluent Chelsea customers. He closed his flagship
before Christmas, removed the fancy furnishings, created a Noma
rustic look and reopened last month with a simplified menu.  The food: Starters: consomme of scallop, with red-pepper
puree, lemon oil; or salad of pickled mushrooms, sourdough
toast, truffled butter. Mains: Poached cabbage with smoked bone
marrow, poached bacon, grains; or roast John Dory with crab
bisque, Jerusalem artichoke and vanilla puree. Dessert: poached
lychee, coconut tapioca, fresh coconut or selection of cheeses.  The wines: Chardonnay, Les Templiers, Languedoc, 2010, or
 Cabernet Sauvignon , Les Templiers, Languedoc, 2010, both at 6
pounds. Good value and plenty of choice by the glass.  The verdict: Aikens is such a creative and adventurous
chef, I’m not sure there is much point in going for a budget
lunch. (If I wanted to spend less, I’d eat at Tom’s Kitchen.)
Yet the set lunch, with its layers of flavor, does provide a
relatively simple introduction to his ambitious cooking.  The bottom line: Lunch is 24 pounds for two courses and 29
pounds for three. The bill was 92.25 pounds for two.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 