-- Hong Kong Stocks as U.S. Manufacturing Bolsters Global Outlook
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-02-02T03:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/hong-kong-stocks-as-u-s-manufacturing-bolsters-global-outlook.html
Hong Kong   stocks  advanced, with the
Hang Seng Index heading toward its highest close in five months,
as expanding manufacturing in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia boosted
confidence the global economy is recovering.  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. (551) , a maker of shoes for
Nike Inc., gained 1 percent. Ping An Insurance Group Co. rose
2.4 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added  China ’s second-
largest insurer to a list of stocks to buy. Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd., the nation’s top producer of the metal, gained 2.2
percent after metal prices rose for the first time in four days.  “Prospects for the market this year is much better given
signs of improvements in the  U.S. economy ,” said Cedric Ma,
Hong Kong-based senior investment strategist at Convoy Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $200 million. “A pullback
in February following last month’s rally will be a good
opportunity to buy equities.”  The Hang Seng Index gained 1.3 percent 20,604.17 as of
11:27 a.m. in Hong Kong, heading for its highest close since Aug.
5. The gauge climbed 11 percent last month amid bets China will
ease lending curbs and on signs the U.S. economy is improving
and Europe will contain its debt crisis. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in the city
climbed 1.8 percent to 11,452.15.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2
percent today. The measure advanced gained 0.9 percent in  New
York  yesterday after reports showed manufacturing in the U.S.
grew in January at the fastest pace in seven months.  Exporters advanced as manufacturing growth in Europe and
Asia added to signs the global economy is recovering. Reports
yesterday showed a gauge of U.K. manufacturing jumped to an
eight-month high and German output grew for the first time since
September. Data from China and India also showed rising factory
activity.  Raw Material producers led the gains among the 10 industry
groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index as metal futures advanced.
The  London Metals Exchange Index (LMEX) , which tracks prices of
industrial metals including aluminum and copper, rose 1.2
percent yesterday, snapping a three-day slump.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 20 percent last year amid
concern China would continue to curb lending and Europe would
fail to resolve its debt crisis. Shares on the gauge were
trading at 1.5 times estimated book value as of yesterday,
compared with 2.2 times for the S&P 500.  Futures on the Hang Seng index advanced 1.2 percent to
20,629 today. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  dropped 4 percent to
22.54, indicating traders expect a swing of 6.5 percent on the
benchmark over the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  