-- Top Forecaster Says Latin American Currency Rallies to Slow
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-02T18:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/top-forecaster-urges-caution-on-latin-american-currencies-following-rally.html
Latin American currencies will
probably stabilize after renewed optimism about the global
economy fueled the biggest monthly rally since 2009, according
to the top forecaster for the region in Bloomberg Rankings.  “I don’t think these are good levels to start buying Latin
American currencies,” Standard Chartered Bank’s  Mike Moran  said
by telephone from  New York . “We’re pricing in too rosy a
picture of what the macroeconomic environment will look like in
six to 12 months. Does that mean I’m in a position to
drastically change my short-term outlook? Probably not, but most
of the good news is priced in.”  Investors poured into higher-yielding assets such as
 commodities  and emerging currencies in January after a broad
sell-off in the fourth quarter saw them reaching two-year lows.
This year’s rally has withstood downgrades of European
government debt, indications of slowing growth in  China  and
talks on a Greek debt swap that dragged into this month.  Standard Chartered yesterday published its so-called real
money portfolio, recommending fund managers bet the Brazilian
real weakens against the dollar in the first quarter.  Colombia ’s peso gained 7.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
last month while Mexico’s peso appreciated 6.8 percent and the
Brazilian real climbed 6.9 percent. Foreign investors increased
bets on the Chilean peso by $2 billion in the first month of the
year, helping drive a 5.7 percent gain. The Bloomberg JPMorgan
Latin American Currency Index’s  5.6 percent  advance was the
steepest monthly gain since May 2009.  Off-Guard  Moran still forecasts the Chilean peso to gain to 450 in
the second half and the Mexican peso to reach between 11.8 and
11.6.  Brazil ’s real may reach 1.65 by the end of the fourth
quarter, he said.  Chile ’s currency gained 1.4 percent to 480.15
the highest closing level since Sept. 15, while  Mexico ’s peso
gained 0.5 percent to 12.8259 as of 12:18 a.m. in Mexico City
and the real rose 0.8b percent to 1.7210.  Moran was the best forecaster over the past six quarters,
according to a study of 23 analysts by Bloomberg Rankings.  For now, the region’s major currencies probably will
stabilize around their 200-day moving averages, he said,
predicting that any weakening back to the fourth-quarter levels
would be an opportunity to buy.  ‘Pretty Positive’  “The fundamental macroeconomic outlook is still pretty
positive, but the pace of buying in emerging-market and Latin
American currencies in January has taken us off-guard,” Moran
said. “There is scope for a disappointment which could cause a
pullback, but any weakness would be a new buying opportunity.”  Strategists at Nomura Securities Inc. backed Moran’s view
today. Most of the region’s currencies will probably weaken
towards the middle of the year before closing 2012 stronger than
today, Nomura strategists, led by  Tony Volpon  in New York, wrote
in a note to clients.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s policy of
keeping the federal funds rate low until late 2014 is likely to
undermine the dollar, the Nomura strategists wrote. Sustained
growth in China may support commodity prices, key drivers of
currencies in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  