-- Top Judges Ask Indian Trial Court to Decide on Probe Against Chidambaram
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-02-02T06:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/top-indian-judges-ask-trial-court-to-decide-whether-to-probe-chidambaram.html
India ’s  Supreme Court  said a lower
trial court should decide whether to investigate the role of
Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram in a 2008 sale of phone
licenses that has triggered corruption charges and damaged the
government.  The top court had been petitioned by a regional politician,
Subramanian Swamy, who alleged that as finance minister at the
time of the permit award, Chidambaram was party to discussions
on the pricing of second-generation airwaves. Chidambaram could
have insisted on an auction that would have secured market rates
and eliminated losses to the exchequer, Swamy argued.  “The court has said that at this stage, since the matter
is in the trial court,” it is “perfectly competent to decide
on the matter whether Mr. Chidambaram should be proceeded
against or not,” Swamy said after the judgment today. The top
court said the trial bench should reach a decision within two
weeks.  In a separate order in New Delhi today,  Supreme Court 
Justices G.S. Singhvi and A.K. Ganguly canceled 122 permits to
run cellular services that were awarded in 2008.  India’s chief auditor said the cut-price, first-come,
first-served sale four years ago may have lowered government
revenue by $31 billion. The  Central Bureau of Investigation  put
the loss to the government from the license award at a lower
$4.9 billion. Former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja
and company executives face charges they conspired to grant
permits to unqualified companies for personal benefit. All deny
wrongdoing and are on trial. While some of the company officials
have been freed on bail, Raja remains in jail.  Resignation Call  Allegations of corruption weakened Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, stalling its legislative agenda for much of
the last 14 months.  Street protests and hunger strikes triggered appeals from
business leaders to curb graft that has dented investor
confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  To support his petition, Swamy submitted to the top court a
March letter from Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s office
that cited Chidambaram for failing to act to prevent losses in
the spectrum allocation. Amid media reports of a widening
dispute between the two ministers, Mukherjee Sept. 29 said the
letter didn’t reflect his views.  Chidambaram denies approving the pricing, saying last year
he urged an auction of the permits instead of their issuance for
fees fixed more than six years earlier.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  has demanded
Chidambaram’s resignation, while his federal ruling  Congress
party  has rejected Swamy’s allegations.  The court in  New Delhi  where Raja and government and
company officials are on trial is hearing a separate petition
from Swamy directly seeking the prosecution of Chidambaram as a
co-accused in the case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  