-- Orco Expects to Make Progress on GSG Loan in Next ‘Few Weeks’
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-02-02T14:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/orco-expects-to-make-progress-on-gsg-loan-in-next-few-weeks-.html
Orco Property Group (ORC)  SA, a developer
that’s operating under a court-approved restructuring plan, said
an debt-swap agreement with bondholders at its German unit will
allow the company to “make progress” in refinancing a loan for
Berlin’s GSG housing portfolio in the next few weeks.  “One of the conditions to move forward with GSG financing
was the get the transaction with Orco Germany bondholders
done,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Ott said in a
phone interview late yesterday. “We’re using that catalyst
moment to show that there’s confidence and things should
accelerate now there’s no stress with the Orco Germany bonds.”  Luxembourg-registered Orco, which operates under a so-
called safeguard plan approved by a Paris court in May 2010,
agreed last week with bondholders of its German unit to exchange
notes that were due in May 2012 for bonds that are convertible
for company’s shares. The company is in talks to propose a
similar deal to other creditors, Ott said.  “There are ongoing discussions as we speak and I expect to
take them into something more concrete in couple of weeks,” Ott
said.  Orco has been in talks with several German banks for months
about refinancing its 300 million-euro ($393 million) loan for
the GSG portfolio. The company still expects to raise  225
million euros to 250 million euros to refinance the loan. The
conditions may still change slightly as the willingness of
lenders to pour money into real estate has deteriorated due to
macroeconomic conditions, Ott said.  Berlin is ‘Resilient’  “Fundamentally, the Berlin portfolio is a resilient one in
a crisis and lenders now appreciate its low-risk profile,” Ott
said. “It attracts banks that are cautious and want to have a
long-term view.”  Orco sold Russian assets worth 53 million euros to a local
investor in September and plans to dispose other assets to raise
cash and improve its balance sheet. The safeguard plan
temporarily protects companies from creditors and allows
management to reorganize debt. Orco pledged to overhaul the
company and use some of cash from disposals on exiting projects
to revive business.  The company’s exclusive talks about a sale of its Sky
Office tower in Dusseldorf with an investment fund failed when
the buyer couldn’t get financing from lenders, according to Ott.
The developer said earlier it may sell the tower before the end
of 2011.  Orco isn’t under “any kind of stress” to sell the
building, the executive said. The developer, which signed a
lease last week that boosted the occupancy rate at Sky Office to
88 percent, is in talks with other potential buyers and plans to
achieve a price about 140 million euros, according to Ott.  Still, there’s a limited number of buyers as lenders’
willingness to provide credit for the real estate has
deteriorated and the liquidity in the industry is shrinking, the
executive said.  “There will be less bank financing in 2012 than in 2011
and less in 2013 than in 2012,” Ott said. “We take that
situation very seriously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  