-- Hormones Fuel Auto Sales in Sex-Driven Market: Jason H. Harper
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/hormones-fuel-auto-sales-in-sex-driven-market-jason-h-harper.html
Two garage attendants are talking
about the svelte Mini Cooper Coupe I’ve just parked. One says he
likes it, the other laughs. “Are you kidding? That’s a chick
car.” The first man’s face falls.  I saw this coming as soon as I stepped into the $22,000
Coupe, one of Mini’s newest models. The Coupe has a standard
Cooper body shape, but with only two seats and a capped roof
that looks like a slicked-back pompadour. Sporty but not
aggressive.  It joins vehicles from the  Mazda (7261)  Miata to the  Volkswagen (VOW) 
Cabrio and BMW Z3 that have been pejoratively lumped together as
chick cars. These are often two-seaters or convertibles, and
certain gung-ho guys deem them too effeminate to drive.  Conversely, a vehicle like the Chevy Camaro, a muscle car
redolent of testosterone, might be branded a meathead mobile.
Both evoke a negative reaction among certain tribes.  It’s a culture war between chick cars and dude’s drives,
pushing gender stereotypes. Testing vehicles from the Mini Coupe
to the Dodge Viper, I’ve discovered: You will be judged.  It’s obvious that some cars skew female or male, both in
terms of audience and overall aesthetic. Most of us can easily
identify in which camp a car sits.  The Hummer H2 is a dude mobile. The MX-5 Miata, female
(though confident men know it’s a blast to drive). Corvette,
guy; Lexus SC convertible, woman.  Carmakers are certainly aware of this schism. It goes back
as far as the Model T, which  Henry Ford  decreed appear only in
black. Or Carroll Shelby branding the original Ford Mustang a
“secretary’s car,” because he thought it underpowered.  Golf Drive  Chris Bangle, the former chief of design at  BMW (BMW)  Group who
now runs his own design firm, says, “The industry does not
share a focused concept of a ‘woman’s car.’ They would agree
that marketing a car toward women-only is not a smart plan
unless it is some narrow version, like a white VW Golf Cabrio
from 1985. I was always told guys don’t buy ‘girlie cars.’”  Look at the extremes that Volkswagen has taken with the
2012 Beetle, which was redesigned to be more masculine. One TV
commercial shows a young guy driving through city streets in his
black Turbo. He’s given high-fives and fist bumps by a bonanza
of men, including the driver of a semi-truck, construction
workers and even a Harley rider. Dude-dom, it seems to suggest,
are united behind the latest VW Bug.  This stands in sharp contrast to the first “new” Beetle,
released in 1998, which emphasized fulsome curves and whimsical
details like an interior flower vase. Customers bought it in
droves. Female customers that is, by almost a 70 percent ratio.
VW even created a special one-off Malibu  Barbie (MAT)  car, with
rhinestone accents and extra vanity mirrors.  Getting Even  No more. Now VW hopes to even out the ratio for broader
sales.  Some perceptions come simply from a vehicle’s size and
profile. Bangle notes that a car’s body mimics a person’s, with
a face, shoulders, hips and rear.  Which may explain why some cars devolve into caricature.
Chevy designers obviously wanted the modern Camaro to out-macho
the Ford Mustang. The result is all exaggerated muscle.
Headlights shine from inside a long narrow grill like a menacing
glare. The hood bulges and the roof is low and chopped.  I once drove a female friend around in a growling SS model
and after a few minutes she turned me and simply asked, “Why?”
The Camaro, by the way, is outselling the Mustang.  Mixed in Malibu  Which is not to say that women necessarily buy cars that
look feminine or vice versa. Maseratis generally have feminine
profiles and guys adore them. And whereas the Bentley
Continental series is crisply masculine, it isn’t unusual to see
women behind the wheel, particularly in places like Malibu.
(Women account for 12 percent of sales of the $200,000-plus
Bentley GTC in the U.S.)  Jim Shaw, Bentley’s head of concept engineering, says, “We
try to make a design that’s universally appealing to sexes. It’s
difficult to hide the powerful stance and big engine, but we
blend that with tiny executed details, especially in the classic
interior.”  The side door compartments were doubled in the all-new 2012
Continental, he says, to accommodate purses. “Men’s bags,
too,” he adds.  Bangle and Shaw both agree that contrary to common cliche,
women like powerful engines. “In my experience the adrenaline-
jazz of powerful cars can appeal to females just as they do to
guys,” says Bangle.  Says Shaw, “Power gives security.”  Personally, I find it perplexing when I step out of a
Porsche Boxster convertible and get a comment like, “I know it
drives great, but it’s still a chick car.”  The Boxster is fast, nimble and outrageously fun. If that’s
the definition of a chick car, I’ll be seen in one any day.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 