-- Mortgage Rates for 30-Year Fixed U.S. Loans Decline to Record-Low 3.87%
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-02T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-fixed-u-s-loans-decline-to-record-low-3-87-.html
Rates for  30-year  U.S. mortgages
declined to the lowest level on record after the Obama
administration announced measures to make it easier for
homeowners to reduce their monthly payments by refinancing.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell to
3.87 percent, the lowest in records dating to 1971, from
3.98 percent in the week ended today,  Freddie Mac  said in a
statement. The average  15-year  rate dropped to 3.14 percent from
3.24 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  President Barack Obama introduced a plan yesterday that he
said would allow more borrowers to benefit from the low rates.
Homeowners would be able to refinance into loans guaranteed by
the  Federal Housing Administration , even if their home debt is
more than their properties are worth. High unemployment and weak
 consumer confidence  are reducing the positive effects of low
borrowing costs, said Donald Rissmiller, chief economist at
Strategas Research Partners LLC in  New York .  “They’re worried about having a job and worried about the
home being underwater,” Rissmiller said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The employment question is really
important here.”  The U.S.  unemployment  rate will remain at 8.5 percent for
January when the Labor Department issues the data on Friday,
according to the average estimate of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Residential real estate prices fell more than forecast in
November, showing distressed properties are continuing to hamper
a recovery. The  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20)  index of values in 20 U.S.
cities fell 3.7 percent from November 2010 after dropping
3.4 percent in the year ended in October, the group said Jan.
31. Economists projected a 3.3 percent decline, according to the
median estimate in a survey.  Home-loan applications decreased in the period ended Jan.
27, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said yesterday. The
Washington-based group’s measure of  purchase  loans slipped
1.7 percent, while its  refinancing  gauge fell 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  