-- Los Angeles Dodgers Sale Frenzy Makes Valuation More Circus Than Science
-- B y   R o b e n   F a r z a d   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/los-angeles-dodgers-sale-frenzy-makes-valuation-more-circus-than-science.html
Matt Kemp ’s autograph on a pair of
baseballs and a cap in the familiar shade of blue accompany
financial documents sent to members of groups bidding to buy the
 Los Angeles Dodgers .  The sports gear is more easily valued than the team.  Frank McCourt  is selling the club out of bankruptcy, in
part to pay his ex-wife, Jamie, $131 million for her share of
the Dodgers agreed to in their October divorce settlement,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 6 edition.  “It’s a sports-business circus here,” said  David Carter ,
executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the
University of  Southern California . “Every day you see that
someone else is throwing their hat in the ring or partnering
with somebody.”  More than a dozen groups paid nonrefundable $25,000
entrance fees to get into the bidding and receive the financial
documents, Dodger blue caps and balls autograph by Kemp, the  Los
Angeles  outfielder who was runner-up for the National League
Most Valuable Player award last season.  That roster was cut to eight last month. Those still
involved include  Steve Cohen , founder of SAC Capital Advisers;
Leo Hindery, who helped form the Yankee Entertainment & Sports
Network, the nation’s biggest regional sports network, and  Magic Johnson , the basketball Hall of Fame player who helped the  Los
Angeles Lakers  win five championships and has become a business
leader.  Three Bids  Johnson, 52, with partners Mark Walter and Stan Kasten, and
Cohen, represented by  Steve Greenberg , the son of baseball Hall
of Fame member  Hank Greenberg  and a former deputy commissioner
of  Major League Baseball , are among three bids that are
considered likely to succeed, according to people briefed on the
latest negotiations. The third in that category is one from  Joe Torre , the former New York Yankees and Dodgers manager, and Rick Caruso, chief executive officer of the retail and real estate
company Caruso Affiliated. The premium for all is secure
financing from a single source, the people said.  Cohen, worth $8.3 billion according to Forbes magazine, has
recruited sports agent Arn Tellem as a partner and has retained
Populous, the sports architecture company that helped design the
new Yankee Stadium, to study enhancements at Dodger Stadium. Los
Angeles philanthropist Eli Broad and billionaire recording
executive  David Geffen  have publicly endorsed Cohen’s bid.  McCourt, 58, turned down a $1.2 billion offer for the
Dodgers from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and is aiming to get at least $1.5
billion for the team, a sports franchise record, according to
people familiar with the sale deliberations. They were granted
anonymity because the bidding process is confidential. The
McCourts, who made their money running parking lots in  Boston ,
bought control of the Dodgers for $30 million in 2004.  ‘Enormous Upside’  “There are a handful of legacy clubs like the Dodgers in
each league,” said Dave Checketts, the owner of the St. Louis
Blues, who attempted to buy the Dodgers in 2004. “They’re in
major markets and have a history of winning where if you do
things right there’s an enormous upside.”  The Dodgers and Blackstone, the investment bank
representing the team in the sale, have said the club broke even
last season, when it finished 82-79 and in third place in the
five-team National League West division, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations.  While management underscored stadium improvements such as
new seats and redone dugouts, multiple bidders said they would
probably have to spend as much as $450 million over the next few
years on payroll and upgrades to the ballpark and surrounding
infrastructure. Blackstone started conducting management
presentations this week, which the bidders say they hope will
make the Dodgers’ capital needs and revenue capabilities
clearer.  Parking Problem  One thing they are sure to ask about: Dodger Stadium
parking lots.  In the bid book sent to prospective buyers, the Dodgers
parking lot is not listed as part of the sale. Parking is
McCourt’s true business, and he currently charges the Dodgers
$14 million in rent a year for playing baseball on his land.  So the lot’s not officially included in the offer.  “Here’s the test to see if we get a smart or stupid
owner,” Bob Daly, the managing partner of the Dodgers from 1999
to 2003, told the  Los Angeles Times  on Jan. 25. “If you make a
deal and allow McCourt to keep the land and parking lots, you
are out of your mind.”  If Blackstone’s presentations at Dodger Stadium and
Johnson’s offices in  Beverly Hills  represent two official nerve
centers of the bidding frenzy, the two blocks separating Nate ’n
Al, a delicatessen where Torre often drinks his morning coffee,
and the Grill On The Alley, near Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills,
form an unofficial third one.  Fan Campaign  Stanley Stalford Jr., a real estate developer, sat at his
table in the Grill to explain why he had paid to have exactly
1,000 signs posted from Orange County up through the San
Fernando Valley urging shoppers and motorists to “Own the
Dodgers!”  Stalford, 48, grew animated as he talked. He said it has
long been his dream to become president of the Dodgers en route
to getting elected mayor of Los Angeles. He ticked off the four
Dodger World Series he attended.  “You name it, I was there,” he said. “But today’s
Dodgers exemplify everything that went wrong in the last decade:
easy money, greed, bad governance.”  Even though Stalford is wealthy enough to be known as rich
in L.A., he is not angling to become a late-inning bidder. He’s
more of a gadfly for the fan.  What if, he said, the next owner defaults as well? Or if
there’s a mutiny among the new partners? How can baseball risk
losing the Dodgers twice?  Packers Example  His solution: Sell shares to fans to help raise a minority
interest. It’s worked in  Cleveland  (with baseball’s Indians),
and spectacularly in  Green Bay ,  Wisconsin , where the community
shares ownership of the Packers.  Stalford said he envisions the next owner selling a
minority stake in the Dodgers through an initial public offering
of shares, with no minimum purchase. The proceeds of the
offering, he said, could then be used to discharge some of the
debt that will inevitably have to be taken on to finance the
deal.  “If you’re going to sell your soul, why not to the dyed-
in-the-wool Dodgers fan?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roben Farzad in New York at 
 rfarzad@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  