-- Los Angeles Accuses Northern Trust of Mismanaging Pend Fund Assets in Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-02T03:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/los-angeles-accuses-northern-trust-of-mismanaging-pend-fund-assets-in-suit.html
Los Angeles sued  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) 
over accusations it mismanaged the assets of the city employees’
pension fund by placing them in unsuitable, “highly risky”
investments.  The city paid the asset manager $95.8 million last year for
losses in a fund in which Northern Trust invested the pension
fund’s collateral that it received for its securities that
Northern Trust loaned to short sellers, City Attorney Carmen
Trutanich said in a complaint filed today in state court in Los
Angeles.  The collateral, the profits of which get split between the
pension fund and the asset manager, were supposed to be invested
in a way that would produce minimum risk, according to the
complaint. Instead, Northern Trust, which didn’t share in the
losses from the invested collateral, put them in highly risky
investments, according to the complaint.  “Northern Trust placed its interests in making a profit
ahead of the interests of  Los Angeles  City Employees’ Retirement
System in preserving capital because Northern Trust had, from
its point of view, nothing to lose and everything to gain by
making risky investments,” Trutanich said in the complaint.  Subprime Loans  Northern Trust, based in  Chicago , didn’t tell the city how
it invested the collateral until after it reported the losses
that the city had to pay, according to the complaint. The losses
related to investments in bonds and notes “whose revenue was
based upon mortgage-origination, or subprime  mortgage loans , or
the housing market itself,” according to the complaint.  The city’s losses included $46 million from Washington
Mutual-related investments and $20 million from investments
related to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
complaint.  Doug Holt, a Northern Trust spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the lawsuit had no merit.  “The city attorney’s suit, brought years after the losses
were incurred, is based solely on hindsight and is premised on
the legally deficient claim that Northern Trust should have
predicted these unprecedented events even though the markets as
a whole had not,” Holt said.  Los Angeles seeks civil penalties and triple damages for
false claims it says Northern Trust made as well as civil
penalties and restitution on its unfair business practices
claims.  The case is The People v. Northern Trust, BC478165, Los
Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  