-- Tottenham’s Redknapp Says He Lied to News Corp. Tabloid About Monaco Funds
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-02T14:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/tottenham-s-redknapp-says-he-lied-to-news-corp-tabloid-about-monaco-funds.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said
he lied to a journalist from a now-defunct  News Corp . tabloid
about offshore funds at the center of his tax-evasion trial.  News of the World reporter Rob Beasley asked Redknapp in
2009 about the account in Monaco, named for the soccer coach’s
late bulldog Rosie, after the journalist got information that
police and tax officials were going to question the soccer
coach. Redknapp said he lied to the reporter and told him it was
for a bonus owed to him for the sale of a player because he
didn’t want Beasley to write that the money came from an agent.  “I don’t have to tell Mr. Beasley the truth,” Redknapp
said during a second day of questioning from prosecutor John
Black. “I have to tell the police the truth, not Mr. Beasley.
He’s a News of the World reporter.”  Redknapp, 64, is accused of working with his co-defendant,
Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric, to evade U.K. taxes by
putting $295,000 into an offshore account when they were at
Portsmouth soccer club. The pair deny the charges, with Redknapp
telling the court that the money was a loan from Mandaric for an
investment. He had told Beasley and police officers it was a
bonus owed to him for selling  Peter Crouch .  Beasley, who now works for the News Corp.-owned Sun
newspaper, appeared as a witness earlier in the trial and said
he paid the 8,000 pounds ($12,700) to a source who wasn’t a
member of the investigating City of London Police or U.K.
government tax officials. The News of the World was closed last
year after evidence revealed its reporters hacked mobile phones
of celebrities and a murdered teenager. A separate police
investigation over allegations of paying police for information
is currently under way. Bloomberg News is a competitor of News
Corp.  Hysterical Wife  Redknapp yesterday said his wife Sandra was left
“terrified” after photographers from the Sun newspaper
appeared as police conducted a dawn raid at his home to arrest
him on unrelated charges on 2007. Redknapp wasn’t in at the
time, and was returning from a scouting trip in  Germany .  “It absolutely terrified my wife, who was there on her
own,” Redknapp said. “She was in a terrible state. They jammed
the alarm on. She thought there were burglars and she was
hysterical. Eventually she opened the gates and police came in
with photographers alongside them. My wife thought I’d been
killed in a plane crash.”  Redknapp said he made a complaint about the photographers
and has yet to find out how they were tipped off.  Beasley spoke to Redknapp two days before the March 1, 2009
League Cup final, which Tottenham lost.  “Why would I let the cat out of the bag to the News of
the World?” Redknapp said today. “I said write the story, Rob,
but don’t write that it’s a payment from an agent, Rob, because
this is a payment from my chairman.”  False Information  Redknapp said giving Beasley false information was “the
easy way out.”  The information about the offshore account came to light
four years after it was opened in 2002 when Redknapp told
private investigators from Quest Ltd. about it. They were hired
by the Premier League to uncover corrupt payments from agents.  Crouch was bought by Portsmouth in 2001 when Redknapp’s
contract allowed him 10 percent of any profits on players sold.
By the time the striker was sold Redknapp had become the team’s
coach and his player sale entitlement was reduced 5 percent.  Redknapp said in police interviews that he argued with
Mandaric about not getting 10 percent and the  Monaco  account was
opened to pacify him. Mandaric says the money is unconnected
with Redknapp’s work at Portsmouth. He described it yesterday as
“ seed capital ” to help Redknapp start an investment portfolio
in the U.S and solidify the pair’s friendship.  ‘Ruin His Life?’  “You’re talking about a man who’s paid 100 million pounds
of income tax is he going to try and fiddle a small amount to
try and ruin his life and mine?,” Redknapp said.  Redknapp was Portsmouth manager from 2002 to 2004 and then
again from 2005 to 2008, leading Pompey to the F.A. Cup title in
his final full season. He left to take over at Tottenham in
October 2008 and guided the north London team to the  Champions
League  in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Lindsay  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  