-- Tottenham, Fulham Want Wigan’s Rodallega, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-02T11:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/tottenham-fulham-want-wigan-s-rodallega-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  London Bound?  Tottenham and Fulham both want to sign Wigan striker  Hugo
Rodallega  at the end of the season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Wigan previously turned down a 4.3 million pound ($6.8
million) offer from Queens Park Rangers for the Colombian, who
will be a free agent this summer.  Warnock Favorite  Former QPR manager  Neil Warnock  is the favorite to replace
Simon Grayson at Leeds, with Alan Shearer also interested in the
job, the  Daily Telegraph  said.  Warnock was fired by QPR in December after leading the team
back to the Premier League. Though Shearer lacks Warnock’s
experience, his appointment may increase media interest in
Leeds, the Telegraph said.  Brighton manager Gus Poyet,  Gordon Strachan  and
Huddersfield boss Lee Clark are also possible candidates, the
newspaper said.  Arsenal Chasing Yacob  Arsenal may sign midfielder Claudio Yacob from  Argentina ’s
Racing Club on a free transfer this summer, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The Buenos Aires-based club may want to let its 24-year-old
captain go to cut down on its wage bill, the paper said. Yacob
will be out of contract in June.  Defenders Wanted  Manchester United  wants to sign Nice right back Diacko
Fofana, who has been valued at 5 million pounds, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  The 17-year-old Fofana, who is under contract at the French
club until the summer of 2015, made the first team last year.
United is also looking at Crystal Palace player Nathaniel Clyne
and PSV’s Jetro Willems to boost its defense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  