-- House Repeals Long-Term Care Program Obama Viewed as Too Costly
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/house-repeals-long-term-care-program-obama-viewed-as-too-costly.html
The U.S. House repealed a long-term
care insurance program created by the 2010 health-care law that
the Obama administration decided was too costly to put in place.  The 267-159 vote sends the bill to the Senate, where
Democrats don’t plan to bring it up. The program, known as the
Class Act, was proposed by the late Senator  Edward Kennedy , the
Massachusetts Democrat who died in August 2009 before passage of
the law.  “While the goals of the program are worthy, good
intentions don’t make up for fundamentally flawed, actuarially
unsound policies designed to show the illusion of savings,”
Pennsylvania Republican Joe Pitts, chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce health subcommittee, said during yesterday’s floor
debate.  Representative Henry Waxman of  California , ranking Democrat
on the Energy and Commerce panel, said Republicans who have
majority control of the House haven’t offered an alternative
long-care plan even though they say they want to “repeal and
replace” the health-care law.  For a monthly premium, the long-term care program would
have provided workers a cash stipend of at least $50 a day if
they became seriously ill or disabled and needed care at home.
The 2010 health-care law specified that the government wouldn’t
start the program unless actuaries concluded it would collect
enough in premiums to cover the benefits.  In October, Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said the administration was canceling the program
because it wasn’t financially viable. Officials said healthy
people may not enroll in sufficient numbers to finance benefits
for everyone who needed them.  $3,000 a Month  If too many sick people signed up for the program, premiums
may have been as high as $3,000 a month, Kathy Greenlee,
assistant secretary for aging, wrote in a  memo  explaining why it
was canceled. She said the government didn’t have legal
authority to limit enrollment.  Senate Republicans may try to force a vote on the House
measure, said  Don Stewart , a spokesman for the chamber’s
Republican leader,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky .  “We think it ought to be repealed and we’d sure like to
find a way to vote on it,” Stewart said in an e-mail.  Republicans have called the program a gimmick to conceal
the cost of the health-care law. After canceling the long-term
care plan, the Obama administration reduced the estimated budget
savings from the health-care law from $210 billion over a decade
to $124 billion. The Class Act would have saved money in its
early years because it wouldn’t have paid benefits for at least
five years after people started paying premiums.  Kennedy advocated a long-term disability insurance program
throughout his 46-year Senate career and pushed for the Class
Act -- Community Living Assistance Services and Supports -- as
part of the health law before he died. Long-term care for the
disabled can cost as much as $80,000 a year in a nursing home,
Greenlee said in her memo.  The bill is H.R. 1173.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  