-- House Votes to Block Cost-Of-Living Raise for Federal Workers
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/house-votes-to-block-cost-of-living-raise-for-federal-workers.html
The U.S. House voted to deny a cost-
of-living raise to federal government workers for a third
straight year while also freezing the pay of members of
Congress.  The Republican-led chamber’s vote was 309-117 yesterday,
with 72 Democrats joining 237 Republicans in support while two
Republicans opposed the measure. It now faces an uncertain
future in the Senate, where Democrats control the agenda.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
told reporters that tying congressional pay to the wage freeze
for federal workers was intended to “make sure that we are
consistent with what we are expecting of everybody else” in
government.  Some Democrats, who support President Barack Obama’s plan
to give federal workers a 0.5 percent pay raise, accused the
majority Republicans of trying to politically embarrass them by
tying the issue of government pay to congressional salaries.  “What we have here is a very clever political effort to
have members vote either for their pay or against their pay
being adjusted” with a cost-of-living increase, second-ranking
House Democrat Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said during floor debate.  Hoyer said Republicans were trying to “single out federal
employees as scapegoats for economic policies” that caused the
recession and contributed to the growth in federal deficits.  ‘Hold Hostage’  Maryland Democrat  Chris Van Hollen , who like Hoyer
represents thousands of federal workers, asked Republicans to
allow a vote on his proposal to freeze only lawmakers’ pay.
Republicans shouldn’t use the congressional pay issue to “hold
hostage” cost-of-living raises for federal workers, he said.  That request drew an objection from the bill’s sponsor,
freshman Republican  Sean Duffy  of  Wisconsin . He said his
measure, which would extend the cost-of-living freeze for
civilian employees through 2013, was intended to implement the
recommendation of Obama’s deficit commission to freeze
government pay for three years. The bill wouldn’t affect raises
that employees get for promotions or seniority in a particular
job.  Freshman Florida Republican  Dennis Ross  said an automatic
pay raise for federal workers is “out of whack” with private
industry. The nation’s “appreciation” of federal workers
“does not bring a mandate to pay them above market rate with
little regard to their individual performance,” he said.  ‘Highly Skilled Workers’  Ross said the legislation would save $26 billion. A cost-
of-living raise “means much less money is available to highly
skilled workers such as scientists and professionals,” he said.  Another Republican said the federal government already has
too many highly paid workers. Utah Republican  Jason Chaffetz 
said 450,000 government employees make more than $100,000 a
year.  Democratic lawmakers said their leaders, while urging a
defeat of the measure, didn’t twist arms.  Democrats had to make their “own assessment of how easily
or not they could try to explain the nuance of this vote,” said
Virginia Democrat Gerald Connolly, whose suburban Washington
district has thousands of federal workers. He said he had “no
trouble with my vote” against what he called a “deceptive”
and “cruel” measure to freeze government pay.  The freeze on government cost-of-living raises was included
in legislation the House passed late last year to help finance a
one-year extension of a payroll-tax cut. House and Senate
negotiators are seeking agreement on legislation to extend the
payroll-tax cut through the end of 2012.  The bill is H.R. 3835.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  