-- How Lowering Taxes on the Rich Can Raise Revenue: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/lowering-taxes-on-the-rich-can-raise-revenue-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Tax the rich. Forever. And not just
in election years. The general assumption is that rate increases
will be the new norm. The main reason for this is said to be
democracy itself.  We have reached the point where just about half of all
 taxpayers , the lower-earning households, pay almost no income
tax. Voters have no reason to endorse a  tax cut  that’s not for
them. The group that pays high rates represents an electoral
minority.  In other words, America has passed its tipping point on
taxes. In fact, we are officially tipped.  There’s something un-civic and creepy about this status.
Everybody should pay some tax, just as everybody should vote. As
recent history shows, an untaxed majority is unlikely to reduce
taxes on the taxed minority. In the 1970s and ‘80s, rate cuts
were possible only because inflation pushed many lower-earning
taxpayers into higher brackets. Then these lower earners
endorsed cuts. Politicians prevented a repeat of that by
indexing brackets.  Look further back, and you’ll find there is a case of the
majority helping the minority: the model of the 1920s.  In 1917, the tax schedule was highly progressive, topping
out at 66 percent of income. But the income-tax schedule only
commenced with earners who made over $2,000 a year. That amount
was double the wage for the unskilled, and well above what
skilled workers made.  Rising Top Rate  So how did the rich get their cut? Not easily. A 1918 tax
law in the Woodrow Wilson administration actually tipped some
more, pushing the top rate on the wealthy up further, to 77
percent from that 66 percent.  But gradually tax authorities, and with them many
politicians, came to see that the high rates weren’t necessarily
productive for the Treasury or the economy. The spread between
the yield of earnings subject to the top income-tax rate and
earnings from tax-free municipal bonds was so attractive that
estates poured their cash into the bonds; by 1923, almost $4 in
$10 of estates was invested in municipal bonds, compared with
less than $1 in 1917. Millionaires went on “capital strike,” as
the newspapers called it.  Revenue to  Washington  generally came
in below forecasts.  The waste disgusted President Warren Harding’s Treasury
secretary, Andrew Mellon, who treated the U.S. government as
just another business to manage. Mellon posited that lower
income-tax rates might bring in more revenue, just as lower
freight taxes sometimes created more trains. He found support
first from Harding and then, especially, from President  Calvin Coolidge . Mellon and Coolidge plotted an elaborate propaganda
campaign for lower rates. In the tax lexicon of the day, they
wanted to reduce not merely the “normal” (base) rate, but also
the surtax schedule that sat atop it.  Such a plan took chutzpah. Mellon was one of the wealthiest
men in the nation, almost a parody of a plutocrat. Yet now he
was publishing articles and even a leather-bound book on the
merits of lower rates from which fortunes like his would
benefit. Mellon even titled his anti-tax book, “Taxation: The
People’s Business,” at a time when “the people” paid no income
tax at all.  This made the Treasury secretary the perfect target for
Western progressives, such as Senator James Couzens of  Michigan 
or “Fighting Bob” La Follette of  Wisconsin .  The first effort to cut top rates misfired dramatically
when Congress opted to emphasize cuts for lower earners more.
Victory for Mellon and Coolidge came only in the fourth tax cut
of the period, in 1926, when they managed to get the top rate,
even for plutocrats, down to 25 percent from 46 percent.  Buying Municipal Bonds  Why did Mellon, Harding and Coolidge succeed? First, the
administrations’ tenacious publicity work revealed the extent of
the cash flowing into municipal bonds, which turned out to
disgust the average citizen, as well. Second, federal revenue
increased after each rate cut. Third, Harding, Mellon and
Coolidge slashed the budget, year after year. The budget
reductions built confidence that tax cuts could be permanent.  The prosperity resulting from the small government policy
also did its part. Under Coolidge, the  U.S. economy  grew at an
average rate of more than 4 percent a year. Unemployment stayed
at less than 6 percent -- often, less than 4 percent. Wages rose
slightly in real terms, and automobile prices dropped.  That yield spread between munis and other kinds of bonds
narrowed, in tandem with the tax reduction. The tax distribution
tables showed that by decade’s end the very wealthiest were
paying a greater share of income taxes than they had before.  The outcome surprised many, even the administration’s own
people. A secretary of Coolidge’s wrote after the 1926 cut that
“it was greeted with joy by his opponent because it was felt
that here was an issue between the rich and poor where popular
feeling could be but one way.”  That the entire experiment has been forgotten matters less
than that it happened. Look back far enough and there’s the
evidence: Even a tipped nation can untip.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net  