-- Parents Snared in $100 Billion College Debt Trap Risk Retirement
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-02-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/parents-snared-in-100-billion-u-s-college-debt-trap-risking-retirement.html
Terry Williams borrowed about $7,000
to earn a degree from  Spelman College  38 years ago. For her
youngest child, a sophomore at Belmont University in Nashville,
she will take on almost $40,000 in parental loans.  Williams, a 59-year-old widow who runs a  nonprofit  that
helps black families navigate private-school admissions, is
watching her retirement savings dwindle as she pays college
bills for her three children,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in
its Feb. 6 issue.  “I’ll probably work until I fall dead at my keyboard,”
the Decatur,  Georgia , resident said in an interview.  It’s not just graduates who are staggering under the weight
of educational loans. Parents, too, are borrowing record amounts
to put their kids through college, jeopardizing their
retirements. With the housing crisis, many families can no
longer avail themselves of one popular option for financing
university studies: taking out a second mortgage.  “A plunge in  home prices  has erased the equity that many
homeowners had just a few years ago,” said  Greg McBride , a
senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com in  North Palm Beach ,
 Florida .  Federally backed educational loans to parents, at an
estimated $100 billion, make up 10 percent of the $1 trillion in
educational loans, according to data analyzed by  Mark Kantrowitz , publisher of the website  FinAid.org . The problem is
more acute at some private schools, such as  Colgate University ,
Trinity College and Sarah Lawrence College, which have smaller
endowments and can’t offer the same financial aid as  Harvard  and
Princeton universities.  ‘Robbing Their Future’  “Parents are facing an economic crisis because they are
borrowing too much for college,” said Rick Darvis, executive
director of the National Institute of Certified College
Planners. “They’re sacrificing their current lifestyle and
robbing their future retirement.”  Loans to parents have jumped 75 percent since the 2005-2006
academic year, according to Kantrowitz. That works out to an
average of about $34,000 for those with loans. With interest,
the figure rises to about $50,000 over a standard 10-year
period. An estimated 17 percent of parents whose children
graduated in 2010 took out loans, up from 5.6 percent in 1992-
1993, according to Kantrowitz’s estimates.  The rising levels of parental debt could ripple through the
rest of the economy. By the time parents are in their 50s and
60s, they should be saving for retirement instead of taking on
new liabilities, said Joseph S. Messinger, a certified college
planner and president of  Capstone Wealth Partners Ltd.  in
Columbus,  Ohio . Servicing those loans becomes harder as parents
stop working and their incomes decline.  ‘A Lot of Money’  “A lot of money is going to the university and college
systems,” Messinger said. “It’s shrinking people’s dollars to
do other things.”  Most of the parental debt is in the form of Parent Loans
for Undergraduate Students . PLUS loans , which are government-
issued and carry a fixed interest rate of 7.9 percent, can be
used to cover the entire cost of tuition, room and board, and
other expenses -- minus any aid secured by the student. While
parents must pass a credit check, no collateral is required.
PLUS loans cannot be discharged in bankruptcy.  Marvin Weinberger, 58, a self-employed inventor of  hand
tools  in Havertown,  Pennsylvania , owes $105,509 in PLUS loans
for his two children. Most of that has gone to cover the almost
$49,000 a year in tuition, fees, and room and board for his
daughter Ariela, a junior at  Muhlenberg College , a small private
institution in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  ‘Looked Hard’  “We really looked hard at the possibility of taking her
out of Muhlenberg,” said Weinberger. “It was such a good fit
and made her feel so welcome -- academically and socially.”  His son David, a sophomore at  Rochester Institute of
Technology , is receiving some financial aid. Both Weinberger
children took out federal loans of their own.  Muhlenberg never tells “a family they have to take a PLUS
loan in order to come to Muhlenberg,” Chris Hooker-Haring, dean
of admission and financial aid, said in an e-mail. “We simply
inform families about what we can provide.” The final decision
is left to the family, he said.  Many of the schools with high levels of parent loans rely
more on tuition and fees than on endowments. At Trinity College
in Hartford,  Connecticut , where annual tuition and fees are
$55,450, parents who took out federal loans borrowed an average
of $27,000 in the last academic year, according to the school.
At  Sarah Lawrence  in Bronxville, New York, where the annual cost
of attending is $58,716, it was about $20,000.  Tuition Increases  Tuition and fees for private, nonprofit, four-year colleges
have increased to an average of $28,500 for the 2011-2012
academic year, up from an inflation-adjusted $16,276 two decades
ago, according to the New York-based  College Board , a nonprofit
group whose members include universities.  The trend shows no sign of abating. On Jan. 28,  Princeton
University  in Princeton,  New Jersey , announced that tuition and
fees for the coming school year will rise 4.5 percent -- the
school’s biggest increase in six years. Days earlier, the board
of trustees at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York , approved
a 4.4 percent cost increase for undergraduates in its four
colleges not supported by New York state.  “Colleges will keep doing this as long as the loans are
available and as long as people keep applying,” said Laura J.
Clark, director of college counseling at  Fieldston , a private
high school in New York. “If there’s a drop-off in the number
of applications in the middle-income group, that’s when colleges
may moderate prices or come up with new strategies for helping
people pay.”  Obama’s Plan  President  Barack Obama  last week proposed linking federal
aid to a college’s ability to control tuition costs. The plan
calls for increasing campus-based aid only for schools that
limit tuition cost increases and penalizing those that don’t.  The way parents are paying for college has changed over the
past two decades. As recently as 10 years ago, financing college
through a second mortgage was more easily accomplished because
homeowners had equity from which to borrow, said Bankrate.com’s
McBride.  Pamela Lauzau, 63, put three children through  Boston
College  and took a $400,000 second mortgage on her house in
Alexandria,  Virginia , to do so, which funded about two-thirds of
the cost. The family didn’t receive financial aid.  With her husband unable to work because he has dementia,
she took a job as a school bus driver for the health insurance
and sells real estate. Her youngest child graduated in May.  Second Mortgage  “I don’t see a time when I’m not going to work,” Lauzau
said.  This month, Lauzau expects to close on the sale of her
house. She won’t realize a profit because of the second
mortgage.  “Our advice to families is to know what you’re getting
yourself in for,” Robert Lay,  Boston College ’s dean of
enrollment management, said in an interview. “You have a level
of sacrifice that’s going to be required to send your son or
daughter or to a private, expensive university like Boston
College.”  He said families will see a return on their investment. The
school’s estimated cost for this academic year is $57,000.  Parents aren’t facing the financial reality about their
ability to pay off these loans when they have a smaller income
stream, Capstone’s Messinger said. They are relying solely on
faith that they’ll be able to pay the money back, he said.  ‘Too Easy’  PLUS loans, in particular, are “too easy” to get, he
said.  Terry Williams, the Spelman graduate, said her own parents
didn’t borrow any money to send her to the school, a private,
historically black women’s college in Atlanta.  She took out parent loans because Belmont University was a
good fit for her son, Kramer, and he could be near his sister at
 Vanderbilt University . Belmont, a private Christian college,
costs $34,000 per year. Her son has already borrowed about
$14,000 in federally backed loans.  “We understand and greatly appreciate the sacrifices
families make in order to send their children to Belmont,”
David Mee, associate provost and dean of enrollment, said in an
e-mail. He said the university is “committed” to controlling
costs.  Williams said she didn’t anticipate how expensive a
college education would be.  “I’m definitely hoping that the sacrifice is still worth
it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradford Wieners at   bwieners@bloomberg.net  