-- Payroll Tax-Cut Negotiators Split Over What to Include in Bill
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-02T21:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/payroll-tax-cut-negotiators-split-over-what-to-include-in-bill.html
Members of the U.S. House-Senate
negotiating panel appointed to find a way to extend a payroll
tax cut through 2012 tussled over whether they should consider
including environmental rules and miscellaneous tax breaks.  The panel’s chairman, Representative  Dave Camp , insisted at
its third public meeting today that the committee consider only
those items contained in bills that passed the House and Senate
in December. That would mean language to loosen an Environmental
Protection Agency proposal on industrial emissions would be
within the panel’s scope as it was in a House-passed bill.  Dozens of tax breaks that expired at the end of 2011 and
supplemental welfare grants would be off the table. Camp,
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he would
keep extraneous issues off the conference committee’s agenda so
it can stay focused on extending the two-percentage point
payroll tax cut past its Feb. 29 expiration.  “We have so little time to resolve these issues,” said
Camp, a Michigan Republican. “If it’s not in the House bill and
it’s not in the Senate bill, then it’s not in the scope of this
conference.”  That stance may lead to challenges for the committee once
it begins discussing how to cover the $100 billion cost of
extending through the rest of the year the  tax cut , expanded
 unemployment benefits  and  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  reimbursements to physicians.
For instance, it may be difficult to pay for parts of the bill
with some of the overseas military operations money no longer
needed because of the U.S. withdrawal from  Iraq . That provision
wasn’t included in the payroll bills last year.  Capital Investments  Democrats have wanted to tap that money and House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he has heard the
“rumor” that some members of his party are open to that idea.  Speaking to reporters after the conference committee’s
meeting, Camp wouldn’t discuss how his interpretation of the
panel’s scope would apply to provisions that could be used to
pay for the bill.  “We haven’t even started talking about those yet,” Camp
said. “I’m taking this one step at a time.”  There was broad agreement during the meeting to allow
companies to write off the entire cost of their capital
investments through 2012, Camp said. Lawmakers also agreed the
Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program should be
extended.  Industrial Emissions  Still, the lawmakers haven’t resolved the most pressing
issues before the committee, Camp said. During the nearly two
hours that the panel met today, members were split over whether
the payroll package should include language loosening the
proposal to regulate some industrial emissions.  Republicans said the rule would hurt jobs while Democrats
said it wasn’t related to the payroll tax cut.  “It’s important to keep this” EPA proposal “in
context,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus .
“Most of us have been around here long enough to know that
sometimes side issues reach an importance that’s
disproportionate to the issue at hand. But nevertheless they’re
there.”  Baucus and Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, pressed
the committee to consider extending the dozens of tax breaks
that expired at the end of 2011. In particular, Baucus said the
panel should extend the research and development tax credit and
a provision for education expenses.  Camp said those tax breaks would be outside the panel’s
scope. He said he would be willing to discuss a few, including
ones that Baucus mentioned, to see if they might be added. That
would drive up the bill’s cost, which would require lawmakers to
find additional ways to pay for the payroll package.  As he left the meeting, Baucus said he thought there is
room to go beyond the committee’s scope.  “If something comes up that conferees think is fairly
important that may not technically be in scope, I think there’s
a decent chance we could figure out a way to make it work,”
Baucus said.  Expanding the conference’s mandate may require 60 votes in
the Senate and the approval by the House Rules Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  