-- Petrobras’s $25 Billion of Bids Signal No Glut: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-02-02T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/petrobras-s-25-billion-of-bids-signal-no-glut-brazil-credit.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s (PETR4)  dollar bonds
are posting their biggest rally in eight weeks, dispelling
concern the Brazilian state-owned oil producer’s record $7
billion offering yesterday will create a glut.  Yields on Petrobras’s notes due in 2021 have dropped 21
basis points in the past five days, the most since the week
ended Dec. 7, to an 11-week low of 4.64 percent. Yields on
emerging-market corporate debt rated investment grade fell nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, during the same period
to 4.92 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. Petrobras’s
notes yield 136 basis points more than similar-maturity
Brazilian government debt, down from 161 on Jan. 23.  Speculation Petrobras’s bonds may slump as the company
raises a record amount of financing in overseas markets is
fading amid growing demand from investors seeking alternatives
to European assets and lower-yielding investment-grade debt. The
Rio de Janeiro-based company  plans to borrow  as much as $18
billion a year through 2015, mainly from international markets,
to more than double production by 2020 and develop the largest
oil discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  “There are not a lot of places you can go as an investor
and feel real comfortable,” Alfredo Viegas, managing director
of  emerging markets  at Knight Capital in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “If you’re looking for a dollar
bond that’s high grade that you can trust and don’t have a lot
of concern about, Petrobras is a relatively decent proxy for
that. The challenges in the eurozone have created greater demand
for high-grade non-eurozone growth stories.”  Issuance Plans  Petrobras’s offering attracted about $25 billion worth of
bids, said Surat Maheshwari, head of international syndications
at Itau BBA USA Securities, which helped manage the transaction
with BB Securities, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and  Banco Santander .  The oil producer is  rated A3  by Moody’s Investors Service,
four steps above junk, and BBB by Standard & poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the second lowest level of investment grade.  Petrobras said in an e-mailed statement that it will use
proceeds from the bond sale to finance investments. A company
official in  Rio de Janeiro  declined to comment further.  Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in a Jan. 12
interview that the company is seeking to sell this year an
amount similar to the $9.6 billion of debt it issued in 2011.  Petrobras sold $1.25 billion of three-year bonds to yield
275 basis points above U.S. Treasuries yesterday and $1.75
billion of five-year debt at a spread of 290 basis points. The
company also sold $2.75 billion more of its bonds maturing in
2021 to yield 295 basis points above Treasuries, and $1.25
billion more of its 2041 securities at a spread of 295 basis
points.  ‘Expanded Base’  The sale matched SABMiller Plc’s $7 billion offering last
month as the largest dollar-denominated corporate  bond issue 
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you think of European corporates, European sovereigns,
there probably is still concern about that, so you go into
emerging markets,” Edgardo Sternberg, an emerging-market debt
strategist at Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “That’s part of the expanded base that you
have since last year. There’s enough appetite from outside
investors that have too much cash. People feel that they’ll just
probably tighten quickly.”  Petrobras is adding to an issuance boom in international
markets sparked by rising demand for emerging-market assets.
Developing-nation borrowers issued $40.2 billion of dollar debt
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Reduction  Su Fei Koo, who helps manage about $850 million in
emerging-market debt at DoubleLine Capital LP, said Petrobras’s
decision to reduce the yield it offered on its bonds twice prior
to the sale made the securities less attractive.  “It’s offering some type of concession but it’s not as
good as the guidance that came out” initially, Koo said in a
telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  Petrobras’s  shares gained  1.5 percent yesterday to 24.95
reais. The stock is up 16 percent this year, compared with a
gain of 14 percent for  Brazil ’s  benchmark Bovespa index .  Concern Petrobras’s borrowings would create an oversupply
of debt in the secondary market drove up the company’s yields
relative to government debt. Its bonds due in 2021 yielded as
much as 164 basis points more than similar-maturity government
debt last year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 10
basis points yesterday to 216, according to JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years slipped four basis points to 141, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.7343 per dollar.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2013 dropped three basis points to 9.5 percent.  Petrobras said Jan. 23 it plans to name Maria das Gracas Foster to replace Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli.
The company is raising cash to help finance $224.7 billion of
investments in the five years through 2015.  Petrobras’s offering pushed international debt issuance by
Brazilian companies to $12.3 billion this year, compared with
$10.5 billion in the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Some of these quasi-sovereigns appeal to a bigger
audience of buyers, also U.S. investment-grade buyers,”  Knight
Capital ’s Viegas said. “I don’t see digestion being a
problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  