-- PetroChina, Shell Deepen Ties for ‘Powerful’ Shale Potential
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-03T08:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/petrochina-to-buy-20-stake-in-shell-s-canada-shale-gas-project.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  deepened their collaboration in exploring unconventional gas
resources with the Chinese company investing in a Canadian
project and the European oil producer pledging to help it step
up drilling to tap shale reserves in the second-largest economy.  China’s biggest oil producer said yesterday it bought a 20
percent stake in Shell’s Groundbirch shale-gas project in
British Columbia. The two companies also plan to increase
drilling in China to 20 to 25 wells this year from 15 in 2011,
Shell’s Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said.  Shell and PetroChina’s parent, China National Petroleum
Corp., agreed in June to increase cooperation in energy
exploration in China, estimated to hold the world’s largest
shale-gas reserves. The partners invested more than $400 million
in Chinese shale projects last year, Henry said.  China’s shale gas potential “could be very powerful,”
Henry told reporters yesterday in  London . “We’ve got the same
acreage in China that we have in  North America ,” the equivalent
of about 3 million acres in each region, he said.  PetroChina has gained 2.9 percent in Hong Kong trading in
the past year, compared with a 13 percent slump in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The  stock  fell 1.2 percent to HK$11.48 at the
close. Shell has advanced 3 percent in a year.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable gas, or 12 times the country’s
conventional natural-gas deposits, according to a U.S. Energy
Information Administration report published in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  Horizontal Drilling  Shell and CNPC completed the country’s first horizontal
shale-gas well in March.  China  held its first auction of shale-
gas exploration rights last year and the country is yet to
produce shale gas commercially. The government estimates output
of the fuel trapped in rock may reach 6.5 billion cubic meters
in 2015 and surge to 80 billion cubic meters by 2020.  “The quality of the wells has gone from the best they’ve
ever had in China to a couple with disappointment,” Henry said.
“Overall we are a bit better than expected.”  Shell will make a decision at the end of the year on
whether to go ahead with the large-scale development of shale
gas production facilities in China, the CFO said.  PetroChina expects to surpass its target of producing 1
billion cubic meters of shale gas in 2015,  Mao Zefeng , the
Beijing-based senior assistant secretary to the company’s board,
said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. Commercial output of
“a few hundred million” cubic meters is possible by 2013,
according to Mao.  ‘Making Good Progress’  “We’re making good progress in drilling,” he said. “The
question is now not whether China has shale gas, but how we can
streamline the production process and deliver the scale.”  PetroChina and domestic rivals are seeking technology to
tap China’s shale gas resources through partnerships and
acquisitions. Cnooc Ltd. acquired stakes in U.S. shale-gas
acreage from Chesapeake Energy Corp. for a total of $1.65
billion in February 2011 and November 2010.  PetroChina plans to pay more than $1 billion for a stake in
the Groundbirch property, Hong Kong-based FinanceAsia reported
on its  website , without saying where it got the information.  “I can confirm that CNPC will join us in  Canada ,” Shell’s
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in London yesterday.
“It’s part of our global partnership to optimize our business
working environment inside and outside China.”  Voser and Mao declined to give the value of the deal.  Shell will remain the operator of Groundbirch, and the
project will continue to supply its customers in North America,
Mao said. In the long term, PetroChina will explore the
possibility of exporting the fuel to  Asia  in the form of
liquefied natural gas, Mao said.  “Although PetroChina will gain just a minority stake, the
firm can re-deploy any advanced technologies acquired overseas
back home to better exploit China’s vast shale-gas reserves,”
 Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by e-mail.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 