-- Platinum Energy Suspends IPO Plan After Seeking Sale at Twice Peers’ Value
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-02-02T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/platinum-energy-postpones-ipo-after-seeking-sale-at-twice-value-of-peers.html
Platinum Energy Solutions Inc. (FRAC) , an
oilfield services company that specializes in hydraulic
fracturing, postponed its initial public offering after seeking
to go public at twice the value of peers.  The IPO won’t go forward because of “unfavorable market
conditions,” Houston-based Platinum Energy said today in a
statement. The company planned to sell shares for as much as $11
each, valuing Platinum Energy at 2.5 times annualized fourth-
quarter sales. That’s more than double the median of 1.16 for a
basket of oilfield services companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Platinum Energy had sought funds to compete with larger
rivals such as  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  in fracking, where companies
blast sand, chemicals and water into rock to crack it and
release oil and gas. The increasing use of that process in
exploration has contributed to excess supplies, leading to a
slump in gas prices, the worst-performing commodity on the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index this year.  “There are many concerns right now, especially about
natural-gas prices being so low,”  Philip Weiss , an analyst at
Argus Research in New York, said before the company postponed
the offering. That, as well as the cost of equipment, may deter
investors, he said.  Platinum Energy Chief Financial Officer Clarke Legler
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on why the
company postponed the offering.  The company had planned to raise as much as $154 million
offering 14 million shares for $9 to $11 each, according to
 regulatory filings . Platinum Energy will keep evaluating the
timing for an offering, according to the statement today.  Gas Futures  Gas futures traded near a 10-year low today on speculation
production cuts by companies won’t shrink a glut of the heating
and power-plant fuel. On Jan. 26, Moody’s Investors Services
lowered its price assumptions for North American gas for this
year, 2013 and thereafter amid a “persistent glut.”  Platinum Energy had filed to list under the symbol FRAC.
U.S. Silica Holdings Inc., the Maryland-based producer of sand
used in hydraulic fracturing, sold $200 million in shares this
week at $17 apiece. Matador Resources Co., the Dallas-based
company that provides oil and gas exploration services, raised
$160 million yesterday selling about 13 million shares at $12
each.  Platinum Energy, led by Chief Executive Officer L. Charles Moncla Jr., had aimed to raise about half the amount it sought
when it first filed for a $300 million IPO in September. Moncla
and Clearlake Capital Group LP are the top two investors in
Platinum, each holding more than one-third of the shares.  Bigger Competitors  Formed in 2010, Platinum Energy acquired two fracking rigs
last year. The company’s main sources of revenue are contracts
with Petrohawk Energy Corp. and Encana Corp. Fourth-quarter
sales were $31.5 million to $32.5 million, according to
Platinum’s prospectus, implying sales of as much as $130 million
at an annualized rate.  Halliburton and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest
provider of oilfield services, are listed as Platinum Energy’s
major multinational competitors in its IPO prospectus. At the
high end of the  price range , Platinum Energy’s market value
would have been about $325.3 million, compared with about $34
billion for Halliburton, more than $100 billion for Schlumberger
and almost $22 billion for Baker Hughes Inc., which bought
Platinum Energy competitor BJ Services Inc. in 2010.  “It’s become a different game for the smaller companies,”
said Edward Muztafago, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “Halliburton, Baker Hughes, those companies have the big
leases and the big visibility. The smaller companies lack
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjelica Tan in  New York  at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  