-- Portuguese Banks May Report 2011 Losses on Higher Impairments
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-02-02T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/portuguese-banks-may-report-2011-losses-on-higher-impairments.html
Portuguese lenders  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  may
report losses for 2011 after an increase in impairments related
to pension liabilities, Greek bonds and bad loans.  Banco Comercial, the biggest non-state bank by assets, may
report a net loss of 760.5 million euros ($1 billion), according
to the median of four analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Espirito Santo, the biggest by market value, may report
a 15 million-euro loss, according to the median of five
estimates, and BPI may report a 13.5 million-euro loss,
according to the median estimate of four analysts.  Portuguese banks have been under pressure after the country
became the third in the euro area to request external aid,
following Greece and Ireland, and as international regulators
demand banks recognize losses on Greek debt holdings.  The impairments related to pension liabilities stem from
the transfer to the Portuguese government of part of the banks’
pension funds. The banks were also required to increase
provisions for loan losses after their books were audited as
part of the European Union and International Monetary Fund’s aid
package. Banco Comercial may also report a writedown on its
 Greek unit ,  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at KBW Inc., said in a
report Jan. 30.  Estimates for Oporto-based BPI ranged from a loss of 135
million euros to net income of 119 million euros, depending on
how the analysts estimate the bank will report a writedown on
its Greek bonds.  BPI is scheduled to report earnings today after the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in Lisbon, and Banco Comercial and
Espirito Santo plan to report tomorrow.  Capital Ratios  As part of the EU and IMF’s aid plan, banks were required
to have a core Tier 1  capital ratio , a measure of financial
strength, of 9 percent by the end of 2011 and 10 percent by the
end of 2012.  Banks’ earnings may still be under pressure this year even
without the one-time increases in impairments, said Antonio de Sousa, president of the Association of Portuguese Banks.  “2012 won’t be much better,” de Sousa told reporters in
Lisbon on Jan. 31. “The banks’ retail business is very
depressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  