-- Portugal Needs ECB Action to Avoid Greek Fate, De Grauwe Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/portugal-needs-ecb-action-to-avoid-greek-fate-de-grauwe-says.html
Portugal  will follow Greece into debt
restructuring unless the  European Central Bank  steps up
purchases of its distressed bonds, said Paul De Grauwe, a
professor at the  Catholic University  of Leuven in  Belgium .  “The Portuguese problem is a problem of panic and fear and
you have to stop it,” De Grauwe said in an interview in Oslo.
“The only one who can do it is the ECB.”  Portuguese  10-year yields  closed at a euro-era record of
17.393 percent at the start of this week amid concern a Greek
debt writedown being negotiated with investors may lead to a
similar deal for the government in Lisbon. Prime Minister  Pedro
Passos Coelho  reassured investors on Jan. 30 that there was no
risk of investors being asked to take losses on Portuguese debt.  Greek bondholders are being pushed to cede more ground
after agreeing in October to take a 50 percent cut in the face
value of more than 200 billion euros ($263 billion) of debt. The
Greek bond-swap talks with private creditors are “ultra-
difficult,” Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday.  “If you let it go like this, then, with 100 percent
certainty, Portugal is going into bankruptcy,” De Grauwe said.
“You repeat the Greek situation. Of course fundamentally
Portugal is in a much better shape than Greece but sometimes the
market can drive you into insolvency in a self-fulfilling way.”  De Grauwe said policy makers should buy more government
debt rather than relying indirectly on banks. The ECB in
December helped ease tension by providing banks with 489 billion
euros ($645 billion) in three-year cash.  The Fireman  “I’m happy they did it indirectly through the banks
because not doing so would have been a disaster but it would
have been more effective if they would have done it directly,”
he said. “The ECB is the fireman, they have been able to
extinguish part of the fire, the Spanish and Italian, but now
the Portuguese fire is starting all over and could spread.”  The ECB has also bought about 219 billion euros ($289
billion) in European bonds through its Securities Market
Program, including every week since August. The ECB bought
Portuguese bonds on Jan. 30 as 10-year borrowing costs climbed,
said three people with knowledge of the transactions, who
declined to be identified because the trades are private.  Portugal, which last year became the third euro-area
country to get a bailout from the EU and the IMF, plans to
return to markets in 2013. If external factors stop the country
from doing so, Coelho said both the IMF and the EU will continue
to “support our program.”  Yields Fall  Yields on 10-year securities tumbled more than 2 percentage
points to about 14.9 percent yesterday.  Portugal doesn’t present the risk of default that  Greece 
does to the rest of the European Union because officials there
are seeking to contain the nation’s financial crisis,  Fitch
Ratings  said on Feb. 1. Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  have downgraded Portugal’s credit rating to
junk grade. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Portugal’s
gross domestic product to contract 3 percent in 2012.  “With the program that the new government in Portugal has
set up they can solve” their problems, De Grauwe said. “Why
the markets don’t trust the  Portuguese government ; why they
trust the Spanish government is a puzzle to me. The Spanish
banking sector is not in better shape. It is in a worse shape
than the Portuguese banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  