-- Pound Rises Versus Euro on Concern EU Debt Plans Insufficient; Notes Gain
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-02T14:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/pound-rises-versus-euro-on-concern-eu-debt-plans-insufficient-notes-gain.html
The pound rose to a one-week high
against the euro as speculation European leaders are failing to
resolve the region’s debt crisis boosted demand for the safety
of the U.K. currency.  Sterling gained for the third time in four days versus the
euro as Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said steps
to tackle the debt crisis adopted at a summit on Jan. 30 were
“largely insufficient.” Two-year gilts rose after a report
showed U.K. construction output slowed in January, boosting
demand for haven assets.  Juncker’s comment “was a very negative one for the euro,”
said Lauren Rosborough, a currency strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “The U.K. economy isn’t going stellar,
but that said, politicians and central banks have both been on
board to try to remedy the situation. Those things have been
delayed to some degree in Europe, consequently the market has
punished Europe versus the U.K.”  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to 82.91 pence per euro
at 2:01 p.m. London time after rising to 82.75 pence, the
strongest since Jan. 23. Sterling was little changed at $1.5818.  The U.K. currency may advance to 82 pence per euro,
Rosborough said.  European Union leaders will need to take further steps when
they convene again in early March, Juncker said in a speech
today in Luxembourg.  “We have an internal market, we have a common currency,
but we don’t have a centralized economic authority,” said
Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers. At
the Jan. 30 summit, leaders agreed to accelerate the setup of a
permanent 500 billion-euro ($656 billion) rescue fund and
endorsed a German-inspired deficit-control treaty.  Weekly Gain  The pound has gained 0.4 percent in the past week according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar declined 0.6 percent,
and the euro fell 0.5 percent.  The two-year gilt yield dropped two basis points to 0.38
percent. Ten-year yields were little changed at 2.06 percent.  A gauge of U.K. building activity declined to 52.5 in
January from 53.2 in December, according to a survey of
purchasing managers by Markit and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply . A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The U.K. sold 1.25 billion pounds of inflation-linked debt
maturing in March 2029 at an average yield of minus 0.188
percent. The auction attracted bids for 2.27 times the
securities allotted.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 0.2 percent this year,
lagging behind German  government bonds , which rose 0.1 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  