-- Prince William Lands for Falklands Mission
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-02T17:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/prince-william-lands-for-falklands-mission.html
Prince William , the second in line to
the British throne, arrived in the Falklands for a six-week
stint as a military pilot that’s drawn condemnation from
Argentina as the 30th anniversary approaches of the war between
the countries over the South Atlantic archipelago.  “Flight Lieutenant Wales, as part of a four-man search-
and-rescue crew, has arrived in the Falkland Islands on a
routine operational deployment and will shortly take up SAR
duties post a period of briefings and a familiarization
flight,” the ministry in London said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Argentina said two days ago that William was going to the
islands, which it calls the Malvinas, as a “conqueror” and
accused Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government of
“militarizing” the dispute. The U.K. is also sending one of
its new destroyers, HMS Dauntless, to the South Atlantic to
replace an older ship, the government said this week.  “The Argentine people regret that the royal heir lands on
the soil of our fatherland with the uniform of a conqueror and
not with the wisdom of a statesman who works to serve peace and
dialogue between nations,” the Argentinian  Foreign Ministry  in
 Buenos Aires  said in a statement. Governments should avoid a
course that “transforms patriotism into jingoism with the aim
of distracting attention from economic austerity in the context
of structural crisis and high unemployment,” it said.  Argentina  invaded the islands in 1982 before being expelled
by British troops. Cameron stoked anger in Argentina on Jan. 18
when he said its claim to the islands is “like colonialism.”  “What the Argentinians are saying is far more like
colonialism, because these people want to remain British and the
Argentinians want them to do something different,” Cameron told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in London. “The future of the
Falkland Islands is a matter for the Falkland Islanders,” he
said. “I’m determined we should make sure our defenses and
everything else are in order.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  