-- Proposition 8 Trial Video to Remain Sealed as Court Considers Gay Marriage
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-02T20:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/proposition-8-trial-video-to-remain-sealed-as-court-considers-gay-marriage.html
A video recording of the nation’s
first federal trial over whether it’s legal to ban same-sex
couples from marrying must remain secret, a U.S. appeals court
said as it considers a challenge to  California ’s Proposition 8.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in San Francisco abused his
discretion when he ruled the recording of the 2010 proceeding
over the ballot measure’s constitutionality could be made
public, the court ruled today.  The panel has yet to rule on whether Ware erred when he
refused to throw out another judge’s decision overturning
Proposition 8. Its supporters argued that U.S. District Judge
Vaughn Walker, who disclosed after the trial that he was in a
long-term relationship with a male partner, should have
disqualified himself from the case. Walker retired a year ago.  Proposition 8 amended California’s constitution to say
marriage is between one man and one woman. In August 2010,
Walker ruled gay couples demonstrated by “overwhelming
evidence” Proposition 8 violates equal protection rights. The
ruling has been put on hold as litigation over the issue has
proceeded through the courts.  In barring release of the video, the three-judge panel of
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  saidWalker had
“unequivocally promised” the parties the recording wouldn’t be
publicly broadcast. He allowed the trial to be videotaped saying
he would use the recording in reaching a decision.  Ware had ruled the recording could be made public after
Walker used parts of it in connection with his teaching and
public speaking. Proposition 8 backers opposed unsealing the
recording, saying it put witnesses at risk of being harassed.  “The trial judge’s representations to the parties were
solemn commitments,” the panel said in the ruling.  The case is Perry v Brown, 11-17255, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  