-- Prudential to Pay $17 Million to Settle Death-Benefit Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-02T23:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/prudential-to-pay-17-million-to-settle-death-benefit-claims.html
Prudential Insurance Co. of America
agreed to pay $17 million as part of a multistate settlement
over death benefits when an insured person dies and no claim is
filed.  The settlement was announced today by  Florida  insurance
regulators and the state’s attorney general. Prudential will
build a system to match data and search for beneficiaries if
they find a match, and to do the matches more often, according
to a statement.  Twenty states must sign the agreement by March 31 for it to
take effect, according to the statement. Seven states have
joined so far: Florida,  California ,  Illinois ,  Pennsylvania ,  New
Hampshire , New Jersey and North Dakota.  “Life insurance companies should devote the resources
necessary to find beneficiaries and make payments in a timely
manner, and this settlement is one more advance in changing
industry practices to protect rightful beneficiaries,” Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi said in the statement.  Prudential, based in  Newark ,  New Jersey , will phase in
enhanced search practices over three years, it said in an
e-mailed statement. Since 1998, the company said it has made
matches by comparing policyholder records against a Social
Security Death Master File. It will expand use of the data by
matching records against the master file on a monthly basis,
according to the statement.  The company “remains committed to paying the claims of our
customers” and standards set by the settlement “will
supplement Prudential’s extensive prior efforts to identify
deceased insureds and to locate beneficiaries,” according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 