-- Treasury Easing Rules on Annuities for Retirement Plans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-02-02T20:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/treasury-eases-rules-on-offering-annuities-in-retirement-plans.html
The U.S. Treasury Department will
help expand the availability of annuities and lifetime income
choices in  retirement plans , the agency said today.  The department proposed two regulations to make it easier
for those approaching retirement to fund an annuity through
their company-sponsored pensions or 401(k) savings accounts.
Annuities are insurance contracts that guarantee a lifetime
stream of income in exchange for up-front payments.  “When American workers take the responsible step of saving
for retirement, we should do all we can to provide them with
sensible, accessible choices for managing their hard-earned
savings,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
statement today. “Having the ability to choose from expanded
options will help retirees and their families achieve both
greater value and security.”  U.S. savers held about  $2.9 trillion  in 401(k) accounts and
a total $17 trillion in retirement savings as of Sept. 30,
according to the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-
based trade group for the mutual-fund industry.  Regulators and legislators have been looking at Americans’
retirement security because life expectancies are increasing and
savings have shifted from traditional pension plans -- where
employers generally provided retired employees with lifetime
payments -- to defined-contribution plans such as 401(k)s.
Participants in 401(k)-type plans increased to 67 million in
2007 from about 11 million in 1975, the Labor Department said at
a hearing on lifetime income in September 2010.  Reluctant Employers  Employers have been reluctant to adopt annuities in
retirement plans they sponsor because of concern that fees are
too high and that they would be held liable for their choice of
insurers. Americans have resisted buying the insurance because
they don’t want to lock up their assets.  The Treasury Department’s proposed regulation will make it
simpler for traditional pension plans to let workers take part
of their balances as lifetime income streams and take the rest
as lump sums.  The other proposed rule would encourage 401(k) and IRA
plans to offer participants the option of dedicating part of
their savings to a so-called longevity annuity, which may not
begin the guaranteed income payouts until age 80 or 85, the
Treasury Department said. The agency said it would grant an
exception to required minimum distributions from retirement
accounts in certain cases where participants choose the
insurance product.  Lifetime Commitment  Owners of traditional IRAs and 401(k)s, which generally
have tax-deferred contributions, must take annual  distributions 
starting at age 70 1/2 or over, according to the  Internal
Revenue Service .  The department also issued a rule today addressing how
savers may roll a portion of their 401(k)s into their employer’s
defined-benefit plans to create lifetime-income streams.  “The proposal will also allow individuals more flexibility
to purchase products that protect them from outliving their
savings,” Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, said in an e-mail.
“We must continue to work to find ways that make it easier for
Americans to make their retirement savings last a lifetime.”  Employers may remain reluctant to add choices to 401(k)s
that require a lifetime commitment to an insurer or investment
manager on behalf of their workers because of liability issues,
 David Wray , president of the Plan Sponsor Council of America in
 Chicago , said in a phone interview.  Insurers and Managers  “When they sign up and add XYZ mutual fund, that’s not a
lifetime commitment,” Wray said. The Plan Sponsor Council of
America is a nonprofit association representing employers that
offer 401(k)s.  Asset managers and insurers including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
 State Street Corp. (STT) ,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  have been developing ways to add annuities and
lifetime income to 401(k) investment choices.  The Labor Department issued a separate final rule today
requiring detailed disclosure of 401(k) fees so companies and
their employees can see what they’re being charged. The
regulation will take effect for providers of 401(k) plans by
July 1, according to the statement.  Workers  are due to receive
additional disclosures later in the year, the Labor Department
said.  Better Deals  The disclosures may spur  small employers  and their workers,
who generally pay higher fees for their plans than larger
companies, to shop for better deals, and put pressure on
providers such as mutual-fund firms and insurers to cut costs.  The rules generally will require employers to show
employees the fees on each investment option per  $1,000 
invested, such as $10 for a fund with an expense ratio of 1
percent, so they can make comparisons and more informed choices,
according to the Labor Department. Workers also will receive
statements showing administrative costs charged to their
individual accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Collins in New York 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 