-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Decline for Second Day Before Jobs Report, Supply
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-02T22:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/treasuries-decline-on-speculation-u-s-reports-will-show-jobs-improvement.html
Treasury bonds fell for a second day,
pushing yields above 3 percent, as a report showing a decline in
weekly U.S. jobless claims added to speculation the Labor
Department will say employers added workers last month.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note still traded at
almost the lowest level in four months. U.S. sovereign debt is
lagging behind company  bonds  this year as the world’s biggest
economy shows signs of improvement. Treasuries have returned 0.2
percent, versus 2.2 percent for company debt, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The U.S. is scheduled to sell
$72 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “This is where the market wants the bond to be -- north of
three percent,” said Justin Lederer, an  interest-rate 
strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “A lot of it is
cheapening ahead of next week’s long-end supply.”  The 30-year bond  yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York after
rising five basis points yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 3.125 percent security maturing
in November 2041 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face value, to
102 3/8.  Yields on 10-year notes were little changed at 1.82
percent. The yield reached 1.79 percent on Jan. 31, the lowest
since Oct. 4.  Jobs Update  Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 46
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected 371,000 claims.  A Labor Department report tomorrow is forecast to show the
U.S. added 140,000 jobs, compared with 200,000 the previous
month.  The unemployment  rate  is forecast to remain steady at 8.5
percent, economists said.  “We’ve had numbers that are fairly robust,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “The community is getting
apathetic.”  A Fed  measure  of perceived risk associated with extending
debt maturities, the so-called term premium, tumbled to negative
0.79 percent today, the most expensive level ever. A negative
reading represents overvalued levels and indicates investors are
demanding premiums below what’s considered fair value.  Fed Purchases  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said the central bank needs a clear low-rate commitment or a
third round of purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds to
further stimulate a still struggling economy.  People outside the Fed have “mentioned that maybe you
needed to do well over a trillion dollars in asset purchases in
order to begin to move things,” the regional chief told
reporters today during a meeting at the bank. “I don’t have a
particular number in mind, but it would be more ambitious than
most numbers being bandied about.”  Evans reiterated his view that the central bank should keep
the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until unemployment
falls below 7 percent or medium-term inflation rises above 3
percent, and underscored his position as the Fed’s most vocal
proponent for easing.  Policy makers said Jan. 25 that they will keep their
benchmark interest rate at virtually zero until at least the end
of 2014, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s considering
buying bonds to sustain the expansion.  Portfolio Shift  The Fed is  replacing  $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June. The central bank said Jan. 31 it will buy
about $45 billion of securities and sell about $43 billion
during February.  The Fed purchased $4.95 billion of securities due from May
2020 to November 2021 today as part of the plan, according to
the New York Fed’s  website .  Bernanke, 58, said today the central bank will seek to keep
prices rising at a 2 percent rate and rejected suggestions that
it would sacrifice its inflation goal to boost employment.  The Fed chairman said that the economy has shown signs of
improvement while remaining vulnerable to shocks, and he called
on lawmakers to reduce the long-term  U.S. budget deficit .  Bernanke’s View  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said today, according to
prepared testimony to the House Budget Committee in Washington.
“The outlook remains uncertain, however, and close monitoring
of economic developments will remain necessary.”  Swap spreads narrowed, indicating demand for higher-
yielding assets versus sovereign debt. The  difference  between
the two-year swap fixed rate and the yield on similar-maturity
Treasuries dropped to a six-month low of 25 basis points.
Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating interest-rate
obligations.  Volatility in the Treasury market is near an eight-month
low with the Fed pledging last week to keep borrowing costs at
record lows through 2014. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE
index (MOVE) , which measures price swings based on options, closed
today at 70.2, the lowest since July 2007 and less than the
five-year average of 111.8.  The U.S. announced it will sell $72 billion in notes and
bonds next week. It will sell $32 billion in three-year notes,
$24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in bonds on three
consecutive days beginning Feb. 7. The sizes are the same sold
in each refunding month since November 2010. Quarterly
refundings are held each February, May, August and November.  The U.S. auctioned three-year notes on Jan. 10 at the
highest demand on record. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of notes offered
was 3.73, the highest since at least 1993 when the government
began releasing the data. The notes drew a yield of 0.37
percent, near the record low of 0.334 percent reached at the
sale in September. The note traded today at 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  