-- Bugatti Vies With $32 Million Ferrari as Cars Lure Buyers
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-02T20:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/record-bugatti-vies-with-32-million-ferrari-as-classic-cars-lure-buyers.html
Car dealers who are in Paris for
sales of Porsche and Aston Martin classics have revealed that a
 Ferrari (FERI)  was bought this year for about $32 million.  The GTO -- one of 36 produced by the Italian company in
1962 to 1963 -- was sold privately in the U.K. within the last
two weeks to an unidentified buyer, said four dealers with
knowledge of the matter at  Retromobile ,  France ’s biggest
commercial show devoted to classic vehicles.  Investors are looking to rare autos as an alternative to
volatile financial markets. The show is luring collectors with
an exhibition that includes a Bugatti, said to be the world’s
most expensive auto and bought for as much as $40 million.  “Retromobile is the most important event of its type in
the world,” the Germany-based dealer Jan B. Luhn said in an
interview. “The top things are selling for really good money at
the moment. Cars that have issues don’t sell. It shows that
buyers are increasingly investment-minded.”  The Ferrari racer was an early example, had a competition
history and was in well-preserved condition with original paint,
said dealers, who asked not to be named. Cars often fetch higher
prices through discreet transactions than they do at auction.  Still, auction house  Gooding & Co . set 13 records on Jan.
20-21 in Scottsdale,  Arizona , including $4.6 million for a
Mercedes Alloy Gullwing. Retromobile coincides with auctions by
Bonhams today and Artcurial tomorrow.  Bonhams Auction  London-based  Bonhams  tonight offered 100 cars in a sale at
La Halle Freyssinet, a venue in the east of Paris better known
for its fashion shows.  The standout lot in the auction was a 1961 Aston Martin
DB4GT Coupe in silver. One of only 30 produced with left-hand
drive, the 4.2-liter vehicle had been entered by a “gentleman
racer” from a “noble European family.” It had a low valuation
of 1.1 million euros ($1.45 million) and failed to sell in
auction bidding, being purchased immediately after for about 1
million euros.  The auction also included French classics such as a 1965
Citroen DS21 Cabriolet with a minimum price of 150,000 euros,
which failed to sell. The event was estimated to raise between
10.7 million euros and 13.7 million euros.  Vadim, Bardot  Local auction house  Artcurial  will offer 80 cars, about
half of which are without reserve. They are estimated to fetch
at least 11.5 million euros and include a Ferrari 250 California
LWB convertible once owned by Roger Vadim and valued at 3
million euros to 4 million euros. It was bought new by the movie
director and producer who discovered and married  Brigitte Bardot . The car was latterly owned by another French film
director, Jean-Claude Bajol, who died last year.  Dealers will be trying to sell about 200 classic cars at
Retromobile, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition center in
southwestern Paris. Modern manufacturers such as Ferrari SpA,
 Porsche SE (PAH3)  and Bentley Motors Ltd. are also taking booths at the
five-day event that started yesterday.  A 1960s Maserati Tipo 61 “Birdcage” racer will be among
five cars priced between 1 million euros and 3.5 million euros
offered by Luhn, from Munster, and fellow German trader Klaus
Werner.  American Interest  “It’s a very international crowd, and many people come
from America,” Will Stone, sales manager at the London-based
dealers  Fiskens , said in an interview. “It’s also more focused
than an event like Techno Classica Essen, which has a lot of
automobilia.”  Fiskens sold a British 1930s Squire sports car for about
500,000 pounds ($792,000) at last year’s show, Stone said.  The most expensive Bugatti, a futuristic 1936 Type 57SC
Atlantic, bought by the California-based collector Peter Mullin
in a private sale in 2010, is the star attraction in the non-
selling section.  The Atlantic was designed by  Ettore Bugatti ’s son, Jean,
and debuted at the 1935 Paris Motor Show. Made out of welded
aluminum with a distinctive central seam, it won three orders.
Mullin’s example, made for the U.K. banker Victor Rothschild, is
one of only two which survive in original condition. The other
is owned by fashion designer  Ralph Lauren .  “The actual selling price of the Bugatti has never been
publically disclosed,” Andrew Brudnicki of JMPR Public
Relations said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of Mullin when
asked if the Ferrari GTO was now the world’s most expensive car.
“The only figure that was officially released was $30 million-
40 million. Certain sources have speculated that the car sold
for approximately $36 million, but I cannot confirm this.”  Mullin was the founder of  Mullin TBG (PRU) , which provides
executive benefit packages. His display has 10 rarities from his
private Mullin Automotive Museum never seen in  Europe  before.  They also include a Delayahe V12 Type 165 and a Hispano-
Suiza Type H6 C. Like the Bugatti, these streamlined
“sculptures on wheels” date from the 1930s and are
distinguished by their Art Deco elegance.  Information:  http://en.retromobile.com/ ,
 http://www.bonhams.com/  or  http://www.artcurial.com/en/index.asp   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 