-- Renren Leads Gain in Web Stocks as Facebook Boosts Appeal: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-02T22:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/renren-leads-gain-in-web-stocks-as-facebook-boosts-appeal-china-overnight.html
Perfect World Co. (PWRD)  led a rally in
Chinese Internet stocks traded in the U.S. as Facebook Inc.’s
initial public offering plans lure investors to similar
companies in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks listed in New York climbed 0.6 percent to 105.61
yesterday, the highest since Sept. 1. Online game developer
Perfect World jumped the most in four weeks and  Renren Inc. (RENN) ,
which operates a social-networking website, gained 8.2 percent.
Video site  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  surged to the highest level since August.  Facebook’s IPO, the largest ever for an  Internet company ,
comes amid a 10 percent advance in Chinese stocks traded in the
U.S. this year, and Renren, Youku and online bookseller  E-
Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  are among the biggest gainers on
the China-US 55 measure. There are a lot of “opportunities” in
Internet companies that have undertaken IPOs, Kevin Pollack, a
 fund manager  at Paragon Capital LP in New York, said at the
Bloomberg Link  China  conference on Feb. 1.  “Given the massive market cap of Facebook, it is forcing a
lot of investment managers to really focus on the sector for the
first time,” Lou Kerner, a former analyst at Wedbush Securities
Inc. who founded Second Shares, a New York-based blog focused on
social media companies, said in an interview yesterday. “You’re
going to see a lot of institutions that allocate money to social
media.”  Beijing-based Renren gained 8.2 percent to $5.42 in  New
York , extending its advance this year to 53 percent. Perfect
World, also based in the capital, climbed 9 percent to $11.50,
the highest level since Jan. 6.  China ETF Jumps  Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of a service similar to Twitter based
in  Shanghai , added 1.9 percent to $75.30, the highest Nov. 16.
Beijing-based Youku climbed 7.9 percent to $24.72, the strongest
since Aug. 31, and E-commerce, known as Dangdang, added 2.7
percent to $7.19.  The iShares  FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed for a third day,
adding 1.3 percent to $39.93, the highest level since Aug. 3.
The ETF is up 15 percent this year.  The rally in Chinese stocks has pushed Internet companies
beyond prices that are justified by their earnings and growth
prospects, Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York,
said by phone yesterday. Renren and Sina may struggle to grow
amid competition from other Chinese social networks such as one
devised by  Tencent (TCEHY)  Holdings Ltd. Tencent, China’s biggest
Internet company by sales, jumped 0.7 percent to $24.20 in New
York yesterday.  No Profit  Renren won’t report a profit for 2011 as sales rise 55
percent to $119 million, according to analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sina’s revenue will increase 15 percent
to $465 million for 2011, according to a separate analyst
survey.  Facebook’s  sales  grew 88 percent to $3.71 billion in 2011.
The world’s largest social network may be valued at $100 billion
in the IPO, two people with knowledge of the matter who declined
to be identified said last week. That’s 27 times 2011 sales.
Renren trades at about 25 times estimated 2011 sales, while Sina
trades for about 11 times revenue.  Casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  advanced for
a third day, rising 3.2 percent to $12.12, a 3.9 percent  premium 
over its  Hong Kong shares , which gained 4 percent to HK$30.15,
or $3.89. Each Melco Crown American depositary receipt is worth
three ordinary shares.  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , China’s biggest energy producer, advanced
0.5 percent to $148.90 in New York after the Beijing-based
company’s  Hong Kong  shares rose 1.9 percent to HK$11.62, the
equivalent of $1.50. Each ADR is worth 100 ordinary shares. The
U.S. stock traded at a 0.6 percent  discount  to Hong Kong.  Government Restrictions  PetroChina agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in a Royal
Dutch Shell Plc project in  Canada , Mao Zefeng, the Beijing-based
senior assistant secretary to PetroChina’s board, said
yesterday.  Facebook is considering entering China, where it currently
has little presence because of government restrictions,
according to the company’s IPO filing.  “China is a large potential market for Facebook, but users
are generally restricted from accessing Facebook,” the company
wrote in the filing. “We do not know if we will be able to find
an approach to managing content and information that will be
acceptable to us and to the Chinese government.”  Maxim Group’s He said that Facebook doesn’t pose a threat
to Renren and Sina because it will be difficult for the  Menlo
Park , California-based company to get government permission to
work in the Chinese market. Facebook would probably have to
censor its content to comply with Chinese rules, He said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares rose 2
percent yesterday, the best one-day performance in two weeks.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 2.9 percent in
Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  