-- Republican Senators Seek Workforce Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-02T19:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/republican-senators-seek-fewer-u-s-workers-to-stop-defense-cuts.html
Republican senators proposed reducing
the U.S. government workforce by 5 percent over a decade to
avert looming cuts from the  defense budget .  Six senators said today that they will introduce
legislation to shrink the number of federal personnel through
attrition and extend a pay freeze for employees for an
additional year and a half. The freeze also would apply to
members of Congress.  “The mission ought to define the budget; the budget
shouldn’t define the mission,” Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas
said at a news conference on the measure in Washington. “The
most important thing the federal government does is keep the
American people safe.”  The Republicans don’t have any Democratic supporters for
their approach, underscoring a conflict over whether and how to
prevent $500 billion in Pentagon cuts that otherwise will begin
next year. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a  California 
Democrat, told reporters today that Republican efforts to block
spending reductions was “skulduggery” and that Congress should
“honor the commitment” it made.  The defense cuts are half of automatic spending reductions
mandated after a congressional supercommittee failed to reach
agreement in November on alternative ways to reduce the federal
deficit. The Pentagon already is planning separately for $490
billion in spending reductions over the decade.  For every three retiring federal employees, the U.S.
government would hire only two under the Republican proposal.  Graham, Ayotte, McCain  The plan also would save enough money to avert automatic
budget cuts in other areas of discretionary spending next year,
Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona  said at the news conference. In
addition to Cornyn and Kyl, the measure is sponsored by Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina , Marco Rubio of  Florida ,  Kelly Ayotte 
of New Hampshire and John McCain of Arizona.  The Republicans projected the legislation would create
total savings of $127 billion in 2013, of which $109 billion is
needed to replace the automatic spending reductions.  The Senate plan is similar to a plan introduced last year
by Republican Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of
California, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
McKeon proposed a federal workforce reduction of 10 percent.  Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland, a Democrat whose state
borders  Washington  and is home to government workers, said
lawmakers should come up with a different plan to avoid the
across-the-board cuts.  “This is an attack on government,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  