-- Right-to-Work Laws Waste Time for Politicians and Unions: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-02T00:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/right-to-work-laws-are-a-waste-of-time-for-politicians-and-unions-view.html
For the first time, supporters of
right-to-work laws can claim victory in the industrialized
Midwest.  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels yesterday signed
legislation making it illegal to require nonunion workers to pay
union dues.  Right-to-work laws have taken on oversized symbolic
importance, outweighing the actual cost to unions or the real
benefits to employers. Worse, the combat discourages the two
sides from working together to manage cyclical ups and downs or
to improve productivity, which increases profits, lifts wages
and ultimately results in economic expansion.  Unions loathe right-to-work laws because they can make
organizing more difficult and, they insist, lead to  lower wages 
and less generous benefits. Some governors, on the other hand,
think a right-to-work law is the best proxy for how business-
friendly their state is.  Twenty-three  states , mostly in the South and Southwest, now
have such laws. Lawmakers in  Maine , Michigan,  Missouri ,  New
Hampshire , and other states may try to follow, largely out of
fear of being left behind in the race to attract companies.
Republican U.S. Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina  is pushing
for a national right-to-work law.  Sparse Data  A close examination shows that right-to-work laws are not
as damaging to unions or as beneficial to state economies as the
warring sides contend. Each wields powerful talking points, yet
the supporting data is sparse.  On the union side, the big myth is that the laws bar unions
from organizing. Not so. Instead, by enabling workers to opt out
of union dues, they reduce the financial payoff to organizers.
Over time, that may weaken a union’s ability to attract new
members, put together political campaigns or pay union
administrative expenses. Still, it wouldn’t prevent a union from
forming in the first place.  On the right-to-work side, the big myth is that economic
growth in states with the law is higher. Studies sponsored by
the Mackinac Center, a think tank in Midland,  Michigan , that
favors right-to-work, conclude as much. But it’s not necessarily
so. The  Mackinac studies  don’t disentangle the effect of right-
to-work laws from other factors, such as a housing bust, rapid
 population growth  (a feature of many Sunbelt states) or a robust
energy sector.  Take  Oklahoma , which became a right-to-work state in 2001.
It has outperformed much of the country in recent years; its
 unemployment  level, at 6.1 percent, bests the national rate of
8.5 percent. But joblessness in  Colorado , Missouri and  New
Mexico  -- Oklahoma’s non-right-to-work neighbors -- are also
well below the national average.  Moral Arguments  Interestingly, some of the strongest arguments for and
against right-to-work are moral -- and they exist on both sides.
The personal beliefs of anti-union workers are stepped on when
monthly dues are deducted from their paychecks, even though they
don’t belong to the union. In right-to-work states, the same
workers wouldn’t have to pay dues but would benefit from the
higher wages a union might negotiate on their behalf. The unions
have a word for that: free-loading.  The answer isn’t right-to-work but better labor-management
cooperation. Both sides might learn a lesson from  Germany , where
union members often sit on corporate boards and vote on
management pay (helping to keep in check excessive, U.S.-style
compensation). Germany’s unions also play prominent roles when
the economic cycle turns down. One example is the “Kurzarbeit”
plan, or short-work system, in which companies temporarily move
employees into shorter workweeks during downturns. Companies pay
only for actual hours worked, and the government provides as
much as two-thirds of the remainder.  Work-Time Accounts  Many German companies also use work-time accounts, in which
employees agree to shorter workweeks when demand is slow, then
add hours in boom times -- without adjusting wages.  Under the Kurzarbeit plan and work-time accounting, unions
have gone along, knowing what’s good for the company is often
good for them. At 6.7 percent, Germany’s jobless rate, a two-
decade low, tells us that cooperation over conflict is worth
considering.  In the 1950s, about one-third of American workers carried a
union card. Today, barely 12 percent do. Union membership in the
private sector is a mere 6.9 percent. The decades-long slide
isn’t the result of right-to-work laws, but the loss of
manufacturing jobs. In Indiana, union members made up 10.9
percent of the workforce in 2010, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor, down from 15.4 percent in 2000.  It may not be culturally or politically possible for U.S.
unions and executives to emulate the German model, but with
manufacturing making a comeback, it’s a good time for both sides
to find a better way to resolve their conflicts.  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg  View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 