-- Rinehart Doubles Fortune as Asia Pacific’s Richest, Forbes Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-02-02T00:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/rinehart-doubles-fortune-as-asia-pacific-s-richest-forbes-says.html
Gina Rinehart, the Australian mining
heiress and media investor,  doubled her fortune  to $18 billion
from last year to become the richest woman in the Asia-Pacific
region, according to Forbes magazine.  Rinehart’s wealth jumped as Korean steelmaker Posco bought
a stake in her Roy Hill iron-ore project, Forbes said on its
website today. The 57-year-old may become the world’s richest
woman, surpassing the $24.5 billion amassed by Christy Walton,
of the family that controls Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Forbes said.  Rinehart’s value soared as Asian demand for coal and iron
ore drove up the value of assets across two Australian states.
She bought 10 percent of Ten Network Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
third-ranked commercial television network, in 2010. The
billionaire increased her stake this week in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ,
Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher, to 12 percent,
according to the Sydney Morning Herald.  Last month, South Korean steelmaker Posco agreed to pay
1.78 trillion won ($1.6 billion) to raise its stake in the Roy
Hill mine in Western Australia to 15 percent from 3.8 percent.  In Australia, Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive officer of
Glencore International Plc, ranks as the country’s second-
richest person with $7.2 billion after the commodities trading
company listed last year, Forbes said. Andrew Forrest, chairman
and founder of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , is third with $5.3
billion.  Gerry Harvey , founder and chairman of  Harvey Norman
Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , dropped off Australia’s billionaire’s list after
a stock-price plunge left him with $900 million, Forbes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  