-- Romanian Central Bank Lowers Benchmark Interest Rate for a Third Time
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-02T15:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/romanian-central-bank-lowers-benchmark-interest-rate-for-a-third-time.html
Romania ’s central bank cut its
 benchmark interest rate  for the third time in as many meetings
as a record-low inflation rate makes room for further easing
this year to boost economic growth amid Europe’s debt crisis.  The Bucharest-based Banca Nationala a Romaniei lowered the
monetary policy rate to a record-low 5.5 percent from 5.75
percent, it said today in an e-mailed statement. The reduction
was expected by 13 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
forecast no change.  Romania’s central bankers resumed its monetary-policy
easing in November last year, bringing the rates down by a total
75 basis points, after an 18-month pause, as the debt crisis has
prompted central banks across the globe, including the euro-
area,  Brazil ,  Chile , Moldova,  Russia  and  Serbia , to lower
borrowing costs to contain an  economic  slowdown.  “The gradual and judicious adjustment of real broad
monetary conditions will help effectively anchor expectations
throughout the projection horizon given the outlook for
inflation,” the bank said  in a statement . A “new forecast
reconfirms the perspective of inflation staying within the
variation band around the 3 percent target throughout the
projection horizon.”  Minimum-Reserve Requirements  Additionally the bank left its minimum-reserve requirements
on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu
deposits at 15 percent, according to the statement. The bank
also approved its quarterly inflation report, which will be
presented by Governor Mugur Isarescu in a press conference on
Feb. 7.  “Inflation has moderated substantially, and with the
domestic demand story still weak, the central bank has room to
provide monetary stimulus,”  Roderick Ngotho , the London-based
emerging-markets currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. said after the announcement. “We expect a policy
rate range of 5 percent to 5.5 percent for 2012. We are now at
5.5 percent, there is room for further easing, but
understandably, the central bank could choose to spread out the
additional cuts.”  The leu was little changed at 4.3484 per euro as of 4:39
p.m. in Bucharest. The Romanian currency has lost 0.5 percent
against the euro so far this year, compared with gains of 7
percent for the Hungarian forint, 6.2 percent for  Poland ’s zloty
and 1.5 percent for the Czech koruna in the same period.  Exchange-Rate Outlook  “As in line with expectations, we do not expect any
exchange-rate reaction,” Ngotho said. “Furthermore, we think
that the euro-leu rate will be relatively stable over the coming
weeks, even as other currencies see some appreciation.”  Economic (ROGDPQOQ)  growth will probably slow this year to between 1.8
percent and 2.3 percent on falling exports to western  Europe ,
after growing faster than the International Monetary Fund’s
estimate last year, Jeffrey Franks, the fund’s mission chief to
Romania, said on Nov. 7. Gross domestic product rose 2.5 percent
in 2011, Franks estimated.  The IMF may lower its growth forecast for Romania this year
to as low as 1 percent, Ziarul Financiar  reported on  Jan. 30,
citing unidentified people. The economy may expand between 1
percent and 1.5 percent in 2012, the newspaper said.  Romania’s inflation rate will probably fall to below 2
percent in the second quarter from 3.1 percent in December and
end this year at 3 percent, making room for further interest-
rate reductions, central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa told
reporters at a Euromoney conference in Vienna on Jan. 17.  ‘Unfavorable’ Effects  The bank estimates inflation will continue to slow in the
“immediately forthcoming period,” before accelerating in the
second half of the year because of “an unfavorable statistical
base effects,” according to the statement. The rate won’t
overshoot the bank’s inflation target band of between 2 percent
to 4 percent for this year, it said.  “Despite financial turmoil on the external markets, local
developments point to further rate cuts to support an already
slowing economy, and we see expect the easing to continue to
5.25 percent by June,” said Monica Croitoru, a Bucharest-based
economist at BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA, in a note to
clients today. “We believe the central bank will announce an
upwards revision for the 2012 year-end inflation from the
current 3 percent” because of rising food prices stemming from
an “underperformance of the  agriculture sector .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  