-- Romney Doesn’t Shy Away From Wealth as He Stands Next to Trump
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/romney-to-win-trump-backing-in-vegas.html
Multimillionaire  Mitt Romney  shared a
stage with billionaire  Donald Trump  as he accepted the backing
of the real estate developer and reality television star, the
latest sign the Republican presidential frontrunner isn’t shying
away from a focus on his wealth.  The two men stood together yesterday and praised one
another at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas, a day
after Romney came under attack for his comments about America’s
poor.  “Our country is in serious, serious trouble,” Trump said,
as Romney’s wife, Ann, also looked on. “Mitt is tough. He’s
smart. He’s sharp. He’s not going to allow bad things to
continue to happen to this country.”  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Romney’s top rival
in the Republican race, continued to try to gain advantage from
the former Massachusetts governor’s Feb. 1 comment that he’s
“not concerned about the very poor” because of the government
programs available to them.  “There are some very big differences both between me and
Governor Romney and me and  Barack Obama ,” Gingrich said as he
campaigned yesterday in  Las Vegas  in advance of Nevada’s Feb. 4
caucuses. “I really believe we should care about the very poor,
unlike Governor Romney, but I believe we should care differently
than Barack Obama.”  Gingrich made his comments at a construction equipment
manufacturing plant, where the crowd was dominated by factory
workers.  ‘Trampoline’ Plan  He said that, while Romney and Obama think the poor just
need a government-provided safety net, he would give them “a
trampoline” by tying job training programs to  unemployment
insurance .  Gingrich has sought to cast his candidacy in populist
terms, portraying Romney as beholden to Washington politicians
and Wall Street bankers. He has attributed his 14 percentage
point loss to Romney in  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary to the
spending disparity between the two campaigns. Ad spending by
Romney and his allies -- mostly for negative spots --
outstripped Gingrich and his forces by more than 5-1 in the
state.  Julian Zelizer , a political historian at  Princeton
University , discounted the importance of Trump’s endorsement.  “I don’t think it will have a big impact,” he said. “I
don’t think Donald Trump is a serious political player. He is
great at attracting media attention, but I don’t think he has a
huge impact with the electorate.”  ‘Elitist’ Image  David Damore, an associate political science professor at
the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, said the backing could hurt
Romney. “I think it plays into that narrative that Romney is an
elitist and he doesn’t understand the common people,” he said.  Romney, a co-founder of the Boston-based Bain Capital LLC
private equity firm, faced fresh questions about whether he is
out of touch with less-fortunate people after his comments about
the poor in a CNN interview.  Romney told reporters later that his remark was taken out
of context. In an interview airing yesterday on the “Face to
Face with Jon Ralston” television program in  Nevada , he said he
“misspoke.”  Romney, who traveled yesterday for the first time with a
U.S. Secret Service detail, told Trump at their joint appearance
that he was honored and surprised to have his backing.  “There are some things that you just can’t image happening
in your life,” Romney said. “This is one of them.”  Targeting Obama  He also took the occasion to criticize Obama’s jobs record.
“He does not understand what it takes to get America working
again,” he said.  In a reference to Trump, Romney said, “I spent my life in
the private sector -- not quite as successfully as this guy --
but successful nonetheless, sufficiently successful to
understand what it takes to get America to be the most
attractive place in the world for innovators, entrepreneurs and
businesses.”  Trump told reporters before his appearance with Romney that
he likes the candidate’s calls for a tougher  China  trading
policy.  “He’s somebody that really understands that China is
ripping us off,” he said.  Trump, 65, and Romney, 64, have had ups and downs in their
relationship. In December, Romney declined to attend a
Republican presidential candidates’ debate Trump had proposed in
Iowa. The event was later canceled.  ‘Small Business Guy’  Gingrich’s campaign issued a news release offering past
Trump criticisms of Romney. Included was Trump’s comment in an
April 18, 2011, appearance on  CNN  that Romney “is a basically
small business guy” who ”walked away with some money from a
very good company that he didn’t create; he worked there. He
would buy companies; he’d close companies; he’d get rid of
jobs.”  Romney’s wealth, estimated in his financial disclosure
statement to be as much as $250 million, periodically has
emerged as a campaign issue.  Romney released his 2010  tax return  on Jan. 24 after his
previous refusal to do so immediately appeared to hurt him in
the Jan. 21 South Carolina primary, which he lost to Gingrich by
12 points. The records showed that, with an annual income of
$21.6 million, he paid an effective tax rate of 13.9 percent,
lower than for many Americans who make far less.  Firing Comment  Also in January he said in an off-the-cuff remark that he
likes “being able to fire people who provide services to me.”
Though he was referring to switching health-insurance companies
as a consumer -- not his own employees -- he was put on the
defensive.  Gingrich, 68, made a reference to the flap yesterday when
he said at his Las Vegas event, “I like hiring people.”  In December, Romney had to deflect criticism that he is out
of touch with ordinary voters after proposing during a
candidates’ debate a $10,000 wager with  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who has since exited the race.  Trump was asked by reporters yesterday whether he had
advice for Romney about discussing the wealth issue.  “I think he’s actually becoming very comfortable with it
recently, more recently,” he said.  Trump, who has unabashedly showcased his wealth, told
Bloomberg Businessweek last year that he was worth more than $7
billion. Forbes  lists  him as the 128th richest American, with a
net worth of $2.9 billion.  Trump, host of “ The Celebrity Apprentice ” on NBC, dropped
hints last year he might enter the Republican presidential race
before announcing in May he wouldn’t. Since then, he left open
the possibility he might seek the White House as an independent
if he was dissatisfied with the Republican choice.  Other Candidates  He said yesterday he has no plans to get into the race, and
he thinks it is time for Romney’s Republican rivals -- Gingrich,
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas and former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  -- to exit.  “It would be a positive thing if other candidates got out
of the race,” Trump said.  Obama press secretary  Jay Carney  was asked at his daily
White House briefing with reporters yesterday if the president
had sought Trump’s endorsement.  “You know, I’m not going to comb over that question,” he
responded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Las Vegas at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Las Vegas at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  