-- Rubber Declines as Lower Oil Cuts Appeal, Chinese Demand Slows
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-02T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/rubber-declines-as-lower-oil-cuts-appeal-chinese-demand-slows.html
Rubber fell for the first time in
three days as crude oil traded near a six-week low, reducing the
appeal of the commodity as an alternative to synthetic products.  The July-delivery contract dropped 1.7 percent to settle at
311.1 yen a kilogram ($4,086 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange. Futures have gained 18 percent this year.  Oil declined to the lowest level since Dec. 21 as U.S.
crude stockpiles increased more than estimated and gasoline
consumption fell to a 10-year low. Rubber was also sold as
buying from  China , the world’s largest consumer, failed to pick
up after the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, said Ken Kajisa,
an analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in Tokyo.  “Data showing the strength of  China’s economy  eased
speculation that the nation will ease monetary policy to support
growth, leading to sales of futures,” he said by phone. “Lower
oil is another drag on the price of rubber.”  China’s manufacturing expanded last month on increased new
orders, suggesting the economy is withstanding  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a government-induced property slowdown at home. The
manufacturing report cuts the need for aggressive policy easing,
according to Fan Cheuk Wan, head of Asia-Pacific research at
Credit Suisse Private Banking.  “Demand from China is slow,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior
marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from
Bangkok. The market may regain ground soon as the low-production
season has started in  Thailand  and will cut supplies, she said.  The Thai  cash price  declined 1.6 percent to 124.30 baht
($4.02) a kilogram today,  the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand  said on its website. May-delivery rubber in Shanghai
gained 0.2 percent to close at 27,335 yuan ($4,337) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  