-- Russian Economy Ministry Opposes Delay in State Asset Sales
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-02T12:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/russian-economy-ministry-to-oppose-delays-in-state-asset-sales.html
Russia’s Economy Ministry said it
will submit a report to the government next week opposing Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Sechin ’s call for delays in the planned
privatization of state energy assets.  “We don’t see the sense in delaying the timetable for
starting to prepare these companies for privatization,” Alexei Uvarov, head of the ministry’s property department, told
reporters in Moscow today.  Sechin, a close ally of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  who
oversees the  energy industry  and was chairman of OAO Rosneft
until last year, proposed withdrawing oil companies OAO
Transneft, OAO Zarubezhneft and Rosneft and power companies OAO
Federal Grid and OAO Rushydro from the 2012 divestment plan,
citing low market valuations, Kommersant reported Jan. 11.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  promised to relinquish government
control of some of the biggest state companies at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum last June, saying it was
time to reverse the policy of strengthening the state’s
presence. Putin, who’s seeking to reclaim the presidency in
elections next month after Medvedev agreed to step aside,
pledged Jan. 30 to loosen the reins on the economy by selling
assets and scaling back regulation.  ‘New Economy’  “We need a new economy,” Putin wrote in a Jan. 30 article
in the Vedomosti newspaper. He said the government will divest
stakes in major non-commodity companies and lower its holdings
in some commodity producers by 2016, excluding utilities and
defense enterprises.  Russia plans to raise 300 billion rubles ($9.9 billion)
this year by selling stakes in state companies, including 15
percent of Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, and 10
percent in VTB Group, its second-biggest lender, Uvarov said in
September. Russia may also offer stakes in energy shipper OAO
Sovcomflot and diamond miner OAO Alrosa, he said.  Sovcomflot will probably be among the first major companies
in which a stake will be sold as it’s ready for privatization,
Uvarov said today. A 50-percent holding in the shipper may be
offered for sale this year in two stages, he said.  7% Stakes  Russia’s federal government and the Siberian region of
Yakutia may also each sell 7 percent of Alrosa, he said. The
Economy Ministry must first overcome the objections of the local
authorities, which believe the world’s largest diamond producer
isn’t ready for privatization, Uvarov said.  Russia aims to raise a total of 1.16 trillion rubles from
state asset sales between 2012 and 2014, the Economy Ministry
official said in September. Taking into account the current
volatility in financial markets, sales may generate 380 billion
rubles in 2013 and 475 billion rubles in 2014, he said.  The government may cut its stake in Rosneft, which produces
almost a quarter of Russian oil, to below 50 percent,  Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s economic adviser, has said. Russia may
also sell its entire holding in VTB in three to five years,
according to Dvorkovich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  