-- Russia to Refrain From Rate Cut as Inflation Risks Escalate, Survey Shows
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-02-02T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/russia-to-hold-rates-as-inflation-risks-escalate-survey-shows.html
Russia will probably refrain from
cutting  interest rates  this month after a surprise reduction in
December as rising consumer demand threatens to boost inflation.  Bank Rossii will leave the refinancing rate at 8 percent,
according to 11 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate used to provide cash for
banks will stay at 5.25 percent, while the overnight deposit
rate will remain at 4 percent, separate surveys showed. Policy
makers will announce the decision later today.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev wants to trim the
 inflation  rate to between 5 percent and 6 percent in 2012 from a
record-low 6.1 percent last year as economic growth outpaces
forecasts. Russia has followed emerging-market countries like
Brazil and  Thailand  in lowering borrowing costs as  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatens to stall global demand.  “The  unemployment rate  is down to a level where you would
expect price pressures to start building up,”  Clemens Grafe ,
chief economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in Moscow, said Feb.
1 by telephone. “The data as it has come in has probably been
stronger than what the central bank was expecting.”  The world’s largest energy exporter grew faster than
economists forecast last year, expanding  4.3 percent  and
returning to output levels before a 7.8 percent contraction in
2009.  Unemployment (RUUER)  unexpectedly fell to 6.1 percent in December
while retail sales soared at the fastest pace in more than three
years.  Micex, Ruble Gain  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  appreciated 8 percent in January
for its biggest monthly gain since October. The gauge added 0.2
percent yesterday to 1,542.39 at the close in Moscow. The ruble
strengthened 6.5 percent versus the dollar last month and was
little changed at 30.20 against the U.S. currency yesterday.  OAO Magnit (MGNT) , the country’s largest food retailer by market
value, was among the companies that benefited from surging
domestic demand, posting a 20 percent gain in net income last
year.  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , the biggest carmaker, boosted Russian sales
11 percent in 2011.  Record-low inflation may help Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
solidify voter support as he seeks to reclaim the presidency in
March elections. Prices and poverty are seen as the biggest
threats facing the country this year, according to a Jan. 31
poll by the independent  Levada Center .  Policy makers may keep the main rates unchanged at today’s
meeting even as they may make another quarter-point reduction in
the fixed repurchase rate to 6 percent, Alexei Moiseev, chief
economist at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail.  ‘Reduce Tension’  Three economists of 15 surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
central bank will cut the refinancing rate by a quarter-point,
with one analyst called for a half-point cut.  “A change to the fixed repo rate may be used to reduce
tension on the money market while maintaining their concern on
inflation,” Moiseev said. “They’ve said inflation will rise,
and they really squeezed liquidity in the money market.”  Investors are betting on lower interest rates with forward-
rate agreements signaling a decrease of 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, in the next three months, compared with
expectations of as much as 120 basis points of increases in
September.  The contracts have forecast monetary easing or unchanged
rates since early December, the longest stretch since 2009. The
cost to lock in interest payments for a year climbed to 6.93
percent, interest-rate swaps show.  Surprise Cut  Bank Rossii unexpectedly cut the refinancing rate to 8
percent from 8.25 percent and lowered the rate on fixed
repurchase facilities by a quarter point to 6.25 percent while
raising the overnight deposit rate by the same amount to 4
percent at its last meeting in December.  The changes were intended to be “neutral” for monetary
policy while helping policy makers manage interbank interest
rates, which tend to fluctuate within that range, the central
bank said in its statement.  The inflation rate fell to a “marvelous” 4.7 percent and
may drop further in the near term, central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said last week. Consumer-price growth
this month probably won’t exceed the rate in January, when it
reached about 0.5 percent, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Feb. 1.  Retail lending will slow “significantly” this year, while
stagnation is “very probable” for manufacturers in the coming
months, Klepach said. Gross domestic product will rise 3.7
percent this year, the government predicts.  Bank Rossii will reduce interest rates once risks to
economic growth outweigh the need to slow inflation, Ulyukayev
said last week in Davos,  Switzerland .  “At present, such a situation isn’t in sight,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  