-- S. Korea Optimistic Aid Will Bring North Back to Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   H i r s c h b e r g   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-02-03T02:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/s-korea-optimistic-aid-will-bring-north-back-to-nuclear-talks.html
South Korea ’s chief nuclear envoy is
“optimistic” that inducements offered by the U.S. and his
country will persuade North  Korea ’s new leader, Kim Jong Un, to
resume talks aimed at ending the regime’s atomic program.  “The prospects of the normalization of the relationship
between Pyongyang and the international community, and
eventually a lifting of sanctions, all those benefits will be a
strong incentive for the new leadership,” Lim Sung Nam, South
Korea’s representative to the dialogue, said in his office in
Seoul. “The six-party talks are basically a process of putting
them on a learning curve regarding the cost of having nuclear
weapons and the benefit of giving up nuclear weapons.”  Sanctions over the nuclear program have so far failed to
cajole  North Korea , which is reliant on aid from China to feed
its people, back to the table after negotiations broke down in
2008. Lim said that while the North hasn’t given any concrete
sign it may engage following the Dec. 17 death of dictator Kim
Jong Il, his son, Kim Jong Un, may be reexamining policies
toward the outside world.  Lim said he believes the prospect of international aid to a
country whose economy is one-fortieth the size of South Korea’s
will ultimately persuade Kim to return to talks. He said that
before Kim Jong Il died the sides had been making “meaningful
progress” on the steps needed to restart negotiations, which
involve the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and  Russia .  Stability in Pyongyang  “Our reading is that Pyongyang is quite stable,” said
Lim, whose father was born in the north and fled to the south
during the 1950-1953  Korean War . “All those events related to
the funeral, the military parade and everything, are going
pretty smoothly and we didn’t hear any news indicating there is
some sort of domestic political change.”  Before the talks collapsed, the five nations had pledged
massive economic, humanitarian and energy aid for the North to
denuclearize, including crude oil, food and electricity on top
of trade and diplomatic relations.  Since Kim Jong Un, thought to be younger than 30, inherited
the leadership, the rhetoric from Pyongyang has echoed that of
his father’s rule. North Korea’s National Defense Commission
issued a statement yesterday questioning South Korea’s
commitment to dialogue. The statement, published by the state-
run Korean Central News Agency, accused the South of conducting
a “vicious anti-DPRK smear psychological campaign.” DPRK
refers to the nation’s official name, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea.  Military Exercises  It included nine points it said South Korea needed to
address to show it is serious about negotiations, including a
halt to major military exercises and an apology for not sending
an official delegation to  Kim Jong Il ’s funeral.  There is no need to respond to such “stubborn insistence”
from the North’s propaganda, said South Korea’s Unification
Ministry in an e-mailed statement expressing “regret.”  Economic support from China could scuttle Lim’s hopes, said
Kim Young Yoon, a senior research fellow at the state-run Korea
Institute for National Unification in Seoul.  “It’s unlikely that the North will rejoin six-party talks
because of economic concerns,” Kim said. “China is giving them
enough aid to sustain them at the moment and South Korea is also
giving humanitarian aid.”  Energy, Food  China provides almost 90 percent of the North’s energy
imports and 45 percent of its food, according to a 2009 report
from the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.  South Korea (ROKZ)  says the North must show it is sincere about
dismantling its atomic installations as a prerequisite for
returning to negotiations. This would include allowing
inspectors into the country to monitor a shutdown of the nuclear
weapons program, said Lim, who keeps aerial photographs of the
Yongbyon atomic facility on the wall of his office.  After six-party talks ended, North Korea in 2009 expelled
International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors and conducted a
second nuclear test. In April that year, it said it would
restore its main nuclear reactor for making weapons-grade
plutonium at Yongbyon, which was disabled under a February 2007
agreement.  Kim’s regime allocates a third of its budget to 1.2 million
soldiers, 1,700  aircraft , 800 naval vessels and more than 13,000
artillery systems, according to the American military. The U.S.
estimates that North Korea has enough plutonium for a half-dozen
nuclear devices and sells ballistic missiles for cash.  Economic Sanctions  U.S. economic sanctions, which have frozen the assets of
North Korean companies, prohibit direct and indirect imports of
goods and services and ban luxury-goods trade and money
exchanges. The UN banned all arms exports from North Korea and
authorized searching of the country’s ships for weapons.  North Korea’s economy contracted 0.5 percent to 30 trillion
won ($26.8 billion) in 2010, compared with South Korea’s 1,173
trillion won, according to the South’s central bank.  The country had a shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric
tons of food last year, which could affect a quarter of the
population, according to the United Nations Food & Agriculture
Organization.  Kim Jong Un faces a dilemma in deciding how much he can
open up to the outside world in return for the economic
assistance needed to fulfill his regime’s promise of creating a
strong and prosperous country, said Peter Beck, the Korea
representative for the Asia Foundation in  Seoul .  Reaching Agreement  “The only way they can follow through on that pledge is to
start by reaching agreement with the U.S. and the other four
parties,” said Beck.  Lim, 53, is a graduate of Seoul National University and
holds a master’s degree in political science from  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Mass. His last post was at the South
Korean embassy in China.  “Through their own channel of communication in Beijing
with Pyongyang, the Chinese should be making a lot of effort to
bring the North Koreans back to the six-party process,” he
said.  Lim will travel to Moscow next week for talks with his
Russian counterpart, deputy foreign minister Igor Morgulov.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Jan. 29 that it
was “absolutely realistic” to reconvene six-party talks by the
middle of the year.  “We might have to wait for some more time but I’m
basically optimistic that the new leadership in Pyongyang could
make the right decision,” Lim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  