-- SAC Capital’s Cohen Said to Be Buying a $20 Million Stake in New York Mets
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-02T20:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/sac-s-cohen-buying-20m-mets-stake.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  Steven Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors, who is among the bidders for
Major League Baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers, is close to buying
a $20 million stake in the  New York Mets , a person with
direct knowledge of the situation said.  The piece in the cash-strapped Mets wouldn’t bar Cohen from
owning the Dodgers, who are being sold in an auction by  Frank McCourt , said the person, who was granted anonymity because no
one is authorized to discuss either sale publicly.  Should Cohen, 55, get the Dodgers, the person said, he
would over time divest his stake in the Mets, who lost $70
million last season. Cohen’s net worth is $8 billion, according
to Forbes.  Cohen’s investment in the Mets might give him an advantage
over others should the National League team be put up for sale,
the person said.  The Mets and Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Cohen,
declined to comment on a possible share sale. The pending deal
was reported earlier today by the Los Angeles Times.  Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz are trying to raise
$200 million by selling 10 minority shares of the club, which
must repay a $40 million loan to Bank of America and a $25
million loan to baseball.  Wilpon and Katz also face $386 million in liability related
to the  Ponzi scheme  run by  Bernard Madoff . Last month they asked
a judge to dismiss the claims brought by the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s company, saying their early faith in Madoff was well-
founded because of his reputation.  The Mets finished last season with a 77-85 record, and
during the offseason lost All-Star shortstop  Jose Reyes  to the
Miami Marlins as a free agent.  Dodger Bidding  Cohen is among those bidding on the Dodgers who advanced
past the first round of cuts. Beginning today, prospective
buyers will meet with team executives in order to get more
detailed financial information about the club, which could fetch
a record $1.5 billion.  Baseball approved Cohen as a bidder for the Dodgers, even
though SAC Capital’s records have been subpoenaed as part of a
federal investigation in which two former employees have been
charged with  insider trading . No charges have been filed against
Cohen or the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  