-- Sands China Advances to Record as Profit Jumps on Macau: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-02T10:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/sands-china-s-2011-profit-sales-top-estimates-on-fourth-quarter-earnings.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas Sands Corp., advanced to
a record in  Hong Kong  trading after Chinese gamblers helped
drive a 44 percent increase in profit for the casino operator.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $306.7 million from
$213.3 million a year earlier, bringing its profit for the year
to $1.13 billion. The annual profit was higher than the $1.07
billion mean estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sands China is developing gambling resorts in Macau, the
only place in China where casinos are legal, as rising numbers
of Chinese gamblers fill tables playing blackjack and baccarat.
The first phase of Sands Cotai Central is on track to open in
about eight weeks, the company said today.  “The results are encouraging,” said  Philip Tulk , head of
Asian conglomerates and gaming research at Royal Bank of
 Scotland . “The upcoming property, Sands Cotai Central, is going
to draw new customers.”  Sands China rose 4.9 percent to a record HK$27.75 in Hong
Kong trading today, taking the  gain  this year to 26.4 percent.
That compares with the 12.5 percent increase in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Chinese gamblers have fueled growth in Macau, where
gambling sales have more than tripled in the past four years.
Adelson on an earnings call said he sees no slowdown in Macau,
which surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest
casino revenue hub in 2006.  Rising Revenue  “We are essentially seeing nothing that would indicate
that Macau and Singapore will not continue on their present
paths upward,” he said on the company’s conference call.  Fourth-quarter revenue for Sands  China , which operates the
Venetian, Four Seasons and Sands in Macau, rose 22 percent to
$1.33 billion from $1.09 billion a year earlier.  Macau’s total gambling revenue climb 42 percent last year
to 268 billion patacas ($33.6 billion), according to Macau’s
Gaming Inspection & Coordination Bureau.  Tulk expects Macau’s revenue growth to slow to 15 percent
to 20 percent in 2012, as high-stakes gamblers are likely to
find it harder to raise credit. “The growth will come from the
mass market” he said.  Other casino operators also rose in Hong Kong trading today,
with  Galaxy Entertainment  gaining 5.2 percent to HK$18.12 at the
close of Hong Kong trading.  Investors expect Galaxy will “deliver strong earnings as
Sands China has solid fourth-quarter results,” said Victor Yip,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd.  Las Vegas Sands (LVS) , Sands China’s U.S.-based parent, yesterday
reported a 17 percent rise in fourth-quarter profit on growth in
Singapore and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  