-- Santander Chile Gives Priority to Profits Over Market Share
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-02T20:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/santander-chile-gives-priority-to-profits-over-market-share-1-.html
Banco Santander Chile (BSAN) , relegated to
second place among Chilean lenders last year, vowed to
prioritize profitability over market share as proposed lending
restrictions and rising inflation threaten to narrow margins.  “We have been very conservative in terms of loan growth,”
Raimundo Monge, director of corporate strategy, said in a
conference call today. “Other market players have been more
eager to increase their allocation of capital to low-yielding
activities. We prefer to allocate capital only to more high-
yielding activities.”  Santander expects to increase lending this year at a
similar pace to the rest of the industry, which is estimated at
10 percent to 11 percent, Monge said. Since 2003, the bank’s
share of total lending shrank 7 percentage points to 20 percent
while profitability more than doubled, he said. Santander
slumped 3.9 percent to 36.73 pesos in Santiago trading.  Government plans to lower the  interest-rate  ceiling on some
loans would reduce margins, even though Congress is expected to
“water down” the proposal over concern it will squeeze
borrowers out of the market, he said. Santander forecasts the
central bank will continue cutting its key interest rate in
2012, he said.  “Funding costs should continue to stabilize or eventually
fall,” Monge said. “On the other hand, the uncertain evolution
of inflation and the negative effect of regulations regarding
maximum rates that can be charged on loans may have a negative
impact on margins.”  Chile ’s central bank last month reduced borrowing costs for
the first time in more than two years even after December
inflation rose to its highest level since April 2009.  Santander had 17.4 trillion pesos ($36.3 billion) in loans
at the end of December compared with  Banco de Chile ’s 17.7
trillion pesos, according to data published by the industry
regulator. Santander retained top spot in total assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 