-- Senate Votes to Tighten Ban on Insider Trading by Lawmakers
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-02-02T23:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/senate-to-tighten-ban-on-insider-trading-by-lawmakers.html
The Senate voted to bar members of
Congress, their staff and most executive branch employees from
trading stocks, commodities or futures based on non-public
information they learn on the job.  The bill, passed 96-3 today, would require those people and
workers in independent federal agencies to report any trades of
$1,000 or more within 30 days. The requirement would cover about
300,000 employees, said independent Senator  Joe Lieberman  of
Connecticut. The disclosure requirement wouldn’t apply to widely
held investment funds.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said he will schedule
House action next week on the Senate bill.  President Barack Obama welcomed the Senate passage and
urged the House to act quickly to send it for his signature. He
also called on lawmakers to pass legislation that would prohibit
members of Congress from owning stocks in industry affected by
their actions and bar political fundraisers from lobbying.  The measure passed today also would would block bonuses for
executives of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  while those agencies
remain in government conservatorship.  Though members of Congress aren’t exempt from existing
federal  insider-trading  laws, the Constitution’s protection of
their “speech or debate” may make it hard to investigate
potential violations. The measure, S. 2038, would give members
and employees a “duty of trust and confidence” to the
government for purposes of securities and insider-trading law.  ‘Send the Message’  “We can send the message to the American people that we’re
trying to re-establish the trust that seems to have been lost
with them,” said Massachusetts Republican  Scott Brown . “And
who knows, maybe we’ll be in double figures in terms of the
approval rating pretty soon.”  A Jan. 22-24 NBC-Wall Street Journal poll of 1,000 adults
showed that just 13 percent approved of the job Congress is
doing and 80 percent disapproved.  The senators who voted against the measure were  Tom Coburn 
of Oklahoma and  Richard Burr  of North Carolina, both
Republicans, and  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat.  More than 270 House members, almost 60 percent of the
House, signed on to a similar bill, H.R. 1148.  In November, CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported that some
members of Congress bought stock in companies while legislation
that might affect those businesses was being debated. Two Senate
bills to tighten rules on such trading were introduced the
following week, and they were merged into the measure passed
today.  Votes on Amendments  The vote followed hours of debate on nearly two dozen
amendments, including several unrelated to insider trading.
Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, sponsored the
amendment that broadened the measure to cover executive branch
and independent agency employees.  The Senate rejected proposed amendments to permanently ban
members of Congress from adding funds for pet projects in their
home districts into legislation, known as earmarking.  Robert Khuzami , director of the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s enforcement division, said in December that while
federal law is clear that congressional staff aides are covered
by the same insider-trading prohibitions as other federal
workers, members of Congress present a “more novel” question.  They are protected by the Constitution from many forms of
prosecution relating to the legislative process, which could
complicate investigations into potential insider-trading,
Khuzami said at a Dec. 6 House Financial Services Committee
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  