-- China Copper Premiums at Five-Month Low as Stocks Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T03:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/shanghai-copper-premiums-at-four-month-low-as-bonded-stocks-rise.html
(Corrects headline to show it was five-month low)  Copper  premiums  in  Shanghai , the main
hub in China for importing the metal, have dipped below $100 a
metric ton for the first time since August as stockpiles at
local bonded warehouses surge.  Premiums paid by importers over the London cash price were
quoted as low as $90 a ton on a cost, insurance and freight
basis to Shanghai this week, said Zhu Lin, an analyst at data
provider SMM Information & Technology Co. That compares with
about $120 a month ago, said Zhu.  Stockpiles held by bonded warehouses in Shanghai have risen
to almost 400,000 tons from about 300,000 tons a month ago,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of seven analysts and
traders in  China . Rising inventories in the world’s largest user
may curb Chinese imports in coming months, capping prices as
local fabricators have yet to return to the market after the
Chinese New Year holidays.  “As the arbitrage window has been closed for some time,
and domestic inventories continue to increase, it won’t be
surprising to see premiums drop further,” Pang Juan, an analyst
at Jinrui Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.  The metal for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange advanced 9.5 percent in January amid an improving U.S.
economy, progress in solving European debt crisis, and record
imports by China in December. The contract climbed to a four-
month high of $8,679.50 a ton on Jan. 27, and traded 0.4 percent
lower at $8,410 a ton at 9:10 a.m. Shanghai time today.  Inventories (SHFCCOPD)  tallied by the Shanghai Futures Exchange gained
for seven consecutive weeks before the week-long holiday to
double to 131,645 tons as of Jan. 19 from a 28-month low of
57,655 tons on Dec. 1, bourse data showed.  Quiet Market  “We heard a wide range of premium quotes, with the lower
end breaching the $100 benchmark, and although estimates on
bonded stockpiles vary, everybody agrees they have increased
from the end of last year,” SMM’s Zhu said. “This may be
because the market hasn’t fully recovered from holiday mode.”  Demand for the metal used to make pipes, wires and cables
usually picks up in spring, as fabricators resume operations in
February to meet orders.  “Orders were slow at the end of last year, so some
fabricators are not in a hurry to resume production this year,”
Pang said. “We’ll have to wait for a couple of weeks to see if
the market can warm up.”  China’s official  purchasing managers’ index  rose to 50.5 in
January from 50.3 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics
said yesterday, exceeding a median estimate of 49.6 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists. A separate  PMI (EC11CHPM)  by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a contraction for a
third month with a reading standing at 48.8, compared with 48.7
a month ago. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Imports Capped  The nation shipped in a record 406,937 tons of the refined
metal in December, a seventh monthly gain, customs data showed.  “The surge of copper imports was mainly driven by
financing demand and improved liquidity, while the real economy
was suffering from the aftershock of a severe credit crunch,”
Henry Liu and Shirley Zhao, analysts at Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd., said in a report yesterday. “We are seeing a receding
momentum of copper imports,” and prices shall be range-bound
between $7,500 a ton and $8,500 a ton, they said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  