-- Shell’s Voser to Shift U.S. Focus to Oil Shale From Gas
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-02T10:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/shell-s-voser-to-shift-u-s-focus-to-oil-shale-from-natural-gas.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest energy company, will shift its investment focus to oil-
rich shale in the U.S. because of lower natural-gas prices.  “We are going to the lower end of our investment in the
United States for shale gas,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said today in an interview with Owen Thomas on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.” “But on the other side, we will
increase investment in the United States for oil-rich shales”
as “that is a new area for us, which we are now planning to
ramp up.”  U.S. natural gas prices have dropped to a 10-year low,
while oil prices gained 40 percent in the past two years.
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  the second-largest U.S. gas producer,
said last month it will cut output, idle rigs and reduce
spending on fields by 70 percent.  ConocoPhillips,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp . and  EQT Corp. (EQT)  have
also said they may curtail drilling. Natural gas futures are
trading at about $2.40 per million British thermal units, down
from $13.57 in July 2008.  Shell “normally” spends $3 billion to $5 billion a year
on U.S. shale gas projects and expects to maintain investment at
$3 billion this year, Voser said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest
U.S. producer said yesterday it hasn’t curbed output in response
to prices.  Production Forecast  Shell plans to produce about 250,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2017 from liquids-rich shale, it said today
in a statement.  The Anglo-Dutch company in May forecast that production of
shale and tight gas in the U.S. could “easily” pass 400,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2015 if investment decisions
are taken.  Shell has one of the biggest exposures to tight gas in the
U.S. among European companies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co.  Gas in shale and other so-called tight-rock formations has
turned the U.S. into the world’s largest producer. The same
technology of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling may
also be able to unlock as much as 100 billion barrels of
recoverable oil in the U.S. and Canada,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO  Jim
Mulva  said Jan. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  