-- Singapore Airlines’ Profit Tumbles 53% on Rising Fuel Costs, Competition
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-02-02T11:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/singapore-airlines-profit-tumbles-53-on-rising-fuel-costs-competition.html
     Feb. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Singapore Airlines Ltd., the world’s
second-largest carrier by market value, reported a fifth
straight decline in quarterly profit because of rising fuel
costs, greater competition and waning demand for premium travel.  Net income fell 53 percent to S$135 million ($108 million)
in quarter ended December, from S$288 million a year earlier,
the airline said in a  statement  today. That compares with the
S$162 million average of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 1 percent to S$3.9 billion.  Forward bookings “continue to show signs of weakness”
this quarter as the global economic uncertainty deters travelers
from taking trips, the carrier said. Singapore Airlines also
faces rising competition on long-haul routes from Middle Eastern
carriers, while low-cost airlines Jetstar and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  are
luring budget-conscious travelers on Asian routes.  “Passenger demand will fall further before getting
better,” said Andrew Orchard, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., who has a ‘sell’ rating on
the carrier. “Travel budgets or staff numbers are getting cut
due to the challenging economy.”  Singapore Air’s mainline unit made an operating profit of
S$137 million in the quarter, compared with S$378 million a year
earlier. It filled 77.2 percent of total available seats, down
2.5 percentage points from a year earlier. Yield, a measure of
average fares, was unchanged at 12.1 Singapore cents from a year
earlier.  Load Factors  The carrier’s passenger load factor fell for a 17th
straight month year-on-year in December as increases in capacity
outpaced demand. The airline boosted flights to  Osaka ,
 Guangzhou , Mumbai and Beijing beginning in October. It’s
planning to reduce services to Istanbul, Dubai, Houston and
Taipei.  The company rose 0.4 percent to S$11 at close of trading in
the city state, while the benchmark Straits Times Index was
little changed. The  carrier  has dropped 25 percent over the past
year.  Regional arm SilkAir made an operating profit of S$32
million in the quarter, while cargo operations lost S$40
million. The carrier’s engineering unit had an S$28 million
profit.  Companywide fuel costs jumped 33 percent in the quarter
from a year earlier because of rising prices and additional
flights.  Jet kerosene prices  averaged $124.73 a barrel in
Singapore trading in the period, compared with $98.56 a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Air is also introducing a long-haul budget unit
called Scoot this year to fend off competition from AirAsia X
and Qantas Airways Ltd.’s Jetstar. Destinations will include
China and  Australia .  Global international premium traffic grew 0.1 percent in
October, the slowest pace in almost two years, and 1.7 percent
in November, according to the  International Air Transport
Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  