-- Smith & Nephew Profit Beats Estimates Amid ‘Tough’ Market
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-02-02T17:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/smith-nephew-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-orthopedics.html
Smith & Nephew Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that surpassed analysts’ estimates and said a “tough”
market will probably persist through this year.  Trading profit, which excludes reorganization and
acquisition costs, increased to $279 million from $278 million a
year earlier, the U.K.’s biggest medical device maker said today
in a statement. Earnings excluding some items were 21.9 cents a
share, topping the 21-cent average  estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Trading profit was 25.2 percent of sales,
beating the company’s forecast of 24 percent.  Smith & Nephew is cutting jobs and administrative costs to
slim its orthopedics unit and shift spending toward emerging
markets, research and development. The London-based company said
today it will reduce its 11,000-person workforce by 7 percent
over three years, including 220 positions cut to date, as it
seeks to save $150 million a year.  “We are building a business which is sleek and effective
for the future,” Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon said on
a conference call with reporters.  Spending on the workforce cuts will amount to $160 million
in cash and it will add $40 million in non-cash costs, more than
half of which will be booked this year, the company said.  Smith & Nephew rose 4.5 percent to 640 pence at the close
of London trading, the most since Aug. 31.  Sales rose 3 percent to $1.11 billion, matching the average
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Advanced Wound Management  This year, the sports medicine and advanced wound
management units will expand more quickly than the market, Smith
& Nephew said. Orthopedic reconstruction will grow at “close
to” the market rate, while orthopedic trauma will lag behind
the market, the company said.  Smith & Nephew doesn’t expect the orthopedic market to
improve this year, Bohuon said.  Johnson & Johnson  expects sales to rise in 2012 as medical
spending for elective procedures such as hip and knee
replacements appears to be hitting a trough, Chief Executive
Officer William C. Weldon said on Jan. 24.  Smith & Nephew plans to make acquisitions and invest
savings in  emerging markets , particularly in  India ,  Brazil  and
 Russia  for growth. The company announced on Jan. 30 its purchase
of Aderma Dermal Pads Products from Focus Product Development
Limited to beef up its wound-care business, which is growing at
a faster pace than its other businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  