-- SodaStream Rallies on Green Mountain Profit: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-02T23:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/sodastream-rallies-on-green-mountain-profit-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  rose
the most in three weeks as investors bet that higher-than-
expected  profit  for  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  will
translate into higher earnings for the soda machine maker.  Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream climbed the  most 
since Jan. 13 after Green Mountain, the maker of Keurig brand
single-cup coffee pods and brewers, reported adjusted first-
quarter profit of 60 cents per share, beating the 36 cent
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli
companies advanced to the highest level in six months, rising
0.1 percent to 93.54.  Like Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain, SodaStream
benefits from the so-called razor blade model of retailing,
where customers are repeatedly required to buy complementary
products such as gas tanks and flavor pouches. The 120-day
correlation of gains or losses in the shares climbed to a  record 
0.37 yesterday, signaling the companies are moving in tandem.  “Most people look at Green Mountain as the model for
SodaStream,” Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt
& Co., said by phone from  New York  yesterday. “If Green
Mountain sales are strong, people are figuring out that Soda
also had a good holiday period. They see some correlation
between the sales.”  The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  is headed for a 2.4
percent advance this week, outperforming the 0.8 percent drop in
 Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index in the same period.  Sales Growth  SodaStream, whose machines turn tap water into more than
100 flavors of soda, rose 3.8 percent to $39.43 in New York
yesterday, extending a 21 percent  increase  since the start of
the year.  Shares of Green Mountain gained 24 percent to $66.42, the
most since March 10, after the company reported on Feb. 1 that
revenue more than doubled to $1.16 billion, the  13th straight 
quarter of sales growth exceeding 50 percent. Analysts projected
$1.06 billion, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  SodaStream will probably  report  first-quarter sales rose 23
percent to 55.4 million euros ($72.8 million), and that adjusted
net income climbed 57 percent to 6.65 million euros, according
to the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “ Green Mountain  came up with the single-serve machines and
rolled out retail distribution that followed up with consumable
goods and that’s what people think Soda will do,” said
Chartier, who has a “buy” rating on SodaStream.  Partner Gains  SodaStream, whose appliances are sold in more than 40
countries,  raised  $109 million in a November 2010 initial public
offering. Shares have gained 97 percent since then.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , Israel’s second-largest mobile
phone company, rose 4.2 percent to $8.71 after the company’s
shares in  Tel Aviv  advanced 3.5 percent to 31.85 shekels, or the
equivalent of $8.56.  Scailex Corp. said on Feb. 1 that it may sell a controlling
stake in Partner and that it’s also considering a deal in which
it will become a private company.  “Investors think a buyer may pay a premium for control of
the company,” Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co.
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by phone. “If a new
controlling shareholder will come in, with a strong financial
backing and a clear agenda for the company, it will be a
positive signal to investors.”  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , the developer of security software and cloud-
computing technology, gained 3.2 percent to $33.70 after the
company was raised to “outperform” from “sector perform” by
 RBC Capital Markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  