-- Some U.S. Orange Juice Tests Positive for Low Level of Fungicide, FDA Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-02T22:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/some-u-s-orange-juice-tests-positive-for-low-level-of-fungicide-fda-says.html
Samples of U.S.  orange juice  tested
positive for a banned fungicide although levels were so low
they’re not a public health concern, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said.  Nine of 14 samples of domestic orange juice the agency
tested contained the compound carbendazim in concentrations of
less than 80 parts per billion, a safety benchmark set by the
Environmental Protection Agency.  The agency is holding and testing imported orange juice
after low levels of  carbendazim  was detected in juice from
 Brazil . The compound, widely used in agriculture, is banned in
U.S. oranges.  The agency said it will conduct follow-up testing although
it “does not believe there is a need to continue” screening
for the fungicide in orange juice already in the U.S., according
to the release.  The FDA tested domestic juice because it often contains
imported product. The agency tested samples from major orange
juice manufacturers with operations in  Florida . The positive
results ranged from 13 parts per billion to 36 parts per
billion, according to an FDA statement.  Twenty of 86 samples of imported juice tested positive for
the fungicide at concentrations of 10 parts per billion or more,
the FDA said today. All of those shipments have been detained or
refused. The positive samples came from juice from  Canada  and
Brazil.  An additional 20 samples are still being tested and the
agency is releasing test results weekly.  Imported juice that tests at concentrations of 10 parts per
billion are being detained or destroyed.  Americans consumed 1.2 million gallons from the 2009-2010
growing season, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. The
U.S. is the biggest single importer of orange juice and took in
190,000 metric tons last year, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net  and Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
   dstanford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  