-- Sony Widens Loss Forecast to $2.9 Billion on Stronger Yen, Thailand Floods
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-02T11:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/sony-widens-annual-loss-forecast-on-strong-yen-television-sales.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  more than doubled its
annual loss forecast, underscoring the challenge for incoming
Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  in reviving Japan’s biggest
consumer-electronics exporter.  The  company  blamed a stronger yen, cuts in production
caused by last year’s  Thailand  floods and the cost of exiting a
display-panel venture with Samsung Electronics Co. for widening
its forecast to 220 billion yen ($2.9 billion) from 90 billion
yen in November. The loss in the 12 months ending in March will
be the fourth in a row, a first since the Tokyo-based company
was listed in 1958.  Sony today cut sales targets for cameras, personal
computers and PlayStation 3 game consoles, and said its mobile-
phone unit performed worse than expected. It will consider
alliances to pare TV operating costs, close down less-
competitive businesses, and make the medical business a core
unit, Hirai said in his first public comments since being named
to replace  Howard Stringer  starting April 1.  “Sony is a very weak company,” said Edwin Merner,
president of Atlantis Investment Research in Tokyo who manages
$300 million and does not hold Sony shares. “To turn around at
this time will be very, very difficult. As they go downhill,
they pick up speed.”  TV Commitment  Hirai, 51, who worked in Sony’s music and entertainment
divisions, established his reputation by turning around the
PlayStation unit and edged out three other candidates with
engineering backgrounds for the top job. Stringer, 69, will
become chairman of the board after a shareholders meeting in
June, the company said in a statement yesterday.  During a joint news conference today, Hirai reaffirmed his
commitment to TVs. The world’s No. 3 maker is maintaining a
sales target of 20 million sets, though the business may lose
between 220 billion yen and 230 billion yen, including the cost
of exiting the venture with  Samsung (005930) , Chief Financial Officer
Masaru Kato said today.  That compares with a November forecast for a 175 billion-
yen loss and  adds  to 480 billion yen in losses since 2004. The
company took a 63 billion-yen loss for ending the venture with
Samsung.  “Televisions are important as an output device,” Hirai
said. “Withdrawing or shrinking would cut a link for customers
to experience” Sony content.  ‘Dipped in Poison’  The maker of Bravia TVs has lost ground to Samsung and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , both of which sell TVs profitably. Sony’s
rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service last month and  Fitch
Ratings  in December, with both citing the difficulty of turning
around TV operations.  Sony and fellow Japanese television makers Sharp Corp. and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  have been crippled by the strengthening yen,
which forced Sharp to predict a record $3.8 billion loss
yesterday.  “Sony is dipped in poison,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who
helps manage the equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Sony’s president will change, but no
one can see how Sony will change.”  Sony forecasts the euro trading at 100 yen, compared with
an earlier projection of 105 yen. An appreciating yen damps the
repatriated value of Sony’s overseas sales, while a weakening
won inflates Samsung and LG’s. The strengthening currency will
hurt profit by as much as 20 billion yen, Kato said.  Medical Chips  The company dropped 2.6 percent to close at 1,328 yen in
 Tokyo  trading today, before the announcement. The stock has
plunged 53 percent in the past 12 months and more than 60
percent since Stringer, 69, took over in June 2005.  Hirai said he will close down less-competitive businesses
and consider forming partnerships, though he will present
specific plans in the future.  “Unless we steer drastically toward reform, we may
confront a situation where decision-making comes with enormous
pain,” he said. “If we hold back, we cannot take a step
forward.”  Today, he named Executive Vice President  Hiroshi Yoshioka 
to head the medical business, saying Sony should rely on its
technological strengths in image sensors to expand in the field.  The company developed three sensors it says are smaller,
capture better images and consume less power. Sony is spending
140 billion yen by March 31 to double its production capacity of
complementary metal-oxide semiconductors, or CMOS, said Tadashi
Saito, head of the chip business.  Sales Cuts  “We will speed up innovation, especially in the medical
business,” Hirai said.  Sales targets for the PlayStation 3 were cut to 14 million
units from 15 million. The console will have a 10-year lifespan,
Hirai said recently, suggesting the five-year-old player won’t
be replaced soon.  In December, Sony introduced its latest handheld device,
PlayStation Vita, in  Japan . Sales reached 500,000 units during
the first three weeks, Hirai said last month. The product will
be offered in the Americas and  Europe  starting Feb. 22.  Sony cut sales projections for cameras to 21 million units
from 23 million and reduced its forecast for personal-computer
sales to 8.4 million from 9.4 million. Camcorder and Blu-ray
disc sales also should be lower than projected, the company said.  The impact from Thailand’s worst floods in 70 years is
estimated at as much as 70 billion yen, Kato said. Japan’s worst
earthquake on record in March also cost the company as much as
70 billion yen.  In the fiscal year starting April 1, the company may
project an operating profit of about 200 billion yen because it
won’t repeat those one-time costs, Kato said.  “All they can do now is downsize by shutting unprofitable
businesses and reducing the number of products,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan
Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory firm. “It is
inevitable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 