-- Hirai Turns to PlayStation 3 Playbook to Deliver Stringer’s Vision at Sony
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-03T02:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/sony-s-hirai-vows-to-deliver-stringer-vision-with-cost-cuts.html
When  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s 2006 release of
PlayStation 3 flopped because features installed by the engineer
who founded the business made the games console too expensive,
Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  tapped Kazuo Hirai to
turn the division around.  Hirai, a liberal arts graduate who joined Sony’s music
venture fresh from college in 1984, set about jettisoning parts
and outsourcing the manufacture of components, rolling out a
slimline version of the console in 2009 and cutting its price by
25 percent. As Stringer’s newly announced successor, Hirai
yesterday vowed to do the same streamlining for the whole group.  He needs to work fast to win over skeptical investors
waiting for Stringer to deliver on his promise that by forcing
once-clashing parts of Sony’s Japanese and U.S. empire to mesh,
he would reverse ground lost to  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.
televisions and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  phones and tablets. Shares in Japan’s
biggest consumer-electronics company have fallen more than 60
percent under Stringer’s seven-year tenure.  “Hirai must walk away from the strategy of selling more
than others or winning a bigger market share than others,” said
Koji Toda, who oversees about $68 billion as chief  fund manager 
at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “When I was young, I had to have
a Sony product, but for the younger generation today it’s
Apple.”  Sony yesterday said it expects to make a loss of 220
billion yen ($2.9 billion) in the year ending March 31, more
than double its previous estimate. The Tokyo-based company cut
revenue forecasts on cameras, game consoles and personal
computers, and said mobile phone sales were worse than expected.
Television shipments would likely be 20 million units, down from
the 27 million projected at the beginning of the year, it said.  Yen, Apple  Hirai, 51, takes over from Stringer as Japanese companies
are struggling to cope with a yen trading near a post-war high.
They’re being undercut by lower-cost rivals, such as Vizio Inc.,
a closely held TV-maker based in  Irvine ,  California , that uses
cheap screens from Taiwanese contract manufacturers.  Stringer also lost out to Apple’s late founder  Steve Jobs 
in the race to deliver high-margin portable devices on which to
sell the group’s films, music and games content.  Hirai promised to review Sony’s more than 2,000 products,
and may exit those that are uncompetitive. Hirai in April also
will take the title of company president. Stringer, 69, will
stay on as chairman of the board.  “Sony cannot continue walking on the same path,” Hirai,
called Kaz by associates, said at the earnings briefing in
Tokyo. “Sony needs to find new business areas, such as medical.
We also need to select and narrow our business portfolio.”  Stock Jump  Sony’s  shares  rose as much as 8.9 percent in  Tokyo  trading,
the biggest intraday gain since April 2009. The stock was 6.9
percent higher at 10:36 a.m., while the benchmark Topix index
was little changed.  “All the bad factors have already been reflected,” said
Makoto Sengoku, a market analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co.,
“The shares are rising on expectations that the company will be
on track for rebuilding.”  Hirai’s task may be made easier by Stringer’s work in
tearing down silos between Sony’s divisions that had prevented
the company marrying content from the acquisitions of  Columbia
Pictures  and CBS Records to its hardware, according to Sony
Entertainment Network President Tim Schaaff.  “Kaz is in a position today to insist on an approach
category by category which is consistent with the high-level
global strategy,” Schaaff said in a November interview.  Culture Gap  Hirai has another advantage over Stringer: an upbringing
that allows him to move effortlessly between Sony’s U.S. and
Japanese operations.  Stringer took over with a mandate to shake up Sony, which
had lost its mantle as the world’s most valuable electronics
company to Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung in 2002. As a
foreigner, the Welshman would be less reluctant to take tough
decisions on axing jobs and unprofitable businesses.  Or so the theory went. Stringer, who can’t speak Japanese,
spent years not realizing many of his directives as CEO were
being ignored by operating units run as fiefdoms, he said in an
interview last year.  In contrast, Hirai’s childhood following his banker father
between the U.S. and  Japan  left him fluent in both languages
though finding it difficult to blend in to either society,
according to a 2009 interview he gave to the alumni magazine of
International Christian University in Tokyo.  ‘Rosetta Stone’  After moving to  New York , Hirai turned up to first grade
with three signs written in English hanging around his neck: “I
feel unwell,” “I need the bathroom” and “please contact my
mother/father,” he said in the interview. Now, the father of
two flits between Tokyo and California, where his family lives.
Tall, thin and beginning to gray, Hirai speaks in unaccented
American English.  Michael Lynton, chairman of  Sony Pictures Entertainment ,
recalls Hirai breaking a logjam in an October 2010 meeting in
Japan where U.S. and Japanese managers debated adopting a new
strategy.  “He really served well as a  Rosetta stone  in that moment
to bridge the gap,” Lynton said in a November interview. “This
is an individual who understands two sides of the coin, not just
the content side and the electronics side. It’s also the
Japanese piece and the American piece.”  Hirai’s ascent wasn’t smooth. One of “Four Musketeers”
chosen by Stringer as possible successors, his nomination to
take over as president wasn’t cleared by the board. Instead they
announced his appointment as executive deputy president in
March, putting him on trial for the top job.  Tsunami, Riots  A day later, Japan was hit by the biggest earthquake on
record, unleashing a tsunami that inundated the country’s
northeast coast, shutting down factories and supply chains.  Two months into the job, Hirai was bowing in apology over a
hacking attack that invaded the company’s Internet entertainment
services in the second-largest online data breach in U.S.
history. A fire caused by London rioters at a Blu-ray warehouse
and disruptions from floods in  Thailand  crowned out the year for
Sony.  Hirai focused on ensuring the company’s units stuck to
their task of delivering content to his so-called four-screen
strategy -- computers, televisions, mobile phones and tablets.  Software, Hardware  “I’d like to think that I have the understanding of how
hardware and software need to be in lockstep,” Hirai said in
November, noting that only recently has hardware become powerful
enough to deliver Sony content across the four platforms.  After his stint in the music arm, Hirai moved to Sony
Computer Entertainment America in 1995 and became president of
the U.S. unit in 1999. As lieutenant to Ken Kutaragi, Hirai cut
his teeth in the division that epitomized Stringer’s vision of
convergence for Sony.  Four years after taking over from Kutaragi, Sony’s game
business returned to profit, earning 46.5 billion yen in the
year ended March 2011. Losses totaled 448.8 billion yen during
the four years. Sales of the slimline PlayStation console jumped
to records in the U.S. and Japan after it was introduced.  Sony last year also began offering games playable on
smartphones and tablets equipped with Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, reaching out beyond its PlayStation machines.  Still, for some analysts and investors Hirai’s vows to trim
costs and focus on new businesses have a familiar ring. Stringer
axed 30,000 jobs, shut factories and outsourced manufacturing.
He also announced $8.4 billion in acquisitions last year.  “What Sony needs is a strong hit product,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities.
“The company has carried out a lot of asset sales and
streamlining. A hit product can save it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  