-- South African Stocks: African Rainbow, Anglo, Richemont, Sasol
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-02T15:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/south-african-stocks-african-rainbow-anglo-richemont-sasol.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced to a record, rising 0.7 percent to 34,371.50 by the
close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI)  , a South African
miner of gold and industrial metals, closed at its highest in
more than four months, adding 2.5 percent to 194.54 rand. A
report by  South Africa ’s ruling African National Congress found
that the nationalization of mines, as proposed by  Julius Malema ,
head of the party’s youth wing, would be unconstitutional and
too expensive, Business Day reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  , the diversified miner that
accounts for 9 percent of the benchmark index, rose to an eight-
month high, climbing 3.4 percent to 340.63 rand. An approach by
Glencore International Plc to buy the shares in Xstrata Plc that
it doesn’t already own has led to speculation the combined group
could make a bid for Anglo, Doug Blatch, head of equity trading
at Investec Asset Management, said by phone from Cape Town.  Capital Property Fund (CPL)  , a property trust, which
invests in industrial and office buildings, advanced the most in
more than two weeks, gaining 0.8 percent to 9.20 rand. Total
distributions rose 9.1 percent to 65.63 cents per unit in the
year ended Dec. 31, the company said late yesterday.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  , the world’s second-
largest luxury goods maker and owner of the Cartier brand,
gained for a third day, adding 0.8 percent to 45.61 rand. Watch
exports from  Switzerland  rose 21 percent in December from the
same month a year earlier, according to the Federation of the
Swiss Watch Industry.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  , the second-largest
producer, closed at its lowest in more than two weeks, dropping
2.5 percent to 170.68 rand. The company said it has now fired
about 17,200 workers at its Rustenburg operation in South
Africa, after 13,000 mining employees failed to report for duty
by the deadline yesterday.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  , the largest producer of motor fuel
from coal, rallied to the highest level in more than a week,
gaining 1.1 percent to 407 rand. Earnings per share in the six
months through December probably advanced as much as 90 percent,
the company said in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  