-- Spanish Unemployment Grows Most in Three Years as Recession Looms: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-02T12:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/spain-s-january-registered-joblessness-climbs-by-most-in-3-years.html
Spanish  unemployment  registrations
jumped by the most in three years in January as the economy
edged into its second recession since the end of 2009.  The  number  of people signing on for jobless benefits
increased by 177,470 to 4.6 million, the Labor Ministry in
 Madrid  said in an e-mailed statement today. That was the biggest
increase since January 2009 and the total is the most since
records began 16 years ago. Data last week showed overall
unemployment in the fourth quarter reached a 15-year high.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to trim
the budget deficit while nurturing growth and creating jobs in
an economy home to a third of the euro region’s unemployed and
where almost half of young people are out of work. Today’s data
underscores the divergence of  Europe ’s economy as indebted
countries struggle with the threat of persisting recessions
while  Germany  enjoys unemployment at a two-decade low.  “For countries like  Spain  and Italy, where the fiscal
tightening in the pipeline this year is immense already and
there will be more to come, we do have concerns about
significant contraction in output,” said Chris Scicluna, head
of economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in London.
“At the same time the core countries seem to be stabilizing, so
the euro area is moving in two different directions.”  Rajoy’s government, elected in November on a pledge to
create jobs, plans to overhaul labor rules this month to
encourage hiring and reduce the 22.9 percent unemployment rate.
Ministers are also battling to shore up banks, and Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos will announce a plan to revamp the
financial industry today at 5:30 p.m. in Madrid.  Recession Forecast  Spain fell back into a recession in the last quarter of
2011 and may contract 1.5 percent this year as the government
accelerates spending cuts, the Bank of Spain estimates. Rajoy
has pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to 4.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year from an 8 percent shortfall his
government estimates it inherited from the prior administration.  “With the economy now expected to be in recession over the
next few quarters, employment is set to shrink for a fifth
straight year,” economist  Raj Badiani  at IHS Global Insight
Inc. in London said in a note. “Austerity measures will further
reduce the number of public-sector jobs in 2012, while private-
sector employment intentions continue to retreat alarmingly.”  U.S. Jobs Data  Signs the U.S. recovery is gaining traction may provide a
bright spot for the global economy. Data today may show the
number of people filing first-time claims for  unemployment
benefits  probably fell to 371,000 in the week ended Jan. 28,
from 377,000 in the previous week, a Bloomberg survey of 46
economists showed.  A report today showed  Australia ’s trade surplus soared to a
record in 2011 on coal and iron ore shipments, underscoring the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s expectation that Chinese demand for
the nation’s commodities will help propel the domestic economy
even as a global expansion slows. Exports outpaced imports by
A$19.3 billion ($20.7 billion) in the 12 months through Dec. 31.  Elsewhere in  Asia , Hong Kong retail sales grew 23.4 percent
from a year earlier in December, more than economists forecast.  While Europe should emerge from recession in the second
half of this year, the prospect of a “true double-dip” is 40
percent, Jean-Michel Six, an economist at  Standard & Poor’s  in
 London , said in a research note. He assigns a 60 percent
probability that the euro area will show no growth this year and
1 percent expansion in 2013. His alternative view is for a 2
percent contraction this year and 1 percent growth next year.  “The scale continues to tilt in favor of a mild recession
and a gradual return to growth,” he wrote. “Core countries
will lead the way, with other member countries delivering
diverging performances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  