-- Stanford Financial’s Davis Says Founder Conspired in Fraud
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-03T13:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/stanford-financial-group-former-cfo-testifies-at-boss-s-ponzi-scheme-trial.html
R. Allen Stanford directed his
executives to falsify investment returns, threatened to fire
them if they revealed $2 billion he secretly borrowed from his
Antiguan bank and approved of office affairs, according to
witnesses at his criminal fraud trial.  “I was involved in faking the numbers, but he was the
chief faker,” James M. Davis, Stanford Financial Group Co.’s
former chief financial officer, told jurors yesterday at
Stanford’s trial in federal court in Houston. “He’d been faking
even before I came on board.”  Davis, 63, is testifying against his ex-boss and former
Baylor University roommate as part of a plea deal. Davis pleaded
guilty in 2009 to helping Stanford swindle investors of more
than $7 billion through bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. Davis faces as long
as 30 years in prison.  Davis testified that Stanford approved of a three-year
affair Davis had with Laura Pendergest Holt, whom he met through
a university Bible study run by Davis and his wife. Holt, who
also has been criminally charged in the fraud scheme, was
promoted to chief investment officer of Stanford Financial after
the affair ended in 2003.  “‘That’s good; she’ll be loyal,’” Davis testified
Stanford told him upon learning that two of his top lieutenants
were having an affair. Davis also told jurors that Stanford
reassured Holt at a private meeting the three had in 2007 that
she could trust him that the bank’s assets were invested as
Stanford said they were. Holt has denied any involvement in the
alleged fraud scheme.  Secret Borrowings  Dan Cogdell , Holt’s defense attorney, has monitored
testimony in court this week. He has declined to comment on
allegations concerning Holt, citing a gag order by U.S. District
Judge David Hittner forbidding lawyers to publicly discuss the
case.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of secretly borrowing more than
$2 billion from his bank to fund a luxurious lifestyle and
invest in money-losing enterprises ranging from Caribbean
airlines to cricket tournaments. A former company accountant who
tracked Stanford’s borrowings testified this week that he was
told he would be fired if he shared that data outside a select
circle of top executives.  Davis’s testimony resumes today. He is expected to remain
on the stand into next week, in a trial that the judge said may
last six weeks.  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing. His lawyers contend
the former billionaire was a hands-off visionary who left
details of his sprawling organization to Davis and others.  ‘Finger on Pulse’  “He had his finger on the pulse,” Davis testified
yesterday of Stanford’s management style. He said he conspired
with Stanford and others at the Houston-based firm to commit
crimes because he wanted to please Stanford and because he was a
“coward” and “greedy.”  Stanford was a “charismatic dictator” who ruled employees
through a blend of “money, flattery, intimidation and fear,”
Davis told jurors. He said Stanford once refused to speak to him
for three months after Davis rearranged their offices without
his permission. Stanford also terrified Davis by giving him a
170-mile-an-hour test drive down a Houston freeway in Stanford’s
new Mercedes-Benz, Davis said.  London Fax  Davis, who joined Stanford’s company in 1988, said he
realized the bank was a fraud in mid-1991, when his boss flew
him to  London  solely to fax proof of depositor insurance to a
wealthy prospective client. Davis said he faxed the document
from the leased cubicle that constituted the offices of British
Insurance Fund Ltd., a shell company Stanford had created to
provide insurance for the bank, and immediately returned to
Houston.  When asked by Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach why
he didn’t leave the company then, Davis replied: “I believed in
Mr. Stanford -– wrongfully so, regrettably so, God forgive me
so. But I continued to stay there and lie with him.”  When Davis that same year found he couldn’t account for
half of the bank’s assets, Stanford told him the company would
rapidly increase CD sales to “close that hole,” Davis
testified. Davis said he asked Stanford at one point if his
bank, which for decades reported consistently above-average
returns to investors, had ever been profitable.  “He said we were at the beginning,” Davis testified. “In
1985-1986, there were profits. After that, no.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  