-- Starwood Profit Falls After Year-Earlier Legal Settlement Isn’t Repeated
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-02-02T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/starwood-profit-falls-as-legal-settlement-income-isn-t-repeated.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said fourth-
quarter profit fell after a payment from a lawsuit settlement
boosted year-earlier earnings and demand in  Europe  weakened.  Net income fell to $167 million, or 85 cents a share, from
$339 million, or $1.78, a year earlier, the Stamford,
Connecticut-based company said in a statement today. The year-
earlier results included $75 million from the settlement.
Adjusted earnings, which exclude a tax benefit and other items,
equaled 71 cents a share, more than the 57-cent average  estimate 
of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Starwood’s worldwide revenue per available room for 2011
was 7.4 percent, at the low end of the hotelier’s October
forecast of 7 percent to 9 percent before currency adjustments.
The company expects growth in global revpar, an industry measure
of occupancy and rates, of 5 percent to 7 percent for this year.  “Weaker-than-expected revenue per available room growth,
particularly in Europe, heightens our concerns that Starwood’s
outsized exposure to the region could present downside risk to
our estimates in 2012,”  David Loeb , a hotel analyst at
Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a note to
investors today.  Shares Fall  Starwood fell 1.5 percent to $54.22 today at the close in
 New York . The shares have climbed 13 percent this year.  “The stock had run-up year to date and investors did not
view what are essentially in-line results as good enough to keep
the rally going,”  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets Corp., said in an interview after earnings were
announced.  Revpar climbed 5.9 percent in the fourth quarter for hotels
open at least a year, below Starwood’s projection of 6 percent
to 8 percent. It rose 7.7 percent in  North America  and 0.2
percent in Europe.  “Revpar was flat in Europe and no surprise,” Chief
Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said during the earnings
conference call. “The softness is likely to continue.” Europe
accounts for 12 percent of the company’s room count, he said.  Last year was the first since 2008 that the U.S. hotel
industry reported occupancy of more than 60 percent and an
average daily room rate higher than $100,  Smith Travel Research
Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee  reported on Jan. 23.  Occupancy rates at U.S. hotels run by Starwood are back to
their level from before the national recession began, President
Matthew Avril said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland , on Jan. 25.  Starwood opened 27 hotels in North America in 2011 and
plans 20 more this year. The company expects to repeat this
year’s addition of a record number of rooms globally in 2012,
Van Paasschen said during the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  