-- StormHarbour Managing Partner Cummings Departing Boutique Bank
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-02-02T22:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/stormharbour-managing-partner-cummings-departing-boutique-bank.html
Robert Cummings, one of four managing
principals who helped start boutique investment bank
StormHarbour Partners LP in 2009, is leaving the firm to pursue
other opportunities, the company said.  Cummings, part of StormHarbour’s senior executive team and
governance group, focused on the firm’s sales, trading and
research division, according to an e-mailed statement. The
Citigroup Inc. managing director, who ran the bank’s European
credit products distribution group before joining StormHarbour,
said in an interview he hasn’t decided on his next step.  “It’s unfortunate to lose someone of Bobby’s experience
and the way he approaches clients and the business, but there
are a number of reasons why it made sense for him to look at
other opportunities,” Fredrick Chapey, co-founder and managing
principal at StormHarbour in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  StormHarbour said Jan. 25 it hired  Eric Daniels , the former
chief executive officer of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , as a
principal and senior adviser.  The firm was one of about 70 firms that entered the
business in 2009 when larger competitors reduced trading as they
suffered losses and had to preserve capital,  Roger Freeman , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in a January 2011
interview.  Boutiques Struggle  The boutique brokers began to struggle after $12.8 trillion
of government bailouts healed credit markets and cut profit
margins by more than 80 percent. Traders that left formerly
dominant big banks to join smaller firms quickly abandoned the
commission-based pay structure used by many boutiques and sought
guaranteed compensation.  Chapey said StormHarbour has withstood defections and lower
trading volumes and maintained market share because it offers
other services than trading.  “Our business, which includes sales and trading, advisory
and capital markets, gives us broad opportunities,” he said.  StormHarbour’s sales and trading business primarily deals
in high-yield and distressed debt, Chapey said. The firm also
trades securitized products such as collateralized debt and loan
obligations, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  