-- Khosla’s Strategic Value Said to Raise $918 Million Distressed-Debt Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-02T10:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/strategic-value-partners-said-to-raise-918-million-distressed-debt-fund.html
Strategic Value Partners LLC, the
hedge fund founded by Merrill Lynch & Co. veteran Victor Khosla,
said it raised $918 million from a distressed-debt fund to
invest in underperforming assets.  The Strategic Value Special Situations Fund II closed
earlier this week at 53 percent above its original target of
$600 million, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based asset manager
said in a statement today. The fund will focus on distressed
assets in  Europe , after drawing investors from the region, the
U.S.,  Australia , the  Middle East  and Japan.  Growing investment opportunities have lured Los Angeles-
based Oaktree Capital Management LP, Leon Black’s Apollo Global
Management LLC, and  New York ’s Avenue Capital Group to Europe,
where the default rate of non investment-grade companies is set
to climb as the region’s sovereign debt crisis douses investor
demand for high-yield bonds and loans. Banks may also cut $2
trillion of non-performing assets, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “SVP has an exceptional pipeline of deals that we estimate
has grown 2.5 times in the last 18 months,” Khosla said in the
statement.  Europe’s default rate may soar to 8.4 percent or more, from
4.8 percent at the end of 2011, as the recession crimps growth
and company financing dries up, according to a  Standard & Poor’s 
report on Jan. 19.  Distressed debt typically yields at least 10 percentage
points more than  government bonds . Distressed-debt funds seek to
profit by buying assets at below their face value, providing
high-yield financing which may give rights to a company’s shares
and opportunities to restructure it or install new management
before selling it at a higher value.  Strategic Value Partners was founded in 2001 and now
oversees $4 billion. The firm has been involved in more than 100
debt restructurings in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  