-- Stryker Official’s Charges Dropped as U.S. Cites New Evidence in Drug Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-02T20:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/stryker-official-s-charges-dropped-as-u-s-cites-new-evidence-in-drug-case.html
A former president at  Stryker Corp. (SYK) 
won’t be prosecuted on charges of marketing an unapproved
mixture of two products for strengthening human bone growth,
U.S. lawyers told a judge.  The government will abandon its 2009 indictment of Mark
Philip, who ran Stryker Biotech LLC, prosecutors said today in
federal court in  Boston . The move follows the government’s
decision last month to drop charges during the trial of three
former Stryker sales representatives. During that trial, Stryker
pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and paid a $15 million fine in
connection with the unapproved marketing of the drugs.  “Earlier today the government had an opportunity to review
some documents that had previously been withheld as
privileged,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeremy M. Sternberg told
U.S. District Judge George O’Toole Jr. today at a pretrial
hearing. “After reviewing the documents, it’s the government’s
plan to file a motion to dismiss in the case against Mr.
Philip.”  The decision to drop charges against the fourth and final
individual in the case marks a setback for the U.S. attorney’s
office in  Massachusetts , which has led the nation in health-care
prosecutions in recent years. Philip, the president from 2004 to
2008, was charged with  wire fraud  and conspiracy. He faced as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  ‘Good Faith’  “We were able to give the government documents they had
not seen before that showed Mark acted in good faith,” said
Philip’s attorney, Stephen G. Huggard, of Edwards Wildman Palmer
LLP. “We showed some of our defense.”  Huggard wouldn’t specify what the documents were. He said
the government hadn’t agreed to drop the case until an hour
before the hearing. Philip, 52, lives near Boston and is a U.K.
citizen who faced deportation if he was convicted.  “Justice was done,” Philip said, declining further
comment as he went to retrieve his passport from court
personnel.  The judge asked Huggard if he had anything to say.  “With all respect your honor, we’re happy to get out of
the building,” Huggard told the judge.  After the two-minute hearing, Huggard said in a statement:
“We applaud the government for recognizing that fairness and
justice required the case to be dismissed. It is not easy for
the government to acknowledge that charges were perhaps brought
in error, and in this case, U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz deserves
special credit for diving into the facts of the matter and
making the hard, difficult decision to dismiss the case.”  Bone Growth  Philip was charged for his role in Stryker’s promotion to
doctors of the combination of OP1, a protein that stimulates
bone growth, and Calstrux, a synthetic bone void filler. While
the  Food and Drug Administration  had approved both products, the
regulator had not signed off on using them together.  While doctors can prescribe or use an FDA-approved drug or
device for any purpose, U.S. law bars companies from promoting
them for so-called off-label use.  Stryker Biotech, based in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, and
three sales representatives went on trial Jan. 9 on a 13-count
criminal indictment charging conspiracy and wire fraud.  After the first witness, Stryker avoided a felony
conviction by agreeing to plead guilty to a misdemeanor charge
of misbranding a medical device. The company has said that a
felony conviction could have put it out of business.  ‘Resume His Life’  The government dropped charges against former regional
sales manager David Ard of  California , as well as former
national sales representative William Heppner of  Illinois  and
ex-regional manager Jeffrey Whitaker of  North Carolina .  The judge hadn’t set a trial date for Philip.  “We said at the outset that Mark Philip was a good and
decent family man, innocent of these charges,” Huggard said.
“We are pleased that he can now resume his life without the
burden of this case.”  In a letter last month, the U.S. said Stryker Biotech made
$12.5 million by misbranding and selling the bone-growth mixture
to surgeons over a two-year period.  The company could have faced a maximum fine of $25 million,
Ortiz said in the letter.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  