-- Super Bowl Lands on Taxpayers’ Backs as Indianapolis Stadium Deal Sours
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/super-bowl-lands-on-taxpayers-backs-as-stadium-deal-turns-sour.html
While Super Bowl fans are riding zip
lines through downtown Indianapolis this week in the runup to
the  National Football League ’s championship game, taxpayers are
digging deeper in their pockets to pay for the stadium where the
game will be played.  The $720 million Lucas Oil Stadium, where the  New York
Giants  meet the  New England Patriots  on Feb. 5, has prompted
local officials to raise hotel, restaurant and rental car taxes,
and make other payments on top of about $43 million in
unexpected financing costs related to their sports and
convention facilities.  “They said, ‘We’re going to have one great fantastic party
with an unbelievable advertisement for  Indianapolis (8383MF)  and it isn’t
going to cost taxpayers a dime,’” said Pat Andrews, 60, a
blogger and community activist who ran unsuccessfully for City
Council last year. “Well, baloney.”  Plans for the 63,000-seat stadium that opened in 2008 as
the home of the  Indianapolis Colts  were unveiled almost a decade
ago. Since then, the collapse of the auction-rate  bond market 
has led officials to restructure what grew to $666.5 million of
public debt.  The Capital Improvement Board of Managers of  Marion County (69790MF) ,
which operates the stadium, collects about $120.6 million in
fees and other payments to cover running it and other venues,
which is more than double the $58 million it would have received
from taxes in place before work on the stadium began, according
to financial statements.  ‘Marginal’ Effect  “The net effect of hosting the NFL Super Bowl is
marginal,” said Brian Williams, a local resident and health-
care consultant with PwC Consulting. “You should be very clear
about the difference in financial cost and the lack of returns
on the investment.”  The added taxes and fees are on top of $7 million in costs
to issue the bonds, undisclosed fees to restructure debt and
annual loans from the state that have totaled $9 million.  After credit markets collapsed in 2008, the Capital
Improvement Board had to borrow $16.9 million from the state
treasurer to end a swap agreement with KeyBank, according to
minutes from a Jan. 27, 2009, meeting. The board also faced
paying $26.3 million after it lost debt-insurance policies
provided by  Ambac Assurance Corp. (ABKFQ)  and  MBIA Insurance Corp. (MBI) ,
according to the minutes.  $250,000 a Year  The Colts, meanwhile, financed two-thirds of their $100
million cost of the stadium through local-government issuers and
now pay $250,000 a year to use the stadium -- about two-thirds
of the  league minimum  salary for rookies.  “When you’re talking about that much money, there’s better
ways to spend it,” said Justin Ross, who teaches public finance
at Indiana University. “Super Bowls, like Olympics, don’t seem
to produce much economic benefit and probably have some
significant costs.”  Indianapolis isn’t alone. Scores of public officials from
 Portland  to Puerto Rico bought the same Wall Street pitch:
Auction-rate bonds -- variable-rate securities with yields that
reset at weekly or monthly auctions -- would lower municipal-
financing costs by letting them pay short-term rates, and
derivative agreements known as interest-rate swaps would protect
them if markets moved in the wrong direction. The Giants and
Patriots borrowed for their stadiums with those bonds and got
stuck with  interest rates  as high as 20 percent.  Exceeding Estimates  As officials in Santa Clara,  California ;  Minnesota ;
Atlanta; and San Diego debate paying for NFL stadiums, research
by Judith Grant Long, who teaches urban planning at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , has shown that costs
often exceed expectations. Public subsidies for sports venues
cost taxpayers an average of 40 percent more than the stated
price for each of the 99 facilities built through 2001,
according to her research.  Dan Huge, the chief financial officer of the Capitol
Improvement Board, said the organization was successful in
raising the revenue it needed to continue operating.  “We did that mostly with taxes on out-of-town guests,”
Huge said in an interview. “We were able to keep our balance
sheets at adequate reserve levels.”  Indiana  increased efforts to attract sports organizations
and events in 1979 with the creation of the private, not-for-
profit Indiana Sports Corp. The home of the Indianapolis 500
auto race attracted the Pan Am Games in 1987. In 1999, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  moved its headquarters
to the city.  Keeping Colts  At about that time, Indianapolis began seeking a deal to
keep the Colts, who had played in the RCA Dome, the league’s
smallest venue, since departing Baltimore in 1984. The Colts’
lease contained an escape clause allowing the club to move as
soon as 2006 if revenue didn’t match the league median. A  2002
poll  by the Indianapolis Star and WTHR-TV found 71 percent of
residents disapproved of using tax money for a stadium.  In December 2004, then-Mayor Bart Peterson and owner Jim Irsay announced they’d reached a deal that would keep the Colts
in Indianapolis for at least 30 more years. The centerpiece of
the agreement: The city would build a new stadium downtown as
part of a renovation of the convention center. That plan
included a venue that cost $600 million, paid for with gambling
money.  Legislators rejected Peterson’s finance plan, and the mayor
lost control of the project to a state board controlled by the
governor, said Ross, of  Indiana University . Peterson didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  Hotel Tax Raised  The bill  that eventually passed raised the hotel tax in
Marion County, which encompasses Indianapolis, to 9 percent from
6 percent, on top of a 6 percent state tax. County rental car
taxes doubled to 4 percent. Marion County doubled its food and
beverage tax to 2 percent and surrounding counties added a 1
percent restaurant tax.  John Livengood, president of the  Indiana Restaurant
Association , said the businesses he represents supported the 3
percentage point hotel tax increase to expand the convention
center and build a stadium. At the last minute, the mayor and
governor also endorsed increasing the 1 percent  restaurant tax 
used to finance the old stadium, and the governor campaigned to
get surrounding counties to go along.  “We opposed the new taxes, as we had the first restaurant
tax, but at that point it was too late to go in another
direction,” Livengood said by e-mail. “No one wanted to lose
the Colts.”  ‘Crown Jewel’  Peterson applauded the legislation in a statement at the
time, saying the project would add a combined $2.25 billion to
Indianapolis’s economy, guarantee decades of hosting college
basketball tournament games and make the city eligible to host
Super Bowls, “the crown jewel of the sports world.”  Peterson also said that while the plan included money to
design and build the stadium, the law made no provision for the
cost of operating and maintaining it.  “Unless rectified by future legislative action, this
situation will bankrupt the CIB shortly after the project is
completed,” he said.  To pay for construction of the stadium, the Indiana Finance
Authority borrowed about $612 million from 2005 to 2007 using
auction-rate bonds secured by state appropriations and insured
by New York-based FGIC Corp. Kendra York, public finance
director for the authority, didn’t respond to a telephone call
and an e-mail seeking comment on the matter.  Credit Freeze  Credit markets began to freeze up during the sub-prime-
mortgage market collapse in 2007, before the stadium opened.
FGIC lost its AAA rating in January 2008 and buyers became less
interested in the securities because the lower grade increased
the risk that they wouldn’t get paid in the event of a default.
The auction-rate market fell apart the next month.  As a result, interest rates on some of the stadium bonds
jumped to 15 percent on Feb. 13, 2008, from 3.4 percent seven
days earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stadium, designed by Dallas-based HKS Inc., opened in
August 2008. It has a peaked roof, gabled north-south down the
length of the playing field, that can open and close in nine
minutes. A 110-foot (34-meter) wide by 88-foot-high window looks
north over downtown.  Five months later, as Peterson had feared, the Capital
Improvement Board began predicting a 2009 deficit of $25 million
growing to more than $45 million in the next year. That included
a $19.5 million shortfall for the stadium, new bond insurance,
and the $16.9 million to unwind the unfavorable rate swap.  Cost Cutting  The board began saving money,  cutting  about $3.2 million in
grants to groups including the Arts Council of Indianapolis. In
July 2009, state lawmakers approved a plan that closed the
agency’s budget gap by letting the city raise hotel taxes to 10
percent from 9 percent and loaning it about $9 million a year.
The board’s budget for 2011 restored about $600,000 in arts and
culture grants.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to hold the 2012 Super Bowl in
Indianapolis. The  state’s website  describes a potential economic
impact of $286 million.  A study  from Ball State University in
Muncie, Indiana, said the game may be worth $365 million in
economic activity, noting that figure didn’t account for local
public-sector expenditures.  Those numbers may be three to 10 times higher than the
game’s actual value, based on data such as employment, tax
receipts and personal income, according to Victor Matheson, an
economist at the  College of the Holy Cross  in Worcester,
Massachusetts. He has studied impact estimates of the game.  Move Decimal  “A rule of thumb economists use is to take whatever the
organizers tell you and move the decimal point one place to the
left,” Matheson said. “There’s every reason to believe the
Super Bowl will make Indianapolis residents happy. But there’s
no reason to believe it will make them rich.”  Mark Rosentraub, who teaches economics at the  University of
Michigan , said Indianapolis needed a subsidy to keep the team,
because it’s one of the league’s smallest markets. The project
was also the backbone of a downtown redevelopment effort that
used about $2.5 billion in public investment. It helped
companies including Marriott International Inc., which opened
 the world’s-largest  J.W. Marriott in 2011 as part of a $450
million downtown hotel complex, produce a total of about $8
billion in development.  “It’s a large subsidy,” Rosentraub said. “The positive
is if you take a look at downtown Indianapolis, it’s probably
the most active downtown in the Midwest and it’s going to look
spectacular at the Super Bowl.”  Economic Development  For Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican, the state’s help
for the area wasn’t just about the stadium or the Colts,
according to  Jane Jankowski , a spokeswoman.  “It was about the expansion of the Indianapolis Convention
Center and the economic development it would bring,” Jankowski
said by e-mail. “Seven counties in central Indiana, which
receive the greatest benefits from the project, worked together
to make an investment in the future of the area and share the
responsibility for financing the stadium through a regional food
and beverage tax. No state tax dollars were used and no tax
dollars are being collected outside of central Indiana.”  This week, organizers set up an 800-foot zip line over part
of the downtown, as part of what the city is calling “the
 Epicenter of Awesome .” Other attractions include a nightly
light and pyrotechnics show, free concerts and ice sculptures.  Andrews, the former Indianapolis City Council candidate,
said the money spent on the stadium and game could have been
used to better effect. She said there’s been insufficient
accounting of the game’s public costs, such as forgiven taxes,
or the proceeds from public parking lots turned over to the NFL.  The CIB expects to lose about $800,000 hosting the game,
after paying for things like extra workers, maintenance, legal
services, utilities and snow removal, according to Huge.  “The public still hasn’t had full disclosure of what it’s
going to cost,” Andrews said. “It’s going to have to come out
of services. And we don’t have any extra cash lying around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  