-- Super Bowl-Winning Quants Say Patriots Will Beat the Giants by More Than 3
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/super-bowl-winning-quants-say-patriots-will-beat-giants-by-more-than-three.html
The  New England Patriots  will win the
Super Bowl by at least three points even though the  New York
Giants  have the appeal of “a cocktail party stock,” according
to a quantitative money management firm that’s correctly picked
the team covering the point spread for eight consecutive years.  Analytic Investors LLC  in Los Angeles has documented a
tendency on the part of Super Bowl bettors to overestimate the
chances of the team that rewarded them more during the regular
season -- the team with the higher alpha, in investment
parlance. In 2008, that was the favored Patriots, who lost to
the Giants 17-14. This year, it’s  New York .  “Everyone thinks the Giants are rolling right now, a lot
of people in my office even,” said Matthew Robinson, a
portfolio analyst for global and Japanese equities at Analytic
and the author of this year’s analysis. “They like the Giants,
but they have faith in the model as well.”  This season, bets on New York, led by quarterback  Eli Manning , to win each of their regular-season games returned more
than bets on the Patriots to do the same. As a result, the three
points by which the Patriots, led by quarterback  Tom Brady , are
favored to win in Indianapolis on Feb. 5 is probably too small,
Robinson said.  “The Giants have the higher alpha this year,” Robinson
said. “Teams that have outperformed expectations during the
regular season tend to underperform in the playoffs.”  Beating Expectations  In each of the past eight  Super Bowls , the team that
outperformed expectations by the greater degree during the
regular season, if favored, failed to cover the point spread or
was upset. In three games, including last year’s 31-25 Super
Bowl victory by  Green Bay  against Pittsburgh, the team with the
lower regular-season alpha was favored and covered the spread.  “I liked the Patriots before I even got the numbers out,
but most people like the Giants,” Robinson said. “They’ve been
the hotter team. They are like the cocktail party stock that
everyone’s talking about, that some people have made a lot of
money on.”  Jeff Sherman , assistant sportsbook manager at the Las Vegas
Hotel and Casino, said the Analytic formula looked at the game
differently than the oddsmakers do.  “We took into account how the public has been betting the
Giants the past few weeks and winning with them,” he said in a
telephone interview. “We opened three based on that and have
gotten a lot of Giants money anyway. I can see how it correlates
from that perspective; not from a predicting standpoint maybe,
but from a value standpoint.”  The methodology looks at the 32 NFL teams as though they
were investments, calculating the return on bets that a team
will win each of its regular-season games. While winning is a
factor, winning as an underdog produces more alpha than winning
as a favorite.  Top Alpha  This season, the  San Francisco 49ers  were the highest alpha
team for the first time in 30 years, returning 52.5 percent,
according to Analytic. They went 13-3 including four upsets.
The  Indianapolis Colts  were the lowest alpha team, costing
bettors 57.6 percent as they won two games and were favored in
one.  The Giants’ regular-season alpha was 32.3 percent, as
opposed to 16.1 percent for the Patriots. While the Giants went
9-7, winning five of the nine games in which they were favored,
four of their victories were upsets. Among them were a 29-16
defeat of the  Philadelphia Eagles  on Sept. 25 and a 24-20 road
victory over the Patriots on Nov. 6, both of which paid about 3-
1 since the Giants had been underdogs of almost 9 points,
Robinson said.  “Those two alone would’ve accounted for about six Patriots
wins based on payouts,” he said. The Patriots, with Brady and
coach Bill Belichick both going for their fourth Super Bowl
title, went 13-3, winning two fewer games than expected, which
hurt their alpha.  Devised by Sapra  Analytic’s methodology for computing NFL alphas was devised
in 2004 by Steve Sapra, then a portfolio manager at the firm,
and hasn’t changed, Robinson said.  “The big picture is this idea of market participants
overreacting to information,” said Sapra, who now works in  Los
Angeles  for Tobam, a quantitative investment manager based in
Paris.  A shrinking point spread for this year’s Super Bowl, an
indication of an increasing amount being wagered on the Giants
and coach  Tom Coughlin  going for their second NFL title in four
years, is consistent with that, Sapra said.  “Bettors are extrapolating the Giants’ recent string of
upsets into the Super Bowl,” he said. “This makes no more
sense than betting that a coin which has come up heads five
times in a row is more likely to come up heads tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  