-- Super Bowl Scene: Maxim Women, Bud Light Hotel, Chefs’ Charity
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/super-bowl-scene-maxim-women-bud-light-hotel-chefs-charity.html
Maxim cares a lot about the
proportion of beautiful women to other guests at its annual
 Super Bowl  party.  “I can’t tell you the exact formula, because someone would
kill me if I did,” said Ben Madden, president of the men’s
magazine, in a phone interview. “But there really is one.
People spend a lot of time agonizing over it.”  Some of the beautiful women expected at the party, which
will take place Saturday night at the Indiana State Fairgrounds,
are Katrina Bowden and Jane Krakowski of “30 Rock“ (Bowden’s
on the current Maxim cover), Leighton Meester of “Gossip
Girl,” and Vivica Fox, an Indiana native.  Who will keep them company? “We plan for a lot of Wall
Street movers and shakers to be there,” Madden said, “given
that the two markets represented,  New York  and  Boston , are hubs
of the financial-services industry.”  By one estimate there will be hundreds of parties in and
around Indianapolis in the few days before the big game.
Magazine publishers, beer brewers and video-game makers are in
on the action, looking to gain exposure with die-hard, super-
social football fans.  At Maxim’s party, men get a special perk: a pop-up barber
shop featuring  Paul Mitchell  grooming products.  The fare is gender-neutral -- if buffalo wings count.
They’ll be made with a recipe by Floyd Cardoz, chef of the
recently opened North End Grill in New York. Their not-so-secret
ingredient: Tabasco Buffalo Style Hot Sauce.  Fortress of Solitude  The superhero-themed party will have a kryptonite bar
inspired by the Man of Steel’s Fortress of Solitude, complete
with bubbling towers and green rock candy. Patron Tequila is the
event’s spirit sponsor.  Coca-Cola (KO)  Zero and  Heineken (HEIA)  have also
paid to have a presence.  “We do the party because we make a lot of money from it,”
Madden said. He’ll be the guy in the custom-tailored blazer,
Faconnable shirt, Lucky jeans and either Cole Hahn or Kenneth
Cole shoes, he said.  Parties at the Bud Light Hotel -- that’s the  Hampton Inn (0059137D) 
Downtown, rechristened for the weekend -- start tonight with the
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s Sports Madden Bowl XVIII, where
professional football players will face off in the world’s best-
selling sports video game.  Denver Broncos quarterback  Tim Tebow , San Francisco 49ers
linebacker Patrick Willis, and New Orleans Saints tight end
 Jimmy Graham  are scheduled to play in the tournament.  Mick Boogie  The Roots and Nas have been booked to perform after the
trophy is awarded, with DJ Mick Boogie spinning until 2 a.m.
(Boogie will also play at the NFL Players Association party on
Friday night.)  Many of the parties this weekend have a charitable
dimension.  The Taste of the NFL  on Saturday night is a food
extravaganza where chefs from NFL cities serve small plates,
with assistance from current and former NFL football players.
The newly crowned Miss America, Laura Kaeppeler of  Wisconsin , is
also expected to make an appearance. The event, at  Gleaners Food
Bank , benefits nonprofit organizations across the nation that
distribute food to the needy.  “Even if your team sucked, you still have a way to have a
connection to the Super Bowl,” said event founder Wayne
Kostroski, a restaurateur and bakery owner based in  Minneapolis ,
in a phone interview.  Comedian and actor Mike Epps will be hosting a cocktail
party to introduce the foundation he has formed with his wife,
Mechelle, to support after-school activities for at-risk youth.  “I come from really humble beginnings,” said Epps, who
grew up in Indianapolis, in a phone interview. “I learned a lot
of life skills at the rec center I went to. I want to help kids
today have the same experience.”  The party will take place Friday evening in the Style Icon
Luxury Lounge at the Terrace at Market Tower. Epps performs a
comedy show tonight at Bankers Life Fieldhouse.  “Material hangs off trees around here in  Indiana ,” Epps
said. “I’m sure I’ll be talking about all the people who lie
and say they’re from Indianapolis when they’re really from a
small town in the farmland.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  Or
on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 