-- Swiss Bank Wegelin Charged in U.S. With Aiding Tax Evasion
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-03T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/swiss-private-bank-wegelin-co-charged-in-u-s-with-aiding-tax-evasion.html
Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old
private bank, became the first Swiss lender to face criminal
charges in a broadening U.S. crackdown on offshore firms
suspected of helping Americans evade taxes.  Wegelin helped Americans hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets and evade U.S. taxes, according to an indictment filed
yesterday in federal court in New York. The new charges expand
on earlier ones filed Jan. 3 against three bankers at Wegelin’s
Zurich branch accused of conspiring to help U.S. clients cheat
on their taxes.  Prosecutors said that from 2002 to 2011, more than 100 U.S.
taxpayers conspired with Wegelin, Zurich bankers Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller, and others. The bank held
more than $1.2 billion in assets not declared to the  Internal
Revenue Service , according to the indictment.  “Wegelin Bank aided and abetted U.S. taxpayers who were in
flagrant violation of the  tax code ,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said in a statement.  The U.S. and Switzerland are in talks to resolve a U.S.
probe of offshore tax evasion. Wegelin was one of at least 11
banks under criminal investigation by the  Justice Department ’s
tax division. Wegelin announced on Jan. 27 that it agreed to a
sale to Switzerland’s Raiffeisen Group.  Money Laundering  U.S. authorities yesterday also used a civil forfeiture
case to seize $16 million in Wegelin’s correspondent account at
UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . That complaint alleges that
Wegelin and other Swiss banks used the account to “launder”
undeclared funds for U.S. clients and hide them from the IRS.  Richard Strassberg , a lawyer who represents Wegelin in the
U.S., declined to comment.  Bryan Skarlatos, a tax attorney in  New York , said the
indictment is an important step because it demonstrates the
government’s willingness to indict a foreign bank.  “The indictment shows that the U.S. government will indict
a Swiss bank if they don’t get cooperation,” said Skarlatos, of
Kostelanetz & Fink LLP. “It’s symbolic in that the  United
States  is saying that if a Swiss bank doesn’t cooperate, it will
be indicted. It puts pressure on other Swiss banks to
cooperate.”  The Swiss must penalize Wegelin in some way for the
indictment to have an impact on the bank, said George M. Clarke
III, a tax attorney with Miller & Chevalier.  ‘Big Question’  “There’s a big question about how this plays out and
whether it means anything or whether it’s just a question of the
U.S. functionally pounding its chest,” Clarke said. “Wegelin
clearly knew this was coming or was preparing for this. Is the
U.S. going to get a fine, penalty or restitution, or will this
be an indictment in name only?”  Prosecutors said that Wegelin and the three bankers wooed
U.S. clients fleeing UBS, the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided
U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided  tax evasion ,
paying $780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It
later disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  By attracting clients leaving UBS, Wegelin opened new
undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers, according to
the indictment. Most of those accounts were given an internal
code of “BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  The effort to woo UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s
senior management, according to the indictment. “Managing
Partner A” and “Executive A” supervised videotaped training
sessions with client advisers in the Zurich branch to instruct
them on selling points for clients fleeing UBS, according to the
indictment.  ‘Unlike UBS’  The selling points included that Wegelin was “small,
discreet, and, unlike UBS, not in the media,” according to the
indictment. Wegelin bankers emphasized that because it had no
offices in the U.S., it wasn’t subject to law enforcement
pressure there, prosecutors said.  Philip West, a former international tax counsel at the
Treasury Department, said it was “unfortunate” that the
Justice Department and Wegelin couldn’t reach an agreement short
of indictment.  “The Justice Department alleged that  Switzerland ’s oldest
bank had tried to capitalize on the misfortunes of UBS and
attract the clients UBS was rejecting, and assisting them in
doing just what UBS was accused of doing,” West, of  Steptoe &
Johnson LLP (1372L) , said in an e-mail. “If true, this would have made
any resolution short of indictment very difficult.”  In its Jan. 27 announcement, Wegelin, based in  St. Gallen ,
Switzerland, said its U.S. business, and the risks and
responsibilities that go with it, will remain with the current
partners. Wegelin didn’t disclose the sale price.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse AG, the second-largest Swiss bank, said July
15 that it was a target of a criminal probe by the Justice
Department over former cross-border private-banking services to
U.S. customers. On July 21, seven  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  bankers were
indicted on a charge of conspiring to help U.S. clients evade
taxes through secret accounts.  The IRS has said 30,000 U.S. taxpayers with offshore
accounts have avoided prosecution since 2009 by entering a
limited amnesty program, paying back taxes and saying who helped
them hide their accounts from authorities. Hundreds of taxpayers
in the program have given information to prosecutors that has
helped them build criminal cases against bankers and advisers.  The U.S. crackdown against offshore tax evasion has led to
criminal charges against at least 21 foreign bankers, advisers
and attorneys and at least 40 U.S. taxpayers.  The Wegelin criminal case has been assigned to U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Berlinka, 12-cr-00002, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
forfeiture case is U.S. v. All Funds on Deposit at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Account No. 101-WA-358967-000, Held in the Name of Wegelin &
Co., U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  