-- Swiss Franc Pares Losses as Exports Increase, Intervention Concern Eases
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-02T16:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/swiss-franc-pares-losses-as-exports-increase-intervention-concern-eases.html
The Swiss franc pared losses against
the dollar and the euro as a government report showed exports
rose in December, cooling speculation the central bank will
intervene to weaken the currency.  The franc also erased earlier declines versus the dollar as
a rally in the euro pulled up  Switzerland ’s currency against the
greenback. Swiss National Bank Governing Board member Jean- Pierre Danthine said last week that policy makers are ready to
defend the limit of 1.20 per euro they imposed in September.  “The whim of euro-dollar going up and down seems to be
dragging euro-Swiss in a modest range,” said Elizabeth Gregory,
a market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA based in Geneva.
Intervention concern and not “Swiss fundamentals are not really
the key driver of the  currency pair .”  The franc was little changed at 91.46 centimes per dollar
at 4:21 p.m. London time after falling as much as 0.6 percent.
The Swiss currency was also little changed at 1.20433 per euro
after earlier dropping 0.2 percent. The franc climbed to 1.20319
per euro yesterday, the strongest since Sept. 19.  The euro erased losses to trade at $1.3163 after falling as
low as $1.3086.  Swiss exports, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
advanced 6.1 percent from November, when they fell a revised 4.8
percent, the Federal Customs Office said in a  statement  today.  The SNB will “continue to enforce the minimum rate with
the utmost determination and remains prepared to buy foreign
currency in unlimited quantities,” Danthine said on Jan. 24.
“The franc is still highly valued, but it should depreciate
further in the future.”  The franc has lost 14 percent against a basket of nine
developed-market peers in the last six months as the SNB imposed
its ceiling, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. That’s the worst performance among the 10
currencies tracked by the measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  