-- U.K. Lawmaker Seeks Parliamentary Probe of Porto’s Soccer Player Funding
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-02T16:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/u-k-lawmaker-seeks-parliamentary-probe-of-porto-s-soccer-player-funding.html
Two-time European soccer champion
Porto’s financing of a player signing via companies whose
ownership is unclear is “a very serious matter” and requires
an investigation, U.K. lawmaker  Damian Collins  said.  Pearl Design Holding Ltd. and For Gool Co. provided funds
to sign Brazilian striker Walter  da Silva  for 6.2 million euros
($8.1 million) in 2010, according to the  stock market-listed 
Portuguese team’s latest quarterly statement. Gianni Infantino,
secretary general of European soccer ruling body UEFA, said last
week there is a risk of  money laundering  in such cases because
it’s unclear who owns the so-called letterbox companies, which
have mailing addresses in the U.K. and seemingly nothing else.  Collins, a Conservative who sits on a  Department of
Culture, Media and Sport  committee, said he would raise the
issue in a Feb. 9 debate about soccer governance. The U.K.’s
Company Investigations unit, which probes possible misconduct,
said in an e-mail it can’t comment on individual cases.  “Football could easily be vulnerable to people who want to
launder money, abusing the transfer system, which is why knowing
the source of funds” is important, Collins said in an e-mail.
“The bank of a football club has to know where the money it
receives comes from and whether there is any risk that it is
coming from a disreputable source.”  Funding Alternatives  As banks make it harder to borrow, clubs are seeking
alternative ways to raise funds, often in return for a share of
a player’s future transfer fee, said Sandalio Gomez, who teaches
sports management at  IESE business school  in Madrid. While the
third-party ownership of transfer rights is banned in the
English Premier League it is not illegal for U.K. companies to
invest in them in other championships.  Manchester-based R2 Asset Management Ltd., which is
regulated by the Financial Services Authority, and London-based
Doyen Capital Partners Ltd. are among funds that invest in
transfer rights of players in Portugal and  Spain  and other
European leagues. Zurich, Switzerland-based soccer ruling body
FIFA allows the practice, provided investors don’t interfere in
transfers and, according to Javier Tebas, a former vice
president of the Spanish league, the investment model can work
if regulated properly.  Mark Quirk, a co-owner of Rochdale-based For Gool’s parent
company Kirkdelta Ltd., didn’t respond to letters sent to three
business addresses last month. Mario Queiroz, the only listed
shareholder of London-based Pearl Design, didn’t respond to an
e-mail. UEFA’s Infantino said the Nyon, Switzerland-based
governing body doesn’t have the power to investigate the
companies.  Directors  Quirk is a director of 21 U.K.-based companies and has
resigned from 74 since 2005, according to  Companies House 
records. Queiroz is a director of 45 companies in the U.K. and
35 in Spain, including Spanish Fiscal Representation S.L.,
according to  Companies House  and Madrid-based Registro
Mercantil.  Porto spokesman Rui Cerqueira didn’t respond to e-mails and
telephone calls.  Porto signed Da Silva from Uruguay’s Club Atletico
Rentistas less than two months after his last game for  Brazil ’s
Internacional de Porto Alegre, and without him having played for
Rentistas, according to transfermarkt.com, which tracks soccer
player trades. After scoring two goals in six games this season,
he was loaned to Brazil’s Cruzeiro last month.  Soccer authorities should be allowed to ask banks about the
source of team funding, Collins said, and there should be a
complete ban on outside ownership of transfer rights because it
creates incentives for trading “regardless of the interests of
the player.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
Tariq Panja in London  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  