-- U.S. Plans to Auction Leases for Offshore Wind Farms in 2012
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-02-02T18:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/u-s-interior-plans-to-issue-offshore-wind-leases-in-2012.html
The U.S. Interior Department plans to
auction this year leases for sites where developers can build
wind farms in the waters off four eastern states after
completing environmental reviews of the region.  There will be “no significant environmental and
socioeconomic impacts” from building turbines in “wind energy
areas” off  Maryland ,  Delaware ,  Virginia  and  New Jersey , the
agency said today in a statement.  This eliminates work for developers proposing offshore wind
farms, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said at a press conference
in Baltimore. There are no turbines in U.S. waters, something
President Barack Obama is seeking to change with the “all-out,
all-of-the-above” energy strategy he described in his State of
the Union address Jan. 24.  “No developer should have to wait nine or 10 years to get
a lease,” Salazar said. “Our goal is to hold auctions and
issue leases by the end of 2012.”  Offshore wind power has taken off in other regions,
especially  Europe , and the Interior Department’s efforts will
help its adoption in the U.S., said Catherine Bowes, senior
policy representative for the National Wildlife Federation.  The White House “has hit the accelerator in developing our
offshore wind energy resources off the Mid-Atlantic coast,” she
said in a statement.  ’Huge Progress’  “This is huge progress in such a short amount of time,”
Justin Allegro, manager of the  National Wildlife Federation ’s
renewable energy and wildlife program in  Washington , said in an
interview. “In the next year-and-a-half, actions from this
decision will jump start development and not significantly
impact wildlife.”  Global offshore wind capacity is expected to reach 20
gigawatts in 2015, with 658 megawatts in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  