-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Jan. 31 (Text)
-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-02-02T13:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-jan-31-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Summary: Locally heavy rain provided drought relief to the
south-central U.S., while dry conditions returned from central
 California  into the Four Corners Region.  Unfavorable dryness
persisted in the Southeast.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast: Light to moderate rain and snow
(locally more than 1 inch liquid equivalent) from western
 Pennsylvania  into central New England contrasted with
increasingly dry conditions on the lower Delmarva.  Locally
heavy lake-effect snow showers eased D0 (Abnormal Dryness)
downwind of Lake Ontario.  However, precipitation has totaled
locally less than 50 percent of normal over the past 90 days
from northern  New York  into western and northern Maine, where
the D0 designation was expanded.  Meanwhile, unfavorable dryness
continued to cause declining streamflows on the lower Delmarva
Peninsula, where the updated 3-month Standardized Precipitation
Index (SPI) likewise supported the introduction of Moderate
Drought (D1).  In addition, a 60-day precipitation shortfall
(50-70 percent of normal) along with streamflows in the lowest
30th percentile in southern  Virginia  resulted in a northward
expansion of D0 in this locale.  Southeast: Dry, warmer-than-normal weather prevailed, resulting
in an increase in drought designation from central and eastern
portions of  North Carolina  into southern Georgia as well as
southern Florida. Moderate (D1) to Extreme (D3) Drought was
expanded northeastward over the Coastal Plain of North and South
Carolina, with ongoing dryness (50 percent of normal or less
over the past 90 days) causing a further decline in streamflows
(gauges closest to the coast are in the lowest 10th percentile)
and soil moisture.  Abnormal Dryness (D0) was also introduced to
central and northern North Carolina to reflect developing
precipitation deficits (60-day rainfall averaging 50-75 percent
of normal).   In  Georgia , the sharp contrast between northern
drought-free areas and southern Exceptional Drought (D4) further
intensified.  In northern Georgia, additional showers, albeit
light (amounts generally less than an inch)- kept soils
favorable moist.  Meanwhile, little if any rain fell across
southern Georgia, where Exceptional Drought was expanded to
correspond with the greatest 6-month rainfall departures
(locally less than 50 percent of normal) and the lowest
streamflows (5th percentile or lower).  In Florida, light
showers (0.25 to 0.5 inch) were reported across the panhandle.
Dry weather prevailed across the remainder of the state, which
led to declining streamflows, elevated fire danger, and
increasing short-term precipitation deficits.  Severe Drought
(D2) was expanded southward across Gainesville to the
northeastern Gulf Coast, with soil moisture and streamflows in
the 10th percentile or lower.  Farther south, Moderate Drought
(D1) was expanded from Fort Meyers east to West Palm Beach, with
the 3-month Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) and Soil
Moisture percentile rankings supporting the increase.  Much of
central and northern  Florida  remains a strong candidate for
additional drought expansion over the upcoming weeks if rain
does not soon materialize.  Delta: Heavy rain further eased drought in southern and western
portions of the Delta.  The precipitation - which tallied 2 to 4
inches (locally more) - resulted in widespread drought reduction
in central Louisiana and southern  Mississippi .  Coastal
locations remained largely unchanged, with rainfall totals
significantly less (mostly less than an inch).  The same held
true for northern Louisiana and southwestern  Arkansas , where
rain amounts were generally an inch or less.  Long-term
precipitation deficits are still reflected in the 9- and 12-
month Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI), which continue
to depict D1 (Moderate Drought) to D4 (Exceptional Drought) in
southern and western portions of  Louisiana .  South-Central U.S.: Locally heavy rain across central and
eastern drought areas contrasted with unfavorably dry, warm
weather elsewhere. A soaking rain (2-4 inches, locally more)
fell from San Angelo northeastward across Dallas-Fort Worth into
southeastern  Oklahoma  and northwestern Arkansas.  A second,
smaller but locally heavier band of rain (1-6 inches) was
observed from San Antonio and Austin eastward across Houston
into Beaumont-Port Arthur.  Consequently, widespread reductions
in drought were made - in some case up to 2 categories - as a
result of the heavy rain.  However, reservoirs remained
unfavorably low across the northeastern quarter of  Texas ;
consequently, despite 2 to 3 inches of rain, relatively small
improvements were made to D0 (Abnormal Dryness) to D2 (Severe
Drought) in these locales.   Meanwhile, above-normal
temperatures (4-10?F above normal) and increasing dryness led to
drought intensification across southern and western portions of
Texas as well as neighboring portions of eastern  New Mexico .
Precipitation over the past 60 to 90 days has trended well below
normal, especially from the Rio Grande Valley northward into
southeastern New Mexico and west-central Texas.  Central and Northern Plains: Unseasonably warm, dry conditions
returned, melting much of the region’s protective snow cover and
offering areas under Abnormal Dryness (D0) little if any relief.
The 3-month Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) continued to
exhibit varying degrees of dryness (D0-D3) from  Nebraska 
northward into the Dakotas and eastern  Montana , although
shorter-term (30-60 days) precipitation has tallied near to
above normal across the northern Great Plains.  Dryness is most
protracted in northeastern  North Dakota  (where Moderate Drought
D1 was expanded) and from southeastern portions of  South Dakota 
into north-central Nebraska.  Drought areas of southern Kansas
and southeastern  Colorado  were likewise dry and warm (10?F or
more above normal), although an approaching storm offered some
hope for relief over the next several days.  Midwest: Drought areas of the Midwest - which extend from
northwestern Iowa into Minnesota and Wisconsin - reported dry
weather and unseasonable warmth (temperatures 9 to 18?F above
normal) during the past week.  There were no changes to drought
designation, with cold-season impacts still relatively minor.
This area will have to be closely monitored over the upcoming
weeks, with the potential for rapid drought intensification if
precipitation does not materialize soon.  Western U.S.: After last week’s much-needed precipitation, dry
weather returned from central California into the Four Corners
Region. From southern California into southern Nevada and
northwestern Arizona, Moderate Drought (D1) was introduced to
reflect very low water-year-to-date precipitation (locally below
25 percent of normal) as well as declining snow water
percentiles.  The new D1 area also corresponds with the latest
3- and 6-month Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI), which
depict D1 conditions or worse in these same locales.
Additionally, Abnormal Dryness (D0) was expanded to include much
of southern California, where seasonal rainfall has totaled less
than 50 percent of normal.  Despite beneficial snowfall in the
Sierra last week, snow water equivalent remained in the 20th
percentile or lower, indicating this region may fall rapidly
back into Severe Drought (D2) if additional snow does not fall
soon.  In northern portions of the region, another round of moderate to
heavy mountain snow (2-10 inches liquid equivalent) maintained
favorable spring runoff prospects from the Klamath Mountains
northward into the Cascades.  However, the core Moderate Drought
(D1) area received little if any precipitation, with no change
made to this area.  Additional snow (0.5-2.5 inches liquid
equivalent) boosted snow water equivalents (SWE) in central and
northern Idaho above the 40th percentile, although the D0
(Abnormal Dryness) area of southeastern Idaho where SWE remained
in the 20th percentile or lower was mostly dry.  In Montana, D0
was expanded into the southwestern quarter of the state to
reflect SWE that ranged from the 10th to the 30th percentile.
Northwestern Montana, in particular Flathead County, was a
candidate for D0 introduction due to SWE locally in the 20th
percentile or lower, but much-needed precipitation (1-4 inches
liquid equivalent) provided a reprieve.  There were no changes
made to the drought designation in the central Rockies following
last week’s introduction of Moderate Drought; this region will
be reassessed pending the final result of an approaching storm
system.  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: In Alaska, bitterly cold
conditions continued, with temperatures averaging 15 to 25?F
below normal.  Snow continued to fall across the southern half
of the state, with no concerns for drought.  In Hawaii, much of
the state remained dry. Additional assessment for Molokai
indicated pastures are in very poor condition, resulting in a
degradation to D3 (Extreme Drought) over the western third of
the island.  Likewise, dry conditions and additional assessment
led to the introduction of Severe Drought (D2) on Lanai. There
were no concerns for drought on Puerto Rico.  Looking Ahead: A disturbance will race across the southeastern
quarter of the nation, producing light to moderate rain over the
central and southern Atlantic Coast States.  However, rain is
expected to rapidly diminish as it approaches the drought areas
of southern Georgia and Florida.  Meanwhile, an upper-air
disturbance will trigger light to moderate snow across the
central and northern Rockies.  As this feature reaches the
Plains, a storm will rapidly develop and intensify, generating
increasingly heavy rain and snow from the central Plains into
the Corn Belt, while a trailing cold front triggers showers and
thunderstorms from central Texas into the Delta and interior
Southeast. Little if any precipitation is expected in Florida
and from California into the southern Rockies.  Likewise,
drought areas of the Upper Midwest will also remain dry.  The
CPC 6-10 day forecast for February 7-11 calls for drier-than-
normal conditions from the Pacific Coast States eastward into
the mid-Mississippi River Valley and Southeast, with wetter-
than-normal conditions confined to southern Texas and the
eastern Great Lakes.  Warmer-than-normal weather from the
central and northern Plains to the Pacific Coast will contrast
with below-normal temperatures in the Gulf and southern Atlantic
Coast States.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  