-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Feb. 2 to April 2012 (Text)
-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-02-02T13:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-feb-2-to-april-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The updated drought outlook for
February 2 - April 30, 2012 was based upon climate anomalies
associated with La Nina, short to medium range forecasts,
climatology, and initial conditions. Since the last FMA?2 USDO
on Jan. 19, heavy precipitation finally paid a visit to the
Northwest after near-record dryness during December and early
January. SNOTEL Water-Year-to-date basin-averaged precipitation
rose from 40-75 percent of normal on Jan. 16 to 60-110 in
Washington, Oregon, and southern Idaho on Jan. 30. Farther south,
values increased in California’s Sierra  Nevada  and northern
parts of Nevada and  Utah , rising from 25-65 percent of normal on
Jan. 16 to 50 to 85 percent on Jan. 30. Basin average snow water
content (SWC) also increased as well, approximately doubling
from the Jan. 16 amount; however, the SWC totals were still
below normal across much of the region. In contrast, little or
no precipitation fell across southern  California , southern
Nevada, and most of  Arizona  and  New Mexico  during the past 2
weeks. Farther east, more precipitation in the south-central
Plains and the Southeast brought additional drought relief to
 Oklahoma ,  Texas , and the northern edge of the drought area in
the Southeast. Meanwhile, subnormal precipitation fell on
southern Texas and from  Florida  northward to the mid-Atlantic.  The ongoing La Nina event favors drought persistence and
development for the next 3 months across the southern tier of
States, from southern California eastward into Florida and
northward into the Carolinas. Much of this same area will also
have enhanced odds for above-normal temperatures (from Arizona
and Utah eastward to the Carolinas and mid-Atlantic). Although
the Northwest finally received ample precipitation during the
past two weeks (usually expected in the Northwest during a La
Ni?), moderate drought still lingered in eastern  Washington ,
southern Oregon, most of California and Nevada, and central Utah
from a very dry start to the winter season. Unfortunately, short
and medium-term forecasts maintain an upper-air ridge (high
pressure) over the Far West, diverting the storms to the north
and keeping decent moisture away from the region. And with
another normally wet month (Feb) looking less so, the odds for
significant drought improvement were lowered. Therefore, this
outlook is more pessimistic toward drought recovery in northern
California and Nevada, with less improvement and more
persistence in these areas as compared to the Jan. 19 FMA USDO.
To the south, despite early winter snowfall in Arizona and New
Mexico, the odds for subnormal precipitation and above-normal
temperatures across the Southwest are elevated in the monthly
and seasonal outlooks. Therefore, persistence or development is
forecasted across most of California, the Great Basin, Southwest,
and southern Plains. Some improvement is possible along the
northern drought boundary in the central Great Plains and lower
Delta with expected short-term moderate to heavy precipitation,
favorable odds of above-normal February and FMA precipitation in
the middle Mississippi,  Ohio , and Tennessee Valleys, and
persistent bouts of wet weather in this area since mid-October.
Farther south and east, however, recent dryness and favorable
odds of subnormal precipitation in the short and long-term
maintains drought along the Gulf and southern Atlantic Coasts
and expands it into the mid-Atlantic Coast. A dry (and cold)
winter climatology, much below-normal precipitation (minimal
snow) since the Fall, and equal odd chances (1- and 3-month
outlooks) elevates the chances for persistence across the
western Corn Belt and upper Midwest, with drought expansion
possible in the central Dakotas. Lastly, an updated study found
that recent La Nina’s in  Hawaii  brought drier conditions than
earlier events, meaning fewer events in wet tercile but not
necessarily in the dry tercile. And since 4 out of 7 wet season
months have already occurred and the drought has worsened,
Improvement was not used. But since Hawaii can still get above-
normal rainfall during the next 3 months which may be enough for
a 1-category drought improvement by April 30, using Persistence
was too strong in the other direction. Therefore, Some
Improvement was the best forecast.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official updated CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for
February 2012 and the long lead forecast for February through
April 2012, various medium- and short-range forecasts and models
such as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent
384-hour 12Z GFS total precipitation amounts, the soil moisture
tools based on the GFS model and the Constructed Analogue on
Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate Forecast System (CFS, versions
1 and 2) and the National Multi-Model Ensemble (NMME) seasonal
precipitation forecasts, the four-month Palmer drought
termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology, and
initial conditions, composite standardized precipitation and
temperature seasonal (FMA) anomalies for all La Niña episodes
and for a smaller set of back to back La Niña years, and an
updated recent study on precipitation in Hawaii during La Niña,
El Niño, and Neutral condition events.  Since the La Niña event of 2010-2011, widespread moderate to
extreme drought remains entrenched across parts of the Southeast.
La Niña conditions returned during fall 2011 and are expected to
persist throughout the outlook period. Drier conditions have
recently spread northward along the Atlantic Coast into the
Delmarva Peninsula where D1 was just introduced this week in the
U.S. Drought Monitor. In the short-term (Days 1-5), above-normal
precipitation is expected from eastern Texas to southern
Mississippi and northeastward into the central Appalachians, and
this may provide some temporary short-term drought relief in the
lower Delta and northern drought edge in the Southeast.
Precipitation tools after this (6-10 day, 8-14 day, 384-hour GFS,
1- and 3-months), however, favor below median precipitation
across the Southeast and southern Atlantic Coasts which is
consistent with a La Niña event. Persistence or development can
be expected across these areas. But with favorable odds for
above-normal precipitation at 1- and 3-months in the middle
Mississippi, Ohio, and Tennessee Valleys and Great Lakes region
lurking just to the north of this region, plus frequent bouts of
wet weather since November in the lower Mississippi Valley and
northern portions of the Southeast, the gradient between
improvement, persistence, and development is very tight, making
the forecast for the lower Mississippi Valley and central Gulf
Coast States difficult. Forecast confidence for the Delmarva
Peninsula,  Virginia , the Carolinas, and Georgia is moderate; low
to moderate for central Gulf Coast and lower Mississippi valley
(Alabama, Mississippi, and  Louisiana ).  Although a wet late summer and early fall rainy season greatly
eased drought conditions across the Florida peninsula, the
return of La Niña strongly favors drought development in central
and south Florida. The probabilities of below median rainfall
for FMA are greater than 60 percent in the southern half of the
state, and this is Florida’s normal dry season (winter to early
spring). Since the initial FMA outlook, moderate drought (D1)
has expanded southward into central and extreme southern
sections of Florida with abnormal dryness now covered all of the
state. Severe to extreme drought continued across parts of the
 Florida Panhandle  which missed the surplus summer and early fall
rainfall. The average water level at Lake Okeechobee (13.26
feet) was still 1.39 feet below normal on Jan. 31. La Niña
composites and the CPC February and February-April outlooks also
indicate a high probability for below median precipitation
across the Florida Panhandle where persistence is forecast.
Forecast confidence for Florida is high.  Across the central and southern Plains, additional surplus
precipitation since the last USDO (Jan. 19) brought further
drought relief to most of Texas and Oklahoma. Unfortunately, dry
weather was observed in eastern New Mexico, southern and
northwestern Texas, the Oklahoma Panhandle, southeastern
 Colorado , and Kansas. With odds for above-normal temperatures
(1- and 3-month outlooks) and subnormal precipitation (e.g. La
Niña composites and precipitation tools), persistence is favored
across much of the southern Plains, with development in Texas
areas currently without drought. Although the 6-10 and 8-14 day
outlooks favor above-normal rainfall in extreme southern Texas,
the long-term drought conditions and high probabilities for
subnormal rainfall during a La Niña outweighed suggestions for
Some Improvement, thus persistence was kept in this region.
However, some improvement is forecast across eastern parts of
Kansas and Oklahoma and the Arklatex region where the CPC
seasonal outlook indicates equal chances for below, near, or
above precipitation, the 1-5 day HPC forecast indicates moderate
to heavy totals, and numerous bouts of wet weather have
frequented these areas since late October, improving or erasing
drought. Forecast confidence for the southern High Plains is
high, and moderate for areas to the east (e.g. southeast Kansas,
eastern Oklahoma, and eastern Texas).  From mid-November into December, shortwave troughs digging into
the desert Southwest have resulted in widespread moderate to
heavy snow across the higher elevations of Arizona and New
Mexico, and above-normal precipitation at lower elevation
locations. As of January 16, water year to date (since Oct. 1)
basin average snow water content (SWC) and precipitation were
running above average across the mountains of Arizona and New
Mexico. However, the values have slowly declined as little or no
precipitation has fallen since late December, and temperatures
have averaged above normal during January. Still, Jan. 30 basin
averaged precipitation and SWC were close to normal in Arizona
and above-normal in New Mexico. To the west, however, conditions
have been drier in southern sections of California and Nevada,
and D0 and D1 has expanded into this region. Precipitation tools
on all time scales favor below median precipitation which is
typical for a La Niña winter. In addition, the odds for above-
normal FMA temperatures are favorable, especially in eastern
sections of the Southwest. Therefore, drought persistence is
forecast across the Southwest, with development in areas to the
north (southeastern California, western Arizona, and southern
sections of Nevada, Utah, and Colorado). Forecast confidence for
the Southwest is moderate to high.  In mid-January, a surprising lack of early winter precipitation
(not expected during a La Niña) in the Northwest resulted in the
introduction of severe drought (D2) to the Sierra Nevadas,
moderate drought (D1) from central California northward into
central Washington and eastward into northwestern Nevada, and an
expansion of abnormal dryness (D0) across the Great Basin and
into most of  Idaho  and northern Utah. Since then, however, heavy
precipitation during the past 2 weeks has somewhat eased drought
conditions in the Northwest and Sierra Nevada. As of January 16,
snow water content values were less than 15 percent of average
in the Sierras and 24 to 38 percent of average in the southern
Cascades, but 2 weeks later had increased to 38 and 60 percent,
respectively. It should be noted that reservoir levels have not
suffered yet due to the surplus 2010-11 winter precipitation and
cool and wet spring. Unfortunately, the wet weather missed the
southern sections of California and Nevada, and conditions have
deteriorated. In addition, drier weather has returned to the Far
West, and the short to medium range forecasts (including the
updated February outlook) indicate subnormal precipitation for
the area. Although there is a moderate signal for wetness among
the various longer-lead precipitation tools in the Northwest
including northern California, the increasing odds for a drier
February have led to a more pessimistic forecast for northern
California. Therefore, improvement is limited to areas farther
north (e.g. Washington and  Oregon ), with only some improvement
in northern California. Persistence is favored across the rest
of California and Nevada, with development in the non-drought
areas of those two states and into Utah. The drought development
is based on La Niña composites and the CPC monthly and seasonal
precipitation outlooks that indicated a tilt in the odds towards
below median precipitation. Forecast confidence for California
and the Great Basin is moderate in the north, moderate to high
in the south.  Drought coverage and intensity has remained nearly steady across
the western Corn Belt and upper Mississippi Valley since the
previous outlook of January 5. The CPC February and February-
April outlooks indicated equal chances for below, near, or above
median precipitation, except for slight above-normal FMA
precipitation odds in the western Great Lakes region. However, a
dry climatology limits prospects for significant drought relief,
and very dry (little or no snow) and mild conditions since the
Fall will require excessive precipitation for any relief. In
addition, since the ground and streams in this region freeze
over during the winter months, it is likely that the benefits of
improved moisture would not be realized until the spring thaw
which normally occurs in March or April. Therefore, persistence
is favored across much of the western Corn Belt and upper
Midwest, with some possible expansion into  North Dakota  based
upon current conditions (90-day precipitation between 25 and 50
percent of normal). Forecast confidence for the western Corn
Belt and upper Midwest is moderate.  Drought redeveloped during the summer months across the western
portions of the Hawaii, but recent winter rainfall reduced
drought coverage across Kauai and Oahu. Farther east, adequate
rainfall did fall on the windward sides of Maui, Molokai, and
the Big Island, but have yet to materialize on the leeward sides
of these islands during this La Niña event. Traditionally, a La
Niña event was thought to bring surplus rainfall to Hawaii.
However, an updated study found that recent La Niña events (past
30 years) brought drier conditions than earlier La Niña events
(1957-1986), meaning fewer events in the wet tercile but not
necessarily in the dry tercile. And with 4 of 7 wet season
months already finished and the drought worsening, improvement
is not appropriate. But since Hawaii can still get above-normal
rainfall during the next 3 months, persistence is not correct
either. Instead, some drought improvement is forecasted for the
leeward sides of the Hawaiian Islands, with improvement for the
windward side of Oahu. Forecast confidence for the Hawaii is
moderate.  Forecaster: D. Miskus  Next Outlook issued: February 16, 2012 at 8:30 AM EDT  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  