-- UN Security Council Narrows Differences on Syria Resolution
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-02T02:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/un-security-council-narrows-differences-on-syria-resolution.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
edged closer to agreement on a draft resolution on  Syria  as
members debate the degree of support for an Arab League plan
that calls on President Bashar al-Assad to renounce power.  The 15-member council negotiated for three hours today,
focusing on Russia’s objections to what it says is the current
draft’s endorsement of regime change.  Almost a year after an uprising began against Assad, Syria
was at the center of a UN debate yesterday that drew top
diplomats such as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . The
UN says the conflict, which has killed more than 5,400 people,
is evolving into a civil war.  “We have a better understanding on what we can do to reach
consensus,” Russian Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin told
reporters after the meeting.  A new text will be circulated on the draft resolution, UN
envoys said as they left the council. They expressed varying
assessments of the chances a resolution can win unanimous
passage.  Russia , whose only military base outside the former  Soviet
Union  is in Syria, has threatened to use its veto if the UN
tries to force Assad from power. It blocked a Security Council
resolution once before, in October, when Western powers sought
to hold the Syrian president responsible for violence.  The U.K.’s Mark Lyall Grant said there was progress and the
plan by the draft’s Arab and European sponsors is to seek a vote
in the next two days. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said that,
while “people are in the spirit of rolling up their sleeves,”
it was “way too soon” to know if a final agreement could be
reached.  Arab League Initiative  The current resolution, dated Jan. 27, “fully supports” a
Jan. 22  Arab League  initiative that calls on the “delegation by
the president of Syria of his full authority to his deputy.”  That remains a sticking point that the latest draft will
have to address. For the Arabs and the Europeans, support for
the Arab League’s roadmap, which includes a  power transfer ,
remains the “bottom line” and must stay in the final version.  Colombian Ambassador to the UN Nestor Osorio gave an
inkling of where a compromise can be reached.  “There are different views, starting with ‘fully support,’
‘taking note,’ ‘welcoming,’ he said. “We have not taken a
decision on that.”  From Jerusalem, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon asked the
Security Council members to put aside their differences and act.  “We cannot wait any longer until the political process is
finished while many people are being killed,” Ban told
reporters today in  Jerusalem . “First, all violence must stop,
and I sincerely hope this will lead to a political solution.
That is what I am urging to the international community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  