-- UN Security Council Closer to Vote on Syrian Power-Transition Resolution
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-02T17:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/un-security-council-closer-to-vote-on-syrian-power-transition-resolution.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
may vote as soon as tomorrow on a draft resolution that supports
an Arab League plan to “facilitate” a political transition in
Syria while removing all references to President Bashar al-Assad
stepping aside.  The new draft, obtained today, was circulated last night
and is the product of negotiations aimed at mollifying Russia,
which had said the previous version was an endorsement of regime
change. The new text scraps language about “formation of a
national unity government” and “delegation by the president of
Syria of his full authority to his deputy.”  Almost a year after the uprising against Assad began, Syria
is at the center of a UN debate on how to stop a conflict that
the world body says has killed more than 5,400 people and is
evolving into a civil war. At stake is how much support to give
the  Arab League , the regional body that suspended Syria’s
membership and imposed economic sanctions on the regime.  A vote may take place as soon as tomorrow or Feb. 6, French
Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told reporters at the UN.  While Russia has yet to publicly react to the new draft,
its ambassador to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , struck an optimistic
note yesterday.  “We have a better understanding on what we can do to reach
consensus,” he told reporters after three hours of
negotiations.  Diplomats are “working very hard” Churkin said today,
adding that the negotiations are “heavy going.”  In a further concession to the Russians, the draft has
removed references “expressing grave concern at the continued
transfer of weapons into Syria which fuels the violence” and
calling on UN member states to “take necessary steps to prevent
such flow of arms.”  Military Base  Russia , whose only military base outside the former  Soviet
Union  is in Syria, has threatened to use its veto if the UN
tries to force Assad from power. The Russian base is a naval
maintenance and supply center at Tartus on the  Mediterranean
Sea .  Russia blocked a Security Council resolution once before,
in October, when Western powers sought to hold the Syrian
president responsible for violence.  The government in Moscow vowed to continue weapons sales to
Syria and “rules out” the possible use of imported arms
against protesters, Interfax reported today, citing Russia’s
 Defense Ministry .  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi, who traveled
to  New York  this week to implore the UN’s decision-making arm to
act, said the world body can pressure Assad to end his 11-month
crackdown even if council members bow to Russian demands to
weaken an Arab League resolution.  ‘Under Great Pressure’  Syria ’s authorities “are under great pressure now,” El-
Arabi said. “They cannot go on forever.”  A UN resolution would pressure Assad’s government even if
Russia removes references to sanctions and potential
intervention, he said. “Russia does not want to be against the
people.”  Violence in Syria escalated after Jan. 22 and Arab League
observers suspended their mission because of “the grave
deterioration of the situation,” the head of the mission,
Mohammed al-Dabi, told reporters today in Khartoum, the Sudanese
capital. His staff was protected by protesters who would form
human shields during field visits, al-Dabi said.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  