-- Unilever Volume Growth Slides to Three-Year Low as Dove Maker Lifts Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-02T16:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/unilever-sees-difficult-conditions-higher-raw-material-prices-this-year.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, reported the weakest volume growth in
almost three years as higher prices deterred consumers, and said
it expects “gloomy” economic conditions to persist this year.  The quantity of goods sold gained 0.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the London- and Rotterdam-based company said today, the
least since the first quarter of 2009. That was below the 1.2
percent average estimate of 28 analysts compiled by the maker of
Dove soap, Knorr soup and Magnum ice cream.  “Unilever have missed this morning on a closely watched
metric that is at the heart of the company’s aspirations,”
 Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in London, said in a note.  Unilever dropped the most in about 18 months in Amsterdam
trading. Volume growth has been affected by price increases made
necessary by soaring costs of commodities such as edible oils,
which Unilever and competitors such as  Procter & Gamble Co.  and
 Nestle SA (NESN)  say should dissipate this year. Prices increased 6.5
percent in the quarter, the company said, the steepest rise
since the first quarter of 2009.  The shares fell 4.3 percent to 24.78 euros as of the 5:30
p.m. close, the  steepest intraday drop  since Aug. 5, 2010.  “We expect investors might be slightly disappointed with
these results,” Andrew Wood, an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein ,
said in a note to clients. Still, “broadly flat volume is a
fairly good performance given the elevated pricing.”  Unilever said volume was hurt by a software system
installation in  North America  that shifted sales into the third
quarter. Excluding that, growth would have been 1 percent.  Higher Prices  Price increases fueled a 6.6 percent increase in so-called
underlying sales, which exclude acquisitions and currency
fluctuations, in the three months through December. That missed
the 6.8 percent average estimate of 28 analysts.  For all of last year, net income was little changed at 4.25
billion euros ($5.6 billion), less than the 4.34 billion-euro
average estimate of 26 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We cannot recollect a more challenging year as 2011,”
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said in a teleconference
with reporters today. “The global economy is still in poor
shape, and we expect it to continue.”  Underlying  sales  for the year rose 6.5 percent, led by
growth in the home-care and personal-care categories, Unilever
said. Personal-care brands such as Dove and Axe now account for
more than one-third of total sales, Huet said.  Commodity Costs  The underlying operating  profit margin  narrowed by 0.1
percentage point as increased raw-material prices were mostly
offset by reduced costs of running the business. The company
expects underlying margins to widen “modestly” in 2012, Polman
said in a separate teleconference with analysts.  Unilever forecasts commodity costs will rise by about 5
percent this year, down from about 15 percent in 2011, the CEO
said. Raw-material costs increased 2.4 billion euros in 2011,
one-third of which came from increased prices for edible oils.  “We do not expect to take much new pricing this year,”
Huet said on the newswire call. “We need to take account of the
fragility of the consumer.”  Full-year  revenue  rose 5 percent to 46.5 billion euros.
Unilever has a goal to double sales and forecasts that more than
80 percent of the increase will come from  emerging markets ,
which now make up 54 percent of the total.  Underlying sales growth was led by volume gains in Asia and
 Africa , particularly in  South Africa , Indonesia and  Vietnam ,
Unilever said.  Revenue (UNA)  at that unit increased 11 percent in the
quarter, and rose 5.3 percent in the Americas, fueled by
Argentina and  Mexico , offset by slower sales growth in  Brazil .  Western Europe  “Even in emerging markets, we see some signs of softening
in some of our more important markets,” Huet said. Polman said
he was “not satisfied” with the hair care business in  Russia .  Underlying sales in western  Europe  rose 0.9 percent, driven
entirely by higher prices as volume fell 2.5 percent.  “The environment in Europe will get tougher before it gets
easier,” Polman said in the teleconference.  Unilever spent 6.2 billion euros on advertising and
promotions last year, an increase of about 150 million euros.
Expenditure will be higher again this year, Huet said, with a
focus on digital ads that have better returns on investment. He
declined to give a precise amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  