-- United Retail, Owner of Avenue Clothing, to Take Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-02T17:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/united-retail-owner-of-plus-size-avenue-clothing-to-get-25-million-loan.html
United Retail Group Inc (URGI) ., owner of
the  Avenue  plus-size women’s clothing stores, can borrow $25
million on an interim basis in bankruptcy, subject to a final
agreement with its lender, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein said in  Manhattan 
court today said he was prepared to approve the loan subject to
minor changes in the wording of the agreement. United Retail
said it needs the loan, which may rise to as much as $40 million
on a final basis, to keep operating as it tries to sell itself
to the highest bidder.  “Obviously I need to see a blackline and a final order,”
Bernstein said, questioning the terms of the loan under which
its lender,  Wells Fargo & Co. , which also lent the company money
prior to its bankruptcy, will roll its old debt into the new
loan. A blackline is an edited document that shows the changes
that have been made.  The owner of 433 stories has struggled with liquidity
issues since its 2007 purchase by Redcats USA, according to
court papers. Redcats USA wants to sell the business to focus on
other brands, and Avenue has battled competition from large
national chains with greater resources leading up to the
bankruptcy, lawyers for the company wrote.  An affiliate of  Versa Capital Management , a Philadelphia-
based private-equity firm, agreed to serve as the lead, or
stalking-horse, bidder in a court-supervised auction, United
Retail said in a statement when it sought Chapter 11 protection
Feb. 1.  The company, based in Rochelle Park,  New Jersey , listed
assets of $117.2 million and debt of $67.3 million in its
bankruptcy petition.  Redcats, a division of French retailer  PPR SA (PP) , is a catalog
and online marketer of clothing and home products with other
brands including Roaman’s, Jessica  London , BrylaneHome,
KingSize, the Sportsman’s Guide and OneStopPlus.com. PPR, based
in Paris, is the owner of the Gucci luxury brand.  The case is In re United Retail Group Inc., 12-10405. U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  