-- Vietnam January Trade Deficit Narrows in Boost for Currency
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T07:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/vietnam-january-trade-deficit-narrows-in-boost-for-currency-1-.html
Vietnam ’s  trade deficit  narrowed in
January from December, providing support for a currency that was
devalued by about 7 percent a year ago.  The shortfall last month was $100 million, compared with a
revised deficit of $269 million in December, according to
preliminary data released today by the General Statistics Office
in Hanoi.  An improving trade balance may boost confidence in the
nation’s economy and the dong, which has gained this year after
losing more than 7 percent of its value in 2011. Vietnam targets
a balance-of-payments surplus of $3 billion in 2012 and enough
foreign-exchange reserves to cover 12 to 15 weeks of imports by
2015, central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last month.  “The revived confidence in the dong is probably partly
because they’ve been running smaller trade deficits,” Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-based chief economist for  Asia  at Citigroup
Inc., said before today’s report. “Resilient remittances,
foreign direct investment and official development assistance
disbursals are also supporting the balance of payments
position.”  The dong slumped 7.4 percent last year, the second worst-
performer in Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
VN Index of stocks rallied 2.8 percent today and closed at its
highest since Nov. 9. The index has gained in 13 of the past 14
trading sessions.  Higher commodity prices helped bolster Vietnamese exports
last year, the  World Bank  said in December. The monthly trade
shortfall was last reported to have exceeded $1 billion in
September.  Foreign-exchange reserves may cover about eight or nine
weeks’ worth of imports, a “small” figure that is then
reflected in the exchange rate of the dong, said Louis Taylor,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s chief executive for Vietnam, in
comments at a conference last month in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Imports in January fell to $6.6 billion from $9.356 billion
in December, the preliminary General Statistics Office report
showed today. Compared with a year earlier,  imports  declined
18.7 percent.  Exports slipped to $6.5 billion in January from $9.087
billion in December.  Shipments abroad  fell 11.1 percent from a
year earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  