-- Wealthy Investors Shrug at Facebook Public Offering
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-02-02T20:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/wealthy-investors-shrug-at-facebook-after-buying-shares-in-pre-ipo-deals.html
Wealthy investors aren’t clamoring
for a piece of  Facebook Inc. ’s initial public offering because
some own the stock through private transactions while others shy
away from risky technology deals, according to advisers.  “It’s kind of the late arrivals who get excited around the
time of the IPO,” said  Jason Thomas , chief investment officer
of Aspiriant, whose clients on average have about $10 million
under management with the Los Angeles-based firm. “Our clients
remember the tech bubble very well, and are appropriately
skeptical of being the last money in.”  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking service,
filed yesterday to raise as much as $5 billion in the largest
Internet IPO.  Morgan Stanley ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Barclays Plc and Allen & Co.
were hired to handle the deal for the Menlo Park, California-
based company. The $5 billion figure is a placeholder used to
calculate fees and may change.  Based on recent IPOs, investors who are able to buy in at
the offering price once it’s determined could be looking at
below-average returns if they seek to buy and hold. They may
face a large tax bite if they sell into an early run-up in the
stock price.  Buying the Hype  Ed Reinhart, 41, holds about 5 percent to 10 percent of his
personal portfolio in Facebook after buying shares in 2010
through SharesPost Inc., a secondary market for private-company
stock. He said he likes the company’s revenue-growth prospects
and isn’t looking to increase his position in the initial
offering.  “You don’t want to buy into the hype,” said Reinhart, who
lives in Yakima,  Washington , and is a managing partner for
Capital Advisors Wealth Management, which works with
institutional  retirement plans . “I think it would be very wise
for individual investors to stay back and let some of this steam
escape, and see where all of this shakes out.”  SharesPost and SecondMarket Holdings Inc. facilitate
transactions in private-company stock for accredited investors.
That generally means individuals with assets of greater than $1
million, excluding a primary residence, or those earning more
than $200,000 annually. SharesPost has offered transactions in
Facebook shares since 2009.  Lockup Periods  Investors holding private-company stock at the time of an
IPO generally are not permitted to sell their holdings for a
certain period of time after the offering, generally as long as
180 days, according to Tim Sullivan, managing director of
SharesPost.  Goldman Sachs in January 2011 halted a planned offering of
Facebook shares to U.S. investors on concerns that media
attention on the deal could violate rules limiting the marketing
of private securities, and instead restricted the offering to
non-U.S. investors. That month Facebook said it raised $1.5
billion from Goldman Sachs and related funds along with Digital
Sky Technologies.  Some clients of Constellation Wealth Advisors LLC have
invested in Facebook through venture-capital funds or the
secondary market, said David Arizini, a managing director and
partner at the firm in  Menlo Park ,  California , whose investors
generally have at least $10 million in investable assets.  Signature, which oversees about $2.1 billion for families,
has been invested in private equity and hedge funds that have
owned Facebook for a few years, said Andrew Gorczyk, a portfolio
manager for the Norfolk, Virginia-based firm. He declined to
name the specific firms or funds.  ‘Quick Buck’  Most clients haven’t expressed an interest in Facebook,
said John Jennings, senior vice president of  St. Louis  Trust
Co., a multifamily office based in St. Louis, which oversees
about $3 billion for clients with an average of $75 million
under management.  “It’s more exciting than having another muni bond in your
portfolio,” Jennings said. “But the way we invest, we’re not
going to load up on Facebook and try to make a quick buck.”  While some companies go public and do extremely well, the
“odds are against you,” as some firms start trading at a high
price point and then underperform or fail, said Scott
Schermerhorn, chief investment officer at Granite Investment
Advisors in Concord,  New Hampshire , which manages about $500
million.  Groupon Shares  Shares of  Groupon Inc.  gained about 31 percent in their
first day of trading after the firm’s November IPO, and have
since fallen about 22 percent as of Jan. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks of companies that held U.S. IPOs in 2011 lost about
1.1 percent on average from their offerings through Jan. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  returned about 5.1 percent over the year through Jan.
30, including reinvestment of dividends.  Shares of  Google Inc.  jumped 18 percent on their first day
of trading after the company went public in August 2004 and have
risen more than 500 percent since, Bloomberg data show.  Many investors may already have exposure to Facebook even
if they haven’t deliberately acquired shares through the
secondary market or a private fund. About 50 mutual funds have
reported stakes in the company, according to Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc.   Fund Holdings  Funds managed by  T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  held about $408
million in Facebook at the end of December, according to
spokesman Robert Benjamin.  Morgan Stanley Institutional Fund
Opportunity Portfolio  held about 3.7 percent of assets in
Facebook as of December, making it the fund’s ninth largest
holding, according to the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  website.  Fidelity Contrafund  held about $87 million in Facebook’s
Class B shares in December, according to the fund’s monthly
holdings report. That amounts to about a 12 basis-point
allocation for the fund, which had assets of about $73 billion
in December, according to spokeswoman Sophie Launay. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  People who have a broker may be able to ask for shares and
the allocation may be determined by how much business they did
at that investment banking or brokerage firm, said  Todd Morgan ,
senior managing director at Los Angeles-based Bel Air Investment
Advisors, which manages about $6 billion. Investors trying to
obtain shares now may not gain access to a large enough
allocation to have an impact on their portfolios, he said.  Allocating Shares  Spokesmen from Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Barclays and Allen & Co. declined to comment on how the firms
would allocate any shares of the IPO they receive among
customers.  “We have a systematic approach to IPO allocation that
seeks to promote broad participation by investors with a longer-
term view,” said Matt Card, a spokesman for Bank of America.  “It is difficult for most investors to access shares at
the IPO price,” Kathleen Smith, principal of IPO investment
adviser  Renaissance Capital LLC , said in an e-mail. “Even the
best institutional clients of  Wall Street  only get a small
portion of their order filled at the offering price.”  Interested investors should study  Facebook ’s financial
information in the prospectus, including its growth rate, sales
margins and cash on the balance sheet, and wait until the
Facebook IPO has begun trading, Smith said. Facebook is
considering a valuation of $75 billion to $100 billion, two
people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  ‘Feeding Frenzy’  “People get caught up in the feeding frenzy that surrounds
these opportunities,” said Gerri Walsh, vice president of
investor education for the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the self regulator for the securities industry.
“When a potential IPO is highly publicized and well-covered,
people think that any way into that deal might be a legitimate
way.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in November
filed an emergency enforcement action to stop what it said was a
fraudulent scheme targeting investors trying to gain access to
pre-IPO technology companies such as Facebook and  Groupon.   Managers of the Praetorian Global Fund falsely claimed that
their fund and related entities owned “shares worth tens of
millions of dollars in privately held companies that were
expected to soon hold an initial public offering,” according to
an SEC  statement . The individuals claimed that client funds were
held in escrow while in fact they were being transferred to the
managers’ personal accounts, the SEC said in the statement.  Outbid on Houses  While investors should be aware of the risks of trying to
get a piece of the Facebook action this late in the game, their
interest is understandable, said Aspiriant’s Thomas.  “Our Silicon Valley clients have been outbid for houses by
Google employees often enough,” Thomas said.  Those who do obtain shares at the offering price and sell
into an initial jump could face higher tax rates on their
profits. Gains on stocks held one year or less generally are
taxed at an individual’s ordinary rate, currently as high as 35
percent, while long-term gains usually are taxed at a maximum
levy of 15 percent, according to the U.S.  Internal Revenue
Service .  “Who knows if it’s going to be the next Google,” said
Reinhart, the individual investor. “But even if you bought
Google in the first year, you’ve still done well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 