-- Merkel in China Reiterates Call for Binding Budget-Deficit Caps in Europe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-03T09:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/wen-raises-prospect-of-china-aiding-european-rescue-after-meeting-merkel.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  raised the
prospect of contributing to the euro-area’s bailout programs,
telling Chancellor  Angela Merkel  that  China  may be prepared to
assist in resolving its debt crisis.  The Chinese government is considering funding options for
the temporary European Financial Stability Facility and its
permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism, through
the  International Monetary Fund  to help stabilize the monetary
union, Wen said yesterday after meeting Merkel in Beijing. China
has previously said that it needs more detail on any plan to
contribute funds to the euro area.  China is “investigating and evaluating ways, through the
IMF, to be more deeply involved using the ESM and EFSF channels
in solving the European debt issue,” Wen said at a briefing
alongside Merkel, who arrived in China early yesterday on her
fifth visit to the world’s most populous country as chancellor.  European leaders have sought to tap China, the holder of
the world’s largest foreign-exchange reserves, as they struggle
to end to the two-year-old crisis. Merkel came from the latest
European Union summit, where leaders this week locked in a
treaty containing more stringent debt rules even as Greece
inches toward an agreement with creditors to ease its debt load.  After traveling with Merkel to Guangzhou today, Wen said
again that China wanted to work with  Europe  to fight the
financial crisis.  “Some people say this means China wants to buy Europe,”
Wen said at a briefing with Merkel. “China doesn’t have this
intention and doesn’t have this ability.”  Euro Firewall  As a way to increase the euro-area’s firewall, leaders in
October designed leveraging programs that could draw outside
investment. Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said
afterward that his government needed to hear more about
particulars, such as the extent of loan guarantees and the way
the senior-debt portion would be structured.  Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan declined to comment
when asked about how Chinese participation in the bailout funds
might work.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said steps to tighten fiscal
discipline and tackle the sovereign debt crisis adopted at the
Jan. 30 summit were “largely insufficient.”  EU leaders will need to take further steps when they
convene again in early March, Juncker said in a speech in
 Luxembourg  yesterday, adding that he seeks better coordination
of economic policy across the bloc.  “We have an internal market, we have a common currency,
but we don’t have a centralized economic authority,” Juncker
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  