-- Wheat Drops as Rain Predicted in U.S. Boosts Crop Prospects; Corn Declines
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-02-02T13:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/wheat-drops-on-favorable-u-s-weather-forecast-as-4-6-rally-spurs-selling.html
Wheat slid from a four-month high in
 Chicago  as rain predicted in the U.S. boosted prospects for
winter crops planted last autumn and now lying dormant. Corn and
soybeans dropped.  Heavy rain and snow will fall this week in the central and
southern Plains regions in the U.S., boosting prospects for
wheat, Telvent DTN said in a report yesterday. Any precipitation
would benefit the U.S. crop, according to the report. Wheat
reached the highest price since September yesterday, helped by
concern about cold weather in  Europe .  “The winter remains unusually mild in the U.S., which
could have a positive effect on crop growth there, particularly
since there has recently been sufficient rainfall in areas of
cultivation,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in a report today. Wheat may have “limited”
room to climb further in Chicago, he said.  Wheat for March delivery declined 1.4 percent to $6.645 a
bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter of the grain. Milling
wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris fell 1.4
percent to 213.75 euros ($280.18) a metric ton after yesterday
reaching the highest level since June.  “It’s not unusual to see the market off a little bit when
you have a reasonable move overnight,” said Adam Davis, a
commodity trader at Merricks Capital Services Pty in  Melbourne .  Corn and soybeans declined as rainfall in Argentina may
develop on Feb. 4-5, Telvent DTN said. Rain may fall in parts of
 Brazil  in the next eight days,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd . analysts  Paul Deane  and Victor Thianpiriya wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  Corn for March delivery fell 1 percent to $6.3575 a bushel
in Chicago and March-delivery soybeans dropped 0.7 percent to
$12.07 a bushel. Both crops retreated for a first day in three.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 