-- Workers Plan to Extend Strike at Cyprus’s Soft Drinks Plant
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-02-02T17:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/workers-plan-to-extend-strike-at-cyprus-s-soft-drinks-plant.html
Workers on strike at Cyprus’s soft
drink producer Lanitis Brothers Ltd, a unit of  Greece ’s Coca-
Cola HBC, will continue their industrial action until Feb. 6, a
union official said.  About 350 workers at the plant went on strike today after
the company decided not to compensate them with a 1.7 percent
wage increase for the loss of purchasing power suffered in the
 second half of 2011 , Giorgos Kasouris, an official at  SEK , one
of the two major unions on the east Mediterranean island, said
today on the phone.  Workers at KEAN Soft Drinks Ltd., who also went on strike
today, will return to work tomorrow after the company agreed to
raise their wages, he said.  Their decision to unilaterally freeze wages violates a
“sacred institution, which is not negotiable in anyway”, said
Sotiris Fellas, deputy secretary general at  PEO , Cyprus’s left-
wing trade union.  The euro area’s third-smallest economy saw its unemployment
rate rise to 9.3 percent in December from 6.1 percent the year
before, the second highest increase in the European Union after
Greece, according to a  statement  on Eurostat’s website.  The soft drink producer’s decision followed a proposal by
the Cypriot  Employers and Industrialist Federation  that a
complete two-year wage freeze in the public sector should also
 apply  in the private sector.  Compromise  After unions threatened  strike action  in response,
Sotiroula Charalambous, minister of labor and social insurance
and former PEO union official, brokered a compromise that
exempts loss making enterprises from an obligation to grant pay
rises, Philios Zachariades, chairman of EIF said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Athanasios Orphanides , a member of the European Central
Bank Governing Gouncil and governor of the  Central Bank of
Cyprus , said a year ago that the island nation, which was shut
out of markets in May, must overhaul the wage compensation
system to protect its creditworthiness. In 2009, one in two
Cypriot workers benefited from the link between wages and
inflation, according to a  survey  carried out by the central
bank.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Cyprus’s credit rating two steps to
BB+ on Jan. 13. while  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the island one
step to BBB- on Jan. 27. In November, Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Cyprus two stages to Baa3 and placed it on review for
further downgrade.  In September 2010, Coca-Cola bottler Lanitis Brothers
announced plans to close its Cypriot soft drink production
facilities and import beverages to Cyprus in order to cut costs.  -- Editors: Tim Farrand, Zoe Schneeweiss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  