-- Worst Snowstorm in Five Years Hits Northwest Japan; Three Die at Resort
-- B y   E l e a n o r   W a r n o c k
-- 2012-02-02T07:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/worst-snowstorm-in-five-years-hits-northwest-japan-killing-three-people.html
Japan ’s worst snowstorms in five
years killed three people in an avalanche at a hot springs
resort and caused power cuts and transport disruptions in the
northwest.  Snow has covered the northwestern side of the main island
of Honshu in the past three days, including some areas that have
already received twice the average annual snowfall, according to
the Japan Meteorological Agency. At 9 a.m. local time, there was
22 inches (55 centimeters) of snow in Iyama City in Nagano
prefecture, and 13 inches in Akita City in Akita prefecture, the
agency said.  Warnings  of strong winds and heavy snowfall for 12 of the
nation’s 47 prefectures, all facing the Sea of Japan, are in
effect as of 3:42 p.m., according to the  Japan Meteorological
Agency ’s website. Three people were killed yesterday at a resort
in Semboku City in Akita, Kazuto Sato, a police spokesman, said
by telephone. More than 100 cars were abandoned on a highway in
Aomori prefecture after heavy snow made driving impossible,
public broadcaster NHK reported.  “We have already issued a request to the Self-Defense
Forces, and the government will work together and work hard to
follow through on these steps,” said Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura at a press conference today in  Tokyo .  The government will meet later today to discuss further
steps, Fujimura said. There have been 56 deaths reported due to
snow-related incidents so far this winter, the Cabinet Office
said.  Strong winds and snowfall will continue for the next week
along the  Sea of Japan  and in the southern islands of Kyushu and
Shikoku, according to the Meteorological Agency’s website.  Japan’s last record snowfall was in the winter of
2005-2006. More than 139 people died in snow-related traffic
accidents and roof collapses in that period, according to the
Meteorological Agency.  Japan suffered losses from natural disasters last year,
including an earthquake and tsunami in March that killed almost
20,000 people and Typhoon Talas that left 67 people dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Warnock in Tokyo at 
 ewarnock@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  