-- Glencore Seeks Rest of Xstrata to Create $82 Billion Rival to BHP Billiton
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-02-02T18:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/xstrata-confirms-approach-from-glencore.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier, is in
talks with  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to merge in a deal that would create an
$82 billion rival to  BHP Billiton  Ltd.  Glencore, which already holds 34 percent of the Zug,
Switzerland-based mining company, made an approach regarding an
all-share “merger of equals,” Xstrata said today in a
statement. Glencore said there’s no certainty of an offer.  The transaction, driven by Glencore Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Glasenberg, would be the industry’s largest. The approach
drove up mining shares from Sydney to London as investors
anticipated a round of consolidation. Rising commodity demand
from developing nations and the deteriorating quality of mineral
reserves is spurring producers to combine and boost efficiency.  The merged company may be valued at about 52 billion
pounds ($82 billion) after excluding Glencore’s 11 billion-pound
stake in Xstrata.  “Glencore being such a dominant trader and marketer of
commodities, and Xstrata being such a strong operator of
difficult assets, I think it creates enormous value,” Prasad Patkar, a portfolio manager at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in
Sydney, said before the statement. “On one end you have great
mining expertise, on the other you’ve got great marketing
expertise. Two and two together should make five.”  Shares Rise  Xstrata climbed 9.9 percent in London trading to close at
1,230.5 pence, a six-month high, and Glencore gained 6.9 percent
to 461.7 pence. The commodities trader also rose in  Hong Kong 
before the shares were suspended after Bloomberg reported the
potential deal. Bloomberg’s Europe 500 Metals and Mining Index
increased 3.3 percent to the highest since July, led by Xstrata,
Glencore, Vedanta Resources Plc and Anglo American Plc.  Anglo, the London-based mining company targeted by Xstrata
in a failed approach in 2009, may again be vulnerable to a bid
should Xstrata join forces with Glencore.  Together, Glencore and Xstrata would have the flexibility
and financial firepower to make large acquisitions, according to
people familiar with the matter. They may consider an offer for
Anglo, though any such move would be unlikely to happen before
they complete their merger, the people said. That process may
take as long as six to eight months, one person said, adding
that any offer for Anglo could be preempted by rival bids from
competitors such as Rio Tinto Group.  Anglo rose 3.6 percent to 2,830.5 pence in  London , a six-
month high, valuing the company at 37.5 billion pounds.  Anglo as Target  “What is affecting sentiment the most is the speculation
about Xstrata and Glencore,” Doug Blatch, head of equity
trading at Investec Asset Management, said from  Cape Town . “We
know that Anglo has potentially been a target before. What would
be the next move for a combined Xstrata-Glencore?”  A merger would give Glencore coal, copper and nickel mines
from  Africa  to  Asia . For Xstrata, the deal would be its biggest
after dropping a 29.2 billion-pound offer for Anglo in October
2009. Glencore, located two miles away from Xstrata in Baar,
is required to announce a firm intention to make an offer by
5 p.m. on March 1 under U.K. takeover rules, Xstrata said.  The combination would bring together two groups that
separated a decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian
and South African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in
London. It would also reunite Xstrata CEO Mick Davis, 53, with
Glasenberg, 55, a former coal trader who led Glencore to a $10
billion initial public offering in May.  Share Synergies  “This may be the rare case where a nil-premium merger of
equals in which shareholders of both companies share the
synergies is possible, and maybe even sensible and likely,”
Christopher LaFemina, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., said
today in a note. “A deal like this would never be easy, but now
is as good a time as any for it to happen.”  A transaction may bring savings of as much as $704 million,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report in October. BHP, the
largest miner, withdrew from what would have been the world’s
biggest mining deal, a $66 billion offer for Rio, in 2008. BHP
has a market value of 126.9 billion pounds. Rio is valued at
77.6 billion pounds, and Xstrata at about 36.5 billion pounds.  Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
as financial advisers, while Xstrata has tapped Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Bank International Plc.  Glencore M&A  Glasenberg said in August that Glencore is “aggressively”
seeking mergers and acquisitions as market valuations slide. He
said in an April interview there was “good value” in a
combination with Xstrata. He declined to comment today.  A South African native and Australian citizen, Glasenberg
is the second-richest person in  Australia  with an estimated net
worth of $7.2 billion, Forbes Magazine said today. Gina Rinehart, the Australian mining heiress and media investor, is
the richest person, valued at $18 billion.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace depleting deposits and  China ’s industrial growth stokes
metals demand for construction, cars and appliances. Global
mining deals swelled to $98 billion last year, the highest level
since 2007, from $76 billion in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The average premium for takeovers last year was 23
percent, according to the data.  ‘Massive Cash’  “There’s really nothing technically that should be
preventing large-scale M&A activity,” Daniel Rohr, an analyst
at Morningstar Investment Services Inc. in  Chicago , said by
telephone yesterday. “Balance sheets across the industry are in
rather rude health and large miners have massive cash balances
that seem to grow larger with each passing quarter.”  Mining companies may spend $134 billion developing assets
this year, up 23 percent from 2010, according to a report last
month by Citigroup. Glencore had $18.3 billion in long-term
borrowings as of Dec. 31 and Xstrata had borrowings of $7.2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Both have a
Baa2 rating from Moody’s Investors Service, the second-lowest
investment grade.  Combined, Xstrata and Glencore would report net income of
about $11.2 billion in 2012 and Glencore would control about 65
percent of a merged company, assuming a takeover with no premium
attached, Credit Suisse said in October.  Glencore, which owns mines, plants and warehouses, had a
first-half profit of $2.5 billion, up 68 percent on a year
earlier. It may post adjusted net income of $4.4 billion for
2011, according to the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. It’s due to report earnings on March 5.  Increased Competition  Joji Okada, chief financial officer of Mitsui & Co.,
 Japan ’s second-largest trading house, said a merger would create
a “major” competitor.  “I’m concerned that the competition for developing
resources will really intensify,” he told reporters in  Tokyo 
today. “We feel that there’s a threat of a major competitor
emerging.”  Xstrata’s Davis, a South African, built the group through
more than $30 billion of deals since its purchase of Glencore’s
coal mines and its London IPO in 2002, adding copper, nickel and
zinc. His largest deal was the $18.1 billion acquisition of
Canadian nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006.  He abandoned a hostile bid for platinum producer Lonmin Plc
in October 2008 after metal prices plunged, and withdrew from
bidding for Australia’s WMC Resources Ltd. in 2005 after being
trumped by BHP. Xstrata produced 85.3 million metric tons of
coal last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 