-- Zuckerberg Controlling 57% of FB Seen as Risk
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/zuckerberg-s-control-over-57-of-facebook-may-present-risk-to-shareholders.html
Mark Zuckerberg ’s majority control
over Facebook Inc. puts too much power in the hands of one
person and may deter potential investors in the company’s
initial public offering, corporate-governance experts said.  The chief executive officer has 56.9 percent of voting
power, the  Menlo Park , California-based company said yesterday
in  its prospectus to investors . He also has the ability to
designate a successor in the event he still controls the company
at the time of his death, Facebook said in the filing.  The 27-year-old, who co-founded Facebook in his dorm room
eight years ago, has retained authority over strategy -- even
after adding business veterans to the board, including venture
capitalist Marc Andreessen and Washington Post Co. CEO  Donald Graham . Zuckerberg’s control means directors and shareholders
will have less sway over the company’s direction, said  Charles Elson , a  University of Delaware  corporate-governance professor.  “The public has no say in the control of the board, which
in my view is terribly harmful to any notion of
accountability,” Elson said. “It’s very troubling to
investors, and it’s a bad bet for them.”  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  Zuckerberg owns 28.4 percent of Facebook, the largest
single stake in the company, and he extended his voting power by
implementing a dual-class stock structure in 2009. That gives
him shares with 10 times more voting power than common stock,
according to the filing. The CEO also gained voting power
through agreements with individual stockholders. He owns an
“irrevocable proxy” over those shares, Facebook said.  Money Versus Power  After Facebook’s IPO, shareholders other than Zuckerberg
will have “a majority economic position and a minority voting
position,” Elson said.  Technology companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Groupon Inc. and
Zynga Inc. also concentrated voting power in one or more
founders before selling shares to the public. Though the
practice reins in the power of investors, it can assure them
that companies will stay the course set by visionary leaders,
said David Eaton, vice president of proxy research at corporate-
governance advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co. in  San Francisco .  “It’s been the case in the last 10 to 15 years that
technology companies have typically not incorporated as many
shareholder rights,” Eaton said. “The founders who are bringing
these companies public want to protect their interest.”  Still, the practice can limit shareholders’ ability to
influence management in such areas as executive compensation, he
said.  Zynga’s CEO  Zynga CEO  Mark Pincus  created an unprecedented three-tier
stock structure last year that granted him shares with 70 times
the voting power of public investors. He controls 36.2 percent
of the voting power at the San Francisco company, which develops
games for social-networking sites.  Some companies with dual-class stock have encountered
resistance from investors. In 2010, shareholders of Magna
International Inc. voted to eliminate that arrangement at the
Canadian auto-parts maker and the power it gave founder  Frank Stronach .  Facebook said it meets the requirements of a “controlled
company” under rules for publicly held businesses because of
Zuckerberg’s majority voting power. The designation lets it skip
governance rules that apply to most companies holding an IPO,
such as the need for a compensation committee and a board made
up mostly of independent directors.  “Zuckerberg controls the vote and, because of that, they
don’t have to adhere to the strict rules of public companies,”
said David Larcker, professor at  Stanford University ’s Rock
Center for  Corporate Governance .  The prospectus also lets Zuckerberg designate his successor
“in the event that Mr. Zuckerberg controls our company at the
time of his death.” There may be no precedent for a company to
include that clause before an IPO, Elson said.  “It may be out there, but I’ve never seen it,” he said.
For long-term shareholders, “it means you are stuck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 