-- Zuckerberg Tops Google Founders With $28.4 Billion Facebook Haul
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/zuckerberg-facebook-stake-worth-28-4-billion-at-valuation-s-highest-range.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering may value  Mark Zuckerberg ’s stake at $28.4 billion,
making him richer than  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s co-founders and almost on
par with  Larry Ellison , who started  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  35 years ago.  The 27-year-old founder and chief executive officer of
Facebook is the company’s top stakeholder as it prepares to go
public, with 533.8 million shares, or 28.4 percent, according to
a regulatory  filing  yesterday. Investment firms Accel Partners
and Digital Sky Technologies own a combined 16.8 percent.  Facebook said in its prospectus that it plans to raise as
much as $5 billion in an IPO. The  Menlo Park , California-based
company is discussing a valuation of $75 billion to $100
billion, two people familiar with the matter said last week. At
the top end of that range, Zuckerberg will own stock worth $28.4
billion. His command of the company goes beyond stock -- he
controls 56.9 percent of the voting power.  “It looks from this as if Zuckerberg is maintaining a lot
of control,” said Rebecca Lieb, an analyst at Altimeter Group
in  New York . “He’s shown a great deal of wisdom and maturity in
bringing the company to this level of stability and
profitability before going public.”  By comparison, Google’s Sergey Brin and Larry Page are each
worth more than $15 billion based on their ownership of that
company’s shares. Ellison, 67, owns stock worth about $31
billion in Oracle, the  software company  he founded in 1977.  Lockup Period  While Facebook shareholders are poised for riches, they
won’t be able to start selling until the expiration of the so-
called lockup period, in some cases six months after the shares
begin trading. Zuckerberg may sell stock as part of the IPO, the
company said in the filing.  Excluding Zuckerberg’s ownership, the combined value of
Facebook stock held by everyone else is $71.6 billion, based on
a $100 billion valuation.  Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz, whose work on the
company was depicted in the 2010 film  “The Social Network,” 
owns 133.8 million shares, or 7.6 percent. Moskovitz was
Zuckerberg’s roommate at  Harvard University .  Eduardo Saverin, another co-founder and Harvard classmate
who sued Zuckerberg over ownership of the company, isn’t
mentioned in yesterday’s filing. Neither are Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the brothers whose legal battles with Zuckerberg
over Facebook also were dramatized in the Oscar-winning film.
Napster co-founder  Sean Parker , played by  Justin Timberlake  in
the movie, is mentioned as a shareholder, though the amount of
his ownership isn’t included.  Facebook Executives  Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  owns 1.9
million shares, or 0.1 percent. She also holds 39.3 million
restricted stock units of the company’s total of about 380
million units outstanding. The shares underlying the units will
be delivered to owners six months after the IPO.  Facebook Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman owns 7.5
million restricted units in addition to 2.2 million shares.
Michael Schroepfer, vice president of engineering, owns 2.2
million shares and 6.1 million restricted stock units.  The biggest winner among venture backers is  Accel Partners ,
the  Palo Alto , California-based firm that invested $12.2 million
in 2005. At the time, the site known as Thefacebook had 2.8
million users, all on college campuses. That number has risen to
845 million worldwide, according to the filing.  Even after selling 17 percent of its stake last year, Accel
still owns as much as $11.4 billion in Facebook stock, more than
twice the combined gains of Sequoia Capital and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers in Google’s 2004 IPO.  Accel’s Investment  Accel’s bet on Facebook came less than six months after the
venture firm struggled to raise a $440 million fund. That wager
alone is now worth more than 25 times the amount raised for the
fund.  Russia’s Digital Sky made its first investment four years
after Accel, buying $200 million in preferred Facebook stock for
a 1.96 percent stake. Through subsequent purchases, the firm,
founded by Yuri Milner and Gregory Finger, amassed 94.6 million
shares, or 5.5 percent of Facebook.  Peter Thiel , who provided a seed investment for Zuckerberg
in 2004, owns 44.7 million shares, or 2.5 percent of the
company. Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Netscape Communications
Corp. and a Facebook board member, owns 3.6 million shares, or
0.2 percent, as well as 5.2 million restricted units.  Yesterday’s filing only includes the holdings of investors
who own at least 5 percent of stock and the stakes owned by
board members and officers.  Other firms that own Facebook shares, including  Greylock
Partners , Elevation Partners and Meritech Capital Partners,
aren’t noted in the table of biggest holders.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen’s venture capital firm, Andreessen
Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  