-- Zuckerberg’s ‘Hacker Way’ Not Profit to Guide Post-IPO Facebook
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-02/zuckerberg-s-hacker-way-not-profit-to-guide-post-ipo-facebook.html
Mark Zuckerberg , in a letter to
potential investors, said he founded Facebook Inc. as a social
mission, not a company, and would be guided by “the hacker
way” rather than just profit.  The letter, which was included in regulatory filings
yesterday for  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook ’s initial
public offering, runs more than 2,000 words and outlines Chief
Executive Officer Zuckerberg’s philosophy for the company he
founded. In it, he explains the goal of making his social
network as transformative a communication tool as the printing
press or television.  “These days I think more and more people want to use
services from companies that believe in something beyond simply
maximizing profits,” wrote Zuckerberg, who could be worth as
much as $28.4 billion after the IPO.  The missive is reminiscent of one penned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  almost eight years ago when
they  articulated  their “Don’t Be Evil” motto. Zuckerberg said
Facebook is not driven solely by money. His goal is to make it
easier for people to exchange opinions and ideas, which will
ultimately improve products, businesses and the economy.  The world is at a “tipping point” because of the ubiquity
of Internet connectivity and mobile phones, tools that allow
people to easily share information, said Zuckerberg, 27.  “Facebook aspires to build the services that give people
the power to share and help them once again transform many of
our core institutions and industries,” Zuckerberg said.  ‘Hacker Way’  Zuckerberg, who wrote the first Facebook code from his dorm
at  Harvard University  about eight years ago, laid out his
engineering philosophy. He said the company embraces the
“hacker way,” a term he said has been unfairly interpreted
negatively by the general public as meaning unlawfully breaking
in to computers. Hacking, according to Zuckerberg, means
building things quickly and “testing the boundaries of what can
be done.”  “Like most things, it can be used for good or bad, but the
vast majority of hackers I’ve met tend to be idealistic people
who want to have a positive impact on the world,” he said.  For Facebook, this means shipping products quickly, even if
you sacrifice some details, he said. At the company’s offices
the motto “done is better than perfect” is painted on a wall.
He described how the company has “hackathons” every few months
to build new prototypes and develop new ideas. New engineers
also must go through a “bootcamp” to learn Facebook’s software
coding process.  ‘Code Wins’  Hacking is an inherently hands-on and active discipline,
Zuckerberg said. Instead of debating for days whether a new idea
is possible or what the best way to build something is, hackers
would rather just prototype something and see what works.  “There’s a hacker mantra that you’ll hear a lot around
Facebook offices: ‘Code wins arguments,’” he wrote.  Zuckerberg said Faceboook has five core values: focus on
impact, move fast, be bold, be open and build social value.  “Moving fast enables us to build more things and learn
faster,” Zuckerberg said. “However, as most companies grow,
they slow down too much because they’re more afraid of making
mistakes than they are of losing opportunities by moving too
slowly. We have a saying: ‘Move fast and break things.’ The idea
is that if you never break anything, you’re probably not moving
fast enough.”  While the company prides itself on moving quickly, Facebook
has occasionally gotten into trouble with sudden shifts to its
privacy policy that drew criticism from users.  User Data, Lawsuits  The company last year settled with the Federal Trade
Commission and agreed to independent privacy audits for 20
years.  Zuckerberg has also endured legal battles depicted in the
movie “The  Social Network ,” with Eduardo Saverin, a co-founder
and Harvard classmate who sued over ownership of the company,
and brothers Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, who claimed they came
up with the original idea for Facebook.  Zuckerberg described a company culture that is open and
meritocratic, with the best ideas winning out and “not the
person who is best at lobbying for an idea or the person who
manages the most people.”  Even so, Facebook’s regulatory filing outlines how
Zuckerberg has ultimate authority. He controls 56.9 percent of
shareholder voting power and has final say on board members,
acquisitions and sales of assets.  While Zuckerberg said the company wasn’t founded to make
money, the initial public offering also will make him a 
billionaire several times over. Zuckerberg, as the biggest
shareholder in Facebook, owns a stake worth up to $28.4 billion,
according to the regulatory filings. By comparison,  Larry Ellison  owns stock worth about $31 billion in  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the
 software company  he founded in 1977.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  