-- Adam Smith Was ‘Valuable’ Aide in Rajaratnam Case. U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-23T01:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/adam-smith-was-valuable-aide-in-rajaratnam-case-u-s-says-1-.html
Former Galleon Group LLC portfolio
manager Adam Smith has provided “valuable” assistance as a
“key” cooperating witness against Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , a U.S. prosecutor said today.  In a sentencing memo to the court, prosecutors said Smith
was prepared to testify as a government witness at the insider-
trading trial of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta. Gupta was convicted June 15 of securities fraud and
conspiracy for passing tips to Rajaratnam about the bank.  The U.S. said Smith would have told Gupta jurors that  David Loeb , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s head of Asia equity sales in
New York, “at no time” provided or discussed inside
information about the bank with him.  During Gupta’s trial, defense lawyers assailed Loeb,
alleging he passed information about  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to Rajaratnam. Gupta’s lawyers sought to
play for Gupta’s jury two phone calls secretly recorded by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation between Rajaratnam and Loeb as
well as e-mails.  “The government would have called Smith as a witness to
further demonstrate that at no time did Loeb ever provide and/or
discuss inside information about Goldman Sachs with Smith, that
Loeb specialized in Asian equities, and that Loeb never stated
or indicated that he had access to insider information about
Goldman Sachs,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Reed Brodsky said in
today’s memo.  Illegal Tips  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over Gupta’s
trial, rejected Gupta’s request, ruling the phone calls and e-
mails were inadmissible hearsay.  Smith, who has a bachelor’s degree from  Harvard University 
and an MBA from Harvard Business School, testified that he
started working for Galleon as an analyst in 2002 after leaving
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)  He was later promoted to portfolio manager. He
told jurors at Rajaratnam’s trial that he began trading on
illegal tips at Galleon as early as 2004.  Smith pleaded guilty to a count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, which carries a statutory maximum term of five
years in prison and a second count of scheming to defraud by
engaging in insider-trading, which carries a term of as long as
20 years in prison, Brodsky said.  Smith is scheduled to be sentenced by Rakoff on June 26,
said  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara.  ‘Ongoing’ Investigations  Brodsky said Smith was the highest-ranking Galleon employee
to plead guilty. He said Smith was able to provide the
government with important information about Rajaratnam’s methods
of avoiding detection by law enforcement and regulators and
Rajaratnam’s trading codes, as well as describing the conduct of
other Galleon employees. Smith began cooperating with the U.S.
in November 2010, just months before Rajaratnam’s trial began.  Smith has continued to assist prosecutors, Brodsky said,
and has provided “important assistance in connection with
several ongoing government investigations into illegal insider
trading” including an unidentified analyst working in Taiwan.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the government’s filing.  Frank Wohl, a lawyer for Loeb, and Michael Feldberg, a
lawyer for Smith, didn’t immediately return on the government’s
memo.  The case is U.S. v.  Adam Smith , 11-cr-00079, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  