-- Ahmadinejad Meets With Chavez as Nuclear Talks in Moscow Falter
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-23T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/ahmadinejad-meets-with-chavez-as-nuclear-talks-in-moscow-falter.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  arrived in Venezuela to meet with President  Hugo Chavez  after talks stalled in Moscow over his country’s nuclear
program.  The Iranian leader arrived yesterday from stops in  Brazil ,
where he attended the United Nations Rio+20 conference in Rio de
Janeiro, and  Bolivia .  Ahmadinejad is making his sixth trip to the region since
2006 as he seeks to capitalize on a surge in anti-American
sentiment spearheaded by Chavez and his eight-nation Bolivarian
Alliance for the Americas. The visit comes as pressure grows on
 Iran  to cooperate with the international community on its
nuclear ambitions.  “We know about the threats against the sovereignty and
independence of the Iranian people and government,” Chavez said
outside the presidential palace on state television, with
Ahmadinejad at his side. “We know about the obstacles imposed
by imperialism, blockades, threats, unilateral sanctions that
seek to force the surrender of Iran’s Islamic revolution. Count
on the support of the Venezuelan people and government.”  Two days of talks between British, Chinese, French, German,
Russian and U.S. diplomats and their Iranian counterparts in
Moscow this week failed to reach a breakthrough on  Iran’s
nuclear program . European Union sanctions on oil imports from
Iran will start on July 1 as agreed by the bloc’s governments,
an EU official in Brussels said yesterday.  Since 2005, Iran has opened six embassies in Latin America
and more than doubled trade with Brazil, the region’s biggest
economy. Bolivia moved its only embassy in the  Middle East  from
Cairo to Tehran.  Ahmadinejad, speaking tonight, called Chavez “a great
revolutionary that is resisting against imperialism by defending
the rights of his people, Latin America and the peoples of the
world.”  ‘Holy Matter’  Chavez, who has visited the Islamic Republic nine times,
has said he’ll stand by Ahmadinejad “under any circumstances”
and that pursuing ties with Iran is a “holy matter” for
 Venezuela . Ahmadinejad, in turn, has thanked Chavez for his
“brotherly stance” in backing Iran in the face of
international sanctions.  The two countries have signed more than 100 bilateral
agreements that encompass everything from low-income housing
projects to bicycle factories, which Chavez jokingly referred to
as “atomic” two-wheelers. Venezuela is making unmanned aerial
vehicles, commonly known as drones, with the help of Iran,
Chavez said June 13 on national television.  The two countries in 2007 also established in Caracas the
Banco Internacional de Desarrollo, which together with its main
Iranian shareholder, Bank Saderat, is accused by the U.S. of
being a vehicle for the Ahmadinejad government’s funding of
Middle Eastern terrorist group Hezbollah.  “The objective is to show that Iran is not isolated, that
it has friends in the international community,” said Cynthia Arnson,  Latin America  program director at the Woodrow Wilson
Center for Scholars in  Washington . Iran “finds a great deal of
comfort in seeking out regimes that have a similarly hostile
posture toward the  United States .”  Launch Pad  More worrisome for Washington is whether Iran and Venezuela
are cooperating in plans to use the South American country as a
launch pad for attacks against the U.S. should relations with
the Islamic Republic deteriorate further, Arnson said.  The U.S. last year imposed economic sanctions on state oil
company Petroleos de Venezuela SA for working with Iran’s energy
industry after, according to the State Department, it sent two
cargoes of gasoline additive worth $50 million to Iran from
December 2010 to March 2011.  The U.S. is monitoring Iran’s ties with the region closely,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said June 19.
Venezuela must comply with international sanctions on Iran or
face further penalties, she said  “All countries, including Venezuela, have an obligation to
comply with international sanctions against Iran,” Nuland said,
according to a transcript of a briefing to journalists in
Washington. “We’re committed to ensuring that if we see
violations of Iran sanctions that we will call them out and that
we will seek appropriate action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  