-- Apple E-Books Antitrust Case by U.S. Set for 2013 Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-06-23T06:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/apple-e-books-antitrust-case-by-u-s-set-for-june-3-trial.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and book publishers that
haven’t settled e-book price-fixing claims will face trial next
year in a case filed by the U.S. Justice Department, a federal
judge in New York decided.  The U.S. joined 15 states and Puerto Rico in claiming
Apple,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster , Lagardère SCA’s Hachette
Book Group,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, Macmillan and Penguin
colluded to fix prices of e-books. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who is presiding over the consolidated lawsuits in federal
court in Manhattan, set the trial for June 3, 2013.  “Several parties, Apple and DOJ are pushing for a fast
trial as fast as can be accomplished that is consistent with
justice,” Cote said yesterday as she set the nonjury trial with
Apple and other defendants that haven’t settled.  U.S. antitrust officials have stepped up enforcement
against anticompetitive price-fixing agreements in industries
including health care and auto parts. Regulators have also
increased scrutiny of Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
digital publishing, mobile computing and music retail businesses
to make sure the iPad maker hasn’t thwarted competition on its
way to becoming the world’s most valuable company.  Three Settle  Three e-book publishers named in the U.S. government’s
antitrust lawsuit, Simon & Schuster, Hachette Book Group and
HarperCollins, settled their cases after the complaint was filed
April 11.  A group of 15 states and Puerto Rico filed a similar
lawsuit. Connecticut Assistant Attorney General  Gary Becker  told
Cote today that a settlement with the three publishers and all
50 states would be agreed to by Aug. 10.  “We are in the process of getting the other states to sign
on,” Becker said. “I think we’re off to a good start. I have
no reason to believe they won’t sign up.”  Shepard Goldfein, a lawyer for  Harper Collins , told Cote
today that he was confident the accords with the states would
“get done.”  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and Macmillan, a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, continue to fight the
lawsuit.  Apple’s digital book-pricing practice may have cost
consumers more than $100 million, Connecticut Attorney General
George Jepsen said at a Washington news conference after that
suit was filed.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn federal court at
  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  