-- Australia, New Zealand Seal Rugby Series Sweeps as Scotland Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-23T09:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/australia-beats-wales-20-19-to-complete-3-0-rugby-series-sweep.html
Australia beat  Wales  20-19 and world
champion New Zealand shutout Ireland in a record 60-0 rout to
secure 3-0 sweeps of their rugby Test series.  Fly-half Berrick Barnes kicked a penalty goal with five
minutes remaining, his fifth of the match at the Sydney Football
Stadium, to lift the Wallabies to their seventh straight win
over Six Nations champion Wales.  “We got pretty loose in stages and that hurt us, but when
our backs were against the wall we found what was needed to get
us on top,” Barnes said in a televised interview. “We’ll take
the one-pointer that’s for sure.”  Leigh Halfpenny kicked 14 points for Wales, including a
penalty with eight minutes left that put the visiting team 19-17
up as it sought a first victory in Australia since 1969. No. 8
 Ryan Jones  went over from close range for Wales’s try in the
62nd minute before outside center  Rob Horne  replied for
Australia three minutes later.  The Wallabies won the series opener 27-19 before pulling
out a 25-23 win last week when  Mike Harris  kicked a penalty with
the last play of the game.  “We had our chances,” Wales blindside flanker Dan Lydiate
said. “We put them under a lot of pressure but it still wasn’t
good enough and they snuck it.”  The All Blacks, who needed a late Dan Carter drop goal to
beat Ireland 22-19 seven days ago, ran in four first-half tries
today at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton on their way to a 29-0 lead
at the break. They added another five tries in the second period
and kept Ireland scoreless for the first time in 88 years.  Cane’s Double  Openside flanker Sam Cane went over for the All Blacks’
first and fifth tries on his starting debut and Sonny Bill
Williams also touched down twice.  Ben Smith ,  Hosea Gear ,  Liam
Messam , Israel Dagg and  Adam Thomson  also scored tries.  It was New Zealand’s biggest winning margin in 27 Tests
against Ireland, surpassing the 59-6 victory in 1992.  “There was a real pick up in intensity from last week,”
All Blacks captain Richie McCaw said in a televised interview.
“We were on the job tonight.”  South Africa will try to give southern hemisphere teams a
9-0 record in this month’s best-of-three series when it hosts
England later in  Port Elizabeth . This year marks a return to
three-match contests as rugby administrators seek to make
matches more meaningful in the June international period, during
which touring northern hemisphere teams have typically sent
understrength squads.  Scotland, which upset  Australia  9-6 on June 5 and beat Fiji
last week, earlier defeated Samoa 17-16 in Apia as flanker Rob
Harley marked his debut with a stoppage-time try that was
converted by Greig Laidlaw.  It’s the first time Scotland won all three Tests on a
southern hemisphere tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  