-- Australia, New Zealand Sweep Rugby Series as England Ties
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-24T01:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/australia-new-zealand-seal-rugby-series-sweeps-as-england-ties.html
Australia beat  Wales  20-19 and world
champion New Zealand shut out Ireland in a record 60-0 rout to
complete 3-0 wins in their rugby Test series. England avoided a
sweep with a 14-14 tie in South Africa.  Wallabies fly-half  Berrick Barnes  kicked a penalty goal
with five minutes remaining, his fifth of yesterday’s match at
the Sydney Football Stadium, to lift Australia to its seventh
straight win over Six Nations champion Wales.  “We got pretty loose in stages and that hurt us, but when
our backs were against the wall we found what was needed to get
us on top,” Barnes said in a televised interview. “We’ll take
the one-pointer that’s for sure.”  Leigh Halfpenny kicked 14 points for Wales, including a
penalty with eight minutes left that put the visiting team 19-17
up as it sought a first victory in Australia since 1969. No. 8
 Ryan Jones  went over from close range for Wales’s try in the
62nd minute before outside center  Rob Horne  replied for
Australia three minutes later.  The Wallabies won the series opener 27-19 before pulling
out a 25-23 win last week when  Mike Harris  kicked a penalty with
the last play of the game.  “We had our chances,” Wales blindside flanker Dan Lydiate
said. “We put them under a lot of pressure but it still wasn’t
good enough and they snuck it.”  The All Blacks, who needed a late Dan Carter drop goal to
beat Ireland 22-19 eight days ago, ran in four first-half tries
at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton on their way to a 29-0 lead at
the break. They added another five tries in the second period
and kept Ireland scoreless for the first time in 88 years.  Cane’s Double  Openside flanker Sam Cane went over for the All Blacks’
first and fifth tries on his starting debut and Sonny Bill
Williams also touched down twice.  Ben Smith ,  Hosea Gear ,  Liam
Messam , Israel Dagg and  Adam Thomson  also scored tries.  It was New Zealand’s biggest winning margin in 27 Tests
against Ireland, surpassing the 59-6 victory in 1992.  “There was a real pick up in intensity from last week,”
All Blacks captain Richie McCaw said in a televised interview.
“We were on the job tonight.”  After losing the first two Tests, England ended its South
Africa tour by battling back to draw in rainy  Port Elizabeth .  Owen Farrell’s second penalty goal of the game in the 71st
minute earned England the tie. He had a chance to win the game
with the final kick, though sent his drop-goal attempt wide.  Missed Kicks  Danny Care  scored a try for the visiting team and JP Pietersen touched down for the Springboks. Morne Steyn booted
three penalties for South Africa, though missed four other kicks
including a late drop-goal attempt which drew jeers from the
fans at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.  The draw ended South Africa’s record run of nine straight
victories in matches between the teams. The Springboks won the
series opener 22-17 and withstood a second-half England rally
for a 36-27 triumph last week.  “We wanted to win the game, we wanted to win the series,”
England coach  Stuart Lancaster  told  Sky Sports . “But we’ll take
some positives home.”  This year marked a return to three-match contests as rugby
administrators seek to make matches more meaningful in the June
international period, during which touring northern hemisphere
teams have typically sent understrength squads.  France beat Argentina 49-10 in Tucuman to tie their two-
game series 1-1 following last week’s 23-20 loss to the Pumas,
who will join Australia, New Zealand and  South Africa  in an
expanded southern hemisphere championship later this year.  France fly-half Frederic Michalak, starting his first Test
in nearly five years, kicked 19 points, including five
conversions as the French ran in six tries to secure a record
victory margin in 46 meetings between the teams.  Scotland, which upset Australia 9-6 on June 5 and beat Fiji
last week, earlier defeated Samoa 17-16 in Apia as flanker Rob
Harley marked his debut with a stoppage-time try that was
converted by Greig Laidlaw.  It’s the first time Scotland won all three Tests on a
southern hemisphere tour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  