-- Black Caviar Extends Perfect Racing Record to 22 Wins at Ascot
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-23T15:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/black-caviar-extends-perfect-racing-record-to-22-wins-at-ascot.html
Black Caviar, the world’s top-ranked
sprinter, extended her perfect record to 22 straight horse-
racing victories by winning the Diamond Jubilee Stakes at Royal
Ascot in a photo finish.  Jockey Luke Nolen eased up the six-year-old mare, the
overwhelming 1-6 favorite, in the closing moments of the six-
furlong (1,200-meter) race. He realized his mistake just in time
to get his horse over the finish line in front of French
challenger Moonlight Cloud.  “I probably just underestimated the testing track of
Ascot,” Nolen said in an interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp. “They’re going to talk about my brain fade
rather than her fantastic finish. We just got away with it.”  It was Black Caviar’s first overseas race after winning 21
straight in  Australia , where her exploits have attracted record
crowds and front-page headlines. Her fan base at home is big
enough to have justified showing the Diamond Jubilee Stakes live
on a giant screen at Federation Square in  Melbourne , where the
sprinter is trained. The U.K. race started after midnight local
time.  The trip to Ascot began June 6 with a 30-hour flight that
took her via Singapore and Sharjah,  United Arab Emirates . She
wore a specially designed compression suit for the journey.  No. 2 Ranking  Ranked as the No. 2 racehorse in the World Thoroughbred
Rankings behind specialist miler Frankel, Black Caviar took the
lead with about one furlong left and appeared to be running to
an easy win.  As Nolen let up, Moonlight Cloud, the 5-1 second favorite,
and 40-1 Restiadargent closed furiously on the inside before
Black Caviar held on for her 12th Group 1 victory.  “You’ve only got to win by a quarter of an inch,” winning
trainer Peter Moody told the  BBC . “She’s 22 for 22. It’s never
been about margins, never been about dominance.”  The race was the feature of the final day of the Royal
Ascot meeting in Berkshire, west of  London , and was watched by
 Queen Elizabeth II , who celebrates her Diamond Jubilee this
year. Royal Ascot is Britain’s richest race meet, with prize
money totaling 4.5 million pounds ($7 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  