-- Champion Spain Ends French Jinx to Reach Euro 2012 Semifinal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-23T22:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/champion-spain-ends-french-jinx-to-reach-euro-2012-semifinal.html
Spain  ended a 28-year tournament
victory drought against  France  with a 2-0 win to advance to the
semifinals of the European soccer championship.  Xabi Alonso , playing his 100th game for Spain, scored both
goals last night at Donbass Arena in Donetsk, Ukraine, as the
reigning European and world champion advanced to a meeting with
Iberian neighbor  Portugal  in three days.  “I’m really glad it happened his way and now I hope the
101st one will be better,” Alonso said at a news conference.  Spain’s victory ends a six-match winless run in tournaments
against France that began with a 2-0 defeat in the 1984 European
Championship final in Paris. The French were also the last team
to eliminate Spain from a tournament, in the 2006  World Cup .  “I don’t think this is an unfair result because they
really didn’t have chances,” Spanish coach Vicente del Bosque,
whose team had 62 percent possession and a 9-4 shot advantage,
said at a news conference. “We were in control most of the
time.”  England and  Italy  play their quarterfinal today in Kiev
with the winner advancing to face record three-time champion
Germany on June 28. The Euro 2012 final is July 1.  France came into the game trying to deal with a locker-room
dispute among players following a defeat to  Sweden  in its final
group match. Coach  Laurent Blanc  made four changes to his
starting lineup from that game, including selecting defender
Anthony Reveillere ahead of right-sided attacker Samir Nasri to
nullify the threat posed by Spanish midfielder  Andres Iniesta .  No Strike Attack  Del Bosque opted for an attack without a recognized
striker, starting midfielder Cesc Fabregas instead of  Fernando
Torres . Spain also used that formation in its opening 1-1 tie
with Italy before selecting Torres for its final two group
matches.  Fabregas appealed for a penalty in the fifth minute after
going down under a challenge from  Gael Clichy , with Italian
referee Nicola Rizzola giving a goal kick instead.  Spain took the lead in the 19th minute as Iniesta held off
two players and sent in left-back Jordi Alba, whose cross to the
far post was headed in by Alonso. It was a record 20th-headed
goal in the 16-team tournament.  “We had looked a lot at the Spanish lineup and knew
they’re very good on the left with Iniesta and Jordi Alba
doubling up,” Blanc told reporters. “The frustrating thing is
we conceded down that side of the pitch and we planned to stop
them there. That’s was Jordi’s only cross in the first half and
Xabi Alonso strolls in. That’s what’s infuriating.”  France’s Shot  France, which hadn’t really threatened, almost drew even in
the 30th minute as Yohan Cabaye’s free kick was knocked away by
goalkeeper Iker Casillas. It turned out to be France’s only on-
target shot of the match.  Gerard Pique headed wide when unmarked in the 38th minute
as Spain continued its domination and  Xavi Hernandez  sent a long
free kick straight to French goalkeeper Hugo Lloris just before
halftime.  Spain started the second half slowly and allowed the French
opportunities with the ball in its half. It almost proved costly
when  Franck Ribery  got beyond Sergio Busquets but missed with a
cross for Mathieu Debuchy. A minute later Cabaye failed to get
the ball under control when freed into the area by Florent Malouda.  That was Malouda’s last involvement in the game as Blanc
ended his experiment of playing with two right-sided defenders,
and also took off Debuchy. The pair was replaced by attackers
Jeremy Menez and Nasri.  Menez forced Iker Casillas into a save at his near post
with 20 minutes to go with striker Benzema waiting for any
fumble from his Real Madrid teammate for a first goal in two
European Championships.  Torres replaced Fabregas and was ruled offside as he failed
to beat Lloris after going through alone on goal. Alonso then
secured victory with a penalty kick in the first minute of
stoppage time after  Pedro Rodriguez  was taken down by
Reveillere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Donetsk, Ukraine, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  