-- Chinese Officials Falsify Data to Mask Slowdown, NYT Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-23T04:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/chinese-officials-falsify-data-to-mask-slowdown-nyt-says.html
Some Chinese economic indicators are
being inflated by roughly 1 or 2 percentage points as local
officials falsify statistics to mask the extent of the nation’s
slowdown, the  New York  Times reported, citing company executives
in  China  and Western economists.   Government officials in some cities and provinces are
overstating economic output, tax receipts, corporate revenue and
profits, the paper said, citing executives and economists who
requested anonymity for fear of jeopardizing their relationships
with Chinese authorities. They are urging companies to keep
separate sets of books, showing improving business results and
tax payments that do not exist, the newspaper said.  Power plant managers have been told not to report the full
extent of the slowdown in electricity demand, according to the
report.    The Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics, which
compiles most of the country’s economic statistics, denied that
economic data was overstated, the paper said. “This is not
rooted in evidence,” it quoted an unnamed spokeswoman as
saying.   An economist with ties to the bureau said officials began
making inquiries after detecting signs that electricity output
numbers may have been overstated, the paper reported. Government
officials, who didn’t want to see negative growth, told power
managers to report usage declines as zero change, a chief
executive in the power industry who wasn’t identified was cited
as saying.   Electricity consumption in eastern China’s Shandong and
Jiangsu provinces dropped more than 10 percent from a year
earlier in May, the newspaper said, citing a company executive
with access to grid data from the provinces.  Jonathan Sinton, a China energy specialist at the
 International Energy Agency , told the newspaper he hadn’t heard
of false data in the electricity sector. He doubted it would be
feasible at the five biggest generating companies that together
produce half of China’s power. If there were a problem it would
be at smaller producers, he was cited as saying.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  