-- Dollar Rises Versus Euro as Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-23T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/dollar-rises-versus-euro-as-fed-maintains-stimulus.html
The dollar rose for the first time
in three weeks versus the euro as the  Federal Reserve  refrained
from additional asset buying while extending its maturity-
extension plan, trimming bets on debasing the U.S. currency.  The euro depreciated against the greenback as German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposed direct bailout funding to
address the bloc’s debt crisis, which played a role in the U.S.
central bank lowering its economic-growth forecast. The yen
weakened versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts amid
speculation monetary stimulus may be expanded to bolster the
economy. European Union leaders will meet in Brussels on June
28-29, the 19th summit since  Greece ’s financial meltdown rattled
the euro.  “The growth data has been pretty soft and the Fed’s
forecast was more pessimistic than anticipated,”  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The dollar
is tending to benefit from less of a risk bounce than
anticipated.”  The dollar added 0.5 percent this week to $1.2570 per euro
in New York. The shared currency rose 1.6 percent to 101.10 yen,
touching its highest point since May 22. Japan’s currency fell
2.2 percent to 80.43 per dollar, reaching the weakest level
since May 2.  Euro Bets  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 141,066 contracts
on June 19, compared with net shorts of 195,187 a week earlier.
They reached a record of 214,418 the week ended June 5.  The British pound was the second-biggest loser against the
greenback this week, declining 0.8 percent to $1.558. The South
Korean won was the biggest winner against the U.S. currency,
appreciating 0.8 percent to 1,157.05 per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, added 0.7 percent to 82.212 this week, its
biggest weekly increase since May 25.  Yen Down  The yen weakened on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  may
expand monetary stimulus, a decision that would debase the
currency. Japan’s parliament approved on June 21 the
government’s nominees to the BOJ’s board, confirming two
economists who have signaled support for monetary stimulus.  “Expectations for further monetary easing by the BOJ are
increasing,”  Neil Jones , head of hedge-fund sales at  Mizuho
Corporate Bank  in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“Markets expect the proposed consumption tax hike to pass
through parliament by the end of the month. Tighter fiscal
policy raises the chances of a looser monetary policy. On both
counts, a currency should weaken, and the yen is no exception.”  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  pledged on June 1 to
take “decisive action” to protect against “excessive moves”
after the yen climbed to its highest level since February
against the dollar.  The  difference  between yields on Japanese and U.S. two-year
government securities has widened since June 4 and reached its
highest level since April 5. U.S. two-year yields exceed  Japan ’s
similar maturity debt by 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage
point.  Fed Plans  The U.S. central bank said it will expand its so-called
Operation Twist program, which seeks to lower borrowing costs by
extending the average maturity of the securities in the central
bank’s portfolio, by $267 billion through the end of the year.
Officials also cut their estimates for 2012 growth after last
month’s slowdown in hiring and said there will be little
progress on unemployment during the rest of the year.  “They’re keeping a bullet in the chamber in case things
blow up in  Europe , which is a very prudent way of handling debt
and uncertainty,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “If the Fed had used its last
bullet in QE3, that would be worrying for the market,” he said
referring to the Fed’s asset purchases, known as quantitative
easing, or QE.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of
stimulus known as quantitative easing between December 2008 and
June 2011. The Dollar Index lost 14 percent during that period.  The central bank has also kept its benchmark  interest rate 
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Merkel View  Germany ’s Merkel cast doubt on direct sovereign debt buys,
trimming speculation that Greece’s new government signaled
progress to contain the bloc’s financial crisis. Merkel caused
the euro to retreat briefly yesterday after saying  Spain  is
responsible for its own banks and that direct bailout funding of
banks violates treaties.  Spanish policy makers considered forcing investors who hold
equity and junior debt in banks to absorb losses in a
restructuring, according to a person with knowledge of the plan.  The euro fell the most in five months against the dollar
June 21 as Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit ratings on
15 global banks, adding to concern Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening. Moody’s suffered a downgrade of its own yesterday as
markets responded to the company’s rating cuts by bidding up the
value of their stocks and bonds.  The euro will strengthen to $1.25 by year end, while the
yen will appreciate to 82 U.S. cents, according to average
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Dollar Index (DXY) 
will close the year at 82.7, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  