-- Egypt to Release Election Results Tomorrow as Protesters Return
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-06-23T13:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/egypt-to-release-election-results-tomorrow-as-protesters-return.html
Egypt  will announce the results of
its presidential election tomorrow as protesters led by the
 Muslim Brotherhood  gathered in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to condemn
the expansion of the army’s powers.  Results will be announced at 3 p.m. Cairo time, state-run
Middle East News Agency and Ahram Gate website reported. Ahram
Gate cited Omar Salama, a member of the election commission. The
results, originally scheduled for June 21, were delayed because
the election commission needed more time to review appeals, the
Middle East News Agency reported June 20.  The Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi declared himself the winner
over former premier Ahmed Shafik hours after polls closed on
June 17. Shafik, the last prime minister under ousted president
 Hosni Mubarak , has also said he expects to win.  The ruling military has come under pressure after it
awarded itself new legislative powers and limited those held by
the incoming president. The move, on top of the court-ordered
dissolution of the Islamic-dominated parliament, has outraged
Islamists and revolutionary activist groups who have dubbed the
steps a “coup.”  The military and Mursi, who heads the Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party, traded blame yesterday as the ruling generals
issued a statement stressing that they have shown restraint up
until now, and that any attempts to sow unrest in the nation
would be dealt with harshly. It also blamed the Brotherhood,
without naming them, of stirring tension by pre-maturely
announcing the results of the runoff.  Economy Suffers  Mursi, meanwhile, called for the quick release of the
results and urged the ruling generals to relinquish their new
powers. The Islamist also said he was committed to appointing
deputies and advisers from all segments of Egyptians society,
including the minority Christians and the youth.  Egypt’s economy has struggled to recover since the revolt
last year, as tourists and investors stayed away. Political
tensions have stalled efforts to negotiate a $3.2 billion loan
accord with the  International Monetary Fund .  Shafik, a former air force commander who briefly served as
premier in the last weeks of Mubarak’s rule, ran on a law-and-
order platform, highlighting the deterioration of security since
the revolt last year that ousted Mubarak. He told a press
conference on June 21 that he is confident of winning, and
accused the Brotherhood of pre-empting the count and trying to
pressure the election committee through protests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  