-- Egypt Tightens Security Ahead of Presidential Election Results
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-24T12:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/egypt-presidential-results-may-not-end-army-islamist-standoff.html
Egyptian security forces readied for
the possibility of violence as officials were due to announce
the winner of a polarizing presidential race in which both
candidates have claimed the lead.  Several tanks and armored personnel carriers were stationed
around the Egyptian capital and the  Interior Ministry  said
police and the military would deal firmly with any disruptions.
The security plan came days after the ruling military council
announced on June 22 that orders issued “in the name of the
people” must be respected and that it would use force to
prevent chaos. Businesses began sending employees home early and
some banks closed.  The build-up of security ahead of the 3 p.m. announcement
comes as tensions have grown in the presidential race claimed by
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and Ahmed Shafik, who
served as  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier. Supporters of both men
held rallies yesterday to support their claims. Islamist groups
and other activists in  Egypt  have backed Mursi’s claim of a win,
leaving open the possibility of violence should Shafik emerge
triumphant.  “The whole narrative in Egypt, and the rest of the world,
would be a stolen election” if Shafik is declared the winner,
said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at Brookings Doha Center.
“What we know from history is that stolen elections lead to
mass protests. Does the military really want to go in that
direction? It’s already bad, as it is.”  Divisive Candidates  The candidates are the two most divisive to have emerged
from the first-round vote last month. Mursi was portrayed by
Shafik as a candidate seeking to install Islamic law and likely
to take orders from the Brotherhood’s top leadership. Shafik,
meanwhile, is seen by the Islamists and the revolutionary youth
groups that helped topple Mubarak last year as wanting to revive
the former regime.  A win by Mursi would embolden the Brotherhood and “they’re
going to use that legitimacy to challenge SCAF head-on,” Hamid
said referring to the military council by its acronym. “That’s
a level of uncertainty that could easily descend into more
instability and chaos, and perhaps even violence,” he said.  The results, originally scheduled for June 21, were delayed
because the election commission needed time to review appeals,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported June 20.  The ruling generals have come under pressure after they
awarded themselves new legislative powers and limited those to
be held by the incoming president. The move, on top of a court-
ordered dissolution of the Islamic-dominated parliament, has
outraged Islamists and revolutionary activist groups, who have
dubbed the steps a “coup.”  Series of Rallies  The Brotherhood has held a series of rallies in  Tahrir
Square , the epicenter of the uprising, over the past week.
Shafik’s supporters gathered yesterday in another part of the
city, demonstrating near a parade area where Mubarak’s
predecessor,  Anwar Sadat , was assassinated by Islamists.  The discord over the vote and the enduring unrest in the 16
months since Mubarak’s ouster have battered Egypt’s economy,
leaving whoever comes to power facing challenges that include
unemployment, inflation and demands for greater social services.  Political tensions have stalled efforts to negotiate a $3.2
billion loan accord with the  International Monetary Fund .
Credit-default risk rose to the highest since 2008 on June 21.  Stirring Tensions  The military and Mursi, who heads the Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party, traded blame on June 22 as the ruling
generals issued its statement on unrest. The military also
blamed the Brotherhood, without naming it, of stirring tension
by prematurely announcing the results of the runoff.  Mursi, 60, criticized the dissolution of parliament and the
expansion of the military’s powers.  Mursi has stressed that he would be a president for all,
reiterating in a June 22 press conference that he would appoint
deputies and advisers representing all segments of Egyptian
society, including the minority Christians. He was flanked at
the event by several secularist leaders.  Shafik, 70, a former air force commander who briefly served
as premier in the last weeks of Mubarak’s rule, ran on a law-
and-order platform, highlighting the deterioration of security
since the revolt last year. He told a press conference on June
21 that he is confident of winning, and accused the Brotherhood
of trying to pressure the election committee through protests.  Military Poll  A Gallup poll showed that a majority of Egyptians believe
it would be a “bad thing” if the military remained in politics
after the presidential election. The survey, conducted in April,
showed that the percentage of those who didn’t like the idea had
dropped to 58 percent compared with 71 percent in February.  In addition, the percentage of those who believed the
ruling generals would hand over power after the election dropped
to 73 percent in April compared with 84 percent in February. The
survey, based on interviews with 1,074 Egyptians, had a margin
of error of margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  