-- Mets Hand Yankees Third Straight Loss in MLB Interleague Game
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-23T05:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/mets-beat-cross-town-rival-yankees-6-4-in-mlb-interleague-game.html
Ike Davis hit a three-run homer in
the first inning as the  New York  Mets earned a 6-4 victory over
the cross-town rival Yankees in the first of three Major League
Baseball interleague games.  After a 61-minute rain delay at Citi Field last night,
 Justin Turner  hit a two-run single and Davis followed with his
home run to give the Mets a 5-0 lead. Omar Quintanilla added a sixth run on  David Wright ’s double in the
seventh inning.  “The one really bad pitch was to Ike and that was it,”
said losing pitcher  Andy Pettitte . “I can’t pitch like that. I
was just a tick off in that first inning, and it cost us the
game.”  Davis has been struggling to improve his batting average,
bringing it up to .191 from .162 before June 10th. Yesterday’s
home run was his eighth this season.  “Ike is very determined to get out of this, he’s been
fighting it, fighting it, fighting it,” Mets manager Terry Collins told reporters. “And now, all of a sudden, some of the
balls he’s swinging at, he’s hitting them on the barrel of the
bat instead of swinging and missing, and if he can do that, he’s
going to be dangerous.”  The Yankees’ third straight loss followed a 10-game winning
streak.  Alex Rodriguez  and  Andruw Jones  each had solo home runs in
the sixth and seventh innings, while  Robinson Cano  blasted a
two-run homer in the eighth.  Jonathon Niese (5-3) gave up two runs on eight hits and
struck out five in 6 1/3 innings for the win. Frank Francisco
got his 18th save.  Pettitte (3-3), who returned to the Yankees after a one-
year retirement, took the loss as he surrendered five runs on
seven hits and struck out six in six innings.  The Yankees (41-28) are atop the American League East. The
Mets (39-32) are second in the National League East, 2 1/2 games
behind the Washington Nationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  