-- Penn State May Have to Compensate Sandusky’s Victims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   D r e w   G i n g r i c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/ex-assistant-coach-jerry-sandusky-convicted-in-trial.html
Pennsylvania State University , its
reputation damaged by the trial of former assistant football
coach Jerry Sandusky, may have to compensate his victims after
his conviction on 45 counts in the child-sex abuse case.  “Penn State is likely to have to pay these victims a great
deal of money to compensate them for the awful things that
happened to them, most of which might not have occurred had Penn
State officials put the safety of children above the reputation
of their institution,” said Lisa Friel, former chief of the
Manhattan District Attorney’s sex crimes unit and now vice
president of sexual misconduct consulting for T&M Protection
Resources LLC, a security and investigations company.  Jurors in Bellefonte,  Pennsylvania , deliberated about 20
hours over two days before convicting Sandusky of charges
including engaging in involuntary deviate sexual intercourse
with someone under 16 and aggravated indecent assault over his
abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year-period.  The 68-year-old Sandusky, who was led away in handcuffs by
police after the June 22 verdict, faces a maximum sentence of 20
years on each of the most serious charges, meaning he could
spend the rest of his life in prison after he is sentenced by
Judge John M. Cleland. Sandusky’s lawyer said the former coach
would appeal his conviction.  Sandusky, who had been under house arrest since waiving a
preliminary hearing in December, was being held yesterday at the
Centre County Correctional Facility, according to the jail’s
website. The former defensive coordinator for  Penn State ’s
 Nittany Lions  football squad had been charged with 52 criminal
counts related to the alleged abuse of 10 boys he met through a
charity he founded for needy children. Cleland dismissed some of
the counts before the jury began deliberations.  Concerns, Compensation  Penn State said it would establish a forum to help address
the concerns of Sandusky’s victims and compensate them for
claims related to the university.  “No verdict can undo the pain and suffering caused by Mr.
Sandusky but we hope this judgment helps the victims and their
families along their path to healing,” university officials
said in an e-mailed statement after the verdict.  “Counsel to the university plan to reach out to counsel to
the victims of Mr. Sandusky’s abuse in the near future with
additional details,” the officials said.  Sandusky played and coached under  Joe Paterno , Penn State’s
head football coach, for more than 30 years before retiring in
1999. Paterno, who died in January, and former university
President  Graham Spanier  were fired amid criticism they didn’t
do enough to stop Sandusky’s alleged abuse.  Officials Charged  Two Penn State officials, athletic director Timothy Curley
and former Vice President  Gary Schultz , were charged with
perjury and failing to report allegations of sex abuse of boys
Sandusky befriended. Curley and Schultz have denied wrongdoing.  Paterno coached the team to 409 wins, a record at college
football’s highest level. The victories included two national
championships and a record 24 bowl victories in 46 seasons as
head coach at one of college football’s most prestigious
programs.  The Penn State athletic program had an operating profit of
$18.5 million in fiscal year 2010, the highest in the Big Ten
conference. The football team’s $49.2 million in operating
profit was also highest in the league.  The school earned the nickname ``Linebacker U'' because of
its tendency to develop defensive players ready for  National
Football League . Linebackers who played at Penn State under
Sandusky include Jack Ham, a Hall of Fame inductee, and Pro Bowl
selections LaVar Arrington and Shane Conlan.  Lions’ Losses  The Nittany Lions were 8-1 last season and ranked No. 16
before the Sandusky was charged and Paterno was fired. The team
was 1-3 in its final four games under interim head coach  Tom Bradley , including a 30-14 loss to Houston in the Ticket City
Bowl, the school’s worst postseason loss in 20 years.  The charges against Sandusky had an immediate effect on the
football team’s recruiting, as some top high school players who
were originally considering the Nittany Lions turned their focus
elsewhere. Noah Spence, rated a five-star defensive end by
Rivals.com, chose to attend Big Ten-rival Ohio State University,
as did four-star defensive tackle Tommy Schutt.  They were followed by offensive lineman Joey O’Connor, who
rescinded a verbal commitment to Penn State and later agreed to
play for the Ohio State Buckeyes. J.P. Holtz, a four-star tight 
end from Pittsburgh, also dropped his verbal commitment to the 
Nittany
Lions.  ‘Important Milestone’  The Paterno family, according to a statement e-mailed on
its behalf by Mara Vandlik at McGinn & Co., said the community
owes gratitude to jurors for their service.  “Although we understand the task of healing is just
beginning, today’s verdict is an important milestone,”
according to the June 22 statement. “Our thoughts and prayers
continue to be with the victims and their families.”  After the verdict,  Joseph Amendola , Sandusky’s lead defense
attorney, said in an interview that the ex-coach’s family was
disappointed. Still, they knew he faced “a tidal wave of public 
opinion against him,” he said.  “We have some appeal issues we’ll pursue,” Amendola said.
Members of the jury declined to comment on their deliberations.  Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly praised
Sandusky’s victims for stepping forward and telling jurors about
the crimes he perpetrated against them.  “Most of us cannot possibly comprehend what” Sandusky’s
victims endured by reliving their abuse while testifying in
court, Kelly said in an interview.  Sandusky was initially accused in November of abusing eight
boys. Prosecutors added more counts the following month when two
new accusers came forward.  ‘Grooming’ Victims  During the two-week trial, prosecutors portrayed Sandusky
as a serial child molester who used the Second Mile, the charity
he founded, to recruit his victims, befriending them and
“grooming” them with gifts, trips to Penn State football games
and money.  Amendola argued throughout the trial that the coach was
innocent of the charges, which were the product of overzealous
investigators. Sandusky didn’t testify.  Many of the incidents allegedly took place in a locker room
in the Lasch Football Building on Penn State’s campus. Assistant
football coach  Mike McQueary  told jurors about witnessing a
late-night assault in the locker room shower when he was a
graduate assistant.  Victim 2  Jurors acquitted Sandusky of the most serious charge
related to Victim 2, a 10-year-old boy the former coach is
accused of abusing in 2001. The alleged abuse of the boy, whose
identity is still unknown, is at the heart of the cases against
Curley and Schultz, which are still pending.  Some of Sandusky’s victims took the witness stand to
recount their dealings with the coach, both at his home and on
campus.  A 28-year-old man who met Sandusky through Second Mile
testified that the ex-coach began touching him inappropriately
in 1997. He was identified in court papers as “Victim 4.”  The man said Sandusky invited him to play racquetball at
Penn State when he was a 14-year-old student at a local high
school. Afterward, Sandusky would touch his genitals as the two
“soaped up” in the shower, the victim testified.  Sandusky enticed him into a long-term relationship by
giving him sideline passes to Penn State football games, taking
him to golf outings and inviting him to family picnics, the man
said.  The abuse progressed to the point that Sandusky began
forcing him to perform oral sex, the man said. That occurred
more than 40 times during the five-year relationship, he said.  Hiding in Closet  The man said as he matured, he distanced himself from
Sandusky and the coach would sometimes come over to his house
looking for him.  “Sometimes if I got home I would look outside and he’d be
there and I’d grab the phone and hide in the closet, just hoping
he wouldn’t find me,” the man told jurors.  Second Mile served children with physical, emotional and
academic needs, according to its website. The charity said in
May that it would close and transfer its assets to a Houston-
based nonprofit.  Those assets more than tripled from 2002 through 2009,
according to Internal Revenue Service filings. Second Mile had
revenue of $2.7 million and net assets of $9 million, according
to its 2010 annual report. Sandusky was the group’s primary
fundraiser.  Sterling Reputation  Throughout the trial, Amendola sought to convince jurors
that state police troopers who investigated the cases against
Sandusky coached witnesses into making the sexual abuse claims.
He also produced other retired Penn State football coaches to
testify about Sandusky’s sterling reputation in the community.  Dottie Sandusky , the defendant’s wife, told jurors she
never had any indication that her husband abused boys he
befriended over the years.  After jury deliberations began, lawyers for one of Jerry
Sandusky’s adopted children, Matt Sandusky, said he had been
abused by the former coach and had offered to testify in the
case, his lawyers said.  Andrew Shubin and Justine Andronici, Matt Sandusky’s
lawyers, said in a statement that they arranged a meeting
between him and prosecutors and investigators at their client’s
request. They gave no details and didn’t say why prosecutors
didn’t call Matt Sandusky to testify.  Advocates for sexual abuse victims hailed Sandusky’s
conviction as evidence that juries are willing to hold abusers
accountable regardless of their status in communities.  “This verdict shows the country that when allegations of
such abuse are brought to light, they will be taken seriously
and that a just outcome is possible,” Scott Berkowitz, founder
and president Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania at  dag5225@psu.edu ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  