-- Greece Seeks at Least Two-Year Extension to Bailout Goals
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-23T12:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/greek-government-to-seek-at-least-2-year-extension-to-bailout.html
Greece will push its creditors to
extend fiscal deadlines under the country’s bailout program by
at least two years, according to a policy document drawn up by
the three parties in the country’s governing coalition.  New Democracy , Pasok and the Democratic Left agree that
plans to cut 150,000 public-sector jobs should be scrapped, the
document, received by e-mail from the Greek government today,
showed. Proposals also include reducing  sales tax  for cafes,
bars, restaurants and the agricultural industry, and increasing
the threshold for paying income tax.  The government affirmed its commitment for the need to
reduce deficits, control debt and implement the structural
reforms the country needs, the policy statement showed.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras held his first Cabinet
meeting on June 21 after his New Democracy party won Greece’s
general election on June 17 on pledges to renegotiate parts of
the 130 billion-euro ($163 billion) second bailout from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  while keeping
Greece in the euro. Samaras joined forces with Pasok, which
finished third on June 17, and sixth-placed Democratic Left.  Greece has slipped behind budget-cutting targets that euro-
area nations and the IMF imposed in exchange for 240 billion
euros in aid pledges in the past two years.  Spending Cuts  The policy document underlines that cuts envisioned for
2013 and 2014 should come from public spending and clamping down
on  tax evasion  and not from pension and wage cuts or from the
public investment budget.  The government will also propose that a law cutting the
minimum wage by 22 percent be repealed, the coalition partners
said in the document. Unemployment benefit should be paid for
two years instead of one.  The coalition partners plan to create a stable tax system
for the next 10 years with lower indirect tax rates and will ask
for pension fund portfolios, which suffered losses when their
Greek bonds were tendered in the country’s debt swap, to be
recapitalized, the document showed.  Samaras’s campaign pledge to cut tax rates for businesses
to 15 percent from 2013 hasn’t been included in the list of
issues to be negotiated, the document shows.  The partners support state-asset sales, a key plank of
plans to reduce  Greece ’s debt, and will negotiate with creditors
that some of them, like the national rail company OSE, be
carried out through public-private partnerships, according to
the document.  The Greek state is seeking to raise 50 billion euros from
state assets, half of which are real estate, by 2020 to meet
conditions of its bailout agreement. The process was halted
after the country’s first election on May 6 produced no
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  