-- India Prepares to Counter Rupee’s Slide
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-25T11:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/india-plans-measures-to-curb-rupee-s-slide-finance-chief-says.html
India  boosted the amount of
 government bonds  foreign investors can purchase by $5 billion,
seeking to bolster demand for the rupee after it tumbled to a
record low against the dollar.  Foreign institutional investors can now purchase $20
billion worth of  government securities , up from $15 billion, the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in a statement today. Long-term
overseas buyers such as sovereign wealth funds, central banks
and pension funds will be allowed to invest in the debt directly
to broaden the base of investors, the Reserve Bank also said.  The rupee pared gains after the statement as expectations
of wider steps, spurred by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s
comments two days ago that officials will announce measures to
stabilize the currency, were disappointed. The rupee is  Asia ’s
worst performer of the past year, having tumbled 21 percent
versus the dollar, and its decline has contributed to an
inflation rate that the central bank deemed last week too high
to allow an interest-rate cut.  “These are just stop-gap arrangements and disappointing
after they built up high expectations,” said  Sonal Varma , a
Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The underlying
issues of more economic reforms and cutting subsidies are still
not being addressed. What has the government done to reduce the
fiscal deficit and curb the current-account deficit?”  The rupee pared gains after the announcement, climbing 0.2
percent to 57.06 per dollar as of 4:38 p.m. in Mumbai after
earlier surging as much as 1.3 percent. The currency reached an
all-time low on June 22 of 57.3275 per dollar. The BSE India
Sensitive Index slipped 0.5 percent. The yield on the 8.15
percent bond due June 2022 was little changed at 8.08 percent.  Overseas Borrowing  The Reserve Bank also said today that certain manufacturing
and infrastructure companies that earn foreign exchange can
borrow from overseas to repay rupee loans for capital
expenditure, or to fund such spending. The ceiling for the
facility is $10 billion, the central bank said.  Qualified foreign investors can now put money into mutual
funds with at least 25 percent of their assets in the
infrastructure sector, the Reserve Bank also said.  The monetary authority on Nov. 17 increased the caps on
overseas investors’ holdings of India’s local-currency
government debt and corporate bonds by $5 billion each.  Policy makers are considering as many as 12 measures to
halt the rupee’s slide, a government official familiar with the
plan said before today’s announcement. The official asked not to
be identified because the details weren’t public.  Foreign Debt  Indian companies face a record $5.3 billion of maturing
foreign-currency debt this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
At the sovereign level,  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook for India
to negative on June 18, joining S&P in signaling the country is
at risk of losing its investment-grade status. Moody’s Investors
Service said today it is maintaining its stable outlook.  While most emerging-market currencies have retreated in
recent months as  Europe ’s crisis prompted investors to flee
riskier assets, the rupee has underperformed as India failed to
rein in its  budget deficit  and economic reforms stalled.  Officials stepped up the fight to steady the rupee earlier
this year. The efforts included curbs on trading in currency
derivatives to rein in volatility and a move to boost the supply
of dollars by cutting the amount of overseas income companies
can hold in foreign currency to 50 percent from 100 percent.
India has also raised  interest rates  on non-rupee deposits.  Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said June 22 that the central
bank has asked oil refiners to obtain 50 percent of their dollar
requirements from a single state-owned bank.  Price Pressures  India’s benchmark  inflation rate  has remained elevated even
as that of other Asian nations retreats. Wholesale prices rose
7.55 percent in May from a year before, compared with 7.23
percent in April, stoked in part by food costs.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has seen its
agenda stymied by opposition from its own coalition allies, and
last year suspended a plan to allow overseas retailers such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open supermarkets selling multiple
brands in the country. An anti-corruption bill and proposals to
allow foreign direct investment in pensions have also stalled.  The government allows companies that sell products under a
single brand to own operations in India. Swedish furniture
retailer IKEA will boost the amount of products sourced from the
nation significantly and may invest 600 million euros ($749
million) to open stores, the government said last week.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2003. The
trade deficit widened to a record $184.9 billion in the fiscal
year ended March. The government projects unprecedented
borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees ($100 billion) in 2012-2013 to
fund its budget shortfall.  Mukherjee, the ruling Congress party’s nominee for the
largely ceremonial role of president, said on Bloomberg UTV
today he will resign from his current post tomorrow. A group of
federal and state legislators elects the next president July 19.  While Mukherjee’s successor has yet to be named, the
approaching personnel shift in India’s leadership may offer
Singh an opportunity to reinvigorate the government’s agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  