-- Egypt-Brokered Cease-Fire With Israel Declared by Hamas
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-23T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/israeli-strikes-gaza-strip-prompting-hamas-retaliation-warnings.html
A spokesman for Hamas, which rules
the  Gaza Strip , said the group would be watching  Israel ’s
commitment to a cease-fire announced last night that was to end
rocket fire from Gaza in return for a cessation of air strikes.  The truce, or calm, was to halt a round of violence that
left one Israeli and as many as 15 Palestinians dead while 150
rockets were launched at Israel. After the announcement of the
truce, five rockets fired from Gaza were intercepted by Israel’s
anti-missile Iron Dome system, according to an army spokeswoman,
speaking anonymously in accordance with regulation.  “A deal was brokered by  Egypt , after talking with both
sides, to restore calm starting tonight,” Ayman Taha said last
night on Palestine TV. “Hamas will be watching the situation on
the ground within the coming hours and also the seriousness of
the Israeli enemy’s commitment to the calm.”  The Hamas-announced cease-fire, the second it has said it
agreed to since the bloodshed began with an attack on the
Israeli-Egyptian border on June 18, came amid a delay in the
announcement of the winner of the presidential election in
Egypt.  A candidate for the Muslim Brotherhood has claimed victory
in that contest, raising security concerns in Israel exacerbated
by the violence on its border with Egypt. Israel has linked the
Brotherhood to Hamas, which has been designated a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union, and has
said that Palestinians in Gaza affiliated with the “global
jihad” movement were responsible for the June 18 attack.  Barak Seri, a spokesman for Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , said after Taha’s statement that the minister had
instructed Israeli forces to continue to act to stop rocket fire
from Gaza.  Hamas ‘Test’  “Hamas wants to test how much they can get away with, on
the assumption that in the coming months, when the Brotherhood
is in power,” its fighters will be able to escape to Egyptian
soil, said Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel.  Barak is among Israeli leaders who have voiced concerns
about worsening security on the border with Egypt, which signed
a peace treaty with the Jewish state more than three decades
ago. Seri said the minister told forces to prepare for a harsher
response should rocket fire on southern Israel continue.  “Hamas is feeling pretty confident because it feels Israel
has tried to lay down red lines and it has ignored them,” Spyer
said. “Hamas has a strategic sense of wind in its sails because
of the rise of the  Muslim Brotherhood .”  No Drones  After Taha’s televised statement, residents of Gaza
reported that Israeli drones and war planes were no longer
flying or hovering over the Hamas-controlled territory.  The Hamas-announced truce came after the Hamas militant
wing, the al-Qassam Brigades, warned that it that it could no
longer maintain “the quiet due to the enemy aerial strikes,”
adding that “retaliation will come at a proper place and
time.”  Late on June 20, Hamas said it had agreed to a truce. The
number of rockets and mortar shells fired from Gaza fell over
the next two days, only to rise again yesterday amid a growing
number of Israeli air strikes.  Egypt will announce the results of its presidential
election at 3 p.m. Cairo time today, the state-run Ahram Gate
website reported, citing Omar Salama, a member of the election
commission.  Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohamed Mursi claims he has
beaten Ahmed Shafik, the last prime minister under ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak . Shafik’s campaign has also declared
victory.  Akram Atallah, a political analyst at Gaza’s al-Azhar
University, said both sides have an interest in containing the
bloodshed.  “Both Hamas and Israel know very well that they won’t
start an extensive battle amid the changes in the Arab world,”
Atallah said by phone. “Israel doesn’t want to be involved in a
war that leads to a confrontation with Egypt, and Hamas is
seeking political privileges and not more escalation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  