-- Jerry Sandusky Jury Reaches Verdict in Child-Sex Case
-- B y   D r e w   G i n g r i c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-23T02:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/jerry-sandusky-jury-reaches-verdict-in-child-sex-case.html
A state court jury has reached a
verdict in the trial of Jerry Sandusky, the former Pennsylvania
State University assistant football coach accused of molesting
young boys.  Sandusky, 68, has been on trial since June 11 in state
court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. Jurors deliberated for about
20 hours over two days.  The former coach, who denied the allegations, rested his
defense without taking the witness stand. The jury started
deliberating yesterday after lawyers for each side made their
closing arguments.  Calling it a “daunting, daunting case,” lead defense
attorney Joseph Amendola said today at the courthouse that he
would be shocked if his client was acquitted on all counts, the
 Associated Press  reported. Amendola also said that Sandusky had
his wife, Dottie Sandusky, talk to a criminal defense lawyer,
“just to be careful,” the AP reported.  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity he founded in
1977, the Second Mile, to recruit victims, “grooming” them
with gifts, trips to football games and money, and luring them
into university athletic shower rooms, hotels and his house.
Some of his accusers took the witness stand to recount what
Sandusky allegedly did to them as children.  “When there’s overwhelming evidence, the defendant does a
number of things: He admits what he must, he denies what he can,
calls everyone a liar, makes counter-charges,” the prosecutor,
Joseph McGettigan, told the jury yesterday. “You always have to
accuse the victims, you always have to allege a conspiracy, and
that’s what you saw here.”  Adopted Son  After deliberations began, lawyers for one of Jerry
Sandusky’s adopted children, Matt Sandusky, said he had been
abused by the former coach and had offered to testify in the
case, the  New York  Times reported. Andrew Shubin and Justine
Andronici, Matt Sandusky’s lawyers, said in a statement that
they arranged a meeting between him and prosecutors and
investigators at their client’s request, according to the Times.
They gave no details and didn’t say why prosecutors didn’t call
Matt Sandusky to testify, the newspaper said.  Matt Sandusky’s lawyers didn’t return calls for further
comment and one of Jerry Sandusky’s attorneys, Karl Rominger,
declined to respond to the statement, the Times said. Matt
Sandusky, 33, had repeatedly denied being abused after the elder
Sandusky’s arrest, the newspaper said.  Jerry Sandusky faces 48 counts related to the alleged
assaults, including claims that he engaged in involuntary
deviate sexual intercourse with children under 16. Each of those
counts carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  Assistant’s Testimony  The panel asked to re-hear testimony from Michael McQueary,
the former Penn State football graduate assistant who said he
saw Sandusky sexually assault a boy in a shower. Jurors also
asked for the testimony of a defense witness who said McQueary
offered a different account of the incident.  On Feb. 9, 2001, McQueary saw in the football building
showers what prosecutors allege was Sandusky having anal sex
with a boy. McQueary initially told a grand jury that the
incident took place in March 2002. Prosecutors amended the date
last month, citing “specific and authenticated findings” from
an investigation. The identity of the boy is still unknown.  During most of a week of defense testimony, the defense
presented witnesses who attested to Sandusky’s good character.
His wife, Dottie, testified June 19 that she never had any
indication of the misconduct attributed to her husband.  “All of these alleged charges only go back to the 1990s.
So out of the blue, after all these years, when Mr. Sandusky is
in his mid-50s, he decides to become a pedophile?” Amendola
asked the jury. “Does that make sense to anybody?”  Games, Golf  Witnesses testified during the two-week trial that Sandusky
often had young men at his home and brought boys he had met
through the Second Mile to football games and golf outings.  “Jerry Sandusky took these kids everywhere,” Amendola
told jurors yesterday. Pedophiles don’t “parade” their victims
around in public, the lawyer argued.  McGettigan, the senior deputy attorney general representing
the state in the case, said the alleged victims testified that
Sandusky preyed on boys from “fatherless families” who sought
a male role model.  “That’s what you saw: a perfect, serial pedophile,” the
prosecutor said.  The case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  