-- Most Asian Stocks Rise as Greece Election Tempers Growth Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-23T00:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/most-asian-stocks-rise-as-greece-election-tempers-growth-concern.html
Most Asian stocks rose this week
after a victory by pro-bailout parties in  Greece  eased prospects
the country will leave the euro, overshadowing concern that the
global economy is slowing after reports signaled slower
manufacturing in the U.S. and  China .  Sony Corp. (6758) , a Japanese consumer electronics exporter that
gets a fifth of its sales in  Europe , surged 13 percent on
reports it is close to sealing alliances with Panasonic Corp.
and Olympus Corp. amid speculation further gains by the yen will
be limited.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest
oil producer, slid 3.1 percent as crude declined for a second
week and the  Federal Reserve  cut its outlook for growth in the
world’s largest economy.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
China’s second-biggest developer, pared losses of as much as 20
percent as after denying allegations by a short seller that it’s
insolvent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index ended the week little changed
at 114.14, as more than two stocks rose for every one that fell.
More than $5 trillion has been erased from global equities since
March amid slowing economic growth in the U.S. and China, and a
spreading  European debt crisis  that pushed Spain’s borrowing
costs to a record.  ‘Sigh of Relief’  The Greek election result brought a “short-term sigh of
relief,” said Belinda Allen, senior investment analyst at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management in Sydney, which
oversees about $145 billion. “It removes the tail risk event
that we were concerned about in terms of Greece leaving the
European Union immediately. We all know there’s still a long and
hard road ahead for Greece and the problems of Europe aren’t
solved by this election.”  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 2.7 percent this
week as the yen weakened against the dollar, boosting the value
of earnings for exporters when repatriated. The yen fell 2.2
percent, the biggest weekly decline since February for Japan’s
currency. The Topix Index climbed 3.4 percent.  Sony advanced 13 percent to 1,163 yen. Sony and Panasonic,
Japan’s biggest makers of TVs, may announce an agreement next
week to cooperate in making sets that use new organic light-
emitting diode displays, company officials said June 22, asking
not to be identified because the plan is private. The Nikkei
newspaper reported Sony may invest about 50 billion yen ($624
million) to get a stake of about 10 percent in Olympus.  Canon, Honda  Canon Inc., the country’s No.1 camera maker, added 1.7
percent to 3,250 yen.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s second-largest
carmaker by market value, rose 6 percent to 2,686 yen.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.2 percent this week
and South Korea’s Kospi slid 0.6 percent.  Greek’s Prime Minister Antonis Samaras held his first
Cabinet meeting June 20 after his New Democracy party won
Greece’s general election on June 17 on pledges to renegotiate
parts of a 130 billion-euro ($163 billion) second bailout from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  while keeping
Greece in the euro.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 1.2 percent this week as a
survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed China’s
manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month.  ‘Getting Worse’  In the U.S., the Fed cut its estimates for growth and said
it sees little progress on unemployment during the rest of the
year. The Fed will expand its Operation Twist program to replace
short-term bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion through
the end of 2012. Reports showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region shrank to the lowest level since August and
sales of previously owned homes fell in May.  “Things are still getting worse,” said Peter Elston,
Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific strategy at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which oversees about $270 billion. “When you
have an essentially weak private sector, you’re relying on the
government to step in and support things. You’re seeing a
gradual weakening of the ability of governments to step in.”  Exporters to the U.S. and China declined.  Samsung
Electronics (005930)  fell 2.9 percent to 1.182 million won in  Seoul . Li &
Fung Ltd., a supplier of toys and clothes to retailers including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., sank 4.7 percent to HK$14.48 in Hong Kong.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, fell
1 percent to A$31.52. Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s
second-biggest oil producer, slid 3.1 percent to A$31.36 as
crude declined for a second week. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest
offshore oil producer, sank 5.4 percent to HK$14.38.  Evergrande lost 17 percent to HK$3.83. The Chinese real-
estate developer denied allegations by short-seller Citron
Research that it used “accounting tricks and bribes” to hide
that it’s insolvent, in a statement to the Hong Kong exchange.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  slumped more than 11 percent from its
peak on Feb. 29 through June 22, dragging shares on the index to
1.23 times  book value . That compares with 2.1 times for the S&P
500 and 1.35 times for the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A number below one means companies can be bought
for less than value of their assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  