-- Paraguay Swears in Franco After President Lugo Impeached
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-25T13:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/paraguay-swears-in-franco-after-president-lugo-impeached.html
Latin American governments are
stepping up pressure on  Paraguay  after Congress ousted Fernando Lugo from the presidency, with  Argentina  and  Brazil  withdrawing
their ambassadors and  Venezuela  halting oil supplies.  Lugo, a former Roman Catholic bishop, was removed from
office in a 39-4 vote on June 22 by the opposition-controlled
Senate for encouraging land seizures and fomenting violence, 24
hours after the lower house voted to impeach him. Vice President
Federico Franco, a one-time ally turned critic of Lugo, was
sworn in as president.  Leaders of the Mercosur trade block that includes much of
 South America  will coordinate their response to the crisis at a
previously-scheduled summit on June 29 in Mendoza, Argentina.
Paraguay, a founding member of the bloc, was banned yesterday
from taking part in the summit, while Lugo has said he will
attend.  “We don’t think Federico Franco -- I’m not calling him
President Franco -- has political authority to ask President
Lugo to mediate international conflicts,” Lugo told reporters
today in images transmitted on Chilean television. “The
majority of the international community recognizes we had an
institutional breakdown in the democratic process here.”  Lugo said he has asked to speak at the Mercosur meeting to
explain what happened in Paraguay. Neighboring Argentina has
withdrawn its ambassador to Paraguay, while Brazil,  Mexico  and
 Chile  called their ambassadors back for consultations.
Venezuela, Ecuador and  Bolivia  have all said they won’t
recognize the new government.  Hugo Chavez  “We won’t support a coup d’etat directly or indirectly,”
Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez  said yesterday after
announcing the end to oil shipments. “That was an express
trial, illegal, unconstitutional, invalid and worthless. The
president of Paraguay continues to be President Fernando Lugo.”  Venezuela delivered 7,500 barrels of oil and oil products a
day to Paraguay in 2011, according to the state-owned Petroleos
de Venezuela SA. The shipments are part of the Caracas Energy
Cooperation Accord, signed in 2000, which helps finance oil for
Caribbean, Central American and some South American countries.
Under the accord, countries have as many as 15 years to pay for
oil purchases, including a one-and-a-half-year grace period at
an annual interest rate of 2 percent.  April Elections  Franco, whose Authentic Radical Liberal Party partnered
with its arch-rival the Colorado Party to remove Lugo, said that
he’ll lead a transitional government until elections scheduled
for April 2013 take place.  “I know that Unasur will be able to understand the
situation of crisis that Paraguay was going through,” Franco,
49, said in a press conference June 23, referring to the Union
of South American Nations.  Lugo yesterday called for peaceful protests against what he
called a “congressional coup” and the “fake government” led
by Franco.  Since ending six decades of Colorado Party rule in 2008,
Lugo had failed to build support for his policies of
redistributing land in the world’s fourth-largest soybean
exporter and was blamed by the opposition for mounting violence.
The final straw came on June 15, when a shootout between
landless peasants and police left 17 dead, including six police.  Lugo, 61, had called on the  Supreme Court  to declare the
impeachment process unconstitutional and demanded more time to
prepare his defense against charges of negligence and
incompetence in the shootout deaths. He was blamed for a rise in
crime, humiliating the country’s once-dominant military and
ceding Paraguay’s energy sovereignty to its neighbors.  Stroessner Dictatorship  Since General Alfredo Stroessner’s three-decade
dictatorship as the head of the Colorado party ended in 1989,
Paraguay has been marred by political turmoil including
assassination, a coup attempt and a previous presidential
impeachment. The army, hours before Lugo was removed, vowed to
respect whoever was named his replacement.  The U.S. State Department said that it was watching the
situation closely.  “We urge all Paraguayans to act peacefully, with calm and
responsibility, in the spirit of Paraguay’s democratic
principles,” Darla Jordan, a spokeswoman for the State
Department, said in an e-mailed statement after the trial.  While Lugo struggled throughout his presidency to build
alliances, and saw his credibility shaken after he acknowledged
fathering, as a priest, two of four children named in paternity
suits against him, he oversaw a period of economic prosperity.  Economic Growth  Spurred by strong demand for its beef and soy, especially
from  China , gross domestic product expanded 3.8 percent last
year and 15 percent in 2010, the fastest in Latin America,
according to the  United Nations ’ economic unit for the region,
known as Cepal for its initials in Spanish. Strong growth and
better public finances helped the country win two credit rating
upgrades since 2010 by  Standard & Poor’s .  The central bank had taken steps to emulate Brazil and
begin targeting inflation, and the government even considered
selling its first-ever international bond.  Paraguay suffered a drought in the first quarter and will
see its GDP contract 1.5 percent this year -- the only economy
in the region to shrink, according to forecasts published by
Cepal this month.  Economic Challenges  “It’s incredible that this is happening to a president who
has achieved economic growth of more than 25 percent in the last
four years,” pro-Lugo Senator Alberto Grillon told Buenos
Aires-based Todo Noticias television channel on June 22.  Still, the Germany-sized country remains one of  Latin
America ’s poorest, with land concentrated in the hands of a few
farmers and a large segment of the economy dependent on the
smuggling of imported goods to Brazil and Argentina. Despite
attempts by Lugo to impose a levy on personal income to fund
infrastructure investments, the country’s tax rate remains one
of the lowest in Latin America and more than 20 percent of the
population lives in poverty, according to the IMF.  Franco, a former surgeon, told Congress he’ll continue with
Lugo’s government plan until his successor takes office in
August next year. The government hasn’t yet named anyone to
replace Lugo’s Finance Minister Dionisio Borda.  “The social problem will be fundamental for this
government,” Franco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 