-- RBS’s Hester ‘Very Sorry’ as Glitch Halts Cash Withdrawals
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-23T17:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/rbs-s-hester-very-sorry-as-glitch-halts-cash-withdrawals-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
customers with accounts at its NatWest and  Ulster Bank  units
have been “let down” after a systems failure left many unable
to withdraw money, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said.  The two banks extended opening hours at more than 1,000
branches in the U.K. and Ireland this weekend following what the
bank said was “systems outage” which started on June 19.
Hester said 1,200 branches will open tomorrow.  “I am very sorry for the difficulties people are
experiencing,” Hester said in a  statement  on the company’s
website today. “Our customers rely on us day in and day out to
get things right, and on this occasion we have let them down.
Right now my top priority, and the priority of the entire RBS
Group, is to fix these problems and put things right for our
customers.”  More than 900 NatWest branches opened with extended
operating hours today to help with enquiries and provide access
to cash, the bank said in a statement on its website. Ulster
Bank, RBS’s Irish unit, has extended hours at many branches in
 Northern Ireland  and the  Republic of Ireland  and will open a
limited number on Sunday.  The computer failure on June 21 caused problems with cash
withdrawals and money transfers for NatWest customers and a
delay in processing payments for Ulster Bank customers.  NatWest said the initial problem had been resolved and that
its priority was to address a “backlog” as soon as possible.  “This is taking time, but I want to reassure people that
we are working around the clock to resolve these problems as
quickly as we are able,” Hester said. “I also want to be clear
that where our customers are facing hardship or difficulty we
can and will help them.” He said no customers “will be left
permanently out of pocket as a result of this.”  RBS, which is 82 percent taxpayer owned, faces increased
competition for accounts from banks in the U.K., including
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)  The bank has
about 15 million personal banking customers across its brands
and declined to specify how many were affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  