-- Treasury Yield Curve Flattens After Fed’s Twist Extension
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-23T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/treasury-yield-curve-flattens-after-fed-s-twist-extension.html
The gap between yields on 10- and
30-year Treasuries narrowed for a second week after the Federal
Reserve extended its Operation Twist program to replace short-
term notes in its holdings with longer-term debt to spur growth.  U.S. government  securities  fell amid speculation European
leaders will make progress on curbing their sovereign-debt
crisis. The  European Central Bank  loosened collateral rules to
ease access to its funds, and leaders of  Germany ,  France ,  Italy 
and  Spain  agreed to cooperate on a growth plan for the euro
bloc.  The Treasury will auction $99 billion of notes next week.  “The extension of Operation Twist and further buying on
the long end is a recipe for a flatter curve,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and agency
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “Yields have risen a bit as
the Greek elections passed without  Europe  blowing up, and there
is positive chatter coming from the region.”  The difference, called the  yield curve , narrowed two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 109 basis points, from 111
on June 15. It decreased last week less than one basis point as
investors speculated the Fed would extend Operation Twist. The
average over the past year is 1.15 basis points.  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed 10 basis points to 1.67
percent yesterday in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The securities yielded 1.58 percent on June 15. The
1.75 percent notes due May 2022 fell 7/8, or $8.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 22/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields increased eight basis points to
2.76 percent.  Volatility Drops  Volatility in the Treasuries market tumbled for the first
week in almost two months, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index. It dropped 20 basis points, the most since
June 2009, to 75.1 basis points, the lowest level in June. It
reached a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points June 15, and touched a
low for the year at 56.7 on May 7. The index measures price
swings based on options.  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes becoming less
expensive. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the  Federal Reserve , was negative 0.81 percent yesterday after
reaching negative 0.94 percent on June 1, the costliest level
ever, as investors sought refuge from Europe’s turmoil. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value. The average over the
past decade is 0.50 percent.  Fed Meeting  Fed policy makers, after a two-day meeting that ended June
20, extended Operation Twist through year-end expanded it by
$267 billion. The program had been scheduled to purchase $400
billion of longer-term Treasuries through the end of June.  “The Fed’s decision is a volatility crusher,”  Carl Lantz ,
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said June 20. The firm is one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “It’s more beneficial for the
long end than the intermediate sector, which means more
flattening of the curve and strength in the long end.”  While the central bank refrained from introducing a third
round of large-scale debt purchases under quantitative easing,
it lowered its economic forecasts. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers are prepared to consider additional steps to spur
growth and employment, including further asset purchases.  Treasuries extended losses yesterday after the ECB said it
will relax some rules on the collateral banks can offer in
exchange for central-bank funds. The Governing Council will
lower rating thresholds and amend eligibility requirements for
some asset-backed securities, the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  European Leaders  German, Italian, French and Spanish leaders agreed before a
European Union summit June 28-29 to cooperate on a growth plan
of as much as 130 billion euros ($163 billion) for the 17-nation
currency bloc. They spoke to reporters yesterday after meeting
in  Rome . No specifics about the plan were offered.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said growth and employment
must become the focus of European leaders and called for a
closer political union. Greek leaders established a three-party
coalition government following two elections.  “There are positive signs coming from the  euro zone  that
are weighing on Treasuries, and policy makers are beginning to
make some good steps,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at the
primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York. “Still, there
is a lot of uncertainty, and the Fed’s extension of Operation
Twist is helping to cap any selloff. The market is settling in
around these levels, as we will be here for a while.”  Manufacturing Shrinks  Treasuries rose earlier in the week as data showed more
Americans than forecast filed claims for jobless benefits,
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank and sales of
existing homes fell. A Chinese output gauge also indicated
contraction and euro-area manufacturing shrank.  The government will sell $35 billion of two-year debt on
June 26, the same amount of five-year securities the next day
and $29 billion of seven-year notes on June 28.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their  net-short position  in 10-year note futures in the week
ending June 19, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 22,997 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 72,388 contracts, or
76 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  U.S. government debt  returned 2.9 percent from the end of
March through yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index, amid concern Europe’s
financial woes were worsening and U.S. growth was slowing. The
10-year note yield reached a record low of 1.44 percent on June
1 before climbing on bets policy makers and central banks would
act to stem the crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index lost 4.7
percent this quarter as of yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  