-- Renesas May Sell 50 Billion Yen of Shares to KKR, Nikkei Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 2012-06-23T02:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/renesas-may-sell-50-billion-yen-of-shares-to-kkr-nikkei-says.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
Japanese chipmaker seeking financial aid after five straight
quarterly losses, may sell 50 billion yen ($622 million) of new
shares to KKR & Co., the Nikkei newspaper said.  The U.S. private equity fund favors spinning off the
system-chip business at the Kawasaki-based company, the Nikkei
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  KKR declined to comment on the Nikkei report, it said in an
e-mailed response to a query from Bloomberg News. Yoichi
Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, didn’t immediately return a
phone call outside regular business hours.  Renesas is said to have asked for 100 billion yen in
assistance after it posted losses amid a slowdown in demand for
system chips used inside TVs and computers. Banks including
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. have agreed to continue
offering almost 50 billion yen in lines of credit to Renesas,
two people with knowledge of the matter have said.  NEC Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. said June 20 they plan to
support Renesas, although details haven’t been decided. The two
companies and Mitsubishi Electric Corp.  own  a combined 91
percent of Renesas, the world’s largest maker of
microcontrollers for cars.  Mitsubishi Electric President Kenichiro Yamanishi said May
21 his company may consider “taking some kind of action” to
help Renesas.  KKR, Silver Lake  KKR and  Silver Lake , another U.S. private equity fund, are
in talks to invest “several tens of billions of yen” in
Renesas, the Yomiuri newspaper reported June 21, without saying
where it got the information. Renesas plans to cut about 14,000
jobs as it seeks to close or sell 11 of 19 domestic plants, the
report said.  Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric will provide a combined 34
billion yen in loans, the Asahi newspaper said June 19. NEC,
 Japan ’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, proposed
extending payment deadlines for loans, the report said.  Renesas posted a net loss of 62.6 billion yen in the year
ended March 31 as orders for system chips fell. The strengthened
yen also eroded earnings from overseas, while last year’s record
earthquake in Japan and subsequent flooding in  Thailand 
disrupted production.  The company’s customers include consumer-electronics makers
Sony Corp., Panasonic Corp. and Sharp Corp., which posted a
combined 1.6 trillion yen in losses last fiscal year amid
declining demand for televisions and competition from South
Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Chang in  San Francisco  at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  