-- Tropical Storm Forms, Curtails Production in Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-24T00:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/tropical-storm-forms-curtails-production-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
other oil and gas companies curtailed production in the Gulf of
Mexico today as a weather system strengthened into Tropical
Storm Debby, the fourth named storm of the year.  The U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
said 7.8 percent of oil production and 8.2 percent of natural
gas production in the Gulf has been halted. Anadarko stopped
production at four platforms, and BP started shutting some oil
and natural-gas wells.  Apache Corp. (APA)  and two other companies
began evacuating non-essential workers from some Gulf facilities.  Debby was nearly stationary at 8 p.m. New York time with
maximum sustained winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
according to the National Hurricane Center. The projected path
of the storm has it headed toward the Louisiana coastline, west
of New Orleans, as early as Monday afternoon, and then moving
west along the Gulf Coast toward Texas.  “We do have it strengthening, and it certainly can’t be
ruled out that it will reach hurricane strength, but right now
all we’re projecting is a tropical storm,”  Dennis Feltgen , a
spokesman for the hurricane center in Miami, said in a telephone
interview.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural
gas production, 29 percent of oil output and 40 percent of
refining capacity. Offshore oil and natural gas platforms need
to carry out evacuations well in advance of a storm’s arrival,
so any system in the Gulf can cause production disruptions.  BP, Apache, Chevron  BP, Apache and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said on their websites that
they began evacuating non-essential personnel from some Gulf
facilities today.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said it’s evacuating non-
essential employees from its Magnolia platform.  BP Plc began shutting some oil and natural-gas wells in the
 Gulf of Mexico  as the company evacuated workers and contractors
from offshore platforms and drilling rigs in the expected path
of Debby, Brett Clanton, a Houston-based spokesman for BP,
commented in an e-mailed statement.  Anadarko halted production at its Neptune, Independence Hub,
Constitution and Marco Polo facilities in the eastern and
central Gulf of Mexico, the company said on its website. The
company will evacuate all employees from the platforms, it said.  Shutdowns, Evacuations  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  yesterday shut the Neptune and Shenzi
platforms, which can together produce 150,000 barrels of oil a
day and 100 million cubic feet of gas.  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  began
evacuating non-essential workers yesterday, as did Anadarko,
Marathon Oil Corp.,  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , Enterprise Products Partners LP
and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may evacuate some non-essential
workers from central and western Gulf rigs in the next few days,
the company said on its website.  In addition, ERA Helicopters LLC of St. Charles, Louisiana,
reported it’s ferrying workers from off-shore platforms. Melanie Landry, a spokeswoman for ERA, declined to comment on which
companies had called for evacuations.  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics
Inc . in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said this is the first real threat
of the year in the Gulf of Mexico and with the relatively mild
start to summer, “This will get the traders looking and saying,
‘Hey, we got something ominous for the Gulf.”’  Wind Shear  Wind shear in the Gulf is pushing most of Debby’s wind
speed and thunderstorms to its eastern edge, said Mike Pigott, a
senior meteorologist with State College, Pennsylvania-based
AccuWeather Inc.  “As long as it remains over the open, warm waters of the
Gulf, it could continue to gain strength,” he said. “If the
shear relaxes, it could become a hurricane before reaching
Texas.”  A storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 miles per hour,
and becomes a hurricane at 73 miles per hour.  Debby is the fourth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. It’s first time since record-
keeping began in 1851 that four storms have formed in the
Atlantic before July 1, Feltgen said.  “This is the seventh Atlantic season in recorded history
where three storms have formed before July 1,” Feltgen said.
“We have never gone with four storms before July 1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  