-- Saudi Shares Drop on Oil Price Decline, Fed Economic Forecast
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-23T12:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/saudi-shares-drop-on-oil-price-decline-fed-economic-forecast.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia, the only
Gulf Arab stock market open on Saturdays, fell the most in more
than a week as oil prices declined and after the U.S. Federal
Reserve cut its economic forecast.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker known as Sabic, dropped for the first time
in four days.  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  fell the most since
June 12.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the biggest by market value, lost the
most in a week. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.9
percent 6,774.26 in Riyadh at the close.  Stocks “are clearly responding to downward pressure in
oil,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based National
Commercial Bank, said in a phone interview. “The oil price is
something that fuels the fiscal engine and the broader economic
mood.”  Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy that depends on oil
exports to support government spending, is the largest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC’s
basket of crudes dropped on June 22 below $90 a barrel for the
first time in more than 17 months.  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for U.S. economic
growth and raised their predictions for unemployment in each of
the next three years. Policy makers now see 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent growth in 2012, down from their April forecast of 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent.  The Saudi market is “slightly down because of the reduced
growth rates in the U.S.,” Turki Fadaak, head of research at
Albilad Investment Co. in  Riyadh , said today.  Sabic declined 0.5 percent to 91.5 riyals, the lowest close
since June 18, while Saudi Kayan fell 1 percent to 15.1 riyals.
Al-Rajhi dropped 1 percent to 73.5 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  