-- UN Summit Made Progress on Sustainability, Gillard Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-23T04:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-23/un-summit-made-progress-on-sustainability-gillard-says-1-.html
Commitments on setting sustainable
development goals, addressing overfishing and recognition of how
 climate change  affects oceans are among the achievements of the
 Rio+20  summit, Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “Collective action is hard and global collective action is
even harder but things have been progressed here,” Gillard told
reporters at the conference in  Rio de Janeiro , according to an
e-mailed transcript. “We now want to see, following this
meeting, a stronger oceans governance regime under the UN
convention on the law of the sea.”  The summit has been assailed by world leaders and
environmentalists for not setting strong enough goals, as heads
of developing nations including China and  Bolivia  criticized
efforts to cap fossil fuel use as a ploy by richer nations to
maintain their dominance. Still, the UN obtained voluntary
pledges worth $513 billion from governments and corporations for
projects to reduce fossil fuel use, stimulate renewable energy,
conserve water and alleviate poverty.  The European Union supports an “inclusive green economy”
that balances opportunities for businesses and  job creation 
while preserving the environment, Janez Potocnik, European
Commissioner for the Environment, said in a statement today.  A sustainable development finance strategy, which the
conference has agreed to establish, must combine existing
development aid with private investments, and involve global
financial institutions, Potocnik said.  Development, Conservation  Australia , seeking to reduce the country’s dependence on
fossil fuels and fight climate change, will introduce a price on
 carbon emissions , set to start on July 1 at A$23 a metric ton.
It will transition in 2015 to an emissions trading system that
lets the market determine the cost.  In Australia, the clash between development and
environmental conservation has been most evident in the Great
Barrier Reef, the world’s largest collection of corals and the
only living thing on earth visible from space. The UN warned
earlier this month that the reef, home to more than 1,500
species of fish, is under threat from coastal developments,
ports and natural gas projects, and may be endangered within a
year without better protection.  ‘Small Impact’  Australian Environment Minister Tony Burke earlier this
month said the government plans to create the world’s most
comprehensive network of marine parks. The number of reserves
will more than double to 60 and the network will cover more than
a third of the nation’s waters, he said on June 14.  “We’re talking about a very very small impact on
commercial fishing,” Gillard said today. “We are talking about
marine reserves that we manage as conservation zones because of
how precious our ocean environments are to us as an island
continent.”  The Rio summit, which concluded yesterday, agreed to review
the UN’s Millennium Development Goals as a guide to developing a
set of sustainable development aims by 2015, Gillard said. It
also reached agreements to strengthen the role of the UN
environment program, and a pact to replace the commission on
sustainable development with a “high-level political forum,”
she said.  “I do not believe that this meeting will make change
tomorrow,” Gillard said. “But I do believe that the things
that have been agreed here will over time make a difference to
our world’s environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  