-- ‘Mama’ Opens as Box Office Leader Over ‘Zero Dark Thirty’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-01-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/-mama-opens-as-box-office-leader-over-zero-dark-thirty-.html
The horror tale “Mama” opened as
the top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, displacing
Oscar contender “Zero Dark Thirty” as the two films starring
Jessica Chastain vied for the top spot in the holiday weekend.  “Mama,” with $33 million in sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , surpassed Kathryn Bigelow’s look at the hunt
for  Osama bin Laden , which fell to second with $18.7 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said in an e-mailed
statement. The results include estimates for yesterday’s U.S.
Martin Luther King holiday.  The sales reflected the growing box-office appeal of
Chastain. She received a best-actress Oscar nomination this
month for her portrayal in “Zero Dark Thirty” of a relentless
CIA officer who uncovers information that leads to the killing
of bin Laden. Her character in “Mama” takes two young
relatives into her home with frightening consequences.  “It is very rare indeed for a star to boast appearing in
the top two movies,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office unit, in an e-mailed comment.
“Chastain’s profile, after so many great performances in
numerous movies over the past couple of years, is now hitting a
very high point.”  In “Mama,” two young girls disappear in the woods on the
day their mother is murdered. Five years later, they are
discovered living in a feral state in a remote cabin.  Oscar Buzz  Their uncle and his girlfriend, played by Chastain, take
them in. Soon after the girls arrive, the couple discovers that
a malevolent force has followed the girls into the home. Nikolaj
Coster-Waldau co-stars as the uncle.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” also nominated for best picture, is
benefiting from Oscar buzz and the political debate over the
film’s depiction of harsh interrogation techniques by the CIA.  Dianne Feinstein , who chairs the U.S. Senate Intelligence
Committee, has said the movie falsely suggests techniques such
as waterboarding provided key information. The California
Democrat has called for an investigation into whether the CIA
has been honest about the value of such methods.  “Zero Dark Thirty” follows a team of operatives who use a
variety of methods, including interrogation, satellite photos
and on-the-ground surveillance, to locate bin Laden’s compound
in Abbottabad,  Pakistan . The movie also depicts bin Laden’s 2011
death during a raid by U.S. Navy Seals.  In addition to Chastain, the film features Joel Edgerton,
Kyle Chandler and  James Gandolfini .  Perfect Timing  Weinstein Co.’s “Silver Linings Playbook,” which expanded
to 2,523 theaters from 810 last week, rose to third from 10th
with sales of $13 million over four days. The movie, starring
 Bradley Cooper ,  Jennifer Lawrence  and Robert DeNiro, tells of an
adult son who returns to his parents’ home after months in a
psychiatric hospital.  “Silver Linings” benefited from the additional theaters
and was able “to capitalize on multiple Oscar nominations,”
Dergarabedian said. “The timing could not have been more
perfect.”  “Gangster Squad,” starring  Josh Brolin  as the leader of a
special team of Los Angeles Police Department detectives
assigned to take on mobster Mickey Cohen, finished fourth,
taking in $10.3 million. The movie, set in 1949, features  Sean Penn  as Cohen and  Ryan Gosling  as one of the detectives.  “A Haunted House” dropped to fifth from second, with $9.7
million in sales. The movie, a spoof of the horror genrea from
Open Road Films, stars Marlon Wayans and Essence Atkins as a
couple who discover they are sharing their new house with
demons. Priests, a psychic and a team of ghostbusters all are
summoned to make the home safe.  Wahlberg, Schwarzenegger  The crime drama “Broken City,” new this past weekend, was
sixth  with $9.5 million in receipts. The film, from  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, stars  Mark Wahlberg  as a former
police officer who seeks to clear his name after being framed by
the mayor, played by  Russell Crowe .  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s comeback film “The Last Stand”
opened in 10th place with $7.2 million for  Lions Gate . The one-
time bodybuilder and real-life California governor plays a
former Los Angeles Police Department detective who moves into
semi-retirement by becoming the sheriff of a small town on the
Mexican border. His life is disrupted when a drug kingpin
escapes from FBI custody.  The film, distributed by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
also features Forest Whitaker and Luis Guzman.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 1.1 percent to $139.7
million from the year-earlier four-day holiday, Hollywood.com
said. Sales for the first three weeks of the year are up 7
percent to  $658.2 million. Attendance is up 6.8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan.
18-20. Estimates for yesterday’s holiday sales are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  