-- Got the Flu? The Market Can Fix That.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/a-better-flu-vaccine-requires-public-private-cooperation.html
Influenza vaccines are the best
weapons we’ve got against a disease that each year kills as many
as a  half-million people , including  3,000 to 49,000  Americans.
Yet this season’s  worse-than-usual  flu in the U.S. underscores
the limitations of the existing vaccines.  Shortcomings include the inability to rapidly expand
vaccine supply in the event of an especially bad flu and the
need to vaccinate people with a new formulation almost every
year as the virus mutates. These are problems enough when it
comes to coping with the regular seasonal flu. They spell
potential disaster in the case of  pandemic flu , which occurs
sporadically (most recently in 2009) when an animal strain of
the virus jumps to humans.  Better vaccines are on the drawing board. Developing them
will require a joint effort by government and the pharmaceutical
industry.  Most flu vaccines are made using a 1940s-era  process  in
which researchers forecast which strains will prevail in the
coming season, and they are then grown in chicken eggs for six
months. Manufacturers produce a predetermined quantity based on
how much they expect to sell. In recent years, mild outbreaks
have meant modest sales, but this year’s harsher flu stimulated
demand in the U.S., producing  spot shortages  in many areas.  Slow Production  Because the production process is so slow, vaccines against
the 2009-2010 swine flu became plentiful only after the outbreak
had subsided. Just a fraction of the doses made it to the
developing world, and that was months later.  Researchers
estimate  that swine flu killed as many as 575,400 people
globally in just its first year. Vaccines also arrived too late
to have much impact on pandemics in 1957 and 1968, which claimed
1.5 million and 750,000 lives respectively.  Innovations have already diversified manufacturing methods
somewhat.  A system  developed by the Swiss company  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
uses dog kidney cells to grow viral strains and thus mitigates
the risk that an avian flu will devastate chicken flocks and
restrict the egg supply. Another process,  approved in the U.S.
last week , may speed production. Using insect cells to grow the
vaccine’s active ingredient, Protein Sciences Corp. hopes to
make doses in three months.  A remarkably  fast and cheap option  would be to propagate
vaccine ingredients in E. coli, which reproduces itself every 30
minutes. The biotech company VaxInnate Corp., which has
developed an experimental flu vaccine on this basis, estimates
that from a single cubic meter of material as many as 400
million doses could be made for pennies a piece, compared with
about $9 for egg-based varieties. This would help ensure that
poor as well as rich countries could afford a rapid response to
flu.  The greatest breakthrough would be a  universal flu vaccine 
that would  protect against all  viral strains, eliminating the
need for annual and pandemic inoculations. Researchers are
experimenting with parts of the virus that don’t mutate in the
hope of creating vaccines offering lifelong or at least years-
long protection.  The U.S. government pays for much of this research. Its
scientists are working on a universal vaccine; it helped
Novartis build a plant in North Carolina that uses cell-culture
technology; and it is partially funding VaxInnate’s Phase 2
trial.  Yet the government has limited means and little product-
development experience. Making a new vaccine typically takes a
decade and can cost $1 billion. A project of that size is better
suited to large pharmaceutical companies. Most, however,  have
been loath  to seriously invest in new vaccines, which offer low
returns.  Possible Incentives  Given this market reality, the U.S. government should
design incentives to get the industry more deeply involved, and
it should encourage other countries with manufacturing
capability to follow suit. The  National Vaccine Advisory
Committee  should begin by asking industry leaders what it would
take. Among the possibilities they should consider: tax credits
for research and development costs, fast-track procedures for
product approval, extensions for patents and periods of market
exclusivity, and financial prizes for scientific breakthroughs.  By engaging big pharma in creating future flu vaccines,
governments can ensure that a market failure doesn’t lead to a
public health catastrophe.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 