-- AB InBev Wins Court Fight Over Bud EU Trademark for Beer
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-22T15:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ab-inbev-wins-court-bid-to-get-back-bud-eu-trademark-for-beer.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  won back its
European Union trademark right on the word “Bud” for beer and
other products after an EU court rejected a challenge by Czech
competitor Budejovicky Budvar NP.  The  EU General Court  in Luxembourg today rejected Budvar’s
appeal of AB InBev’s right to the EU trademark because the Czech
company presented insufficient proof of the existing use of the
name in some European countries.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, and Czech rival
Budvar have been entangled in disputes over the use of the Bud
brand for more than a century, as each brewer won and lost the
rights in different rulings. Anheuser-Busch, founded by German-
born American Adolphus Busch, said it started using the
Budweiser name in 1876, 19 years before Budvar was formed.  Budvar didn’t give the EU trademark agency “any item of
evidence capable of showing the use -- before the date of filing
of Anheuser-Busch’s application” in July 1996 “of an earlier
sign in the course of trade of more than mere local
significance,” the EU court said today.  “We are not pleased with the verdict,” Helena Votrelova,
Budvar’s lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement. “But because it
is not a final one, we will consider, after a diligent study,
our chances for overturning the decision and whether we will
appeal to the European Court. Today’s decision won’t affect our
business activities in the EU countries.”  Original Czech  The EU’s trademark agency had previously rejected Budvar’s
opposition to Anheuser-Busch’s claim to the name based on lack
of evidence for its prior rights. The Czech company markets its
beer as Budvar in some places with the word Budweiser in smaller
print, and in others as Bud, adding “original Czech.”  Budvar claims so-called appellation of origin or
geographic-indication rights, an EU protection for products
associated with a certain region, arguing its beer comes from
Ceske Budejovice, which is called Budweis in German.  AB InBev said the decision helps the company “fill in
those few remaining gaps” where it doesn’t hold the rights to
the name. “We will now have virtually world-wide protection for
the Bud or Budweiser brands,” the Leuven, Belgium-based company
said in an e-mailed statement.  The cases are: T-225/06 RENV, T-255/06 RENV, T-257/06 RENV,
T-309/06 RENV, Budejovicky Budvar v. OHMI - Anheuser-Busch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  