-- LaHood Says He’s Staying On as Transportation Secretary
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-01-22T16:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/lahood-says-he-s-staying-on-as-transportation-secretary.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said he will stay on for an indefinite period in
President  Barack Obama ’s second term.  The Illinois Republican’s future has been unclear as
Obama’s other cabinet picks have fallen into place. The White
House has designated new leaders for the State, Defense and
Treasury departments. It has identified several other department
heads who are leaving or staying without discussing LaHood.  LaHood declined to say whether he would stay or go several
times at public appearances last week. He said at an
inauguration party in  Washington  last night he will be
“sticking around for a while,” without specifying.  Earlier in the evening, LaHood was one of a handful of
cabinet secretaries to join Obama in the presidential viewing
stand in front of the White House to watch the inaugural parade.
First Lady  Michelle Obama  and the couple’s two daughters left
the stand midway through the parade, which included bands,
floats and unicyclists. After they left, LaHood sat with Obama
and chatted in the front row of the stand, protected by
bulletproof glass.  “I don’t have anything new to add beyond what has been
said publicly,” Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department
spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  LaHood has been Obama’s principal advocate for increased
infrastructure spending the president has said is needed to heal
the  U.S. economy . That includes the president’s vision for high-
speed passenger rail, which was stalled by Congress’s refusal to
keep paying for it.  Seven Terms  LaHood, 67, served seven terms in Congress as a
representative from central  Illinois , overlapping with Obama in
the state’s delegation from 2005 to 2009. He is the only
Republican in Obama’s cabinet; former Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel would be the second if confirmed as defense secretary.  Congress and Obama’s administration in June reached a two-
year deal on roads and transit. Instead of raising the U.S.
gasoline tax, the largest source of revenue for road, bridge and
transit spending, the legislation used $18.8 billion in general
taxpayer money, in addition to fuel taxes, to keep spending at
current levels -- about $52 billion a year -- through fiscal
2014.  Obama spent part of this year’s presidential campaign
talking about the need to do “nation-building here at home”
after spending years and billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq
and  Afghanistan . Last year, he proposed a six-year, $556 billion
transportation plan that hasn’t been acted upon by Congress.  The president hasn’t specified ways to pay for the plan.
LaHood and the administration have opposed raising the 18.4
cents-a-gallon U.S. gasoline tax, which has been the main source
for highway, bridge and transit expansions since the 1980s. The
levy hasn’t been raised since 1993 and isn’t indexed for
inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  