-- Taiwan Dollar Volatility at Five-Year Low on Intervention Risk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-22T02:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/taiwan-dollar-volatility-at-five-year-low-on-intervention-risk.html
A gauge of expected fluctuations in
 Taiwan ’s dollar fell to a five-year low on speculation policy
makers will curb the pace of appreciation to protect exporters.  The island’s central bank is more likely to weaken its
currency should the South Korean won or Japanese yen depreciate,
according to First Securities Inc. in Taipei.  Korea ’s Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today the won’s recent gains could
hurt companies such as automakers.  Japan ,  South Korea  and Taiwan
compete in the world market for electronic products.  “Taiwan watches the South Korean won,” said Eric Hsing, a
fixed-income trader at First Securities. “If the yen
depreciates, Korea will weaken its currency too.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, dropped eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.72 percent as of 10:43
a.m. local time. It reached 2.6 percent earlier, the lowest
level since September 2007.  Taiwan’s monetary authority has sold its currency to
counter gains on most days in the past nine months, according to
traders, who asked not to be identified. The central bank wants
to have limited moves in the exchange rate and yields because
the economy is export-driven, Hsing said.  Export Orders  Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$28.991 against its
U.S. counterpart, based on prices from Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency advanced 4 percent last year, more than the 0.3 percent
in 2011, and gained 0.5 percent so far in 2013. The South Korean
won has dropped 0.1 percent and the yen 3 percent.  The island’s  jobless rate  fell to 4.22 percent in December,
the lowest level since April 2012, the  National Statistics
Office  in Taipei reported today. Export orders, an indicator of
shipments in the next one to three months, increased for a
fourth month, rising 8.5 percent from a year earlier, government
figures showed yesterday.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pressed his central
bank, which concludes a two-day meeting today, to expand
monetary stimulus to revive economic growth.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125 percent government bonds due
September 2022 was little changed at 1.165 percent, the highest
level in a week, according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  