-- Malaysian Bank Files Police Reports on Suspended Economist
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-01-22T10:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/malaysian-bank-files-police-reports-on-suspended-economist-1-.html
Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd. , the
country’s oldest Shariah-compliant lender, said it filed two
police reports against Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, who it
suspended as chief economist last week.  Azrul, a member of opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim’s
People’s Justice Party, was suspended on Jan. 14 after allegedly
breaching the bank’s internal policies. Bank Islam, part of  BIMB
Holdings Bhd. (BIMB) , said in a statement last week that it was
conducting an internal investigation.  “The bank discovered evidence of other violations which
warranted us to make a police report on Jan. 18,” the Kuala
Lumpur-based lender said in an e-mailed statement, without
giving details. “Upon further investigations, the bank lodged a
second police report today.”  Azrul predicted in a Singapore forum this month that Prime
Minister Najib Razak, who must dissolve parliament by April 28
for polls, could narrowly lose Malaysia’s general election as
one of three possible scenarios, the Straits Times reported
Jan. 11. Najib’s National Front coalition is seeking to hold on
to power after ruling Malaysia since independence in 1957.  “I cannot see why this matter is now being turned into a
police case,” Azrul said in an e-mailed statement today, adding
that he is seeking legal advice. “This heavy-handedness is
nothing but an intimidation and harassment tactic against me.”  The allegations don’t constitute any criminal offenses and
are at most a civil matter, he said.  More than 100 civil organizations, academics and activists
issued a joint petition on Jan. 17 defending Azrul’s political
analysis at the forum and demanding his reinstatement.  “The bank wishes to reiterate that his suspension is
totally unrelated to the contents of the paper he presented at
the regional economic conference in Singapore,” Bank Islam said
in today’s statement.  In the last election in 2008, the governing parties lost
the two-thirds majority in Parliament they had held for four
decades. Anwar’s opposition alliance currently controls four out
of the country’s 13 states, including Selangor and Penang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  