-- Mali’s Islamic Leaders, U.S. Back French-Led Campaign
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-01-22T12:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/mali-s-islamic-leaders-u-s-back-french-led-campaign.html
Mali ’s Islamic leaders praised the
French-led intervention to oust insurgents controlling two-
thirds of the West African nation as the U.S. said it was ready
to offer support to the mission.  “The intervention of  France  in Mali has nothing to do with
a fight against Islam,” Mohamoud Dicko, president of the
Islamic High Council of Mali, told reporters in Bamako, the
capital, today. “It is a fight against crime and terrorism.”  France started airstrikes on Mali’s north on Jan. 11 to
back the domestic army in its bid to take control from Islamist
militants who seek to impose a strict version of Shariah law on
the landlocked nation. Malian troops seized Diabaly and Douentza
yesterday after reclaiming Konna on Jan. 18, according to the
French Defense Ministry.  African troops will take part in the mission, with troops
arriving in the country this week. The continental force may
reach 5,500 soldiers, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius
said on Jan. 20. The contingent, planned by the  African Union 
before the French strikes started, was initially expected to
reach 3,300.  The U.S. is willing to provide support including funding,
logistics, medicine and transportation to the mission if African
leaders request it, Michael Battle, the U.S. ambassador to the
African Union, said in an interview in Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia ,
yesterday.  “We have a lot of capacity to provide support,” he said.
Instability in Mali threatens the wider region, especially
neighboring Niger and  Algeria , Battle said. “Their peace and
stability is dependent on stability and good governance in
Mali.”  African leaders will discuss the intervention in Mali
during an African Union summit in Addis Ababa on Jan. 27 and
Jan. 28, and donors will hold a funding conference for the
mission on Jan. 29, Battle said.  Mali’s government extended by three months a state of
emergency first declared on Jan. 12, according to a statement on
the prime minister’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  