-- Mall Operator MAF of Dubai Stays Course on Mideast Plan
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-22T09:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/mall-operator-maf-of-dubai-stays-course-on-mideast-plan.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC plans
to proceed with expansion across some of the most troubled
countries of the  Middle East , tapping the rising disposable
income of the region’s growing population.  “We continue to focus on a prudent and sustainable growth
strategy,” said Chief Executive Officer Iyad Malas in a
statement announcing the full-year earnings of the Dubai-based
malls and hotels operator. He confirmed plans to complete this
year the Beirut City Center Mall, and to start construction on
the Beirut Waterfront project in Lebanon, and the Mall of  Egypt 
in Cairo.  The privately owned company, also known by its acronym MAF,
reported a 10 percent increase in revenue to 21.6 billion
dirhams ($5.9 billion) in 2012, on higher hotel occupancy and
sales at its Carrefour supermarkets, the company said in a
statement. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 7 percent to 3 billion dirhams.  “Rising disposable income and a persistent low interest
rate environment in Gulf Cooperation Council states will cause
an increase in  consumer spending ,” Dubai-based Arqaam Capital
said in report yesterday about the retail industry in the Middle
East and North African region. “Governments in MENA have and
will increasingly adjudicate on matters of food and fuel
subsidies with the consumer as priority beneficiary, rather than
incumbent businesses and private sector commercial interests, in
light of the civil unrest of the past two years.”  MAF opened in 2012 its 11th shopping mall and added during
the year 14 supermarkets including seven for Carrefour.  It plans to sign in February a three billion Egyptian
pound-loan ($450 million) syndicated by a group led by  National
Bank of Egypt  and Banque Misr SAE, to finance the Mall of Egypt,
CEO Malas said in a interview.  It plans to work on the expansion of the Maadi City Center
project and a mall in Almaza in Cairo, and is in the process of
securing permits for a mall in Madinet Nasr, in the suburb of
the Egyptian capital, he said. “It might take few months but we
expect to start on all these projects in 2013.”  The company is also seeking to purchase plots to build
malls in the  United Arab Emirates ’ cities of  Abu Dhabi  and
Sharjah, and the Saudi Arabian capital  Riyadh , Malas said.  “We are in an extremely solid position for the next two
years,” Treasury Manager Daniele Vecchi said. With debt due
this year of less than 1 billion dirhams, the “company won’t
need to raise money this year and will do so
opportunistically.”  “Clearly as debt comes into maturity in the course of the
year we would want to rethink of financing and we would think of
the right market debt or bank,” Malas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  