-- Alstom Third-Quarter Orders Rise 3% on Demand for Trains
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-22T12:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/alstom-third-quarter-orders-rise-3-on-demand-for-trains.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of power
equipment and high-speed trains, reported a 3 percent increase
in its fiscal third-quarter orders and said demand will remain
“strong” in the current period.  Orders in the three months ended Dec. 31 climbed to 5.05
billion euros ($6.74 billion) from 4.89 billion euros a year
earlier, the company, based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-
Perret, said today. That’s in line with the 5.06 billion-euro
average of five analyst estimates collected by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 1 percent to 4.92 billion euros, lagging behind the
5.15 billion euro  estimate .  Emerging markets  remain buoyant across all areas of
Alstom’s business, with a large number of train orders
supporting European operations, Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said in the statement. As a result, revenue will probably
increase by more than 5 percent annually through March 2015,
offsetting a slowdown in power-generator demand in some Western
nations, Alstom reiterated today. It stood by forecasts for
improving margins and cash flow.  “Sales are a bit light but the outlook for the fourth-
quarter is somewhat reassuring,” said Gael de Bray, an analyst
at  Societe Generale  in Paris. “For the whole year, we’ll have a
positive free cash flow. The deleveraging process will continue,
so I imagine that the re-rating that has started several months
ago will continue.”  Alstom shares rose as much as 1.6 percent to 32.37 euros,
and were up 1.1 percent to 32.22 euros as of 1:03 p.m. in Paris,
giving it a market value of 9.9 billion euros.  Strong Finish  Order trends point to a robust end to the year, Kron said
on a conference call. The target for a 5 percent increase in
annual sales this year “isn’t the easiest part of the
guidance” as markets remain “difficult,” the CEO said.  “Thanks to our current dynamic commercial activity, we
expect order intake to be strong in the fourth quarter with
sales continuing their recovery,” Kron said. The pipeline
remains active and “larger tickets” for thermal power
equipment may be booked in the fourth quarter, the CEO said.  Kron reiterated his target to win orders for about 14 gas
turbines in the fiscal year ending in March after booking eight
in the first nine months. The gas turbine market “isn’t
great,” he said.  Disappointing Speed  Orders for thermal-power equipment and services fell 13
percent to 1.62 billion euros in the third quarter due to the
lack of turnkey contracts, Alstom said.  The speed of Alstom’s discussion with  Shanghai Electric
Group Co. (2727)  to form a joint venture to sell boilers for coal-fired
plants is disappointing, Kron said. The tentative agreement may
be signed “in a couple of months” or may fall apart, he said.  In renewable-power equipment such as hydroelectric and wind
turbines, orders almost doubled in the period to 616 million
euros, Alstom said. Orders for transport equipment climbed 12
percent to 1.72 billion euros. Power-transmission systems orders
fell 6 percent to 1.09 billion euros, and sales fell 12 percent,
partly because of “customer-related project delays” mainly in
 India , the French company said. Alstom will have a “good”
fourth quarter in grids, Kron said.  ’Big Shootings’  The company continues to work on a number of “small to
medium-sized” acquisition projects, “with no big shootings
expected in the months to come,” Kron said. “Our financial
room for maneuver isn’t absolutely astronomic.”  Free  cash flow  should be positive in the second half and in
each of the three fiscal years through 2015, the company
repeated. This follows a cumulative outflow of almost 1.1
billion euros in the past two fiscal years as Alstom cut  jobs  in
 Europe  and the U.S., developed new products, and invested in
plants and partnerships in faster-growing countries such as
India, Russia and  China .  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level in 2012 to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, and said there’s the possibility of another
reduction because of “material negative trends in working-
capital levels.”  Standard & Poor’s  also has a negative outlook
on Alstom’s BBB rating.  Margins Intact  The company’s  operating margin  is likely to gradually
improve to about 8 percent of sales in the fiscal year ending in
2015 from 7.1 percent in the year ended March 2012, Alstom
reiterated today.  Alstom ranks behind Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  in the power-equipment
industry. The French company also competes with companies such
as Siemens and  Canada ’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on train and metro cars,
and with Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in power-transmission gear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  