-- Alta Pursuing Military, $20 Billion IPad Solar Market
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/alta-targets-military-20-billion-ipad-solar-market.html
Alta Devices Inc. , a U.S. maker of
thin-film solar cells, expects military applications from drones
to gadget-charging tents and backpacks will generate about 80
percent of its revenue this year. After that, Chief Executive
Officer Christopher Norris is aiming at the global mobile-phone
market.  The U.S. Department of Defense will pay a premium for
Alta’s flexible, high-performance solar cells that are sewn into
backpacks, tents and clothing and generate power in remote
locations, Norris said yesterday in an interview.  Alta’s cells deliver more electricity per square-inch than
rivals’ products, Norris said. That cuts weight, making them
well-suited for unmanned aircraft, and for charging consumer
devices such as phones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet. Adding
solar to mobile phones may generate as much as $20 billion in
industry sales through 2016, he estimated.  “You can generate the same amount under the sun with an
iPad cover as what you can get from the wall,” Norris said by
phone. Consumer devices with built-in solar components “will
become commonplace in the not-too-distant future.”  Adding about a watt of Sunnyvale, California-based Alta’s
solar cells to consumer devices such as smartphones would add $2
to $4 to the total materials cost, he said. Qualcomm Inc. said
in November that it expects 5 billion smartphones to be sold
globally from 2012 to 2016.  “With one watt each, that’s 5 gigawatts” worth as much as
$20 billion, said Norris.  High Efficiency  Alta’s gallium arsenide-based thin-film cells convert 28.8
percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity, according to
its  website . That’s better than cells from First Solar Inc.,
which uses different thin-film technology and has reached
efficiency rates of  17.3 percent , and SunPower Corp., which
produces traditional polysilicon-based photovoltaic cells with
conversion rates as high as  24 percent .  The company expects 2013 sales to be up “substantially”
from last year, with 80 percent coming from the military and the
rest from consumer electronics.  “In the next year or so, our focus is servicing the
military,” Norris said. “That’s where the technology is being
explored and deployed now.” He wouldn’t provide revenue
figures.  That will reverse by 2015, with 80 percent of sales from
consumer electronics, Norris said.  New Factory  Alta has a 2-megawatt pilot manufacturing line that makes
enough to supply military orders, and a 40-megawatt factory is
scheduled to begin production next year to make solar components
for mobile phones and other electronic devices, Norris said.  Not having a large factory helped Alta weather a global
glut of solar panels that drove down prices more than  60 percent 
in the last two years and pushed some competitors into
bankruptcy, Norris said.  “We’ve been fortunate in that we’ve never been enticed
into a very large factory,” he said. Alta’s investors include
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd., New Enterprise Associates
Inc.,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , General Electric Co. and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers.  Solar for mobile electronics is “obviously an attractive
market,” said Shayle Kann, vice president of research at GTM
Research in  Boston .  The company will have to increase production to capitalize
on potential demand from consumer electronics, Kann said in an
interview. When the new plant opens, Alta will need to sell
enough to keep it running. “When they get to 40 megawatts
they’ll have to sell 40 megawatts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  