-- AMD Fourth-Quarter Sales Top Estimates, Aided by Server Gain
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-23T22:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/amd-fourth-quarter-revenue-tops-estimates-on-server-chip-sales.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers,
reported fourth-quarter revenue that topped analysts’ estimates,
helped by sales of chips that run servers.  Sales were $1.16 billion, the company said yesterday in a
statement. That compared with an average analysts’ estimate of
$1.15 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AMD’s
loss for the period, before certain costs, was $102 million, or
14 cents a share, while analysts predicted a loss of 18 cents.  AMD is firing workers and selling assets to free up cash
for new products, aiming to mitigate its dependence on the PC
market, which is heading for a second straight annual decline as
consumers turn to tablets and smartphones. In server chips, the
company is working to integrate technology from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
into its processors to mount a bigger challenge to  Intel Corp .,
whose 96 percent market share dwarfs AMD’s 4 percent. AMD said
revenue from chips for servers, the machines that run data
centers, rose from the prior quarter.  “They’ve got a good pipeline,” said  Hans Mosesmann , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc., who has an
outperform rating on AMD shares.  AMD shares climbed 11 percent to $2.73 at the close in New
York. The stock lost 56 percent of its value in 2012, making it
the  worst performer  in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Cloud Servers  Even as a surge in sales of tablets erodes PC demand, the
devices could provide another opportunity for AMD as they
increase the need for servers that provide mobile data, Chief
Executive Officer Rory Read said on a conference call yesterday
to discuss earnings.  “There’s a tsunami of devices that are beginning to
emerge, and they’re connected on a cloud,” he said.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, AMD had profit before
certain costs of $138 million, or 19 cents a share, on sales of
$1.69 billion. Excluding certain items, gross margin -- the
percentage of sales left after subtracting production costs --
narrowed to 39 percent in the recent period from 46 percent a
year earlier, AMD said.  First Quarter  First-quarter revenue will decline 6 percent to 12 percent
from the fourth quarter’s, AMD said. That indicates a range of
$1.02 billion to $1.09 billion, compared with an average analyst
projection of $1.11 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company has struggled with
low cash reserves as its PC-chip sales dwindled in consumer and
business markets. In September, Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert resigned, disrupting the company’s effort to
restructure. Devinder Kumar was appointed as CFO on Jan. 2 after
serving as interim finance chief since Seifert’s departure.  Cash and equivalents dropped to $549 million at the end of
the fourth quarter from $776 million at the beginning of the
period, AMD said. Total cash, equivalents and marketable
securities at the end of the quarter was $1.2 billion.  As part of its effort to cut expenses and preserve cash,
the company reduced computer-chip orders from supplier
Globalfoundries Inc. last month. At the time, Kumar said AMD
would return to generating cash from operations in the second
half of this year.  “They tried to give investors some comfort that they have
the runway to develop some products,” said Betsy Van Hees, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc., before the earnings report.
“I think people were concerned about liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in  New York  at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  