-- Manet’s Scandalous Nudes Join Mystery Portraits in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-01-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/manet-s-scandalous-nudes-join-mystery-portraits-in-london.html
Edouard Manet was a great painter,
no question about that. But what sort of artist was he?  “Impressionist” doesn’t really fit, and neither
“realist” nor “naturalist” gets you much further. But a
splendid new exhibition helps to get this slippery master of the
brush into better focus. “Manet: Portraying Life” opens at the
Royal Academy of Arts in  London  on Jan. 26.  It concentrates on portraits. You soon realize that
portraiture, with Manet (1832 -1883), was an extremely flexible
concept. Some of the works on display are quite conventional.
The two French politicians, Georges Clemenceau and Henri
Rochefort, arms folded, stare out of the picture in
statesmanlike fashion.  Others are more like the snaps we take these days on our
smartphones: a moment of passing life captured. “The Monet
Family in their Garden at Argenteuil” (1874) shows us Madame
Monet sitting on the grass with their son, the painter pottering
in the background with a watering can while two chickens wander
by.  Then there are the unclassifiable pictures in which people
in the artist’s life appear but, so to speak, in costume like
characters in a play.  In “The Luncheon” (1868), one of Manet’s masterpieces,
the young man in a straw hat who lolls against a table laden
with food and drink is Leon Leenhoff, son of Manet’s wife (born
before they were married, but possibly Manet’s son, or
alternatively his own father’s). But this isn’t a portrait of
Leon.  Enigmatic Image  It’s more like that thing the 19th-century public loved: a
picture that suggests a story. There’s an older man, posed by a
fellow painter, smoking a cigar to one side, and a serving woman
with a silver jug in the back. It is, as the catalog says,
“enigmatic.”  The last room of the exhibition (and just about the best)
contains a selection of pictures, all starring Victorine
Meurent, the auburn-haired model who posed for a number of
Manet’s paintings, including the scandalous nude, “Olympia”.  These are all quite different. In “The Railway” (1873)
Victorine is seated outdoors with a little girl, the latter with
her back to the viewer. Behind them is a fence and beyond that,
the smoke and steam of the railway. Again, no real story, but a
feeling there might be one here if you could only find it.  Naked Picnic  In “Dejeuner sur l‘herbe” (1863-68) -- of which a
smaller, more loosely painted version of the famous original is
on show -- Victorine is having a picnic stark naked with two
fully dressed men. No narrative here either, though art
historians have tried hard to find one.  But there is a clue to what Manet was up to: redoing the
old masters, entirely from real people he knew and the life
around him.  “Dejeuner sur l‘herbe” is based on a 16th-century
engraving. A lot of Manet is derived from Velasquez (“the
greatest artist there has ever been” in his opinion).  His fabulous treatment of black on black, for example, and
subtly different whites and delicately varied grays: The spell-
binding “Berthe Morisot with a Bunch of Violets” (1873) is
entirely an exercise in blacks and whites except for her
glamorous, intelligent face -- and those violets.  I think it’s obvious that “The Luncheon” is partly about
Dutch painting, and particularly Vermeer (look at that map in
the background and the silver jug).  So Manet was doing what Cezanne once said he wanted to do:
recreate old masters “after nature.” He did that so freshly
that in this exhibition you seldom think, “Here’s another
portrait.” His pictures remain astonishingly fresh and diverse.  “Manet: Portraying Life” is at the Royal Academy of Arts,
Burlington House, Piccadilly, London W1J 0BD, from Jan. 26
through April 14, sponsored by BNY Mellon.  Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/  or
+44-20-7300-8000.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Richard Vines  on food and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 