-- Anglo, Amplats Have ‘Stolen’ South Africa’s Money, ANC Says
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-22T15:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/anglo-amplats-have-stolen-south-africa-s-money-mantashe-says.html
South Africa needs to take “bigger
interest and control” of mines amid plans by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and its platinum unit to cut output, said  Gwede Mantashe ,
secretary-general of the ruling African National Congress.  “They have stolen our money,” Mantashe said in an
interview on Johannesburg-based SAfm radio today. “They are a
British company now. They have a responsibility to talk to South
Africa on the operations.”  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., which is controlled by
London-based Anglo American, said Jan. 15 it planned to cut
400,000 ounces of platinum production a year, or 7 percent of
global output, to return to profitability. The restructuring
could result in as many as 14,000 job losses. Mineral Resources
Minister Susan Shabangu said the government could revoke mining
licenses owned by Anglo if it continues with its proposal.  Discussions are continuing between the government and Anglo
American Platinum, Zingaphi Jakuja, a spokeswoman for the
Department of Mineral Resources, said in a telephone interview.
The talks are “sensitive,” she said. Pranill Ramchander, a
Johannesburg-based spokesman for Anglo American, declined to
comment.  Producers in the continent’s largest economy shut nine
platinum-mine shafts and dismissed 3,332 workers in the second
half of last year, according to the Department of Mineral
Resources. Strikes have led to above-inflation wage gains as
companies face higher production costs.  ‘Foreign’ Operators  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union wants
the government to “reissue” mining permits that aren’t being
used by companies such as Anglo American Platinum, known as
 Amplats (AMS) , AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa said on Jan. 17.  “As long as this country is run by the foreigners, we are
far from any solution,” and the government should take
definitive action on resource ownership, Mathunjwa said.  The AMCU represents 26,000 workers at Amplats’s operations,
he said. The company had 51,200 employees in 2011, according to
the most recent annual report on its website.  The ANC in December rejected proposals to nationalize mines
in favor of higher taxes in the world’s largest producer of
platinum, ending uncertainty for companies including Anglo
American, which owns 79.8 percent of Amplats.  The company plans to create 14,000 jobs focused on housing
and small business development in areas including Rustenburg, it
said in announcing its review Jan. 15.  Scant Detail  “The ANC is not persuaded by this argument and the scant
detail provided on the so-called creation of an equivalent
number of new jobs suggests to us that we are all being spun a
yarn,” Jackson Mthembu, spokesman for the party, said in a
statement following Amplats’ announcement.  The ANC wants Shabangu to revoke some Amplats licenses and
auction them, he said.  Amplats rose 0.4 percent to 440 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, ending a seven-day losing streak. Anglo American
retreated 0.5 percent to 267.34 rand.  They shouldn’t “deal with South Africa as a junior
partner,” Mantashe said. “It means that if there is a problem
you engage on problems with South Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  