-- Angola’s Escom to Start Production From New Diamond Mine in May
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-01-22T07:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/angola-s-escom-to-start-production-from-new-diamond-mine-in-may.html
Escom Investimentos e Participacoes
SA , an Angolan company with interests from mining to property,
plans to start output from a diamond deposit in the southern
African nation in May, company President Helder Bataglia said.  The Tchegi alluvial site will produce, together with
Escom’s existing Luo kimberlite mine, a total of about 35,000
carats a month by the end of the year, Bataglia said. Tchegi is
one of two new sites deemed viable by the company in Lunda North
province, about 850 kilometers (530 miles) east of Luanda, the
capital. Escom and former partner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, spent $200 million over eight years
prospecting 14 concessions, he said.  “By next year we hope to arrive at normal production in
Tchegi,” Bataglia said in a telephone interview from Lisbon
yesterday. “Our aim is kimberlite mining where the stones are
heavier, but we have alluvial projects because the quality in
that area is very good.”  Diamond producers have struggled to find new, large
deposits to replace aging assets. Production at many of the
biggest operations is falling as supplies of more accessible
gems near the surface are depleted. Companies such as  De Beers ,
owned by London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , have shown renewed
interest in  Angola , which had the fifth-largest gem output by
value in 2011.  Escom and partner Endiama EP, the state diamond company,
also intend to expand mining at the $300 million Luo site after
evaluating three new kimberlites, the eroded remnants of ancient
volcanoes that sometimes formed diamonds under intense heat and
pressure. A feasibility study is expected by March 2014,
Bataglia said.  Reserve Reports  “We won’t do anything without at least 120 million tons in
reserves, but I think we have a little bit more than that,”
Bataglia said. Reports on the other viable alluvial concession,
Itengo, should be ready by December, he said.  Angola, Africa’s biggest oil producer after  Nigeria , sold
8.33 million carats valued at $1.16 billion in 2011, according
to the  Kimberley Process , an international body with 54
participants representing 80 countries to prevent the sale of
gems mined in war zones. The top producers by value that year
were Botswana,  Russia ,  Canada  and  South Africa .  BHP Billiton  pulled out of Escom’s prospecting phase in
2010, while Russia’s OAO Alrosa left the Luo project two years
ago, Bataglia said. Since then, the Angolan government has
revised its mining code, simplifying regulations, lowering the
government’s minimum stake in future projects to 10 percent and
reducing taxes to 25 percent from 35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  