-- Harbinger Seeks Payout for Northern Rock Stake in U.K. Appeal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-22T07:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/harbinger-seeks-payout-for-northern-rock-stake-in-u-k-appeal.html
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC will
try to convince a London appeals judge that its stake in
Northern Rock Asset Management Plc wasn’t worthless when the
British lender was nationalized.  In a trial starting today, billionaire Philip Falcone’s
hedge fund will argue the stake was worth as much as 400 million
pounds ($633.9 million) before Northern Rock was rescued by the
British government in 2008.  Harbinger  lost  its first claim in 2011 when a lower court
upheld the decision of a government-appointed valuation expert
that the preference shares were worthless.  Northern Rock, the first British casualty of the credit
crunch, was taken into public ownership in February 2008 after a
run on deposits saw customers withdraw 4.45 billion pounds.  In the May 2011 trial, Harbinger’s lawyer  Mark Phillips 
said the zero valuation by BDO International valuer  Andrew
Caldwell   was “utterly unreasonable” and sought 322.5 million
pounds.  “Having applied the valuation assumptions that he was
required by law to apply, the independent valuer determined that
there was no value in the shares,” Laura Clare, a spokeswoman
for BDO, said by e-mail. She declined to comment on ongoing
legal proceedings.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger,
declined to comment. Louise Verrill, a lawyer for the company,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Harbinger was told in December it may be sued by federal
prosecutors in the U.S. for securities-law violations. The hedge
fund’s assets have slumped from $26 billion three years ago to
about $5.7 billion amid regulatory hurdles and the threat of
prosecution.  Other Northern Rock shareholders, including RAB Capital Plc
and SRM Global, lost a July 2009 bid for a court review of how
the equity of the bank would be valued.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  