-- As Foreign Profits Rise, Corporate Tax Rates Fall
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/as-foreign-profits-rise-corporate-tax-rates-fall.html
Globalization is creating two
misleading impressions about corporate taxes in the U.S.  First, corporate-tax revenue is keeping up with recent
historical averages as a share of gross domestic product.
However, that’s only because globalization has raised the
corporate-profit share of GDP, while reducing the share of labor
compensation.  Second, both Democrats and Republicans in Congress are
committed to corporate-tax reform in response to globalization.
Yet they are unlikely to accomplish much, because each party’s
desired reforms are pretty much the opposite of the other’s.  Consider the state of corporate taxes. In the final quarter
of fiscal year 2012, corporate income taxes amounted to 1.7
percent of GDP -- exactly their quarterly average over the past
three decades. A closer look, though, reveals that this pattern
reflects two contrasting trends.  The effective tax rate -- the share of corporate profits
actually paid in taxes -- averaged 19 percent over the past
three decades. That is much lower than the top corporate
statutory rate, currently 35 percent, because of the various
deductions and exclusions that corporations claim.  Over the past few years, this effective tax rate has
plummeted. In the final quarter of fiscal year 2012, it was only
13 percent. That’s not necessarily a problem, if it is
temporary. About half the recent decline in effective rates, for
instance, can be explained by the temporary bonus-depreciation
provisions that have subsidized corporate investment, and
expanded use of loss carryforwards.  Foreign Profits  Yet there is a more permanent reason for the decline that
has to do with globalization: an increasing share of profits is
now earned abroad and taxed more lightly than domestic profits,
as Edward Kleinbard of the University of Southern California has
 underscored . Relative to domestic profits,  foreign profits  have
been rising for several decades, and that trend is likely to
continue.  Globalization is thus reducing the effective corporate-tax
rate as the share of profits earned abroad increases. At the
same time, however, by raising the corporate-profit share it is
also increasing corporate-tax revenue as a percentage of GDP.  Over the past three decades, profits averaged 9 percent of
gross domestic income. In the final quarter of fiscal year 2012,
though, they amounted to 12 percent. That increase amounts to an
extra $450 billion a year in profits. Those extra profits were
enough to lift corporate taxes to 1.7 percent of GDP despite the
low effective tax rate.  Meanwhile, as I have written  previously , the decline in
labor compensation as a share of national income has suppressed
income growth for the typical worker.  Globalization is also the main reason why corporate-tax
reform is harder than most people think. Under the current
complicated system, as a recent Congressional Budget Office
 report  explains, U.S. multinationals are partially taxed on the
profits they earn abroad.  Republicans and the Business Roundtable generally favor
moving away from this system and toward a territorial one, in
which companies would be taxed only on the profits they earn
within the U.S.  The  Barack Obama  administration, in contrast, is concerned
about companies shifting profits and jobs overseas, an activity
that a territorial system would only encourage. (As the CBO
report highlights, other countries with so-called territorial
systems, such as France and  Japan , typically have anti-abuse
provisions to keep companies from shifting profits to tax
havens. Pure territorial systems are much less common than some
advocates in the U.S. suggest.)  Varying Rates  Another reason that corporate-tax reform is so hard is that
tax rates vary significantly across and within industries.
Consider, for example, a comparison of rates made in a National
Bureau of Economic Research  paper  by Kevin Markle of Dartmouth
College and Douglas Shackelford of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill: From 2005 to 2009, the effective
corporate-tax rate in mining amounted to just 6 percent, while
in manufacturing it was 26 percent and in retail trade, 31
percent.  All companies are in favor of coupling lower statutory-tax
rates with a broader tax base -- unless the base broadens so
much that it undercuts their lower rates. It is mathematically
impossible, furthermore, to keep the overall effective tax rate
constant while cutting that rate for some companies, unless the
overall effective rate increases for others.  Globalization is putting increasing pressure on the
corporate-tax system. But with diametrically opposed visions on
how to adapt the system, the likelihood that reform will happen
is very small.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  