-- Asia Junk Bond Sales Hit 10-Month High as Hengdeli Markets Notes
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-22T04:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/asia-junk-bond-sales-hit-10-month-high-as-hengdeli-markets-notes.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  and Longfor
Properties Co. are selling U.S. dollar-denominated notes as
high-yield offerings from the region surge to a 10-month high.
Bond risk fell.  Hengdeli, the retailer of Swiss watches in China, is
marketing five-year securities at a yield of about 6.875
percent, while developer Longfor is offering 10-year bonds at
about 7 percent, people familiar with the deals said. DBA
Telecommunication (Asia) Holdings Ltd. is selling five-year debt
yielding about 12 percent, a separate person said. All three
prospective issues hold non-investment grade ratings.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  led $3.6 billion of junk bond
sales from Asia outside Japan in the U.S. currency this month,
already the most since $3.9 billion was sold in all of March,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Average  yield premiums  on
speculative-grade bonds dropped to 342 basis points more than
Treasuries on Jan. 7, the least since August 2011, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  High-yield spreads have “compressed over 100 basis points
over the last three months and demand remains robust for high-
yield bonds,” Krishna Hegde, the Singapore-based head of Asia
credit research at Barclays Plc, said. “For issuers, it’s
attractive to sell bonds at these levels and diversify their
funding profile.”  Sime Darby  High-yield bonds, also known as non-investment grade,
speculative-grade or junk, hold ratings lower than BBB- from
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, or the equivalent Baa3 from
Moody’s Investors Service.  Hengdeli’s bond is expected to be rated one step below
investment grade at Ba1 by Moody’s and BB+ by Fitch, according
to e-mailed statements from the risk assessors. Longfor’s notes
will probably be rated Ba3 by Moody’s and BB by S&P. DBA’s debt
will likely carry a B+ rating from Fitch, the fourth-highest
junk ranking.  Investment-grade issuers of U.S. dollar bonds in Asia were
also active today.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  is marketing five-year sukuk
at 150 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
10-year securities at a 165 basis-point spread, a person
familiar with the offering said. The bonds, structured to comply
with Sharia law which bans interest payments, have an expected A
grade from Fitch, the sixth-highest level.  ‘Issuance Spurt’  Shinhan Bank, the South Korean lender, is offering 5.5-year
securities at a 140 basis-point spread, a separate person said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t final.  “It’s not a surprise that we’ve seen a combination of
maiden issuers and seasoned borrowers,” Hegde said. “The
issuance spurt is primarily a function of price which in turn is
driven by investors searching for yield.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan retreated one basis point to 106 basis
points as of 8:29 a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The benchmark, which has ranged from
102.8 to 110.1 this year, is poised for its lowest close since
Jan. 14, according to data provider CMA.  Japan, Australia  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 1.5 basis points to
136.5 as of 9:21 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Deutsche Bank AG
prices. The measure is set for its lowest close since March 19,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped one basis point
to 114 as of 10:35 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The gauge is also set for its
lowest close since Jan. 14, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  