-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Earnings While Yen Strengthens
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-01-22T21:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/asian-stocks-advance-before-boj-meeting-concludes-franc-weakens.html
Stocks advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up for a fifth day, as insurance and
commodity shares led gains amid better-than-forecast earnings.
Commodities rose, while the yen gained as the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
planned to wait a year to begin open-ended asset purchases.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  added 0.4 percent to 1,492.51 as of 4 p.m. in
 New York , closing at the best level since December 2007.  Japan ’s
currency climbed 1 percent to 88.74 per dollar, climbing from
near the weakest level since 2010. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities jumped to a three-month high as industrial metals
led gains. Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 1.84
percent, while the Dollar Index slipped 0.2 percent.  Travelers Cos. and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
helped lead gains in stocks after reporting earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates. The yen, which lost about 10 percent
against the dollar in the past three months, strengthened as the
BOJ pledged to buy about 13 trillion yen ($145 billion) in
assets a month from January 2014 and doubled its inflation
target without setting a deadline.  “People’s worst fears are not coming to fruition,” said
 Dan Veru , who helps oversee $3.8 billion at Palisade Capital
Management in  Fort Lee ,  New Jersey . “If confidence improves in
U.S. equities and we start seeing real money flows into U.S.
equity market funds, this market’s going a lot higher.”  The Dow Jones Transportation Average and the Russell 2000
Index of smaller U.S. companies both rose to  records  today.  Market Movers  Travelers climbed more than 2.1 percent to help lead gains
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  today after the insurer beat
estimates on higher income from its investment portfolio,
increased sales and a benefit from reserves. Freeport-McMoRan
jumped 4.6 percent, the most since September, after results that
showed copper sales increased more than expected and costs fell.  DuPont Co., the biggest U.S. chemical maker by market
value, gained 1.8 percent after  earnings  beat estimates as
demand climbed for plastics used in autos.  An S&P gauge of homebuilders rose 0.3 percent, recovering
from an earlier 1.3 percent retreat. Sales of existing homes
unexpectedly fell 1 percent to a 4.94 million annual rate last
month, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed.
The reading was still the second-highest since November 2009.
The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for sales to increase to a 5.1 million rate.  “The home sales is definitely an important piece of news
for the market,” said Robert Stimpson, a  money manager  at Oak
Associates in Akron,  Ohio , which manages $800 million. “The
recovering housing market provides a lot of tertiary benefits
for the economy and I believe that’s what supported the market
last year in 2012. We want to see those improvements continue.”  Earnings Season  The  S&P 500  rose last week to its highest level since 2007
as  earnings  from companies including General Electric Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. beat estimates.  Seventeen members  of
the index were reporting today. Per-share profit has topped
estimates at 73 percent of the 74 companies in the S&P 500 that
reported quarterly earnings so far, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The index is trading for about 14.8 times its
companies reported earnings, compared with an average multiple
of about 16.6 since 1954.  International Business Machines Corp. and Google Inc.
climbed in extended trading after reporting better-than-
estimated results following the close of exchanges.  ‘Explosion of Greatness’  David Tepper , the hedge-fund manager who runs the $15
billion Appaloosa Management LP, said he’s bullish on U.S.
stocks as the economy is set to grow by as much as 3 percent
this year.  “This country is on the verge of an explosion of
greatness,” Tepper said today in an interview with  Stephanie
Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” “The key is
to be long equities this year.”  Tepper said investors should own stocks because they’re
historically inexpensive, U.S. companies have little debt,
 interest rates  are low, credit is fully valued and the major
risks to the global economy, such as a debt crisis in  Europe ,
have diminished. Appaloosa, which celebrates its 20th
anniversary this year, returned 30 percent in 2012, he said.  International investors are the most bullish on stocks in
at least 3 1/2 years, with close to two-thirds planning to raise
their holdings of equities during the next six months, according
to a Bloomberg survey. As the global financial and business
elite gather in Davos for their annual forum, 53 percent of
respondents to the Bloomberg Global Poll also say equities will
offer the highest return in the next year.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  erased an earlier decline of as
much as 0.8 percent to close little changed after a report
showed German investor confidence climbed to a 2 1/2-year high.  Three shares fell for every two that gained in the Stoxx
600. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, slid 1.9
percent as Boersenzeitung reported that German financial
watchdog Bafin asked two banks to simulate a split, citing
unidentified people. Christian Streckert, a spokesman for
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  Vivendi SA retreated 4 percent, the most since August,
after the chief executive officer of its SFR phone unit
predicted a difficult market for as long as 18 months. Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA slid 5.7 percent after a report
said it used derivatives that are hurting profit.  The yen advanced against all 16 major peers, climbing as
much as 1.4 percent versus the dollar. The central bank said
today its asset purchases will include about 2 trillion yen in
Japanese  government bonds  and about 10 trillion yen in treasury
bills.  `So Extreme'  “The expectations were so extreme that the BOJ couldn’t
meet them, and now we are currently seeing the disappointment
and the retracement of those expectations,” said Carolin Hecht,
a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG. “In general,
the dollar-yen still has a long way to go up” and the Japanese
currency may weaken to 96 yen by year-end, she said.  Japan’s currency slumped about 12 percent against the euro
in the last three months on speculation the BOJ, under pressure
from new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, would increase monetary
stimulus to lift the economy out of its third recession in five
years. The  Nikkei 225 Index (NKY)  of Japanese stocks jumped 19 percent
in that time.  The GSCI gauge of commodities rose as much as 0.7 percent
to the highest since Oct. 19 as cotton, soybeans, aluminum,
gasoline, lead and zinc rallied more than 1 percent. U.S.
natural gas added as much as 2.2 percent on speculation that
frigid weather now and in February will boost demand for the
heating fuel. Oil climbed 0.7 percent to $96.24 a barrel, the
highest settlement since Sept. 17.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.2 percent.
Russia’s Micex closed down 0.8 percent and India’s Sensex
slipped 0.6 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  