-- AT&T Buying Alltel Spectrum, Customers for $780M
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-01-22T21:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/at-t-buying-alltel-spectrum-customers-for-780m.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, agreed to buy spectrum and subscribers from
 Atlantic Tele-Network Inc. (ATNI)  for $780 million in cash, bolstering
the company’s network and bringing in 585,000 new customers.  The deal includes the purchase of licenses, network assets
and retail stores, Dallas-based AT&T said today in a statement.
The spectrum is in the 700-, 850- and 1900-megahertz bands,
making it complementary to AT&T’s network, the company said.
Atlantic Tele-Network operates under the Alltel brand in six
states, mostly in the South and Midwest.  AT&T, led by Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson,
has been snapping up airwaves in a bid to catch up with Verizon
Wireless, the No. 1 U.S. carrier. Verizon won approval last year
to buy airwave rights from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and other cable
customers for about $3.6 billion. Wireless carriers rely on
spectrum to transmit phone calls and data to mobile devices.  Demand for spectrum has increased consolidation in the
wireless business and buoyed the values of companies that own a
desirable collection of airwaves. With today’s deal, AT&T is
acquiring operations that ATNI bought from Verizon in 2010 for
$223 million. That means the business has more than tripled in
value, despite losing more than 200,000 subscribers, said Chris King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “Clearly the deal is a hugely successful investment for
ATNI,” King said in a note to investors.  AT&T shares  were little changed in New York today, closing
at $33.61. The stock climbed 11 percent last year. ATNI, based
in Beverly, Massachusetts, jumped 12 percent to $44.20.  FCC Review  The company expects the Alltel purchase to be completed in
the second half of 2013, assuming it’s approved by the Federal
Communications Commission and the Department of Justice. The
transaction won’t significantly affect cash flow or dilute
earnings per share, AT&T said.  The acquisition follows at least 24 spectrum deals by AT&T
in 2012, including a $600 million purchase of NextWave Wireless,
a plan with Sirius XM Radio Inc. to use satellite signals, a
radio-wave deal with Comcast and Horizon Wi-Com LLC, and a
variety of smaller transactions with regional carriers.  AT&T tried to address its spectrum needs in 2011 through a
$39 billion takeover of the fourth-biggest carrier, T-Mobile USA
Inc. Facing opposition by regulators, AT&T walked away from the
deal in December 2011.  The company has said that data traffic is doubling
annually, and that demand for spectrum will exceed supply in
some markets starting in 2013. Stephenson has criticized
Washington for the capacity constraint, saying last year that a
regulatory logjam was keeping deals from going through quickly
enough.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  