-- Lawsuits for Insulting President Soar Under Mursi
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-22T17:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/lawsuits-for-insulting-president-soar-under-mursi.html
President Mohamed Mursi’s first 200
days in office have seen more lawsuits filed on charges of
“insulting the president” than all Egyptian rulers since 1892,
a leading rights group said, while another report laid out
charges of continued police brutality since the revolution.  About 24 lawsuits for insulting Mursi have been filed
against journalists and activists since his election in June,
the Arab Network for Human Rights said in a report. Under ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak , four such cases were filed, the group
said. Only one case was filed under Anwar Sadat and five under
King Farouk, it said. None were recorded during the rule of
Gamal Abdel Nasser, when more violent methods were often used to
suppress criticism.  The report, issued days before the second anniversary of
the start of the 2011 uprising that ousted Mubarak, comes as
Mursi faces growing criticism at home over his stewardship of
the Arab world’s most populous nation.  His secularist, minority Christian and youth activist
critics charge him with devoting more energy to cementing the
power of the Muslim Brotherhood than to running the country.
They are planning mass rallies on Jan. 25 against what they
describe as the “Brotherhoodization” of  Egypt .  Mursi has vowed to uphold press freedom. The Brotherhood
has said the media are biased against Islamists, and accused
them of stoking unrest that has hampered economic recovery and
led to protests and clashes.  TV Hosts  High-profile cases include television host Tawfiq Okasha,
who was acquitted on Jan. 8 of insulting and incitement to kill
Mursi, though his al-Faraeen satellite channel remains off air.
The country’s top prosecutor, appointed by Mursi, also ordered
an investigation into television comedian Bassem Youssef, whose
satirical program is modeled on Jon Stewart’s “The Daily
Show,” following a complaint he insulted the president.  Separately, the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights
said at a press conference in Cairo today that it has documented
at least 10 deaths in police stations and prisons, and 11 cases
of unlawful killing of citizens by security forces between June
and November last year.  “Although the January revolution was sparked in large part
by police practices and vocally demanded an end to these
practices,” the situation remains unchanged, the group said in
the report.  Torture Death  It screened a video report into the death of Atef El-Mansy,
who it said died as a result of torture in a police station
where he had attempted to file a complaint against police
aggression. When angry local people gathered around the station,
police fired at them and another person was killed, the report
said.  Separately, 46 people were injured in clashes today between
security forces at a police station in the Mediterranean city of
Marsa Matrouh and residents in the area, the state-run Middle
East News Agency reported. The violence erupted after an attempt
to help detainees escape, it said without elaborating.  Mursi issued a decree in November that he said would
guarantee the rights of those killed or injured by security
forces in last year’s uprising, and ensure retrials for
officials under Mubarak who were accused of responsibility.  Magda Boutros, a researcher at EIPR, said the law actually
served as a cover for the creation of “a special prosecutorial
office with permanent exceptional authorities whose members are
chosen by the public prosecutor, himself chosen unilaterally by
the president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  