-- Bank of Japan Announces Open-Ended Asset Purchases (Text)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-22T07:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bank-of-japan-announces-open-ended-asset-purchases-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a  statement  released today by the Bank of Japan.
(Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 were omitted for formatting
purposes.)  Introduction of the “Price Stability Target” and the “Open-
Ended Asset Purchasing Method”  1. At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board
of the Bank of Japan took additional steps to provide monetary
accommodation decisively. Specifically, the Bank decided to (1)
introduce the “price stability target,” and (2) introduce the
“open-ended asset purchasing method” (i.e., to purchase assets
without setting any termination date) under the Asset Purchase
Program. Furthermore, the Bank decided to release the joint
statement with the Government.  (1) Introduction of the “price stability target"1  The Bank held the discussion concerning its thinking on price
stability and decided to introduce the ‘‘price stability
target.’’ In addition, the Bank decided to release ‘‘The
’Price Stability Target’ under the Framework for the Conduct of
Monetary Policy” (see Attachment 1).  The Bank recognizes that the inflation rate consistent with
price stability on a sustainable basis will rise as efforts by a
wide range of entities toward strengthening competitiveness and
growth potential of  Japan ’s economy make progress. Based on
this recognition, the Bank sets the price stability target at 2
percent in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the
consumer price index (CPI).  Under the price stability target specified above, the Bank will
pursue monetary easing and aim to achieve this target at the
earliest possible time. Taking into consideration
that it will take considerable time before the effects of
monetary policy permeate the economy, the Bank will ascertain
whether there is any significant risk to the sustainability of
economic growth, including from the accumulation of financial
imbalances.  (2) Introduction of the “open-ended asset purchasing method"2  The Bank will pursue aggressive monetary easing, aiming to
achieve the above-mentioned price stability target, through a
virtually zero interest rate policy and purchases of financial
assets, as long as the Bank judges it appropriate to continue
with each policy measure respectively.3, 4 With respect to the
Asset Purchase Program, after completing the current purchasing
method, from January 2014, the Bank will introduce a method of
purchasing a certain amount of financial assets every month
without setting any termination date. Particularly, for some
time, following the introduction of this method, the amount of
monthly purchases is specified at about 13 trillion yen, 2
trillion yen of which is JGBs (see Attachment 2 for the
purchases of financial assets). As a result of these measures,
the total size of the Asset Purchase Program will be increased
by about 10 trillion yen in 2014 and is expected to be
maintained thereafter.  In the pursuit of monetary easing, taking into consideration
that it will take considerable time before the effects of
monetary policy permeate the economy, the Bank will ascertain
whether there is any significant risk to the sustainability of
economic growth, including from the accumulation of financial
imbalances.  (3) Joint statement of the Government and the Bank of Japan5
The Bank decided to release the statement titled ‘‘Joint
Statement of the Government and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  on Overcoming
Deflation and Achieving Sustainable Economic Growth’’ with the
Government (see Attachment 3).  2. The Policy Board also decided, by a unanimous vote, to set
the following guideline for money market operations for the
intermeeting period: The Bank of Japan will encourage the
uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0 to
0.1 percent.  3. Overseas economies remain in a deceleration phase. In global
financial markets, investors’ risk aversion has abated, although
developments require continued attention.  4. Japan’s economy remains relatively weak. Exports and
industrial production have decreased, reflecting the
aforementioned developments in overseas economies.
Business fixed investment has shown some weakness on the whole,
although resilience has been observed in nonmanufacturing. In
contrast, public investment has continued to increase, and
housing investment has generally been picking up. Private
consumption has remained resilient and the effects of the
decline in car sales due to the ending of some measures to
stimulate demand for automobiles have diminished. Meanwhile,
financial conditions in Japan are accommodative. On the price
front, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items
less fresh food) is around 0 percent.  5. With regard to the outlook, Japan’s economy is expected to
level off more or less for the time being, and thereafter, it
will return to a moderate recovery path as domestic demand
remains resilient partly due to the effects of various economic
measures and overseas economies gradually emerge from the
deceleration phase. For the time being, the year-on-year rate of
change in the CPI is expected to turn negative due to the
reversal of the previous year’s movements in energy-related and
durable consumer goods, and thereafter, it is likely to be
around 0 percent again.  6. Compared with the forecasts presented in the October 2012
Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices, growth prospects will
likely be somewhat lower for fiscal 2012, but they will likely
be higher for fiscal 2013 partly due to the effects of various
economic measures. Growth prospects for fiscal 2014 will likely
be broadly in line with the October forecasts. With regard to
prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the domestic
corporate goods price index will likely be somewhat higher
especially for fiscal 2013 mainly due to movements in foreign
exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all
items less fresh food) will likely be broadly in line with
the October forecasts.  7. Regarding risks, there remains a high degree of uncertainty
concerning Japan’s economy, including the prospects for the
European debt problem, the momentum toward recovery for the U.S.
economy, the possibility of emerging and commodity-exporting
economies making a smooth transition to the sustainable growth
path, and the effects of the recent bilateral relationship
between Japan and  China .  8. The Bank recognizes that Japan’s economy faces the critical
challenge of overcoming deflation as early as possible and
returning to the sustainable growth path with price
stability. This challenge will be met through the combination of
efforts by a wide range of entities to strengthen the economy’s
growth potential and support from the
financial side. Based on this recognition, the Bank will, as
mentioned above, pursue aggressive monetary easing. The Bank
expects that the Government will surely implement measures,
specified in the ‘‘Joint Statement,” such as carrying out bold
regulatory and institutional reforms, and furthermore, steadily
promote measures aimed at establishing a sustainable fiscal
structure.  ------------  1 - 7-2 majority vote (Voting for the action: Mr. M. Shirakawa,
Mr. H. Yamaguchi, Mr. K. G. Nishimura, Mr. R. Miyao, Mr. Y.
Morimoto, Ms. S. Shirai, and Mr. K. Ishida. Voting against the
action: Mr. T. Sato and Mr. T. Kiuchi.) Mr. T. Sato and Mr. T.
Kiuchi dissented from setting the price stability target at 2
percent in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI.
2 - The introduction of the “open-ended asset purchasing
method” was decided by a unanimous vote.
3 - Mr. T. Sato and Mr. T. Kiuchi dissented from aiming to
achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, through a
virtually zero interest rate policy and purchases of financial
assets, as long as the Bank judges it appropriate to continue
with each policy measure respectively.
4 - Mr. Miyao proposed to continue with a virtually zero
interest rate policy until the Bank judges 2 percent in terms of
the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI to be in sight. The
proposal was defeated by a majority vote. Voting for the
proposal: Mr. R. Miyao. Voting against the proposal:
Mr. M. Shirakawa, Mr. H. Yamaguchi, Mr. K. G. Nishimura, Mr. Y.
Morimoto, Ms. S. Shirai, Mr. K. Ishida, Mr. T. Sato, and Mr. T.
Kiuchi.
5 - 7-2 majority vote (Voting for the action: Mr. M. Shirakawa,
Mr. H. Yamaguchi, Mr. K. G. Nishimura, Mr. R. Miyao, Mr. Y.
Morimoto, Ms. S. Shirai, and Mr. K. Ishida. Voting against the
action: Mr. T. Sato and Mr. T. Kiuchi.) Mr. T. Sato and Mr. T.
Kiuchi dissented from the inclusion of the sentence, “the Bank
sets the price stability target at 2 percent in terms of the
year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index.”  Attachment 1
January 22, 2013
Bank of Japan
The “Price Stability Target”
under the Framework for the Conduct of Monetary Policy  1. The Bank of Japan conducts monetary policy based on the
principle that the policy shall be aimed at “achieving price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of the
national economy.” At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today,
the Policy Board reviewed the “price stability goal in the
medium to long term” adopted in February 2012, in light of the
above-mentioned principle. As a result, it decided to introduce
the “price stability target” and restate the framework for the
conduct of monetary policy.  2. “Price stability” is defined conceptually as “a state
where various economic agents including households and firms may
make decisions regarding such economic activities as consumption
and investments without being concerned about the fluctuations
in the general price level.” Therefore, “price stability”
must be the one on a sustainable basis.  3. The newly-introduced “price stability target” is the
inflation rate that the Bank judges to be consistent with price
stability on a sustainable basis. The Bank recognizes that
the inflation rate consistent with price stability on a
sustainable basis will rise as efforts by a wide range of
entities toward strengthening competitiveness and growth
potential of Japan’s economy make progress. Based on this
recognition, the Bank sets the “price stability target” at 2
percent in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the
consumer price index (CPI) -- a main price index.  4. Previously, the “price stability goal in the medium to long
term” was in a positive range of 2 percent or lower in terms of
the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI and the Bank set a
goal at 1 percent for the time being. This time, replacing a
“goal” with a “target” and setting that target at 2 percent
in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI are based
on the following recognition.  The Bank recognizes that the inflation rate consistent with
price stability on a sustainable basis will rise as efforts by a
wide range of entities toward strengthening competitiveness and
growth potential of Japan’s economy make progress. Today’s
expected rate of inflation has been shaped over the years. As
the strengthening of growth potential makes progress going
forward, the actual rate of inflation would gradually rise and
accordingly the expected inflation rate of households and firms
is likely to rise as well. Going forward, as prices are expected
to rise moderately, it is judged appropriate to clearly indicate
the target of 2 percent in order to anchor the
sustainable rate of inflation.  Switching from a “goal” to a “target” reflects an increasing
awareness regarding the importance of flexibility in the conduct
of monetary policy in Japan. The effects of
monetary policy permeating economic activity and thereafter
prices require a considerable and variable time lag. The conduct
of monetary policy has to be flexible by examining various risk
factors, including those related to financial imbalances, in
addition to the assessment of current developments and outlook
for economic activity and prices, from the perspective of
achieving sustainable growth with price stability. Such
understanding has been widely shared around the globe;
particularly, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis,
major economies of the world have come to emphasize flexibility
in the conduct of monetary policy -- by, for example, publicly
articulating the importance of paying due attention to financial
system stability. Over the last year, there has been an
increasing awareness of such understanding in Japan as well. In
such circumstances, it is judged transparent and appropriate to
use the expression, “target,” in order to explain the Bank’s
thinking on price stability.  5. In order for Japan’s economy to overcome deflation as early
as possible and return to a sustainable growth path with price
stability, efforts by a wide range of entities to strengthen
growth potential are crucial. The Bank will continue to
thoroughly examine the progress toward strengthening growth
potential and the ensuingdevelopments in the expected inflation
rate of households and firms. In the meantime,the Government has
shown its intention to aggressively pursue steps for
strengthening competitiveness and growth potential of Japan’s
economy and to steadily promote measures aimed at establishing a
sustainable fiscal structure.  6. The Bank will continue to conduct monetary policy, based on
its assessment of economic activity and prices from two
perspectives, in the context of the “price stability target.”  The first perspective is examining, as regards economic activity
and prices over the next two years or so, whether the outlook
deemed most likely by the Bank of Japan follows a path of
sustainable growth under price stability.  The second perspective is examining, in a longer term, various
risks that are most relevant to the conduct of monetary policy
aimed at achieving sustainable growth under price stability. In
particular, financial imbalances will be examined as a risk that
will significantly impact economic activity and prices when they
materialize, although the probability of their emergence is low.  The Bank of Japan will, in light of deliberations from the two
perspectives described above, outline the current view on
monetary policy, and disclose it periodically mainly
in the Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook
Report).  Attachment 2
Amount of Monthly Purchases under the Asset Purchase Program
from January 2014
Total amount: about 13 trillion yen
JGBs: about 2 trillion yen
T-Bills: about 10 trillion yen  Notes: 1. Based on the average residual maturities of JGBs and
T-Bills that have recently been purchased, the total size of the
Asset Purchase Program, through the above-mentioned
monthly purchases, will be increased by about 10 trillion yen in
2014 and is expected to be maintained thereafter.
2. For financial assets other than JGBs and T-Bills, the Bank
will aim to maintain the amount outstanding of those assets.
3. For fixed-rate funds-supplying operation against pooled
collateral, the Bank will aim to maintain about 25 trillion yen.
4. In addition to purchases under the program, the Bank
regularly purchases JGBs at the pace of 21.6 trillion yen per
year.  Joint Statement of the Government and the Bank of Japan
on Overcoming Deflation and Achieving Sustainable Economic
Growth  1. In order to overcome deflation early and achieve sustainable
economic growth with price stability, the Government and the
Bank of Japan will strengthen their policy coordination and work
together as follows.  2. The Bank of Japan conducts monetary policy based on the
principle that the policy shall be aimed at achieving price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of the
national economy, and is responsible for maintaining financial
system stability. The Bank aims to achieve price stability on a
sustainable basis, given that there are various factors that
affect prices in the short run.  The Bank recognizes that the inflation rate consistent with
price stability on a sustainable basis will rise as efforts by a
wide range of entities toward strengthening competitiveness and
growth potential of Japan’s economy make progress. Based on
this recognition, the Bank sets the price stability target at 2
percent in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the
consumer price index.  Under the price stability target specified above, the Bank will
pursue monetary easing and aim to achieve this target at the
earliest possible time. Taking into consideration
that it will take considerable time before the effects of
monetary policy permeate the economy, the Bank will ascertain
whether there is any significant risk to the sustainability of
economic growth, including from the accumulation of financial
imbalances.  3. The Government will, in order to revitalize Japan’s economy,
not only flexibly manage macroeconomic policy but also formulate
measures for strengthening competitiveness and growth potential
of Japan’s economy, and promote them strongly under the
leadership of the Headquarters for Japan’s Economic
Revitalization. Those measures include all possible decisive
policy actions for reforming the economic structure, such
as concentrating resources on innovative research and
development, strengthening the foundation for innovation,
carrying out bold regulatory and institutional reforms and
better utilizing the tax system.  In addition, in strengthening coordination between the
Government and the Bank of Japan, the Government will steadily
promote measures aimed at establishing a sustainable fiscal
structure with a view to ensuring the credibility of fiscal
management.  4. The Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy will regularly
review the progress in the conduct of macroeconomic policies
including monetary policy, the current condition
and future prospects of prices in the context of the price
stability target under those policies, economic and fiscal
situation including employment conditions, and progress
in economic structural reform.  Meeting hours:
January 21: 14:00-16:52
January 22: 7:59-12:42
Policy Board members present:
Masaaki Shirakawa (Governor)
Hirohide Yamaguchi (Deputy Governor)
Kiyohiko G. Nishimura (Deputy Governor)
Ryuzo Miyao
Yoshihisa Morimoto
Sayuri Shirai
Koji Ishida
Takehiro Sato
Takahide Kiuchi  (Others present)
January 21
From the Ministry of Finance:
Shinichi Sato, Deputy Vice Minister for Policy Planning and Co-
ordination
(14:00-16:52)
From the Cabinet Office:
Kenji Matsuyama, Vice-Minister for Policy Coordination
(14:00-16:52)  January 22
From the Ministry of Finance:
Shunichi Yamaguchi, Senior Vice Minister of Finance
(7:59-12:14,12:32-12:42)
From the Cabinet Office:
Yasutoshi Nishimura, Senior Vice Minister of Cabinet Office
(7:59-10:49)
Akira Amari, Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy
(10:55-12:14,12:32-12:42)  Release of the Monthly Report of Recent Economic and Financial
Developments:
14:00 on Wednesday, January 23 (Japanese)
16:30 on Thursday, January 24 (English)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  