-- Bankia Customers May Get Spanish Cash to Cover Bonds Losses
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-22T15:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bankia-customers-may-get-spanish-cash-to-cover-bonds-losses-2-.html
Spain is considering using public
money to help Bankia group compensate private investors in about
5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) of bonds amid claims the notes
were mis-sold, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The plan is one option Spain is assessing to help buyers of
securities issued by the savings banks that now form part of
nationalized Bankia, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. The International Monetary Fund,
European Central Bank and European Union will discuss the
proposal in  Madrid  next week, one of the people said.  The conditions of the European bailout for Spanish banks in
July meant subordinated debt holders, including depositors who
bought preferred shares sold as safe investments, lost almost
half their money. Spain is creating an arbitration mechanism to
decide on cases where bad practice in the selling of the notes
can be shown, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Dec. 18.  “The government is trying to redress the harm done to
thousands of families by the alleged mis-selling,” said Luis Arenzana, an investment adviser at Shelter Island Total Return
Fund in Madrid.  Spain may have to stump up its own money to compensate
junior note holders because the  terms  of the banking-industry
bailout prevent it from using EU cash.  Debt Swap  Under the EU rescue, Bankia’s parent Banco Financiero y de
Ahorros SA is swapping its junior debt for shares at valuations
of 54 percent to 86 percent of face value, the lender said Nov.
28. If the shares rise, Spain will have to spend less to make
good the private investors.  “One of the essential elements of the program is
restructuring certain parts of the banking industry and also if
necessary winding down of banks, mergers of banks and then
subsequent recapitalization, which is being done in line with
the memorandum,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn said in Brussels when asked about the Spanish plans.  Officials at Bankia, the Economy Ministry and Bank of Spain
declined to comment.  Spain has already stepped in to prop up Bankia, advancing
4.5 billion euros to the lender in September before an 18
billion-euro capital injection backed by the EU.  Bankia was formed in 2010 from the merger of seven Spanish
savings banks as part of government efforts to clean up real-
estate losses. Bankia was nationalized in June 2012 and is the
biggest recipient of aid from the country’s 100 billion-euro
European bank bailout.  Institutional investors are “unlikely to take kindly to
compensation” if they’re excluded from a deal, said Olly Burrows, a London-based credit analyst at Rabobank
International.  “The Spanish government should be careful not to signal to
the capital markets that some bondholders are more equal than
others,” Burrows said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  