-- Bank of Japan, Government Announce 2% Inflation Goal (Full Text)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-22T06:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bank-of-japan-government-announce-2-inflation-goal-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a joint statement released today by the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
and the nation’s government:  The Government and the Bank of Japan decided to release the
attached statement jointly. They will strengthen their policy
coordination in order to overcome deflation and achieve
sustainable economic growth.  1. In order to overcome deflation early and achieve sustainable
economic growth with price stability, the Government and the
Bank of Japan will strengthen their policy coordination and work
together as follows.  2. The Bank of Japan conducts monetary policy based on the
principle that the policy shall be aimed at achieving price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of the
national economy, and is responsible for maintaining financial
system stability. The Bank aims to achieve  price stability  on a
sustainable basis, given that there are various factors that
affect prices in the short run.  The Bank recognizes that the inflation rate consistent with
price stability on a sustainable basis will rise as efforts by a
wide range of entities toward strengthening competitiveness and
growth potential of Japan’s economy make progress. Based on
this recognition, the Bank sets the price stability target at 2
percent in terms of the year-on-year rate of change in the
 consumer price index .  Under the price stability target specified above, the Bank will
pursue monetary easing and aim to achieve this target at the
earliest possible time. Taking into consideration
that it will take considerable time before the effects of
monetary policy permeate the economy, the Bank will ascertain
whether there is any significant risk to the sustainability of
economic growth, including from the accumulation of financial
imbalances.  3. The Government will, in order to revitalize  Japan ’s economy,
not only flexibly manage macroeconomic policy but also formulate
measures for strengthening competitiveness and growth potential
of Japan’s economy, and promote them strongly under the
leadership of the Headquarters for Japan’s Economic
Revitalization. Those measures include all possible decisive
policy actions for reforming the economic structure, such as
concentrating resources on innovative research and development,
strengthening the foundation for innovation, carrying out bold
regulatory and institutional reforms and better utilizing the
tax system.  In addition, in strengthening coordination between the
Government and the Bank of Japan, the Government will steadily
promote measures aimed at establishing a sustainable fiscal
structure with a view to ensuring the credibility of fiscal
management.  4. The Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy will regularly
review the progress in the conduct of macroeconomic policies
including monetary policy, the current condition and future
prospects of prices in the context of the price stability target
under those policies, economic and fiscal situation including
employment conditions, and progress in economic structural
reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  