-- Bank Splits Alone Won’t Curb Risk, Bafin Chief Koenig Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-23T13:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bank-splits-should-be-paired-with-shadow-bank-curbs-koenig-says.html
Germany ’s top markets regulator said
a plan to split banks’ trading and deposit-taking activities
would need to be paired with other measures to supervise global
financial operations.  Bafin President Elke Koenig told reporters regulation of
the banking industry can only be effective if entities that
provide so-called shadow banking, including money-market funds,
are globally supervised as well.  Koenig’s comments come after the regulator asked  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, to simulate a split of its
consumer banking and trading businesses, according to two people
familiar with the matter. A European Union-commissioned group
last year called for banks to put trading and deposit-taking
activities into separately capitalized units to prevent a repeat
of the taxpayer-led bailouts of 2008.  “A structural division alone isn’t enough to rid the world
of systemic risks,” Koenig said at the regulator’s annual New
Year’s reception yesterday. “We would win little security if we
pushed evasive actions into the weakly regulated or unregulated
market.”  Koenig also questioned whether efforts to reform the way
interest benchmarks such as the London interbank offered rate
and Euribor will be successful. Regulators have sought to
overhaul the benchmarks after investigations began into whether
more than a dozen banks altered their rate submissions to profit
from derivative trades or to appear more financially stable.  Market Manipulation  Rates based on estimates from market participants are
vulnerable to manipulation, especially in times of reduced
market activities, she said.  “We not only need to work on a general restructuring of
the systems, we also need to work on a substitute,” Koenig
said.  Systemic risks are also coming from money-market funds
which are a major financing source for banks and are part of
shadow banking, the Bafin chief said. Some shadow banking actors
are “very big global players,” she said without identifying
any particular company.  Bafin is looking into whether insurers should be required
to develop plans for how they would be restructured in a crisis,
Koenig said. In line with the banking industry, only bigger
insurers, particularly those operating internationally, should
be covered by such a rule, she said.  The plans “are a decidedly useful preventive risk-
management instrument that will help contain systematic risks,”
the Bafin president said.  Solvency II  The common set of rules for the EU’s insurance industry,
called Solvency II, will realistically only start at the
beginning of 2017, according to Koenig.  The regulations are designed to make firms across the
region allocate the same capital reserves against the risks they
take.  Bafin favors early introduction of the parts of the rules
that concern insurers’ own risk and solvency assessments, she
said. The regulator may call for such a step nationally, should
the EU not be able to agree on it, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  