-- CCX’s 45% Surge Before Buyback Prompts Queries in Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2013-01-22T20:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/batista-offers-to-take-coal-unit-private-after-share-price-slump.html
CCX Carvao da Colombia SA ’s 45
percent jump yesterday before billionaire  Eike Batista ’s share
buyback announcement has prompted queries from the local stock
exchange.  Batista, who last year lost the title of  Brazil ’s richest
person, said after the market closed yesterday he plans to take
coal company CCX private. Yesterday, the stock closed up 45
percent at 3.13 reais in  Sao Paulo . Today, the shares gained 22
percent to close at 3.83 reais and are up 87 percent this year.  CCX isn’t aware of any other fact that would justify recent
swings in the share price, the company based in  Rio de Janeiro 
said today in a statement. CCX said it was responding to
information requests from Brazil’s Bovespa stock exchange and
forwarded the information to the country’s securities and
exchange commission, known as CVM. The Bovespa exchange didn’t
reply to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.  “The CVM follows movements in publicly traded companies
and takes appropriate measures when necessary, and doesn’t
comment on specific cases,” the exchange said in an e-mailed
reply to questions.  Batista offered as much as 4.31 reais per share payable in
stock of other public companies controlled by his EBX Group Co.
holding, according to a regulatory  filing  yesterday. The offer
is twice CCX’s Jan. 18 closing price and values the coal
producer at about 733.1 million reais ($358 million).  Deteriorating Market  “CCX will be required to undergo some changes in its
strategic plan, due to the deterioration of coal market
conditions,” Batista said in the statement. EBX’s press office
in Rio didn’t offer additional comments on yesterday’s price
rise.  Today was the fourth consecutive day the shares gained. The
stock had slid 75 percent from its May listing through Jan. 18.  CCX, the smallest of Batista’s publicly traded companies by
market value, was listed in Sao Paulo on May 25 after being spun
off from the billionaire’s power-generating unit  MPX Energia SA. (MPXE3)   Batista’s EBX controls 62.3 percent of CCX. The remaining
37.7 percent trades on Brazil’s stock exchange.  Batista in September suspended a plan to pay as much as
618.7 million reais to delist his port-developer unit  LLX
Logistica SA (LLXL3)  after an evaluation indicated he would have to
spend more than twice what he initially expected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in Rio de Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  