-- BG Exposed to Bids as $60 Billion Company’s Stock Dips: Real M&A
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-01-22T17:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bg-exposed-to-bids-as-60-billion-company-s-stock-dips-real-m-a.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) ’s valuation falling by
half in less than two years is making even a $60 billion company
look vulnerable to a takeover as oil giants hunt for growth in
new frontiers.  Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson took over on Jan. 1
after BG’s 26 percent  stock drop  last year, its worst annual
return as the Reading, England-based company said project delays
will hold back output growth in 2013. While the explorer’s
price-earnings ratio of 15.5 is higher than its peers in  North
America  and Europe, the multiple is almost half as expensive as
it was in April 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BG, with enough oil and gas resources to pump for the next
 73 years , has stakes in the “Big Five” oil fields off  Brazil 
and expanding liquefied natural gas projects from Canada to
 Australia . The company discovered more oil and gas in 2011 to
replace what it pumped from wells than any other peer, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  could be lured to
BG to help fuel growth after its production dropped 7.5 percent
in the third quarter, said Brewin Dolphin Ltd.  BP Plc (BP/)  may be
receptive to a combination with BG to challenge  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  as Europe’s largest oil company, said N+1 Singer Ltd.  “BG has very attractive assets,” Jane Coffey, who manages
12 billion pounds ($19 billion) as head of U.K. equities at
Royal London Asset Management, said in a telephone interview.
The firm owns BG shares. “There is a big danger that some
opportunistic big company will come along and get the assets
very cheaply.”  Stock Drop  Neil Burrows , a spokesman at BG, declined to comment on the
possibility of a sale. Patrick McGinn, a Houston-based spokesman
for Exxon, declined to comment when asked if the company is
interested in acquiring BG.  Sheila Williams , a London-based
spokeswoman at BP, also wouldn’t comment on whether BP would be
interested in a combination with BG.  Finlayson, 56, succeeded  Frank Chapman  as CEO this month at
the end of the company’s worst annual stock performance since BG
was formed in 1997, when former state gas monopoly British Gas
Plc split.  Chapman, during his 12-year  tenure , had taken the company’s
market value from about 9.8 billion pounds to more than 53
billion pounds in 2011. That success was halted on Oct. 31 when
BG said production won’t grow this year because of project
delays in the North Sea, U.S., Brazil and Egypt. The  stock fell 
by a record 14 percent in one day. BG then said in November it
would reduce supplies of LNG to clients in  Chile  partly because
of less fuel available from Egypt.  ‘Now Cheap’  The decline left BG  trading  yesterday at 15.5 times its
profit in the last 12 months, compared with its 10-year high
price-earnings ratio of 30.3 in April 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Even though that’s more expensive than the 10 other oil and
gas producers based in North America and Europe with market
values exceeding $50 billion,  Peter Hutton , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets , said one could argue that BG is “now cheap”
and would be less dilutive to a buyer’s valuation multiples.  “BG will have been on M&A radars across the industry,”
London-based Hutton wrote in a Jan. 18 report. “Management
change may be taken as opportunity to initiate discussion” or
make the company weaker against a hostile approach.  A potential bidder may be interested in BG’s 6 billion
barrels of oil and gas resources in Brazil, worth about $6.80 a
barrel, according to Hutton. Valuing the proven reserves
elsewhere at $4 a barrel, an acquirer would be getting BG’s LNG
business “for free” at the current market value, he wrote.  ‘Big Five’  BG this month started pumping oil at the  Sapinhoa field  off
Brazil, one of the  “Big Five”  discoveries including Lula,
Iracema, Iara and Carioca in the pre-salt  Santos Basin . The
company also is investing more than $20 billion to produce its
first Australian LNG next year and plans to more than double its
marketing volumes to about 30 million tons a year in 2020.  While output will stagnate this year, the company has a
history of finding new energy sources. In 2011, BG discovered
enough oil and natural gas to replace 251 percent of what it
pumped from wells, a so-called reserve-replacement ratio that
was the highest of any producer with a market value exceeding
$50 billion based in North America or Europe, according to data
compile by Bloomberg. The median for the group was 122 percent.  Biggest Discount  Theepan Jothilingam, a London-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., estimates BG’s net asset value is about 1,929
pence a share, assuming an average oil price of $95 a barrel.
BG’s stock closed 42 percent less than that yesterday, a bigger
discount to the value of its underlying assets than any other
European integrated  oil company , Jothilingam wrote in a Jan. 18
report.  Today, BG  shares  rose 2.3 percent to 1,145 pence in London,
the highest closing price since Oct. 31 and the biggest gain in
the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index.  Exxon is the major integrated oil company best positioned
to acquire BG with the least amount of dilution to its
valuation, according to Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin
Dolphin in London. The $414 billion company trades at 11.3 times
this year’s projected earnings, compared with BG at 12.6 times,
according to data and analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Irving, Texas-based producer needs to secure assets for
growth after it said in November that third-quarter oil and
natural gas output fell to the lowest in three years, with
declines in all of its areas of operation except for Africa and
Australia. Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson budgeted about $100 million a
day last year on projects and pursued acquisitions to help
reverse the longest stretch of quarterly production declines in
13 years.  Exxon Motivation  In addition, OAO Rosneft’s agreement to buy BP’s Russian
venture TNK-BP will displace Exxon as the world’s largest
publicly traded oil producer by volume.  “If Exxon bought BG, it would be back at the top of the
pile again,” Armstrong said.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the state-run energy
company known as  Sinopec (386) , and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest
offshore oil and gas explorer, would have the firepower to buy
BG as the nation seeks resources to feed its expanding energy
needs, said Armstrong. China National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s largest energy producer, also may be among interested
buyers, said Simon Hawkins, a London-based analyst at N+1 Singer
Ltd.  Representatives for the three Chinese companies didn’t
respond to phone calls outside normal business hours requesting
comment.  Chinese Energy  China, the largest oil-consuming country after the U.S.,
accounted for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The  International
Energy Agency  last week boosted its 2013 global demand forecast
for oil because of stronger growth expectations for the Asian
nation.  Hawkins estimates that BG would command a 30 percent
premium, which would equate to about 1,450 pence a share, or a
total of about 57 billion pounds, including  net debt .  Takeover valuation wouldn’t be an issue because “China
will just finance it anyway,” given that all the companies are
backed by the government, Armstrong said.  A BG combination with BP, still recovering from the 2010
 spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , may be another possibility,
according to Hawkins. London-based BP, which has a market value
of $139 billion, has itself been considered a potential takeover
target because of its diminished valuation relative to reserves,
earnings and output, people familiar with the company’s
strategic thinking and its potential acquirers said in November.  Reverse Takeover  A tie-up would create a company better able to rival Exxon
and Shell, Hawkins said, and BG management could take the lead.  “If they want to do a reverse takeover, that is quite an
interesting idea,” said Hawkins, who knew Finlayson when they
both worked at Shell in  Nigeria  in the 1990s. If Finlayson “is
able to prove himself very quickly to investors and get the
institutional support, then that sort of aggressive thing is
possible.”  Investec Securities Ltd.’s Stuart Joyner said BG’s
expensive multiples will deter buyers and the company won’t
pursue a takeover of its own while Finlayson sets a plan for
addressing production growth issues. The new CEO is most likely
to sell some of the Brazilian fields, which account for about 40
percent of the company’s market value, to help boost capital,
the London-based analyst said.  “They have to farm down Brazil,” Joyner said in a phone
interview. “They are huge fields -- not without their
complexities -- very good, with very high margin per barrel, so
they are quite attractive.”  While selling some of the Brazil assets is the most
probable outcome as the new CEO sets a strategy, the recent
stock plunge has left BG cheaper than its underlying value, said
Zac Phillips, a London-based analyst at Fox-Davies Capital Ltd.  “I was quite surprised when BG fell by as much as it
did,” Phillips said. “It made it very vulnerable to a
takeover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  