-- BHP Forecasts 10% Output Growth on Iron Ore, Copper, Oil
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-23T06:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bhp-reports-second-quarter-iron-ore-output-in-line-with-forecast.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, forecast 10 percent compound annual
output growth to the end of fiscal 2014, boosted by increased
volumes in iron ore, copper and petroleum.  Iron ore production rose 3 percent to 42.2 million metric
tons in the three months ended Dec. 31, Melbourne-based BHP said
today in a statement. The median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 42 million tons. Copper gained 5
percent, while petroleum climbed 3 percent.  Commodities  have risen  to their highest in three months,
led by energy and metals, amid optimism that an economic
recovery in China will boost demand. BHP said total output at
 Chile ’s Escondida copper mine, the world’s biggest, is on track
to rise 20 percent this fiscal year, while Australian iron ore
production is forecast to gain 5 percent.  “This growth is real, and it’s fair and it’s going to
drive earnings, but a lot of it is just return of capacity
that’s been lost for whatever reason,” Adrian Wood, a Sydney-
based resources analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., said by
phone. “The three key divisions, iron ore, copper and
petroleum, guidance in all of those has been reiterated today.
Halfway through the year they look to be comfortably on track to
meet them.”  BHP gained 1.3 percent to A$37.06 at the close of trading
in Sydney. Rio Tinto fell 0.7 percent, while the S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 0.2 percent.  Increased capacity “at a number of our highest margin
businesses and strong growth across our broader portfolio is
expected to deliver a compound annual growth rate of 10 percent
in copper equivalent terms over the two years to the end of the
2014 financial year,” BHP said.  ‘Strong Outlook’  BHP last October boosted spending plans at its Australian
ore mines by a third to more than $6 billion this fiscal year.
There’s a “strong outlook” for the unit after output hit a
12th straight, first-half record, BHP said in the statement.  The price of  iron ore  hit a 15-month high of $158.50 a
metric ton this month after the biggest importer,  China ,
announced new spending plans for roads and sewers.  “The rapid turnaround in Chinese sentiment has seen a
similar move in iron ore expectations, bolstered by a strong
Chinese restock,” Macquarie Securities ( Australia ) Ltd. said in
a Jan. 11 report. “We expect the price to hold above $100 a ton
through 2017.”  China’s economy is forecast to accelerate to grow 8.1
percent this year, up from 7.9 percent during 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The recovery has extended to
manufacturing activity, which has expanded for three consecutive
months, the Purchasing Managers’ Index shows.  Copper Boost  Copper production rose to 295,200 tons in the quarter,
after output of copper concentrate at Escondida increased 70
percent during the six months to Dec. 31 during fiscal 2013, BHP
said, benefiting from higher ore grades and the completion of
maintenance work.  “If BHP are making an increasing play on copper, you’ve
got to go along with that” given its knowledge of markets,
Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG Markets in
 Melbourne , said by phone. There’s a lot of positive sentiment
for copper “given that we’re seeing an improvement in China,
given the growth and stabilization in U.S. housing,” he said.  Copper prices climbed 6.3 percent last year as central
banks in the U.S.,  Europe  and China increased efforts to boost
economies.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s
biggest publicly traded copper producer, yesterday reported
fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as copper
sales rose more than expected and costs fell.  Consumer China  Growth in China, BHP’s biggest customer, will stay at
around 7 percent to 8 percent for the next decade as the world’s
biggest metals consumer becomes a consumer-led economy, Chief
Executive Officer Marius Kloppers said in October.  BHP’s oil and gas production in the quarter was 59.9
million barrels of oil equivalent, the company said. It left
annual output guidance unchanged at 240 million barrels.  Production of coking coal, used to make steel, rose 5
percent to 8.9 million tons on the same quarter last year,
recovering after industrial action last year. Thermal coal
production rose 8 percent to 18 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  