-- Billionaire Fredriksen Winning as LNG Tanker Rates Drop
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-01-22T14:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/billionaire-fredriksen-winning-as-lng-tanker-rates-drop-freight.html
Rates to ship liquefied natural gas
are dropping for the first time in four years amid a diminishing
scarcity of the carriers transporting the fuel, a bullish sign
for investors in the biggest owners of the vessels.  Golar LNG Ltd., the tanker company founded by billionaire
 John Fredriksen , will report record profit this year and its
shares will gain 21 percent in 12 months, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Lower rates mean fewer new vessels
are being ordered, according to Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo.
Shortages will return by 2016, says London-based Clarkson
 Capital Markets  LLC, a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Earnings tripled in the past five years at a time when most
of the merchant fleet lost money because of capacity gluts.
Daily rates will retreat 7.3 percent to an average of $139,000
this year, the median of seven analyst estimates shows, as the
market swings from a shortage of 11 vessels to a surplus of one
carrier. Fewer orders are good for the biggest owners because
the LNG industry will expand production capacity by 77 percent
in the next seven years, Morgan Stanley says.  “When the market is growing, even if you have one year of
high fleet growth versus demand growth, it’s a matter of time
before demand will catch up and that will hold the market at
very profitable levels,” said Fotis Giannakoulis, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley in  New York . “I don’t think there are many
industries offering this type of return today.”  Fukushima Disaster  Tanker rates reached a record last year as  Japan , the
biggest LNG importer, accelerated buying to compensate for its
nuclear  power plants  closing after the Fukushima disaster in
April 2011. Costs will drop as demand expands 5.6 percent and
the fleet 6.9 percent, according to Clarkson Capital Markets.
While the glut will reach 19 next year, the market will revert
to a deficit by 2016, the banking unit of Clarkson Plc says.  Golar (GLNG) , based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , operates nine LNG
carriers and has orders for 11 more, exceeding the expansion
plans of any other publicly traded owner. Shares of the company
jumped 7.3 percent to $39.47 this year and will reach $47.88 in
12 months, the average of 12 forecasts shows.  Net income  will
surge 47 percent to $201.3 million this year and $375.3 million
in 2014, according to the median of as many as 12 estimates.  Qatar Gas  Qatar Gas Transport Co., the largest LNG tanker owner, will
report a 12 percent gain in profit to $232.9 million this year,
the median of three estimates shows. The company’s ships
typically don’t trade in the  spot market .  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , based in
 Kuala Lumpur , is the second-largest operator and will more than
double earnings to 1.18 billion ringgit ($393 million) in 2013,
the median of  13 estimates  shows. It has 27 LNG tankers out of a
fleet of 135 ships, data on its website show.  Owners probably will hold off ordering more ships for now
because about 40 percent of those already scheduled to be built
at yards lack charters, Clarkson says. That means there is no
certainty they will secure business once they are completed,
increasing the risk of the purchase. They cost about $185
million each, twice as much as a supertanker, because they need
equipment to hold gas cooled to minus 160 degrees Celsius (minus
256 degrees Fahrenheit) so it occupies 600 times less space.  Demand for tankers may fall short of expectations if new
LNG production is delayed. Two of the three projects scheduled
to start in 2012 still aren’t shipping cargoes. Angola LNG will
open the African nation’s first liquefaction plant in the first
quarter, about a year later than planned, Petroleum Minister
Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said last month. The facility
will produce enough gas to supply Japan for about 22 days.  Worst Recession  Gains in LNG consumption may stall if the world economy
weakens. Japan and the 17-nation euro area are already back in
recessions, and the  World Bank  this month cut its forecast for
2013 growth to 2.4 percent from 3 percent. The estimate for
Japan dropped to 0.8 percent from 1.5 percent. Global gas demand
contracted 2.5 percent in 2009 amid the worst recession since
World War II, according to data compiled by BP Plc.  The expansion in Japanese consumption may also slow should
the nation start reopening its nuclear plants. While all but two
of its 50 facilities are still shut down, Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party  won elections last month pledging to restart
reactors to damp energy costs.  LNG sold in Japan at an average of $17.34 per million
British thermal units last year, compared with $9.53 in  Europe 
and $2.89 in the U.S., according to data from Poten & Partners
Inc., a New York-based shipbroker. That lured more cargoes from
the Atlantic region, adding as much as 13,000 miles to voyages
and effectively reducing the fleet’s capacity.  Shipping Industry  The profitability of LNG tankers contrasts with most of the
rest of the shipping industry, which is enduring gluts after
owners ordered too many vessels when rates surged in 2007 and
2008. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of the cost of hauling
coal and iron ore, plunged 60 percent last year and the Baltic
Dirty Tanker Index, reflecting rates for ships carrying oil,
tumbled 18 percent.  Global liquefaction capacity will grow 2.8 percent to 261
million metric tons this year and reach 461 million tons in
2020, according to Morgan Stanley. The tanker fleet will expand
17 percent by 2018 from last year, according to the bank, which
cited existing orders at ship yards.  The U.S. government is reviewing applications from
companies seeking to build export terminals with a combined
capacity of 24 billion cubic feet of gas a day as LNG. That
would require as many as 135 tankers ordered by 2017, Morgan
Stanley estimates. There are 372 currently in service, according
to Clarkson.  Marine Engineering  Ship yards have limited capacity to accelerate building and
can produce about 50 to 60 tankers a year, Clarkson estimates.
The biggest builders are  Samsung Heavy Industries (010140)  Co., Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. and Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co.  “Given the direction of the market was clearly softer,
people got deterred from ordering vessels,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities whose recommendations
on the shares of shipping companies returned 18 percent in the
past year. “Yes, everybody is aware of the fact that 2014 looks
a little bit dodgy in terms of the capacity of vessels versus
volumes. But these ships last for 30 years, and the long-term
story to LNG has strengthened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  