-- Birmingham City Says It Needs to Trade Players to Keep Operating
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-01-22T17:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/birmingham-city-says-it-needs-to-trade-players-to-keep-operating.html
Birmingham City Plc (2309) , the English
soccer team whose owner  Carson Yeung  faces  money laundering 
charges in  Hong Kong , said it needs to trade more players or
obtain “forward funding” of transfer money to keep operating
through the end of the year.  The team made the comments in its annual financial
statement released yesterday by the London-based Companies House
registry. The statement shows Birmingham City had net income of
16.4 million pounds ($26 million) on sales of 39 million pounds
for the year through June 2012, compared to a year-earlier net
loss of 12.4 million pounds. The club also cut its payroll costs
by 44 percent to 25.1 million pounds.  Shares in Birmingham City’s parent Birmingham International
Holdings Ltd. have been suspended from trading in Hong Kong
since July 2011, when Yeung was charged with five counts of
money laundering.  In November, Yeung won a delay of his trial until April 29.
The team’s directors have not received any information to
suggest its financing was sourced from money-laundered funds or
his loans to the club are subject to an “actual restraint,”
according to the statement.  Yeung bought Birmingham City in October 2009 for 81.5
million pounds from David and Ralph Gold and  David Sullivan . He
paid for the club using funds from a share offering underwritten
by Kingston Securities Ltd., controlled by billionaire Chu Yuet-
wah, which has interests including casino operations in Macau
and investment services.  The team was relegated from the English Premier League in
2011, three months after winning the League Cup final. It’s
currently 20th of 24 teams in the second-tier Championship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  