-- BMW Pursues Daimler in Producing Profit From Car-Sharing
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-22T10:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bmw-pursues-daimler-in-producing-profit-from-car-sharing.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  plans to
earn the first profit in 2013 from a two-year-old venture that
rents cars by the minute, potentially overtaking  Daimler AG (DAI)  in a
push to make efforts to woo urban consumers pay off.  DriveNow GmbH, BMW’s car-sharing venture with rental
company  Sixt AG (SIX2) , will limit expansion to focus on making money,
Andreas Schaaf, the partnership’s managing director, said
yesterday. After setting up in four cities in Germany since its
May 2011 start, DriveNow is looking to add a location in the
country and another elsewhere in  Europe  in 2013.  “We could expand quicker, but we want to prove that the
business can be profitable,” Schaaf said in an interview in
Berlin. “We look at profitability from city to city. There’s
not a lot of economies of scale.”  Daimler and BMW are ramping up city-based services
appealing to drivers looking for an alternative to owning a
vehicle. Membership in car-sharing services may surge 20-fold to
almost 15 million people in Europe by 2020, according to
consulting company Frost & Sullivan. That would exceed the 12.5
million cars sold in the region last year.  The growth prospects led Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  to bid $491 million for  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  at the
beginning of this month.  “The participation of rental companies shows that car-
sharing can and should be a profitable business,” said Marc- Rene Tonn, an analyst at Warburg Research in Hamburg. “For the
auto companies, it’s about positioning themselves to address
changing behavior of urban consumers.”  Earnings Dates  The earnings plan for DriveNow compares with a 2014 break-
even target date set by Daimler for its Car2go service, which
offers one-way rentals of two-seat Smart models by the minute.
Car2go is profitable in three of the 18 cities where it
operates, Daimler said yesterday. The Stuttgart, Germany-based
maker of Mercedes-Benz luxury vehicles started the car-sharing
service with a pilot program in  Germany  in late 2008.  “Car2go has clearly moved out of the experimental stage,”
Robert Henrich, head of the carmaker’s newly created Daimler
Mobility Services division, told journalists after a press
conference yesterday in Stuttgart.  The new unit, announced yesterday, bundles Car2go with
services for finding a parking space and comparing urban
transport options, and it has a goal of generating 100 million
euros ($133 million) a year in revenue by 2014.  Expansion Plans  Car2go’s fleet will almost double to 10,000 Smarts this
year from 6,100 at the end of 2012, with the customer base
targeted to jump to 500,000 people from 275,000 in the period,
Henrich said. Munich-based BMW’s DriveNow, which is also active
in  San Francisco , has 77,000 customers and plans to serve 1
million drivers by 2020.  Daimler acquired a minority stake at the end of 2012 in
GottaPark Inc., a San Francisco-based company that allows
drivers to book parking places online in nine cities in  North
America , as part of the mobility division. Daimler plans to
start the first European business with GottaPark this year.  Another Daimler Mobility offering is  Moovel , a smartphone
application that allows users in Berlin and Stuttgart to compare
the cost and time needed for different methods of travel between
two points in those cities.  Electric Cars  Car-sharing services also offer automakers a market to
introduce electric vehicles to the driving public. Car2go has
assigned more than 950 battery-powered Smart cars to six cities.  BMW’s DriveNow this year will roll out 40 electric-powered
Active E models, converted versions of the carmaker’s 1-Series
compact, in Berlin and 20 in Munich as part of a test of how
customers deal with recharging vehicles.  In Berlin, DriveNow users will be asked to drive the car to
a recharging station when the battery gets too low and receive a
bonus as a result, while in Munich the company’s fleet
management will recharge the cars overnight. The tests are to
prepare for the introduction of the BMW i3, the manufacturer’s
first electric vehicle, into the fleet after its rollout later
this year, Schaaf said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  