-- BOJ Adopts Abe’s 2% Target in Commitment to End Deflation
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-01-22T11:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/boj-adopts-abe-s-2-target-in-commitment-to-end-deflation.html
The Bank of Japan made its strongest
commitment yet to end two decades of stagnation, shifting to
Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases while
disappointing investors by delaying the program until next year.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and six of nine board members
voted for a 2 percent inflation target, to be achieved “at the
earliest possible time” -- a pace not sustained in Japan since
the early 1990s. While judging that the economy is “relatively
weak,” and that  consumer prices  will be flat for the time
being, the BOJ refrained from adding immediate stimulus.  With a planned 13 trillion yen a month ($145 billion) in
extra securities buying on hold until January 2014, the yen rose
and stocks fell. The currency has slid and shares climbed the
past 10 straight weeks in anticipation of the BOJ joining Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s administration in strengthening measures
to lift the economy out of its third recession in five years.  “What disappoints me was we can see the BOJ’s hesitance to
step up monetary stimulus,” said Takahiro Sekido, a strategist
in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. who formerly
worked at the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  “Abe will keep pressing the BOJ
but today’s decisions indicate that Abe will probably wait for
the next governor to make a significant shift in monetary
policy.”  BOJ Independence  Shirakawa’s five-year term concludes in April, and that of
his two deputies in March, giving the government that took
office last month a chance to reshape the nation’s central bank.
At briefings today, Shirakawa said the BOJ had preserved its
“independence,” while Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga
said the joint statement had diminished the need to revise the
law governing the central bank.  Yoshimi Watanabe, leader of the minority Your Party in
parliament, said a target that’s not legally binding is
unacceptable and the BOJ law should be revised.  Central bank independence may come under increasing
pressure, with the government likely to demand a “clearer time
frame,” said Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. and a former Japanese central bank official. “The
BOJ wants to emphasize that it requires flexibility for its
monetary policy.”  Asset Purchases  Currently, the bank buys securities such as government
bonds and exchange-traded funds through a fund targeted to reach
76 trillion yen in assets in December 2013. The 13 trillion yen
initiative unveiled today will include about 2 trillion in
Japanese government bonds and about 10 trillion yen in treasury
bills.  Incorporating the impact of maturing securities currently
included in the bank’s asset-purchase fund, the program’s size
will grow by about 10 trillion yen next year, “and is expected
to be maintained thereafter,” according to today’s statement.  “I have strong expectations for the Bank of Japan to
proceed with bold monetary policy in order to achieve its 2
percent inflation target at the earliest possible date,” Abe
told reporters. “I would like the Bank of Japan to take
responsibility for achieving this price target.”  The yen was up 1.1 percent at 88.67 per dollar as of 7:54
p.m. Tokyo time, trimming its drop since mid-November to about 8
percent. The exchange rate has soared in recent years as
investors sought a haven from turmoil in the U.S. and Europe,
undermining the competitiveness of exporters from Panasonic
Corp. to Nissan Motor Co. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  retreated
0.4 percent, still leaving it up about 24 percent since Nov. 14.  Stock Rally  Abe’s calls for unlimited BOJ easing during last year’s
election campaign triggered a 10-week Nikkei rally, the longest
winning streak since 1987. In the bond market, today’s
announcement saw yields on five-year government securities reach
0.145 percent, the lowest level since June 2003.  A forecast released with today’s statement showed that the
BOJ sees a gain in consumer prices of 0.9 percent for the fiscal
year starting April 2014. The BOJ and the administration also
published a joint statement today pledging to “strengthen their
policy coordination.”  The statement said that “efforts by a wide range of
entities” are needed.  At a briefing, Finance Minister Taro Aso
said that it’s difficult to set a clear deadline for 2 percent
inflation and achieving the goal is not only up to the BOJ and
the government.  In the U.S., the Fed doesn’t see things that way. U.S.
central bank policy makers said last year that “the inflation
rate over the longer run is primarily determined by monetary
policy.”  ‘Magic Wand’  By contrast, Shirakawa has for years indicated that the BOJ
cannot achieve its inflation target on its own. He said at a
business conference Jan. 29, 2010, that lack of demand was the
“root cause of deflation” and there was no “magic wand”
policy makers could wave to stamp out falling prices.  “The BOJ is moving into new territory,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., who had
predicted the BOJ would move to open-ended asset purchases.
“Two percent inflation will be hard to achieve any time soon,
so the BOJ will keep pushing easy policy for quite a long
time.”  Twenty-one of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast that the bank would set a 2 percent inflation target.
The median estimate for easing was a 10 trillion-yen addition to
the asset-purchase program. Two economists predicted a move to
open-ended asset purchases.  BOJ Split  Not all central bank board members were in favor of the 2
percent inflation target, with Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi
voting against the measure, the BOJ said. They believe it’s too
high and say they need to see a growth strategy first, Shirakawa
told reporters. The introduction of open-ended purchases was a
unanimous choice. The BOJ previously said it would ease until 1
percent inflation is “in sight.”  Abe’s drive for looser monetary policy and a weaker yen may
increase tensions with trading partners. In a speech in
Frankfurt yesterday, European Central Bank governing council
member Jens Weidmann warned against “politicizing” the yen
exchange rate and interfering in monetary policy. South Korea
may suffer from a weaker yen as Japanese automotive and
electronics exports become more competitive, Credit Suisse Group
AG says.  Economy Minister Akira Amari told reporters that the
government doesn’t intend to politically influence the exchange
rate and that Abe will try to explain Japan’s policies to other
nations.  Historic Precedent  Japan last had 2 percent annual inflation in 1997, when a
sales tax was increased, with no sustained price gains of that
size in two decades. Abe, whose Liberal Democratic Party won a
landslide in the lower-house parliamentary election, backed the
central bank when it raised interest rates in 2006, a move he
now says was a mistake.  Bruce Kasman, New-York based chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., says that Abe’s current campaign may be a shift as
significant for Japan as Paul Volcker’s transformation of U.S.
policy in the 1970s. Sharp Corp., which is facing back-to-back
annual losses, said on Jan. 7 that a weaker yen would help to
improve earnings. A steel industry lobby group said the same day
that an ideal yen level is between 90 and 100 per dollar.  Former BOJ Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto, a possible
contender to replace Shirakawa, said in an interview yesterday
that no policies should be considered taboo in the fight against
price falls. Another potential candidate to succeed Shirakawa is
Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda, according to
JPMorgan’s Kanno. In 2002, Kuroda advocated a 3 percent
inflation target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  