-- Bond-to-Stock Shift Provokes Performance Anxiety: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-22T16:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bond-to-stock-shift-provokes-performance-anxiety-credit-markets.html
Investment-grade bonds in the U.S.
are underperforming equities by the most in 15 months as
speculation rises that the time is ripe to rotate out of debt
and into stocks.  The notes, which have lost 0.1 percent since the end of
October after gaining 56 percent from the start of 2009, are
lagging behind the  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  by 4.3 percentage
points in January, the most since October 2011. Investors yanked
$5.5 billion from funds that invest in the bonds in the six
weeks ended Jan. 9 while pouring $47.6 billion into equities,
according to research firm EPFR Global in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  An unprecedented flood of $285.5 billion into bond funds in
the U.S. last year sent yields to all-time lows, helping
borrowers raise  $1.5 trillion  selling notes and providing cash
to the neediest companies that would otherwise default.
Diminished demand for debt may raise corporate borrowing costs,
providing headwinds to efforts by the  Federal Reserve  to spur an
economy struggling with an  unemployment  rate above 7 percent.  “We’re slowly, incrementally shifting into other assets,”
 William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee
$500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
Massachusetts, said in a telephone interview. “The real return
is going to be negative for a lot of these fixed-income
investments. It’s a very dangerous asset class right now.”  ‘Bond Bubble’  Investors, repelled by a 38 percent  decline  in stocks in
2008, have sought refuge in bonds, undeterred as the U.S. was
stripped of its top credit grade by S&P in August 2011 and as
lawmakers risked putting the nation into recession in budget
negotiations this month. Declining yields create the potential
for a “bond bubble” in which rising interest rates may prompt
losses,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Dec. 19 report.  Yields on investment-grade bonds dropped to a record low
2.73 percent on Nov. 8, compared with their 10-year historic
average of 5.02 percent, before rising to 2.77 percent as of
Jan. 18.  As bond buyers pull back, the extra yield investors demand
to hold investment-grade bonds rather than government debentures
has flattened after reaching a 20-month low on Jan. 7. Spreads
expanded 2 basis points in the past week to 147 basis points.  Making Money  “There’s only so much more for high-grade spreads to
tighten in,” said Elaine Stokes, a money manager who helps
oversee the $22.8 billion  Loomis Sayles  Bond Fund. “Do the
math. How can you actually make money there?”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. climbed. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.6 basis point from Jan. 18 to a
mid-price of 87.7 basis points as of 11:25 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark has
climbed from 84.9 on Jan. 7, the least since Sept. 14. Bond
markets were closed yesterday for the Martin Luther King Jr.
holiday.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.3 basis point to 14.45 basis
points as of 11:26 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most active dollar-
denominated corporate securities today, accounting for 5.4
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:27 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Investment-grade bonds in the U.S. are little changed this
month with a 0.005 percent gain following declines of 0.02
percent in December and 0.08 percent in November, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The performance compares with posted gains on the S&P 500
index of  4.28 percent , including reinvested dividends. The
outperformance by stocks is the largest since October 2011, when
equities  gained  10.93 percent and the debt returned 1.75
percent.  ‘Great Rotation’  “A ‘great rotation’ of sorts has played out within
credit,” wrote Bank of America Corp. credit strategists Barnaby Martin, Teo Lasarte and Ioannis Angelakis in a Jan. 10 report.  Speculative-grade bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P, have returned 3.9
percent since October, compared with a 0.1 percent loss on
investment-grade notes, as investors seek higher-yielding
assets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. U.S.
Treasuries have declined 0.3 percent.  The withdrawals from investment-grade bond funds mark the
longest stretch of outflows since the period ended February
2011, according to EPFR data. The equity deposits include a
$22.2 billion inflow in the week ended Jan. 9, the second-most
ever.  Investors have sought riskier assets with the Fed holding
its benchmark  interest rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 and  injecting  more than $2.3 trillion into the
financial system through bond purchases to ignite economic
growth following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Unemployment Rate  The economy is expected to grow 2.8 percent in 2014, after
a gain this year of 2 percent and 2.3 percent in 2012, according
to the average estimate of 96 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market is looking at the economic situation to sort
of gauge, ‘Should I get close to the sell trigger?’” Cabot’s
Larkin said. “Sometimes recoveries occur unexpectedly and
changes happen rapidly. That could happen this time; we could
see a pretty big shift into equities from high-quality fixed-
income.”  A rotation into stocks may threaten Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to hold borrowing costs low until the
 unemployment  rate falls below 7 percent from its current 7.8
percent.  Risks loom for the economy as lawmakers seek to address the
nation’s debt limit. The Treasury Department has said the U.S.
will exceed its $16.4 trillion borrowing authority sometime from
mid-February to early March.  Liquidity Conditions  “As long as we stay in an environment where people still
feel like there is risk on the table, in so far as the fiscal
debate goes, I think you’ll still see fixed-income funds garner
a fair amount of attention,” Scott Kimball, a money manager at
Taplin Canida & Habacht LLC, a BMO Financial Group unit that
oversees $7.4 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The
toggle is going to be the outcome from  Capitol Hill .”  After raising an unprecedented  $1.1 trillion  in 2012,
investment-grade companies have seen sales soar 22 percent this
month from the corresponding period to $102.4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance of  $49.1 billion  in the
five days ended Jan. 11 marked the busiest week since March.  Offerings will drop in the second half of the year, leading
to a 16 percent decline in high-grade 2013 sales because of
rising interest rates and less favorable liquidity conditions,
analysts led by Hans Mikkelsen at Bank of America wrote in a
Dec. 3 report. Also, many borrowers have already met their needs
in the bond market, they wrote.  ‘Somewhere Else’  Investment-grade bonds are about the most expensive
relative to stocks ever, with the yield-to-worst on the debt
dropping to 2.76 percent on Jan. 17, according to the Barclays
U.S. Aggregate Corporate  index . That compares with an earnings
yield of 6.78 percent for the  S&P 500 index. (SPX)   The Barclays yield to worst reached a record 4.65
percentage points below the earnings yield on the S&P 500 index
on Nov. 14.  In the 10 years before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008, the earnings yield
on stocks was an average 1.08 percentage points less than the
yield on the debt.  “I’m not surprised that money is starting to come out of
investment-grade bond funds given the big rally they’ve had,”
Loomis Sayles’s Stokes said. ‘There’s an understanding that you
need to go somewhere else to get return. You’re not going to be
able to outrun rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  