-- Booking.com Challenging Parent Priceline in U.S. Travel
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-01-22T21:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/booking-com-challenging-parent-priceline-in-u-s-travel.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  has been a
prominent U.S. brand for 15 years thanks to celebrity spokesman
 William Shatner . Starting today, the travel company’s biggest
unit is elbowing its way into American living rooms.  Booking.com, the Amsterdam-based division of Priceline that
accounts for more than two-thirds of total  revenue , is airing a
series of commercials to introduce its hotel-reservation service
to U.S. travelers. The 15- to 60-second spots, part of a
campaign called “Booking.yeah,” will air on television
stations and in movie theaters.  Since acquiring Booking in 2005, Priceline’s annual revenue
has quintupled and the  stock  has surged 29-fold, as it became
the dominant accommodation site in  Europe . The international
business, which mostly comes from Booking, accounted for 71
percent of revenue in the third quarter, up from 43 percent
three years earlier.  “We’re looking to tell the world’s best-kept travel secret
to the American audience,” Paul Hennessy, Booking’s chief
marketing officer, said in an interview.  While Booking has driven Priceline’s growth, the unit
operates independently from its parent, with its own executive
team, marketing budget and growth strategy. Pushing into the
U.S. will pit Booking against Priceline in the accommodation-
reservation market, which includes  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) ,  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , Sabre Holdings Corp.’s Travelocity unit and
Expedia’s Hotels.com.  “One of our secret successes is to be able to operate in
an autonomous way,” Hennessy said. “The U.S. being one of the
world’s largest travel markets makes it a perfect place for us
to compete.”  Unique Services  Brian Ek, a spokesman for Priceline, said competing with
Booking is no different than the dynamic between Expedia and its
Hotels.com division.  “Each brand offers its own unique set of services,” Ek
said. Booking is the world’s top hotel-reservation service,
while Priceline is “the leading provider of discount-travel
services in the U.S.,” he said.  Priceline is already contending with slowing growth in the
U.S. Revenue in 2011  rose  7.3 percent, down from 10 percent the
year before and 17 percent in 2009. Unlike Booking, which
focuses on accommodations, Priceline competes in the less-
profitable airline reservation market, as well as in rental cars
and vacation packages.  The airline market is where Priceline originally made its
name, letting customers name their own prices to bid on
discounted tickets. To promote the service, Priceline turned to
“ Star Trek ” actor Shatner, who has been featured in
commercials since 1998.  Travel Joy  Booking isn’t casting celebrities in its commercials,
Hennessy said. With help from advertising agency  Wieden &
Kennedy , the company will air promotions that focus on getting
past the painful elements of traveling while highlighting the
joy that consumers experience when they arrive at their
luxurious hotel, villa or bed & breakfast.  “It’s a war cry of enthusiasm for the satisfied and
thrilled traveler when they know they’ve got it right,”
Hennessy said.  Booking has quietly been staffing up in the U.S. About
1,000 of the unit’s 4,500 employees are in the country, spread
among 12 cities, including  New York ,  San Francisco  and  Seattle .
Earlier this month, Booking Chief Executive Officer Darren Huston was given additional duties, including managing relations
between Priceline’s brands and handling strategic development
for global expansion.  Norwalk, Connecticut-based Priceline fell less than 1
percent to $671.27 at the close in New York. The stock has
climbed 29 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  