-- Bradford Continues Upset Run to Reach League Cup Soccer Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-23T01:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bradford-reaches-english-league-cup-soccer-final-for-first-time.html
Bradford, which plays in English
soccer’s fourth level, upset a third straight Premier League
club to reach the League Cup final for the first time.  Bradford defeated Aston Villa 4-3 over two games and will
face Swansea or Chelsea in the Feb. 24 final at Wembley Stadium
in  London . The Bantams’ 2-1 loss at  Villa Park  last night followed 
a 3-1 win at home two weeks ago in the series opener. Bradford, 
which is 10th in League Two, is the first club from the fourth 
tier to reach the final since Rochdale in 1962.  “These lads will be remembered in the history of Bradford
City for years to come,” Bradford manager Phil Parkinson told
reporters.  Bradford won its only major English trophy in 1911, when it
beat Newcastle 1-0 in an F.A. Cup final replay. The club spent
77 years outside the top flight before being promoted to the
Premier League in 1999. Since dropping out of the top tier two
seasons later, Bradford has twice been in administration, a form
of bankruptcy in the U.K.  “The money we’ve earned up until this point has been
fantastic,” Parkinson said. “But to go to Wembley is going to
keep the club going for quite a while, I imagine.”  While Villa paid about 26.2 million pounds ($41.5 million)
for its starting lineup last night, according to  Soccerbase.com ,
Bradford’s team was assembled for 7,500 pounds. Second-half
substitute  Darren Bent  cost a further 18 million pounds
according to Soccerbase, a record for Villa.  Shootout Wins  Bradford advanced to the semifinals after beating Arsenal and 
Wigan in the previous two rounds, both in penalty shootouts.  “As a kid playing football, you dream of Wembley and we’re
going to do it,” goalkeeper Matt Duke said in an interview with
 Sky Sports .  While Villa, which has won English soccer’s second-tier
club competition five times, had 72 percent possession and a
10-3 shot advantage in the first half, its only goal came in
the 24th minute when Christian Benteke knocked in Joe Bennett’s
ball from the left flank.  James Hanson restored Bradford’s two-goal overall advantage 
by heading in a corner kick 10 minutes into the second half.  Needing two goals to force extra time, Villa manager  Paul Lambert  brought on striker Bent before Bradford’s Gary Thompson
struck the crossbar from the edge of the area.  Andreas Weimann then came on as a substitute and pulled
Villa within a goal on aggregate in the 89th minute. Villa was
unable to convert pressure in four minutes of injury time into a
good scoring chance.  “The lads had a fantastic game,” Duke said. “We’re going
to take a League Two club to Wembley. It’s going to be an
amazing day and I look forward to it.”  Swansea takes a 2-0 lead over Chelsea into the second game
of their all-Premier League semifinal tonight in Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 