-- Bumi Probes Role of Advisers in Assessing Coal Assets
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-23T18:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/bumi-probes-role-of-advisers-in-assessing-indonesian-coal-assets.html
Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild  and the Bakrie family in 2010, is investigating the
role of advisers in assessing the accounts of the two Indonesian
coal producers at the heart of the $3 billion deal.  Bumi is investigating why the so-called due diligence
failed to reveal “issues” that have since become the subject
of a four-month probe by law firm Macfarlanes LLP into alleged
financial irregularities, the company said yesterday.  The board’s scrutiny of the role of advisers in creating
Bumi adds to a growing list of investigations surrounding the
venture. The U.K. Takeover Panel said last month it wants to
know why it wasn’t made aware of an existing relationship
between the Bakries and Rosan Roeslani, president director of
one of the assets controlled by Bumi, at the time of the deal.  Rothschild’s Vallar Advisers LP undertook due diligence on
the transaction to acquire stakes in the Bakries’ PT  Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  and PT Berau Coal Energy, according to the Bakrie
Group. Rothschild, 41, said yesterday it was the board of Vallar
Plc, the precursor to Bumi, that decided on the acquisitions.  Bankers at JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised Rothschild’s Vallar
on the transaction while Credit Suisse Group AG worked for the
Bakrie Group on the deal. Spokeswomen for JPMorgan and Credit
Suisse in London declined to comment.  Recovering Funds  Prior to the completion of the Bumi transaction, “the
identification and assessment of acquisition opportunities,
including due diligence, were outsourced to Vallar Advisers, an
entity led by Mr Rothschild,” Bumi said yesterday.  London-listed Bumi also said it may seek to recover missing
funds identified in the Macfarlanes probe, without specifying a
figure. Rothschild said the report assessed the possible
misappropriation of as much as $1 billion.  “The company has been taking, and continues to take,
significant actions including engagement with the Indonesian
authorities, meeting with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, and
investigating all recourse options available to it,” Bumi said.
It was unable to reveal details of the allegations probed by
Macfarlanes “due to exposure of unacceptable legal risks,”
Bumi said.  The law firm’s investigation reached “important”
conclusions and the Bumi board will pursue claims wherever
appropriate and will continue to work with regulators in the
U.K. and  Indonesia , Julian Horn-Smith, Bumi’s senior independent
director, said in a statement. The board believes a large part
or all of the documents that underpinned the probe were obtained
illegally by e-mail hacking.  Stock Slump  Bumi Chairman “Samin Tan knew about financial
irregularities involving the  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  group before he joined the
board, yet in his role as chairman did nothing about it,”
Rothschild’s NR Investments Ltd. said yesterday. “This calls
into question compliance with his legal and fiduciary duties as
a U.K. Plc director.” Tan declined to comment today.  The stock has slumped 62 percent in the past 12 months. It
gained 4 percent to close at 337.4 pence in London trading
today, the highest in almost five months and giving the company
a market value of 813 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Rothschild was the “architect and prime beneficiary of
this fiasco,” the Bakries said yesterday, referring to the
creation of Bumi in November 2010. The family repeated a demand
that Rothschild return a bonus of 16 million Bumi shares that he
and fellow founders received as a success fee for the deal.  Banking Dynasty  The creation of Bumi brought together Rothschild, scion of
a centuries-old British banking dynasty, and the Bakries, a
family-owned palm oil-to-property empire started in Sumatra in
1942. Board infighting and probes in  London  and Indonesia have
resulted in co-founders Rothschild and Indra Bakrie quitting as
directors and making separate offers to unwind the transaction.  Rothschild, who has proposed a new board for Bumi in a bid
to regain control, criticized the venture’s handling of the
Macfarlanes probe, saying it appeared more focused on “settling
scores” than seeking to recoup as much as $1 billion of
unaccounted funds.  Rothschild’s NR Investments said yesterday that as soon as
he became aware of alleged financial irregularities at Bumi in
November 2011 he “made the board and the investing public aware
of his concerns.” Rothschild has also expressed regret at going
into business with the Bakries.  The Takeover Panel ruled last month that the Bakrie Group
and Roeslani’s Bukit Mutiara, which together control 50.3
percent of the  voting rights  in Bumi Plc, are regarded as
“acting in concert.” They must reduce those rights to less
than 30 percent by disposing of shares, it said.  Takeover Panel  Rothschild’s Vallar Advisers failed to ensure “that
adequate disclosures were made to the Takeover Panel regarding
the overt commercial relationship between the Bakries and Rosan
Roeslani,” the Bakries said, adding that they relied on his
advice “at his insistence.”  “Had we known we would be viewed as concerted, we would
have sought a whitewash arrangement which would have provided
appropriate voting rights, or not participated in the Bumi
transaction at all,” they said.  At the time of the acquisition of the Indonesian coal
assets, Vallar Plc wasn’t made aware of any parties acting in
concert, NR Investments said last month.  Rothschild said yesterday that the assertion by Bumi he may
be responsible for failing to declare the links between the
Bakries and Roeslani is “the height of absurdity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  