-- Buying Gold Is Best Bet in Worst-Case Scenario, Faber Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-01-22T14:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/buying-gold-is-best-bet-in-worst-case-scenario-faber-says-1-.html
Everyone should keep gold in their
portfolios as the precious metal will be able to offer value to
investors even in a worst-case scenario, said  Marc Faber , the
publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report.  “In the worst case scenario, in the systemic failure that
I expect, it would still have some value,” Faber, who is also
the founder and managing director of Marc Faber Ltd., said today
at an event hosted by Evli Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  When “the system goes down,” and only plastic credit
cards are left, “maybe then people will realize and go back to
some gold-based system or such,” he said.  Faber said his outlook was so bleak that he is “hyper
bearish. Sometimes I’m so concerned about the world I want to
jump out of the window.”  In response to a question from  Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller  querying the recommendation to hold gold, Faber said:
“I’m prepared to make a bet, you keep your U.S. dollars and
I’ll keep my gold, we’ll see which one goes to zero first.”  Shiller, who is the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values, also attended today’s event in the
Finnish capital.  “I’m inclined to think gold prices after this crisis might
return to a lower level,” he replied to Faber, saying the U.S.
stock market currently offers a good investment case.  “Given the low yields of the alternatives, the valuation
doesn’t look so bad,” Shiller said. “These are times when a
reasonably normal application to the stock market is probably
called for.”  Faber said his portfolio consists of 25 percent stocks, 25
percent company bonds from emerging economies, 25 percent gold
and 25 percent real estate.  “I’ve taken an all-weather portfolio,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  