-- Calpers Buy-Hold Rule Recoups $95 Billion Recession Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-22T01:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/calpers-buy-hold-rule-recoups-95-billion-recession-loss.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  is poised to top a record $260 billion in
assets, the market value it held before the global financial
crisis wiped out more than a third of its wealth, by sticking
with a strategy of buy-and-hold.  The largest U.S. public pension, with half of its money in
publicly traded equities, was worth $253.2 billion on Jan. 17,
or about 97 percent of the pre-recession high set in October
2007. The fund returned 13 percent in 2012, about the same gain
as the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index achieved.  “A lot of the improvements in portfolio returns is simply
reflective of the return of the market,” Chief Investment
Officer  Joe Dear  said in an interview. “But there is still an
important lesson there, which is that when the crisis was full
on, we didn’t drastically reduce our equity exposure.”  Calpers isn’t alone in nearing previous high marks. The 100
largest public pensions in the U.S. had $2.9 trillion in assets
in the fourth quarter of 2007, according to  U.S. Census Bureau 
data. That dropped to $2 trillion in 2009 and rebounded to
almost $2.8 trillion as of Sept. 30.  The median funded status of state pensions, meaning how
much money a system has in order to pay its obligations, fell to
72 percent in 2011 from 83 percent in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with its gains, the Sacramento-based pension is still
short $87 billion, or about 26 percent, of meeting its long-term
commitments, and has had to ask the state and struggling cities
to contribute more. One municipality, San Bernardino, sought
 bankruptcy protection , saying it can’t afford to pay $13 million
it owes to Calpers.  Growing Liabilities  “It’s certainly good news that the asset base has grown
and recovered,” said Bradley Belt, senior managing director of
the  Milken Institute  and former executive director of the
federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. “The bad news is that
while you’ve gotten back to where you were on the asset side --
through a combination of good market returns and new
contributions -- liabilities never took a holiday. Liabilities
are now a whole heck of a lot larger than they were.”  Calpers’s value was already in decline when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September 2008, leading to a
panic that wiped out more than $6 trillion in U.S.  stock-market
value  in about six months. By 2009, Calpers’s value had
plummeted to $164.7 billion.  Since then, the pension fund has benefited from the stock
market’s recovery after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  touched 
a 12-year low in March 2009. The benchmark gauge of U.S.
equities  climbed  more than 13 percent last year and has more
than doubled since its low.  Stocks, Bonds  Apart from stocks, Calpers  invests  about 17 percent of its
money in bonds, 14 percent in private equity, 9 percent in real
estate, 4 percent in cash-equivalents, 4 percent in inflation-
linked holdings such as commodities, and 2 percent in forestland
and infrastructure such as airports and power plants.  “We held on to our allocation,” the 61-year-old Dear
said. “We believed the markets were going to come back and we
held our allocation at around 50 percent and that decision has
been justified.”  In the years following its record losses, the fund also
restructured its money-losing real-estate holdings, trimmed the
number of  private-equity  managers it deals with, embraced more
risk controls, built up a pool of cash and taught managers to
better coordinate between asset classes.  Real Estate  After Calpers’  real-estate  portfolio lost almost half its
value by the end of the 2009 fiscal year, Dear set out to shrink
leverage used to make purchases, got rid of underperforming
managers, focus on core income investments such as rental
apartments, industrial parks, offices and retail space. It also
sold off a fifth of its speculative residential housing.  The real-estate unit returned almost 13 percent in 2012,
averaging 6 percent in the past three years, though that’s still
below its internal target of 10 percent.  Dear also encouraged the fund’s board to increase cash and
Treasuries holdings in what he calls a “liquidity bucket” to
have money on hand if needed quickly.  That’s because in 2008, the pension, which loaned shares to
broker-dealers and  short sellers  for a fee, was forced to dump
huge blocks of its stock holdings to raise cash as clients
redeemed their loans. In the third quarter of 2008, Calpers for
example sold 2.3 million shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for about $370
million, a stake that would have been worth $1.16 billion today.  Private Equity  Dear also restructured the fund’s private-equity unit,
reducing the number of external managers while pushing for lower
fees and better terms. From fiscal 2006 through 2008, Calpers
committed $36.7 billion to external private equity managers;
from fiscal 2009 through 2012, that fell to $5.2 billion,
according to figures the fund provided. Private equity was up 12
percent for the year as of Dec. 31, about half its benchmark.  “It takes a long time for a private-equity portfolio to
reflect decisions to improve it,” Dear said. “What I found was
a portfolio with too many general partners and too many funds.
That was a problem from a portfolio-management standpoint, but
more importantly it dragged the portfolio toward the average.”  “To obtain the return premium we expect from private
equity, the plus 3 percentage points, you really have got to
have the largest proportion of your assets with the best
managers,” he said. “Private equity is the case in point that
taking a short-term view is like pulling up a carrot to see how
it’s growing.”  While the fund targets a 7.5 percent annual return, it
spreads gains and losses over 15 years to reduce the volatility
in the amount it asks taxpayers to provide through employer
contributions for pension benefits.  Four Times  The state and local governments paid $7.8 billion to the
fund in the last fiscal year to cover the cost of those
benefits, almost four times more than a decade earlier.  Calpers and other public pensions have come under fire for
assuming unrealistically high rates of return on invested
assets. The rate can mask how much is really needed to cover
benefits promised to government workers. A lower figure would
require more from taxpayers to cover the costs.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, and lawmakers last year
enacted a package of bills that caps pension benefits for public
workers and requires new employees to pay for half of their
pension costs. The same savings will be sought from current
employees through bargaining with their unions to lower
projected obligations as much as $55 billion over 30 years.  “It is encouraging to see improvement in Calpers returns
for the 2012 calendar year, which signals a better second half
of the year for the pension fund,” said state Senator Mimi Walters, a Republican from  Irvine  who is vice-chair of the
Public Employment and Retirement Committee. “However, I
wouldn’t call a modest improvement a resurgence.”  “The massive losses the fund has experienced over the last
five years will take more than one 13 percent annual increase to
be considered a resurgence,” she said.  |  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  