-- Cameron to Promise Referendum by 2017 on U.K. Leaving EU
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-22T23:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/cameron-to-promise-referendum-by-2017-on-u-k-leaving-eu.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
tomorrow promise a referendum on whether Britain should leave
the European Union, allowing U.K. voters to decide on breaking
up the 27-nation bloc.  Promising to make the case to remain in the EU once he has
negotiated a return of some powers to Britain, Cameron will say
the democratic consent for the status quo in  Europe  is “wafer
thin.” He will pledge to put the question to a popular vote by
the end of 2017, if re-elected in two years.  “It is time for the British people to have their say,”
Cameron will say in a speech in central  London , according to
extracts released by his office “It is time to settle this
European question in British politics.”  Cameron is responding to pressure from lawmakers in his
 Conservative Party  for looser ties with the EU or an outright
departure from the political union. European leaders have
rejected his calls to renegotiate membership terms. His Liberal
Democrat coalition partners and the opposition  Labour Party  also
reject the plans and the U.S. has expressed concern.  The 2015 election remains his biggest obstacle. Opinion
polls show the Tories losing support to the anti-EU U.K.
Independence Party and trailing the Labour Party by around 10
percentage points in opinion polls.  Three Decades  Tomorrow’s speech, which he was forced to postpone after
planning to give it in Amsterdam on Jan. 18 because of the
hostage crisis in  Algeria , marks an attempt to solve a three-
decade predicament that has haunted Conservative premiers.
Cameron has ceded to the demands of all but a handful of the
most euroskeptic lawmakers by raising the specter of an exit
from the EU. He’s stopping short of meeting demands for an
immediate plebiscite sought by some in his party.  “A vote today between the status quo and leaving would be
an entirely false choice,” Cameron will say. “It is wrong to
ask people whether to stay or go before we have had a chance to
put the relationship right.”  Cameron’s comments on the prospect of leaving the union
contrast with a  celebrated speech  by his Tory predecessor,
 Margaret Thatcher , in Bruges,  Belgium , in 1988, in which she
said “our destiny is in Europe.”  Britain, the EU’s third-biggest economy, first applied to
join the then European Economic Community in 1960. That step was
vetoed by French President Charles De Gaulle. Tory Prime
Minister  Edward Heath  restarted negotiations, and Britain joined
in 1973. His successor, Labour’s Harold Wilson, staged and won a
referendum in 1975 on staying in, with his Cabinet split.  Budget Rebate  Thatcher won an agreement in 1984 that the U.K. should get
a rebate on its budget contributions that it still receives to
compensate for its low level of  farm subsidies . Labour Prime
Minister  Tony Blair ’s plan to join the European single currency
after 1997 was blocked by his finance minister,  Gordon Brown .  The Liberal Democrats and Labour say Cameron’s push to
loosen ties with Europe put investor confidence and London’s
role as a financial center at risk.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the latest Sunday Times newspaper
found 40 percent of respondents saying they would vote to stay
in the EU compared with 34 percent who say they would vote to
leave. YouGov polled 1,912 adults on Jan. 17 and Jan. 18.  The company found at the start of the month that 46 percent
would vote to leave compared with 31 percent who would vote to
stay in, in line with surveys throughout 2012, YouGov’s  Anthony Wells  said on his  U.K. Polling Report website .  Planned Legislation  Cameron said that legislation will be drafted before the
2015 election and introduced immediately after the vote if the
Tories win a majority. The bill allowing a vote to be held would
then be passed by the end of that year.  “We will complete this negotiation and hold this
referendum within the first half of the next Parliament,”
Cameron will say.  Such commitments show how far Cameron has been pushed by
his own allies. He has said he didn’t expect Europe to be a
significant issue in his first term.  Views within the Conservative Party range from the Better
Off Out group, which wants exit from the EU, to the Fresh Start
group, which has called for the U.K. to reclaim some powers
while staying in the single market, to the Center For British
Influence, which says Cameron’s stance risked undermining
Britain’s position.  EU View  “European interests should always be the most important,”
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said last week. “The European
Union doesn’t just mean taking account of national concerns.”  Cameron will say the deepening integration of the 17 euro
countries, which don’t include Britain, and the demands of
global competition raise “fundamental questions” about the
nature of the U.K.’s relationship with the EU.  “If we don’t address these challenges, the danger is that
Europe will fail and the British people will drift towards the
exit,” Cameron will say. “I do not want that to happen. I want
the European Union to be a success. And I want a relationship
between Britain and the EU that keeps us in it.”  Leaders from other EU countries say Cameron’s approach is
fraught with danger. Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said
Cameron risks pitting all 26 other EU nations against Britain.  “We need to succeed in moving him,” Faymann told
reporters in Strasbourg,  France , on Jan. 15. “It will be
important to convince David Cameron that, first, we are a common
family and not separate groups, and, second, we need results
that perhaps in domestic politics are tougher to explain but
that are urgently necessary for the common European endeavor.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  told Cameron last week that
“the  United States  values a strong U.K. in a strong European
Union,” according to a White House readout of the call between
the two leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  