-- Can Obama’s Second Term Unleash Power of His First?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/can-obama-s-second-term-unleash-power-of-his-first-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  begins
his second term confronting a familiar and frustrating
incongruity: the gap between how much change he has fostered and
how little about the country seems different.  A partial accounting of Obama’s first term reveals more
accomplishments than most presidents secure in two. The health-
care law, of course, is almost certainly the most significant
piece of social policy passed since the Great Society. The
rescues of the financial and auto sectors, though begun under
President  George W. Bush , were mostly carried out and completed
under Obama. The Dodd-Frank financial reforms included the
creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The
stimulus financed long-term investments in everything from
weatherization to electronic medical records and high-speed
rail.  The list goes on: The end of the Iraq War, along with a
timetable for ending the war in  Afghanistan . The killing of
 Osama bin Laden . The repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell.”
 Executive actions  to supplant the stalled Dream Act, enabling
undocumented immigrant youths to stay legally in the U.S. Huge
increases in auto fuel-efficiency standards. More than  $3
trillion in deficit reduction  over a decade.  Yet despite it all, the status quo seems strangely
undisturbed. Unemployment is exactly where it was the month
Obama took office. The recovery has been lethargic.  Washington 
is even more bitterly polarized. Inequality continues to
increase. The number of uninsured Americans has barely budged.
 Wall Street  remains unstable. The oceans, to hark back to a
famous line from a 2008 Obama  speech , continue to rise. Battles
over spending, taxation and the deficit consume Washington.
Congressional gridlock and brinkmanship threaten the economy.  Muffling Effects  Some of the disconnect between accomplishment and impact is
due to the muffling effects of House Republicans or the economic
crisis. And some is a result of the unusually long lag that
accompanied Obama’s most significant first-term accomplishments.
This makes Obama’s second term somewhat unusual: His legacy will
be secured less by enacting new policy than by consolidating
previous achievements.  Foremost among them is the Affordable Care Act, which won’t
begin delivering on its core promise to insure tens of millions
of Americans until 2014. If Obama leaves office having
implemented a successful, near-universal health-care program, he
will be -- and will be seen to be -- a transformative president.
Yet even now, after the law  prevailed  in the  Supreme Court , its
success is no sure thing.  The implementation of any major law confronts potholes, but
the Affordable Care Act faces unusually large challenges. In a
nod to Republican concerns during its drafting, the law created
a huge role for states. But many Republican governors are using
that power to undermine the law rather than tailor it to state
needs.  By the end of this year, the federal government must
establish health-insurance exchanges in as many as 25 states
where (mostly) Republican governors have refused to set them up.
That will be a gargantuan task. Even worse, the Supreme Court’s
decision upholding the law also ruled that state participation
in the Medicaid expansion, which accounts for about half of the
new insurance coverage, is optional. Currently, only 22 states
have committed to the Medicaid expansion.  Making Peace  Opposition to the law, however, will probably fade. The
Medicaid formula, in which the federal government pays all of
the costs of expanded coverage upfront and 90 percent
thereafter, will prove difficult for states to resist for more
than a year or two. But it will take time for Republicans to
figure out the politics of making peace with the bill, much less
playing a constructive role in its implementation. The key for
Obamacare, then, is making sure that it functions well in the
states that are implementing it, proving that the law can work
when a state doesn’t purposefully make a hash of it.  The Dodd-Frank Act poses similar challenges. The bulk of
the law’s rules were left to the various regulatory agencies to
write. Of the 398 rules required, only 198 are finished,
according to an analysis by the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell.
This is partly due to the size of the task, but also due to an
organized counterattack from lobbyists, who seek to gum up the
rules-writing process, and Republicans, who have cut funding for
implementation.  Perhaps the toughest challenge of Obama’s second term will
be getting Washington out of the recovery’s way. The economy,
while hardly roaring, is showing real strength. Housing is
turning around, and the labor market continues its slow
recovery. Although there were notable exceptions -- including a
weak housing policy -- the effort to rescue the economy largely
worked.  But analysts agree that Washington is holding the recovery
back.  House Republicans ’ strategy of forcing a seemingly endless
series of cliffs, ceilings, sequesters and potential shutdowns
has cast a pall over the economy. Every business that considers
expanding confronts another potentially disastrous political
showdown in the weeks, or months, ahead. Each high-wire conflict
gives business a reason to pause rather than invest. If
Washington would simply stop threatening the recovery -- forget
actually making it better! -- the economy would probably look a
lot better in four years than it does now.  The Obama administration still hopes to make big changes in
immigration,  gun control ,  tax reform  and other policy areas.
Perhaps that optimism will prove justified. But even if it can’t
persuade Congress to make anything better, the administration
will have its work cut out convincing Congress that it should
stop making the recovery worse.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 