-- Canada Retail Sales Rose for Fifth Straight Month on Autos
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-22T15:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/canada-retail-sales-rose-for-fifth-straight-month-on-automobiles.html
Canadian  retail sales  rose for a
fifth straight month in November, led by record car purchases,
adding to some signs of strength in the world’s 11th largest
economy at the end of last year.  Sales rose 0.2 percent to C$39.4 billion ($39.7 billion)
after a revised 0.5 percent gain in October,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast that retail sales would be unchanged from the previous
month, according to the median of 23 forecasts.  Today’s report follows other releases this month that have
shown greater-than-forecast increases in employment, factory
sales and receipts for wholesalers that may indicate a pick-up
in growth in the last three months of this year after a weak
third quarter when  growth  slowed to a 0.6 percent annualized
pace. That was the slowest in five quarters.  “The indications of strengthening activity in November
provide reason for optimism that, as we expect, growth will pick
up,” Nathan Janzen, an economist at Royal Bank of Canada, said
in a note to investors.  The volume of sales, which excludes the effects of price
changes and more closely reflects the industry’s contribution to
economic growth, rose 0.8 percent. Today’s figures point to
economic growth of 0.2 percent in November, Janzen said, after a
0.1 percent gain in October and no growth the previous two
months.  Mixed Data  Still, today’s retail data were mixed. While automobile and
parts sales rose 1.8 percent to C$9.13 billion as sales of new
cars rose to a record, purchases at retailers excluding  car
dealerships  fell 0.3 percent. On that basis, economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast 0.1 percent growth.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.2 percent to 99.44 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:18 a.m. in Toronto.  Outside of November’s jump, sales volume growth has been
relatively weak, according to  Derek Holt  of Scotiabank.  “The trend is still soft notwithstanding,” Holt, vice-
president of economics at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, said
in a note to investors.  Seven of the 11 retail categories tracked by Statistics
Canada recorded declines in November, led by a 2.3 percent drop
in receipts by gasoline stations as fuel prices declined.  Sales in November were 1.4 percent higher than a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said, the lowest year-over-year rate
since March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  