-- Celgene’s Abraxane Benefits Pancreatic Cancer Patients
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-23T14:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/celgene-s-abraxane-benefits-pancreatic-cancer-patients.html
Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s Abraxane in
combination with chemotherapy helped patients with advanced
pancreatic cancer live about two months longer than those given
chemotherapy alone, a study found.  Patients taking Abraxane with the chemotherapy gemcitabine
survived a median of 8.5 months, compared with 6.7 months for
those only on the single drug, Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene
said yesterday in a statement. Based on the results, the company
said it plans to file in the first half of the year for approval
in the U.S. and  Europe .  Pancreatic cancer killed an estimated 37,390 people in the
U.S. last year, according to the  National Cancer Institute . The
disease spreads quickly and usually isn’t detected until it has
advanced, making it a leading cause of cancer deaths, the  Mayo
Clinic  says. Abraxane may generate $2.1 billion in peak global
sales for use in pancreatic cancer,  Eric Schmidt , an analyst
with Cowen & Co., estimated.  “The past few decades have brought us very few treatment
advances for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer, which is
both deadly and incredibly difficult to treat with success,”
Daniel Von Hoff, lead investigator of the trial and chief
scientific officer for Scottsdale Healthcare’s Virginia G. Piper
Cancer Center Clinical Trials, said in a statement. “The fact
that Abraxane plus gemcitabine demonstrated an overall survival
benefit, and also did so at one and two years, is a significant
step forward in offering potential new hope for our patients.”  Survival Findings  Celgene fell 0.7 percent to $98.65 at 9:56 a.m. in New York
trading. The stock gained 35 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  The 861-person study, from the third and final phase of
clinical trials generally required for U.S. regulatory approval,
showed that Abraxane helped more patients survive to one year,
at 35 percent versus 22 percent in the gemcitabine-alone group.
Nine percent of patients taking Abraxane survived to two years,
compared with 4 percent receiving only gemcitabine.  Abraxane is a form of the chemotherapy paclitaxel that’s
formulated with the human protein albumin to help deliver a
strong dose directly to the tumor. Celgene acquired the drug in
its 2010 purchase of Abraxis BioScience Inc. for $2.9 billion.
It is approved to treat  breast cancer  and non-small cell lung
cancer and generated  sales  of about $386 million in 2011.  The drug was related to a higher incidence of neutropenia,
or low white blood cell count, at 38 percent compared with 27
percent. More patients also experienced fatigue, at 17 percent
versus 7 percent, and neuropathy, or nerve damage, at 17 percent
versus 1 percent. Gemcitabine is sold by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  as
Gemzar.  Limited Use  Analysts had been expecting a benefit in survival of at
least two months,  Michael Yee , of  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in
a Jan. 21 research note. Yee, who recommends buying Celgene
shares, also said he was looking to see safety and tolerability
in the Abraxane and gemcitabine regimen, noting another
combination therapy, folfirinox, has much higher toxicity than
gemcitabine, limiting its use despite an improvement in
survival. The  treatment  combines chemotherapy drugs leucovorin,
fluorouracil, irinotecan and oxaliplatin.  The data will be presented later this week at the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology ’s 2013 Gastrointestinal Cancers
Symposium in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  