-- Celtic Leads TSX Volatility to Eight-Year Low: Corporate
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-22T21:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/celtic-leads-tsx-volatility-to-eight-year-low-corporate.html
Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  and  Bank of
Montreal  are among companies driving Canadian stock-market
swings to an eight-year low after the U.S. avoided the so-called
fiscal cliff and  Europe ’s debt crisis subsided.  Historical volatility for the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index (SPTSX)  has fallen 58 percent to 6.56 in the 12 months
through yesterday, reaching the lowest level since February
2005, according to 30-day data  compiled  by Bloomberg. The
magnitude of stock swings has fallen for 193 of the 244
companies in the Canadian equity benchmark.  “Our sense is volatility will come out of the market in
favor of more stability,” Ed Sollbach, a strategist with
Desjardins Securities, said from Toronto. “Companies can plan
in a better operating environment, they can move ahead and the
economy can grow. It’s positive.”  Financial stocks make up six of the 10 least-volatile
stocks in the S&P/TSX of the past 30 days, including four banks
and two real-estate companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Swings among the 10 stocks has fallen 63 percent over the past
year, led by a 93 percent drop in volatility at Celtic.  Lower volatility has meant  gains  for Canadian stocks in
seven of the past nine weeks amid signs of stronger growth in
 China , the world’s biggest producer of commodities, and the
improving global economy. More than 41 companies in the S&P/TSX
are scheduled to report earnings in the next three weeks.  Market Calm  While the S&P/TSX climbed 6.3 percent in the 42 trading
days through yesterday, the index hasn’t risen or fallen more
than 1 percent in that period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The benchmark Canadian equity gauge rose 0.2 percent to
12,824.63 in Toronto today. The index is up 3.2 percent in 2013.  Global economic data are helping to ease volatility.
China’s  economy  grew 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012,
exceeding economists’ forecasts, and snapping seven straight
quarters of deceleration as new leadership takes the helm in
Beijing led by Xi Jinping. U.S. housing starts climbed 12.1
percent in December to an annualized 954,000, the highest since
June 2008, a government report  showed  last week.  Prior to this current market calm, the longest stretch of
trading days with less than a 1 percentage point change was for
44 days at the beginning of 2005. During that time, the S&P/TSX
gained 9.8 percent, and ended the  year  with a 22 percent advance
amid a rally in energy producers as crude oil surged 40 percent.  “A high-volatility environment is not sustainable,”
Sollbach said. “The kind of steady back-and-forth market we’re
seeing now where it’s creeping up, that is much more
sustainable.”  The global economic recovery remains fragile and equity-
market volatility may increase in mid-February should U.S. debt
ceiling talks fail, said Sollbach. Swings may also increase
should the European sovereign credit crisis worsen or conflict
in the oil-rich  Middle East  intensify, he said.  Smoother Sailing  “Some of the economic clouds have parted,” said  Douglas Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets. “It
suggests smoother sailing for earnings and the Canadian economy,
but with the large caveat of no outside force rolling into
town.”  U.S. politicians are debating raising the nation’s legal
borrowing limit, currently set at $16.4 trillion. The Treasury
Department has been using emergency measures since the end of
December to prevent a breach. The U.S. government makes about 80
million payments each month, including for  Social Security ,
veterans’ benefits, defense contractors,  law enforcement  and
income-tax refunds.  Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer with Sun Life Global
Investments, said investors should buy financial and telephone
stocks that pay dividends, with strong balance sheets and steady
earnings. Commodity companies, including energy and raw-
materials producers, remain risky amid  Canada ’s slowing housing
market and record-high levels of  consumer debt , he said.  ‘Tough Days’  “The Canadian market will have some tough days in 2013 as
people return to the market,” he said in an interview from
Toronto. Adatia’s firm manages about C$6 billion in client
assets. “Low volatility means markets have stabilized and
returned to a focus on fundamentals. That’s when you get
rewarded for doing your homework.”  Celtic  jumped  15 percent in 2012 after agreeing to a C$2.9
billion sale to Exxon Mobil Corp. in October which helped make
it the least volatile stock on the S&P/TSX of the past 30 days.
 Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Canada’s fourth-biggest bank by assets, was
the second least volatile stock.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry 10 line of
smartphones, has been the most volatile stock of the past year.
The swings have risen 104 percent, with shares of RIM moving
more than a percentage point in eight of the past 10 trading
days. The stock slumped 58 percent in the first nine months of
2012, before rallying 90 percent to end the year.  Low volatility “is indicative of a  bull market  just
starting to get going, the second phase of a buy-in when you see
the longest and widest participation,” said Jeff Parent, an
investment manager with Toronto-based Quadrexx Asset Management
Inc. The firm manages about C$100 million. “It’s the beginning
of the middle, not the feverish buying towards the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  