-- CFA Level 1 Exam Pass Rate Declines to 37% for December Test
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-22T17:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/cfa-level-1-exam-pass-rate-declines-to-37-for-december-test.html
A lower percentage of hopefuls for
the Chartered Financial Analyst designation passed the first
level of their three-part exam in December.  Thirty-seven percent of applicants passed the first test,
the  CFA Institute  said on its  website  today, down from 38
percent when the test was last given in June 2012 and a year
earlier in December 2011.  Almost 49,000 financial professionals sat for the latest
test, a 1 percent decrease from a year earlier. Certification
can lead to better jobs, higher salaries and a deeper
understanding of finance. Candidates may take the Level 1 exam
in both June and December, unlike the two latter levels, which
are available once a year.  Financial firms worldwide have announced more than 300,000
job cuts since the start of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks are reducing costs as trading slumps and
regulators demand more capital.  A majority of CFA members said a lack of ethical culture on
 Wall Street  is contributing to low investor confidence,  John
Rogers , president of the CFA Institute, said in a “Bloomberg
Surveillance” television interview last month. Each of the
three CFA exams includes a section on ethics.  Successful charter recipients spend an average of 300 hours
preparing for each exam and typically take four years to
complete all three tests, according to the not-for-profit
institute.  Marathon Training  “You can compare it to training for a marathon,” Rogers
said last month. “If you don’t stay with your training schedule
and your discipline, you won’t be ready for that marathon.”  The CFA Institute this month announced a certificate
program it said may help restore integrity in the  capital
markets  by targeting investment advisers’ support staff. The
Claritas Investment Certificate provides additional training for
financial-services employees and is open to specialists in
operations, compliance, human resources and marketing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  