-- Chalco Urges Erdenes TT to Honor Terms of Coal-Supply Accord
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-22T10:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/chalco-urges-erdenes-tt-to-honor-terms-of-coal-supply-accord.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  is
urging Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC to honor terms of a $250 million
supply agreement after Mongolia’s largest-state owned coal miner
halted deliveries, seeking higher prices.  Managers at the international trading unit of  Chalco (2600) , as
Aluminum Corp. is called, met officials at the Ulan Bator-based
company in November to discuss issues related to price and
shipments, Chalco said today in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg queries. The fundamental terms of the accord shouldn’t
be changed, Chalco said.  Erdenes TT wants to increase prices and cut shipments,
changing the terms of the contract signed in July 2011, Chief
Executive Officer Yaichil Batsuuri, who has led the company
since October, said in Jan. 14 phone interview. Erdenes TT
supplies coal to Chalco at $53 a metric ton, compared with the
$61 it costs to move the fuel to the Tsagaan Khaad border
station, Batsuuri said.  “We hope Erdenes TT will strictly adhere to the agreement
including the confidentiality terms,” Chalco said in its e-mail
today.  Exports to customers including Chalco stopped on Jan. 11 as
cash-strapped Erdenes TT couldn’t pay Altangovi, a logistics
provider, according to Batsuuri.  Chalco shares added 1 percent to close at HK$4 today in
Hong Kong, beating a 0.3 percent gain in the key Hang Seng Index.  The halt in shipments comes as Erdenes TT seeks a state
loan for as much as $500 million to repay debt and fund
infrastructure, Batsuuri said earlier. Erdenes TT’s unpaid bills
of as much as 5 billion tugrik ($3.6 million) to Altangovi has
stopped the logistics company from being able to buy the diesel
it needs for warehousing operations, he said.  The company is developing part of the Tavan Tolgoi coal
field, Mongolia’s largest. The field, 70 percent of which holds
coking coal, is located 150 miles (241 kilometers) north of the
Chinese border in the heart of the Gobi Desert.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  