-- Chelsea Makes Terry Wait on Contract, Telegraph Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-01-22T11:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/chelsea-makes-terry-wait-on-contract-telegraph-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Captain Waits  Chelsea will make captain  John Terry  wait until after the
season before opening talks on extending his contract, which
runs out in 18 months,  the Daily Telegraph said .  The 32-year-old defender’s season has been disrupted by a
four-match suspension for racially abusing an opponent and by a
knee injury, and Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  is reviewing
older players’ contracts on an individual basis, the newspaper
said.  Chelsea players over 30 are being offered one-year
extensions, and it’s unlikely that Terry will be treated
differently, the newspaper said.  Wanyama Wanted  Arsenal is considering a bid for Celtic midfielder Victo
Wanyama, who may cost more than 10 million pounds ($15.9
million), the Independent said.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is looking to rebalance the
midfield after the sale of Alex Song to Barcelona, the newspaper
said. The coach is attracted by the low wages paid to Wanyama,
21, who has declined to extend his contract beyond 2015 with
Celtic, the Independent said.  QPR Shopping  West Brom striker  Peter Odemwingie  is demanding his club
allow him to start talks with Queens Park Rangers, who have
offered the 31-year-old an increase on his 40,000-pound-a-week
pay as well as a bonus should the London team remain in the
Premier League,  the Daily Mirror said .  Odemwingie may put in a transfer request should West Brom
stop him from talking to QPR, the newspaper said.  Goalkeeper Hunt  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is looking for a
new goalkeeper after becoming frustrated by David de Gea’s
mistakes,  the Telegraph said.   The 22-year-old let up a goal in injury time at Tottenham
that allowed Spurs to tie the match at 1-1 last weekend. While
Ferguson has considered other Premier League players, including
Stoke’s Asmir Begovic, the coach will look at Barcelona’s  Victor
Valdes , who has declined to sign an extension with the Spanish
club, the newspaper said.  Mario’s Staying  Manchester City  won’t sell striker  Mario Balotelli  to AC
Milan during the January transfer window, his agent said,
according to  the Daily Mail.   Balotelli’s agent, Mino Raiola, said the defending
champions don’t want to sell the Italian, and said the striker
might choose “a different destination,” the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  