-- Chidambaram Vows India Budget Prudence Amid Deeper Overhaul
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-23T12:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/chidambaram-sees-no-case-for-downgrading-india-s-credit-rating.html
India’s finance minister said fiscal
prudence will be a key budget theme next month and pledged to
deepen an economic-policy overhaul by implementing a goods and
services levy to spur commerce and widen the tax base.  “It’s absolutely important to signal to the world that we
are on the path of fiscal consolidation,” Palaniappan Chidambaram told investors in  Hong Kong  yesterday, as he began a
tour of  Asia  and  Europe  to woo investors. Approval for the goods
and services tax by December is “ambitious but doable,” he said.  Chidambaram, 67, said in an interview he plans to stick to
a  budget-deficit  target of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
in the year through March 2014, adding he’d like  interest rates 
to moderate to revive growth.  Government spending  and a drop in
the rupee have contributed to an inflation rate exceeding 7
percent, limiting scope to reduce borrowing costs even as the
economy expands at the weakest pace in a decade.  “There are a lot of risks that may make it tough to stick
to the  budget-deficit  target, such as the strength of the
economic recovery in India,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “The central bank has room to
cut rates, but not aggressively given suppressed price
pressures.”  An inflation rate over 7 percent is “unacceptable,”
Chidambaram told investors in  Singapore  today during the second
leg of his tour. He also said that some subsidies, such as for
kerosene, are merited. India’s subsidy program ranges from
diesel to fertilizer, stoking the fiscal shortfall.  Rupee Outlook  Tackling inflation, the budget deficit and the current-
account gap will help the rupee “find its fair value,” he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Singapore.  Chidambaram yesterday vowed the fiscal gap won’t breach his
target of 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012-2013 “under any
circumstance.” He pledged to reduce it by 0.6 percentage point
annually to 3 percent. He said that he plans to meet his targets
with better tax collection and an expanded tax base.  India ’s proposed goods and services levy may subsume about
15 state and federal levies. Preventing a product being taxed
more than once would aid industry, while casting a wider net
over services would help buoy revenue, according to India’s
Finance Commission.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned last year that
they may strip India of its investment-grade credit rating on
risks including fiscal and trade shortfalls.  Credit Rating  “In the last five and half months, we have addressed the
problem in small but significant steps,” Chidambaram told
investors yesterday. “Add all these together, and we will see
we have traveled quite a distance. There’s no case at all to
downgrade India.”  The government last week partially freed diesel prices from
state control to curb fuel subsidies, adding to a policy
overhaul since mid-September. Other steps taken include opening
industries such as retail and aviation to more foreign
investment, lowering taxes on overseas borrowing and moving to
speed up infrastructure projects.  Chidambaram said in Singapore today that he’s confident
bills to liberalize foreign investment in the pension and
insurance industries will be passed in the next session of
parliament, which usually begins in the last week of February.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is seeking to
allow overseas companies to invest in the pensions industry for
the first time, and hold as much as 49 percent of insurance
businesses.  Currency Rebound  The rupee has rebounded about 6 percent from a record low
touched on June 22, spurred by the policy changes, and closed at
53.6737 a dollar in Mumbai. It is down 6.7 percent in the past
year. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  is up about 10 percent since
mid-September.  Chidambaram outlined his goals for fiscal consolidation in
October, three months after becoming finance minister for the
third time. His ministry predicts GDP will rise as little as 5.7
percent in 2012-2013, the slowest pace since 2002-2003.  “Chidambaram has brought India back on the investment
radar screen,” said  Samir Arora , founder of Singapore-based
hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte., who heard the
minister’s speech today. “In July to August last year, India
was a non-marketable story.”  India will seek to raise at least 300 billion rupees ($5.6
billion) from the sale of shares in state-owned companies in
2013-2014, Chidambaram said in Hong Kong yesterday.  Inflation eased to a three-year low of 7.18 percent in
December, while remaining the fastest among the largest  emerging
markets . India’s current-account deficit swelled to a record
$22.31 billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Fifteen of 18 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict
the  Reserve Bank of India  will lower  interest rates  to 7.75
percent at its Jan. 29 review, from 8 percent. Two expect a cut
to 7.5 percent and one no change.  The finance minister said the final call on borrowing costs
rests with the  Reserve Bank . He predicted Asia’s No. 3 economy
will expand 6 percent to 7 percent in 2013-2014, and 8 percent
in the following fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  