-- Chilean Peso Offshore Shorts Drop After Central Bank Statement
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-22T15:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/chilean-peso-offshore-shorts-drop-after-central-bank-statement.html
International investors reduced bets
against the Chilean peso by the most in eight weeks after the
central bank said last week the currency had appreciated
“slightly,” easing concern it will try to slow its advance.  The currency gained 0.4 percent to 470.72 pesos per dollar
at 10:31 a.m. in Santiago. The peso has risen 1.7 percent this
year, the most among Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Offshore investors in the forwards market cut their
short peso position by $811 million to a 16-month low of $1.8
billion on Jan. 18, according to data published today.  “Offshore investors are less concerned, and they’re taking
positions based on that opinion,” Alejandro Araya, a trader at
Banco Santander Chile in Santiago, said by telephone. “Locals
are a bit more nervous whereas the offshore players have more
faith in the good judgment of the central bank. The economic
fundamentals that support the peso are still present.”  The central bank mentioned the  exchange rate  for the second
straight month in a policy statement released Jan. 17, saying
the peso had appreciated only “slightly.”  Policy makers held
the target lending rate at 5 percent for a 12th straight month.  The  currency  has traded in a range of 469 to 476.5 per
dollar over the past two weeks as concern the central bank will
intervene to prevent gains overshadowed confidence in  emerging
markets .  The central bank probably won’t step into the  currency
market  at 470 per U.S. dollar, Felipe Hernandez, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote
today in a note to clients. Intervention is more probable at 450
to 460 pesos per  U.S. dollar , according to Hernandez.  “We expect the peso to continue under strengthening
pressure from favorable terms of trade and robust capital
inflows, and the central bank to remain on the sidelines,”
Hernandez wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  