-- Commodities Climb to Three-Month High After Japan’s Policy Shift
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-22T11:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/commodities-climb-to-three-month-high-after-japan-s-policy-shift.html
Commodities rose to a three-month
high after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said it will introduce open-ended
asset purchases from 2014, boosting speculation that a revival
of the economy will raise demand for natural resources.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose
as much as 0.6 percent to 664.62 today, the most since Oct. 19.
Natural gas jumped 2.1 percent and soybeans gained 1.2 percent.
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and six of nine board
members voted for a 2 percent inflation target, a pace not
sustained in Japan since the early 1990s, which is aimed at
reviving the economy.  “Japan going for more growth, and preparing to see higher
inflation as a result of it, is another way of trying to
generate more activity in the economy,”  Ole Hansen, head of
commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S said by phone from
Copenhagen. “Better economic sentiment is doing the trick
here” and boosting commodity prices, he said.  U.S. natural gas gained as much as 2.2 percent to 3.645 per
million British thermal units, in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile exchange versus Jan. 18. That’s the most since
Dec. 7. The contract rose for the third day on forecasts for
colder weather, Hansen said.  Temperatures in the northern half of the U.S. will be much
lower than normal next month,  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist
at Weather Services International, said in a statement
yesterday. East Coast heating oil supplies fell a fifth
consecutive week through Jan. 11 and are 42 percent below a year
earlier, according to data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  Freezing Temperatures  Gasoil for February delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent to
$971.75 a metric ton, the highest intraday level since Oct. 30,
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract
advanced amid freezing temperatures in London, Frankfurt, Paris
and Amsterdam.  Copper reached a one-week high in London after the BOJ made
its strongest commitment yet to ending economic stagnation in
the world’s fourth-biggest consumer of the metal. Copper for
delivery in three months climbed as high as 1 percent to
$8,133.25 a ton on the  London  Metal Exchange, the highest since
Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  