-- Company Growth Worries CEOs as Economy Gloom Fades: PwC
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-22T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/company-growth-worries-ceos-as-economy-gloom-fades-pwc.html
Chief executive officers are more
pessimistic about company growth prospects than a year ago and
more optimistic that the global economy won’t shrink in 2013,
according to a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Fifty-two percent of 1,330 CEOs surveyed predict the global
economy won’t worsen this year and 18 percent expect it to
improve. At the same time, only 36 percent are “very
confident” about their company’s growth prospects, with
executives citing concerns from fiscal deficits to financial-
market volatility that could crimp revenue.  The survey was released as CEOs including Muhtar A. Kent of
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Andrew N. Liveris of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  gather
in the Swiss resort of Davos for the World Economic Forum’s
annual meetings. While  Europe  remains mired in a recession,
business confidence has increased since last year as the effect
of measures by politicians and the European Central Bank to tame
the sovereign-debt crisis take root.  “CEOs remain cautious about their short-term prospects and
the outlook for the global economy,” Dennis M. Nally, chairman
of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd., said in a
statement. “Leaders believe their organizations can be
resilient by rolling with the short-term blows while reshaping
for longer-term growth.”  Uncertain Growth  More than four-fifths of business leaders said their top
concern is uncertain economic growth, with the state of
government finances and over-regulation following closely.
Sixty-one percent said capital-market volatility may hurt
company growth.  Further ahead, 46 percent of CEOs said they are very
confident about the growth outlook in the next three years,
although prospects differed according to region. While most
business leaders in  Africa  and the Middle East said they are
very confident of growth over that period, only 34 percent of
Western European CEOs said the same.  On recruitment, 45 percent of CEOs said they plan to add
jobs this year, down from 51 percent in 2012. Twenty-three
percent intend to reduce the size of the workforce, according to
the survey, with banking being the most likely industry for job
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  