-- Costa Rica Proposing Tax Increase to Stem Inflows
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-22T16:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/costa-rica-proposing-30-tax-increase-to-stem-capital-inflows.html
(Corrects to say the proposed increase is 30 percentage
points in the first paragraph.)  Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla sent a bill to Congress yesterday that proposes
boosting a tax on capital inflows by as much as 30 percentage
points.  The government is seeking to increase a levy on foreign
investors who transfer profits earned from capital inflows to as
much as 38 percent from the current rate of 8 percent, Finance
Minister Edgar Ayales said in a presentation to congress
yesterday. The bill also proposes that banks with foreign
clients deposit up to 25 percent of the value of an investment
with the central bank.  “These are temporary measures aimed to discourage the
entrance of foreign capital that is damaging to the national
economy,” the bill said.  In the past 10 months,  Costa Rica ’s central bank has
purchased more than $1.5 billion of U.S. currency to stabilize
the colon, according to the bill. President Chinchilla said Jan.
15 that “speculative capital inflows are real and massive
weapons of mass destruction” against the Central American
economy.  Ayales said last week that lower  interest rates  may be
adopted to reduce capital inflows that have made the country’s
currency the best performer in  Latin America  this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The colon has climbed
2.2 percent against the dollar in January through yesterday.  “Capital inflows enter Costa Rica because we have an
exchange-rate system where the currency is basically guaranteed
to be stable,” Ayala said on Jan. 17. “If Costa Rica pays
interest rates of 10 percent, as we did in December, and rates
abroad are around 2 percent, there is an enormous return that
investors can take advantage of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  