-- Costa Rica’s Currency Tumbles as Capital Controls Bill Filed
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-22T18:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/costa-rica-s-currency-tumbles-as-capital-controls-bill-filed.html
Costa Rica’s currency tumbled a day
after the government announced measures to slow capital inflows
that President Laura Chinchilla called “weapons of mass
destruction” against the nation’s economy.  The colon depreciated 0.7 percent to 500.83 per dollar at
12:01 p.m. local time. The currency has gained 2.2 percent this
month through yesterday, the most among 19 Latin American and
Caribbean economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government said yesterday it would seek congressional
approval to raise levies to as much as 38 percent from 8 percent
on foreign investors who transfer out of the country profits
from capital inflows. Foreigners may also have to deposit as
much as 25 percent of their investments at the central bank,
Finance Minister Edgar Ayales said.  “These are temporary measures aimed to discourage the
entrance of foreign capital that is damaging to the national
economy,” according to the legislation sent to Congress.  In the past 10 months, Costa Rica’s central bank has
purchased more than $1.5 billion to stabilize the colon,
according to the bill.  The central bank lets the colon’s value fluctuate daily
within a  “crawling band”  system that allows for movement
between a fixed ceiling and floor. The band ranged on Jan. 15
from 495 colones to 506 colones.  “Capital inflows enter Costa Rica because we have an
exchange-rate system where the currency is basically guaranteed
to be stable,” Ayales said Jan. 17. “If Costa Rica pays
interest rates of 10 percent, as we did in December, and rates
abroad are around 2 percent, there is an enormous return that
investors can take advantage of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  