-- CSRC’s Guo Says Stock Intervene Needed at Times, Xinhua Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-22T08:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/csrc-s-guo-says-stock-intervene-needed-at-times-xinhua-says-1-.html
China ’s securities regulator said
intervention in the nation’s stock market is necessary at “key
moments” because it isn’t mature, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported.  “Volatility is high and don’t forget, China is still a
developing country,” Xinhua quoted China Securities Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  as saying at a national
securities and futures supervision meeting.  Net share purchases by China’s social security fund were
42.8 billion  yuan  ($6.9 billion) last year and totaled 42.7
billion yuan by qualified foreign institutional investors,
Xinhua cited Guo as saying. They were the biggest net
purchasers, Xinhua reported.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  erased a 1.2 percent loss and
rose 0.3 percent after Guo’s comments. The gauge resumed its
decline in the afternoon to end the day 0.6 percent lower at
2,315.14 after Xinhua said in an unsigned commentary after Guo’s
remarks that intervention may have a negative impact. The
immaturity of a market shouldn’t become an “excuse” for
regulators to step in, Xinhua said in the commentary, which was
posted on its Weibo microblog on Sina.com.  The Shanghai Composite’s 10-day  volatility  rose to 23.3
today, the highest level since Dec. 26, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The index has rebounded 18 percent since
reaching an almost four-year low on Dec. 3 on optimism that
Chinese economic growth will recover.  Foreign Investors  Guo said foreign institutional investors have stabilized
China’s stock market, Sina.com reported on Jan. 16. The official
was cited by the Shanghai Securities News the same day as saying
China would push forward capital market reforms and deepen
reform of initial public offerings.  Regulators have accelerated approvals for overseas firms to
buy securities from Chinese markets. The  State Administration of
Foreign Exchange  awarded $15.8 billion of quotas for qualified
foreign institutional investors to trade stocks and bonds in
2012, according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than the previous five years combined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  