-- CSSD Party Rejects Czech State Guarantees on Nuclear Bid
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-01-23T08:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/cssd-party-rejects-czech-state-guarantees-on-nuclear-bid.html
The largest Czech opposition party
rejects all forms of state guarantees on the purchase price of
electricity produced by the two planned reactors at the Temelin
nuclear station, a shadow finance minister said.  “We support the Temelin project, but only under the
condition that the state will provide absolutely no guarantees
on the power price,” Jan Mladek, the  Czech Social Democratic
Party  official, said in an interview at the Bloomberg office in
 Prague  yesterday. “Otherwise there’s a real danger that it
would increase both the budget deficit and state debt.”  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the state-controlled utility which plans to add
reactors at the Temelin nuclear power station, is scheduled to
pick the winner of a $10 billion expansion tender this summer.
Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes has asked the current
Cabinet to provide a fixed purchase price for the power produced
by the new reactors to ensure the project’s profitability.  Such a guarantee could put too much strain on the state’s
finances, said Mladek, whose Social Democrats are riding a wave
of voter discontent with the austerity policies of the center-
right government of Prime Minister Petr Necas.  The party, known as CSSD, would get 84 of 200 seats in the
lower house of parliament if elections were held now, compared
with 42 seats for Necas’s Civic Democrats, and 29 for the junior
coalition partner TOP09, according to a Stem poll conducted two
weeks ago. No margin of error was given.  “The outlook for electricity prices is negative, so the
taxpayers would bear all the risk, which is unacceptable,”
Mladek said. “We could end up paying the same kind of subsidies
like for solar power.”  CEZ is planning to sign a final contract in the Temelin
tender before the end of this year. Westinghouse Electric Corp.
and a Russian-Czech consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s unit
Atomstroyexport are the sole competitors after CEZ threw out
 Areva SA’s (AREVA)  bid last October. Areva has filed an appeal with the
Czech anti-trust office over the exclusion.  Shares of CEZ were down 0.2 percent to 646.9 koruna at 9:35
a.m. in Prague. The stock has lost 5 percent of its value since
the beginning of January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  