-- Czech Poll-Leading Party Pledges Orban-Style Tax Shift
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-23T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/czech-poll-leading-party-pledges-orban-style-industry-tax-shift.html
The leading Czech opposition party,
dominating in opinion polls, will shift the tax burden to larger
companies from consumers to revive the economy, shadow finance
minister Jan Mladek said.  The Social Democrats, or CSSD, would raise taxes on
financial, energy and telecommunications companies to 30 percent
from 19 percent, while others would pay 21 percent, Mladek said
in an interview at the Bloomberg office in  Prague  yesterday.
They would also scrap a law allowing taxpayers to divert part of
pension taxes to private accounts, he said.  Those moves would follow the economic blueprint of
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who rose to power in 2010
with a pledge to end five years of austerity. Czech Premier Petr Necas has cut spending and raised taxes on goods and top earners
to curb the budget deficit, helping to lower bond yields to
record lows. The measures damped domestic demand while exports
to the crisis-stricken euro region slowed, sparking the second
recession in three years.  “The key task is to turn the economy around because fiscal
consolidation is impossible without growth,” said Mladek, an
economist and former agriculture minister and deputy finance
minister. “Given our priorities, the reform effort, as rating
agencies call it, would be less intensive. It would be very good
to keep the trend of deficit reductions, but at a slower pace.”  The export-led economy had grown for 10 consecutive years
through 2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
triggered a global financial crisis. Last year, gross domestic
product shrank for three quarters through September 2012.  Safe-Haven Appeal  Necas’s pledge to cut the deficit to within the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP this year for the first time
since 2008 has boosted the nation’s safe-haven appeal, helping
the biggest rally for Czech bonds in a decade. Yields on five-
year koruna notes fell 172 basis points, or 1.72 percentage
points, in 2012, touching a record-low 0.66 percent on Dec. 27.  The five-year rate stood at 0.82 percent as of 2:47 p.m. in
Prague, compared with same-maturity securities at top-rated
 Germany  and Sweden trading at 0.62 percent and 1.21 percent,
respectively, according to generic indexes compiled by
Bloomberg.  In  Hungary , where public debt was 78 percent of GDP last
year, or almost double the Czech ratio, five-year yield stood at
5.96 percent.  Necas’s voter support has plunged while other leaders in
Europe have been ousted as they pushed through spending cuts
that stunted economies from  Romania  to Spain. The CSSD would get
84 of 200 seats in the lower house of parliament if elections
were held now, compared with 42 seats for the Civic Democrats,
known as ODS, and 29 for the junior coalition partner TOP09,
according to a Stem poll conducted two weeks ago.  Praising Orban  Orban has used what his government has described as
“unorthodox measures” to close budget holes and avoid cuts in
EU funding, contributing to an economic slump. They included the
effective nationalization of private-pension fund assets,
imposing industry taxes, levying the highest bank tax in  Europe 
and curtailing the power of courts.  Mladek praised Orban for taking over about 3 trillion
forint ($14 billion) of privately-managed pension assets in 2011
to help cut the public deficit. The forint was the world’s
worst-performing currency that year as the EU’s most-indebted
eastern member lost its investment-grade status.  Hungary’s Cabinet gave private pension fund members an
ultimatum in 2010, telling them to return their private pension
fund portfolios to government control or lose state retirement
benefits.  ‘Brilliant’ Orban  “Orban’s solution was brilliant -- he didn’t nationalize
any funds, he only changed the conditions to transfer people
back into the state pillar,” Mladek said. “We were honest to
announce our intention. Multinational institutions understand
now they should not take part in this adventure.”  If implemented, the CSSD’s tax plans would hurt companies
including power producer  CEZ AS (CEZ) , phone company  Telefonica Czech
Republic AS (SPTT) , and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s unit  Komercni Banka AS. (KOMB) 
CEZ has tumbled 16 percent in the past 12 months, compared with
drops by 8 percent for  Poland ’s  PGE SA (PGE) , 13 percent for Germany’s
EON SE and 14 percent at  France ’s  Electricite de France SA .  Czech banks have enough capital and liquidity to withstand
an escalating crisis in Europe and a protracted recession at
home, according to stress tests published by the central bank
last month. Deposits at Czech lenders exceed loans by more than
30 percent, according to statistics on the bank’s website.  Bank Profit  Net income at Komercni Banka probably rose to a record 13.5
billion koruna ($702 million) last year from 12.7 billion koruna
in 2011, according to the average estimate of 15 analysts polled
by Bloomberg. That makes up about 25 percent of the profit at
its parent SocGen, which probably shrank to 2.1 billion euros
($2.8 billion) from 3 billion euros, according to a separate
survey of 23 analysts by Bloomberg.  While the CSSD is targeting selected industries with higher
taxes, it wants to lure foreign manufacturers to invest in the
country, according to Mladek.  The country has attracted foreign direct investment of
almost 78 billion euros since the 1993 partition of
 Czechoslovakia , according to  data  from the country’s foreign-
investment agency as of May 2012. The inflow culminated at over
9 billion euros in 2005, dropping to 3.8 billion in 2011.  Exports, which account for about 75 percent of Czech GDP,
are led by manufacturers including units of carmakers  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  Peugeot SA (UG) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
electronics producers such as  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354)   ‘Big Investment’  “We would like to go back to this tradition of the late
1990s and stimulate FDI because the Czech Republic is a country
of manufacturing,” Mladek said. “My party is affiliated with
large companies and the trade unions. We have an honest interest
that big investment is done in the country.”  Once in power, the CSSD will reverse changes to the pension
system introduced from this year that allow taxpayers to divert
part of their social-security tax to private accounts, Mladek
said. Necas’s government says the overhaul would cut taxpayers’
dependence on the deficit-making public pay-as-you program, in
which current employees pay for pensions of the retired.  While six financial institutions began to attract pension
savings under the so-called second pillar this month,  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ’s Czech unit said in November it won’t join the program
because a lack of political consensus poses “too much risk.”  Opposition Threats  The opposition’s threats to reverse government policies
designed to improve public finances are preventing an upgrade of
the Czech credit rating, Moody’s Investors Service said last
week. The company ranks Czech debt at its fifth-highest grade of
A1, four steps above  Italy  and five above Spain.  “Structural reforms are an important component that can
enhance the Czech Republic’s creditworthiness,” Jaime Reusche,
a sovereign-debt analyst at Moody’s, said in a Jan. 16 telephone
interview from New York. “The current government has been
pursuing these reforms throughout most of its tenure in power,
but the political environment in the Czech Republic is quite
unsettled. Reform reversibility is a possibility in many
cases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  