-- Dallas Cowboys Swagger, Victor Cruz Dances: Sports Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-01-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/dallas-cowboys-swagger-victor-cruz-dances-sports-books.html
Marty Schottenheimer grew up in a
coal town outside Pittsburgh with one stop light. He, his
grandparents, aunt, uncle and three siblings crowded into one
house.  A talented football player, he chose the University of
Pittsburgh because it had a good dental school. He played pro
ball with  Jack Kemp , fished with  Joe Namath .  It was a good life, and he looks back on it in
“ Martyball ” (Sports Publishing, $24.95), written with Jeffrey
Flanagan.  Schottenheimer made his mark as a coach, leading the
 Cleveland Browns ,  Washington Redskins ,  San Diego Chargers  and
 Kansas City Chiefs , a team that hadn’t had a playoff win in
almost two decades. Under his leadership, the Chiefs went to the
playoffs seven times and recorded two 13-3 seasons. In all, he
won 200 regular season games, sixth-best in NFL history.  The value of this book isn’t in the retelling of game
stories or coaching exploits but in the discussion of values.
And in fact the entire price of the book can be redeemed in one
paragraph, 12 pages from the end, which is Marty’s meditation on
coaching:  “Some of the losses were self-inflicted, some were bad
bounces or bad breaks. It wasn’t meant to be. Sometimes it’s not
about you. Sometimes it is more important that the other guy
gets that win. That’s the big scheme of things.”  Learn that lesson and you master the title of the last
chapter: “Winning the Big One.”  Victor Cruz  Victor Cruz helped the  New York Giants  win the big one,
last year’s  Super Bowl . He caught four passes in the
championship game, including one for the first touchdown.  Growing up in his grandparents’ third-floor walk-up
apartment in Paterson, New Jersey, Cruz played the flute, tried
tae kwon do, got in a few fights, gave football a try and
learned to dance the salsa. Now, with Peter Schrager, he’s
produced an autobiography.  “ Out of the Blue ” (Celebra, $26.95) is written to the
soundtrack of the salsa. A Giants assistant coach once asked him
to do something to mark National Hispanic Heritage Month. So
when he scored a touchdown against the Eagles he remembered what
his grandmother taught him: “Step, step, step. Move your arms.
Shake your hips.”  Dream Life  One of his chapters is called “Living the Dream” and
there’s something to that in this life. As a young man, Cruz
idolized Charles Woodson, who won a Heisman trophy at  Michigan .
A year after Woodson was named NFL defensive player of the year
he was covering  Victor Cruz  -- and Cruz was making catches.  Last season Cruz had 82 receptions for 1,536 yards, a
Giants record. But he was no longer playing for himself.  “I was playing for the 13-year-old kid at School 21 who
thinks there’s no other option than the streets,” he writes.
“I was playing for the boy at the park who has to decide
between a game of pickup hoops and an aluminum can of beer. I
was playing for all my old classmates who were just never given
the chance. I was playing for Paterson.”  Joe Nick Patoski  opens “ The Dallas Cowboys ” (Little,
Brown, $29.99) by arguing that everything’s bigger in  Texas .
That may explain why his history of America’s Team runs to more
than 800 pages.  Welcome Cheerleaders  For fans and detractors alike, Patoski offers the origins
of the team; its place in the geography of  Dallas  (“a city with
no reason to exist”); the huge, colorful crowds at the Cotton
Bowl, then Texas Stadium and, finally Cowboys Stadium (“a
showcase of technological wonders” and “an energy hog”); and
of course the cheerleaders and the parade of great characters
such as Clint Murchison Jr., Tom Landry, Tex Schramm,  Jerry Jones  and  Bill Parcells .  There’s something about the Cowboys that defines Dallas,
just as there’s something about Dallas that defines the Cowboys.
“The swagger had never left,” Patoski writes of the Cowboys,
“even if their record no longer justified the confident
arrogance that defined Dallas the team and Dallas the people.”  The story of America’s Team may be a uniquely American
story, but foes and fans alike will agree that Patoski is right
when he says the Cowboys “could have flourished only in the
fertile backland prairie of North Central Texas.”  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Greg Evans 
on movies.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 