-- Danske Bank Sinks as State Support Ruled Out: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-22T12:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/danske-bank-sinks-as-state-support-ruled-out-copenhagen-mover.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  sank in Copenhagen
trading today as lawmakers said too-big-to-fail designation for
Denmark’s biggest lenders won’t entail any state support.  Danske fell as much as 2.1 percent and traded 1.2 percent
lower at 106.90 kroner as of 12:52 p.m. in the Danish capital.
The stock was today’s  biggest loser  on the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen
20 Index (KFX) , which gained 0.1 percent. Trading volume in Danske was
46 percent of the three-month daily average.  “The too-big-to-fail designation means they need to ensure
they have the extra capital buffers, not that the state will
bail them out should they get into trouble,” Benny Engelbrecht,
head of the parliament’s business committee overseeing bank
industry legislation, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“It’s of principle importance to this government to protect
taxpayers.”  Bond investors have demanded a premium from Danish banks
since the Nordic country in 2011 became the first in  Europe  to
enforce a resolution framework that pushed losses onto senior
creditors. At Danske, Denmark’s largest lender, Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding told investors in November that becoming
a systemically important financial institution will help support
the bank’s rating.  “The intention is that taxpayers never have to put money
toward a bank bailout,” Engelbrecht said. “The model here in
 Denmark  is that the banks provide the funds that might be needed
to support the sector, corresponding to 1 percent of the
industry’s insured net deposits.”  Nordea Markets today lowered its recommendation on Danske’s
stock to buy from strong buy, citing a  recent rally  in the share
price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  