-- Debt Ceiling Delay Offers Chance to Fix Deficit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/debt-ceiling-delay-offers-chance-to-fix-deficit.html
Congressional Republicans’ proposal
to extend the U.S. borrowing limit through May sets up yet
another hair-raising deadline, complete with the  threat  of
suspended pay for lawmakers if they fail to make the hard
choices needed to fix the government’s finances.  This time around, there’s no reason to turn the deadline
into a market-rattling disaster. Much of the groundwork for a
sound deficit-reduction deal has already been laid.  In recent deals, lawmakers have  enacted  spending cuts worth
about $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years, and  tax measures 
that will bring in $600 billion. That  leaves  only $1.2 trillion
in further savings -- net of interest payments -- to get the
 federal budget   deficit  down to 3 percent of gross domestic
product, the level needed to shrink the nation’s debt over the
next decade.  Finding $1.2 trillion will require tough, but not
insurmountable, choices on both the spending and tax sides. In
the interest of hastening a deal, here are several areas where
lawmakers can look for the necessary savings.  Entitlement Programs  Inauguration Day  rhetoric  aside, President  Barack Obama  has
suggested he understands that the U.S. can’t solve its fiscal
problems without addressing the escalating costs of Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid. It’s possible to do so without,
as Obama put it Monday, choosing between “caring for the
generation that built this country and investing in the
generation that will build its future.”  Obama’s own budget  proposal  aims to reduce Medicare
spending by $360 billion over the next 10 years, including by
requiring drugmakers to issue bigger rebates for beneficiaries
who also qualify for Medicaid. About $28 billion could be gained
by raising Medicare premiums charged to higher-income
beneficiaries -- a strategy that currently applies to only the 5
percent of seniors with incomes of more than $85,000 a year, or
$170,000 a year for married couples.  As for Social Security, changing how the government
measures the cost of living -- something Obama was considering
during the fiscal-cliff talks -- could save $112 billion over
the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Taxes  The fiscal-cliff deal promises to generate about $600
billion in new revenue by increasing marginal income-tax rates -
- and  eliminating  preferences -- for the richest Americans. More
will be needed, and it can be done without raising tax rates
further.  By capping tax deductions, the U.S. could raise almost any
amount of money -- as much as $1.7 trillion over 10 years,
 according  to the Tax Policy Center. Setting a $50,000 limit on
all deductions other than charity, for example, could raise $490
billion. Such a change would have only a small impact on most
taxpayers, with those in the middle income quintile seeing an
average tax increase of $823 annually.  The U.S. could  raise  an additional $13.5 billion in revenue
by applying the regular income-tax rate to carried interest --
the payment many investment managers receive in return for their
work, currently taxed as a capital gain. Eliminating special tax
breaks for the oil and gas industry could bring in $35 billion
more.  Spending  To avoid the automatic, ham-handed “sequestration” of $1.1
trillion in federal spending scheduled for March 1, Congress
will have to find ways to reduce duplicative and inefficient
expenditures. As Bloomberg View has noted, it’s possible to trim
the defense budget alone by more than $500 billion without
undermining U.S. military capabilities. Other wasteful
discretionary spending can also be identified and remedied, an
issue we’ll examine further in the coming days.  In ushering in his second term, Obama declared that
“America’s possibilities are limitless,” a statement that will
be true only if the U.S. can get its fiscal house in order. If
Congress temporarily extends the debt ceiling, it should use the
breathing room to cobble together a deal that avoids the sorry
spectacle of a nation unwilling to pay its bills.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 