-- Carter Said to Be Leading Contender for Energy Secretary
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-01-23T01:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/defense-deputy-carter-said-to-be-leading-contender-for-energy.html
Deputy Defense Secretary Ashton Carter is the leading candidate to replace Steven Chu as energy
secretary in President  Barack Obama ’s second term, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Carter, 58, a physicist, would be part of the core
administration team overseeing energy and environmental policy,
according to the people, who requested anonymity to discuss
personnel matters.  Chu, 64, a Nobel Prize winning physicist, may announce his
departure from the administration this week, according to two
other people. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and Lisa Jackson,
who headed the Environmental Protection Agency, previously
announced their intentions to exit the administration.  The energy secretary will have a central role as Obama
attempts to translate into policy the pledge he made in his Jan.
21 inaugural address to “respond to the threat of climate
change.”  “The path towards sustainable energy sources will be long
and sometimes difficult,” Obama said. “But America cannot
resist this transition, we must lead it.”  With his inauguration behind him, Obama is filling out his
Cabinet and organizing his White House staff to help him execute
his agenda in the next four years.  Obama will have several Cabinet-level posts to fill in the
coming weeks. U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk announced
yesterday he will leave the administration next month.  Gay Rights  Obama, who is the first president to advocate for the cause
of gay rights in an inaugural speech, may name Fred Hochberg,
currently the president of the Export-Import Bank, to replace
Kirk, according to another person. Hochberg would be the first
openly gay man to serve in a Cabinet-level position.  Obama also is considering Lael Brainard, the Treasury
Undersecretary for International Affairs, Jeff Zients, the
acting Office of Management and Budget Director, and Francisco J. Sanchez, the undersecretary of commerce for international
trade, for the trade representative post, according to the
person, who also requested anonymity because none of the changes
has been announced.  Mike Froman, an Obama law school classmate who had been the
leading candidate for the USTR job, has signaled to colleagues
that he may be more interested in staying in his current role as
the assistant to the president for international economics, said
another person, who also asked to not be named discussing
personnel changes.  Obama Agenda  With a focus on finance, trade, development, energy and
climate change, Froman’s portfolio, as well as his personal
relationship with the president, covers issues that will be
prominent in the agenda Obama has laid out.  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment on personnel matters.  The White House announced yesterday that it had sent to the
Senate the nominations of former Senator Chuck Hagel to be
Defense Secretary, Massachusetts Senator John Kerry to be
Secretary of State, Chief of Staff Jack Lew to be Treasury
Secretary and John Brennan, Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, to
be the Central Intelligence Agency Director.  Some women’s groups have been critical of Obama’s record on
promoting women to high-profile positions, citing those four
nominees among Obama’s first choices as he shuffled his top
advisers for his second term.  Economic Posts  Obama is considering women for key economic posts,
including Wal-Mart Foundation President Sylvia Mathews Burwell
for budget director and Ruth Porat, chief financial officer at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , as a leading candidate for deputy Treasury
secretary.  Matthews, who served as deputy Office of Management and
Budget director in the Clinton administration, will probably be
offered the budget post after final vetting is finished, said
two of the people.  At the Commerce Department, Obama is still considering a
business executive, something that he’s said he strived for.  “It’s something I would have loved to have done in the
first term,” Obama said in a Dec. 4 interview with Bloomberg
Television.  “One of the biggest problems we’ve got in terms of
recruiting business leaders into the administration is the
confirmation process has become so miserable, so drawn out, that
for successful folks to want to put themselves through that
process, you know, a lot of folks are just shying away,” he
said.  While White House officials have approached  Xerox Corp. (XRX) 
Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns for the commerce job, she
has told them that she isn’t interested, according to two of the
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  