-- Delta Touches Two-Year High Amid 4% Seating Capacity Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-01-22T21:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/delta-air-matches-profit-estimates-as-fuel-costs-advance.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  rose to the
highest price in two years amid plans to cut seating capacity as
much as 4 percent to help temper increased spending on labor and
fuel.  International capacity will shrink by 3 percent to 5
percent in the three months through March, led by reductions of
as much as 10 percent on trans-Atlantic routes during the
seasonally slow period, Delta said today. Domestic capacity will
fall 1 percent to 3 percent, Delta said.  The moves are intended to help the world’s second-largest
carrier maintain pricing power as a sluggish economy limits its
ability to raise fares after the holiday travel peak. Revenue
for each seat flown a mile, the U.S. industry benchmark, will
rise by 4 percent to 6 percent in the period, the company said.  “We enter 2013 as a stronger airline, with initiatives in
place to build on our 2012 success,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Anderson  said in a statement as the airline reported
fourth-quarter earnings.  Delta said in December that its full-year capacity for 2013
would be unchanged with a “downward bias.” Investors and
analysts typically favor capacity reductions because they give
airlines more leeway to raise fares and can help lower costs.  The airline’s shares rose 2.9 percent to $14.01 at the
close in  New York , the highest since November 2010. Delta jumped
49 percent in the last 12 months.  Profit in the quarter, excluding some items, was $238
million, or 28 cents a share, the Atlanta-based carrier said in
the statement. That matched the average of 16  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fleet Changes  Higher  wages and salaries  and an 18 percent jump in fuel
damped earnings for Delta, which is trying to lower costs by $1
billion by retiring older jets. Superstorm Sandy, which slammed
into the eastern U.S. coast in October, curbed profit at the
airline and its Pennsylvania refinery by $100 million.  Delta had a $231 million one-time charge for the quarter
that ended in December, most of it related to restructuring the
domestic fleet and refinancing debt on Pacific routes.  Including those items, net income fell 98 percent to $7
million, or 1 cent a share, from $425 million, or 50 cents, a
year earlier. Revenue increased 2.4 percent to $8.6 billion  Delta is the second major airline to report fourth-quarter
results. American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  said last week its
loss excluding some items narrowed to $88 million as the company
pared labor and aircraft-leasing costs in bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  