-- Deutsche Bank Pays $1.6 Million to End U.S. Trading Probe
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-22T22:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/deutsche-bank-pays-1-6-million-to-end-u-s-trading-probe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed to pay $1.6
million to end a dispute with the U.S., backing away from a
showdown with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  that said
a unit of the bank manipulated California’s power markets.  The bank within 10 days will pay the U.S. a civil penalty
of $1.5 million and surrender $172,645 plus interest to
California’s grid operator, the agency said today in a
 statement . The penalties are similar to FERC’s proposed remedy
last year after accusing the bank of trading violations in 2010.  “We are pleased to have reached a settlement and put this
matter behind us,”  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman
in  New York , said in a phone interview.  The settlement ends a dispute that Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank had said would test the FERC’s enforcement powers, enhanced
by Congress in 2005 following trading violations by other
companies. Since January 2011, the agency has disclosed 13
 probes  of market manipulation, including at the trading units of
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Deutsche Bank decided to settle rather than fight, Susan
Court, a former director of the agency’s enforcement office,
said in an interview. “You have to take into consideration the
size of the penalty versus the cost of litigating.”  2010 Case  The FERC on Sept. 5 proposed that Deutsche Bank Energy
Trading LLC pay a $1.5 million civil penalty and give up
$123,198 in profits, plus interest, for allegedly gaming power
markets in early 2010. The allegations were disputed by the
unit, which is part of a financial-services company that
reported  $33.2 billion  in net revenue through the first nine
months of 2012. Deutsche Bank no longer has energy-trading
operations in  California , Calabro said.  In a Nov. 5 filing with the FERC, lawyers for the Deutsche
Bank trading unit said the company was prepared to challenge the
regulator’s accusations in court, even though “the cost of
defending the case is likely to exceed the amount” sought by
the agency.  FERC’s charge was “radical,” and the company would oppose
it on a “point of principle” that had implications for the
entire industry, the lawyers said.  In the end, Deutsche Bank abandoned its fight over the
proposed penalties.  The company “neither admits nor denies the violations,”
the FERC said in its order announcing the settlement. The amount
of profits the company will hand over is about $49,000 more than
the amount FERC originally suggested to “further analysis”
since the proposed penalties in September, according to the
document.  In the agreement, Deutsche Bank must implement “enhanced
compliance measures and procedures,” including improved
training for traders and managers and semi-annual compliance
monitoring reports, the agency said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  