-- Dijsselbloem Preaches Balanced Budgets as Euro Chief
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-22T00:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/dijsselbloem-preaches-balanced-budgets-irks-spain-as-euro-chief.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem was elected to a key European crisis-management
post over objections from  Spain , pointing to future north-south
tussles over bailouts, austerity and fixing the banking system.  Dijsselbloem, who last night started a 2 1/2-year term as
chairman of euro finance meetings, preached the philosophy of
balanced budgets as the best recipe for a healthy economy.
Spain, considering a European aid program as it struggles with
deficits, was alone among the 17 euro countries in voting
against him.  “We should hold on to it and continue” fiscal
consolidation, Dijsselbloem told reporters in Brussels late
yesterday after being tapped to succeed Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  as Eurogroup chief. “Working
toward a sustainable budget, a balanced budget in different
countries, doesn’t conflict with holding on to solidarity.”  The little-known Dijsselbloem’s assumption of the informal,
unpaid coordinating position follows last year’s appointments of
a German to run the euro area’s permanent rescue fund and a
Luxembourger to a vacancy at the  European Central Bank , tilting
the European balance of power toward northern countries
committed to fiscal discipline.  ‘Collective Action’  Just over two months after joining the Dutch government,
Dijsselbloem, 46, was catapulted into the euro post thanks to a
shortage of other candidates and a desire to reward the
Netherlands, which hadn’t received a top-level European
appointment since 2004.  The Netherlands has allied with  Germany  and  Finland  in
setting tough terms for countries seeking aid packages and
balking at picking up the costs of repairing banking systems
elsewhere. Dijsselbloem will now preside over debates that will
shape a future bank-aid mechanism.  Dijsselbloem pledged “collective action” to beat back the
debt crisis and restore the euro-area economy and said he
harvested a promise of “professional and positive” cooperation
from Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, the lone opponent
to his candidacy.  “If we are going to approach the euro area as a zone with
a harsh line in the middle between AAA and non-AAA, between the
north and the south, no way are we going to move forward,” he
said. “That will definitely not be my approach.”  Policy Details  Still, at a joint appearance with Juncker after the
meeting, Dijsselbloem passed up opportunities to comment on
possible concessions for Ireland as it seeks to return to market
financing, on  France ’s budget and on the euro’s start-of-year
rise against the dollar.  Dijsselbloem’s silence on the policy nitty-gritty of the
next few months also served as a reminder that the chairman has
little power beyond the ability to set the agenda, steer the
meetings -- usually monthly, except during the more intense
phases of the crisis -- and announce the outcome.  The  Eurogroup  brings together euro-area finance ministers,
the European Commission and the ECB. Its chairmanship rotated
after the euro’s arrival in 1999 until Juncker, then also
Luxembourg’s finance minister, was named the first full-time
chief in 2005. Initially tapped for a two-year term, he was
reappointed three times.  Maastricht Treaty  Juncker, 58, was present at the creation of the euro,
serving as Luxembourg’s finance minister during the Maastricht
Treaty negotiations in 1991. He became prime minister in 1995, a
job he will keep after giving up the regular commute to Brussels
for euro finance meetings.  Juncker,  Europe ’s longest-serving government leader, said
Dijsselbloem’s comparative inexperience won’t be a handicap.  “Sometimes when I look at the sheet in front of me with so
much on it, maybe then it’s an advantage if he has a sheet with
less written on it so far,” Juncker said.  While Dijsselbloem emerged as the front-runner to succeed
Juncker after a December summit of government leaders, last-
minute objections from France threatened to derail the
appointment on concerns that it would give Germany’s ideological
allies too much sway in battling the debt crisis.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , who questioned
the rush to make the appointment in a Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung interview last week, said Dijsselbloem needs to balance
northern and southern interests and not push too hard for
deficit reduction.  Agricultural Economics  “I asked him to be not the president of the AAAs, or the
north versus south, but the president of the whole Eurogroup,”
Moscovici said.  As a member of the Dutch Labor Party, Dijsselbloem is in
the same political family as France’s Socialists, the party of
Moscovici and French President  Francois Hollande .  Dijsselbloem became Dutch finance minister on Nov. 5 as
part of Liberal Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s coalition government
following an election in September. He holds a degree in
agricultural economics from Wageningen University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at  sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  