-- Dollar-Funding Stress Holds Steady, Money Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-22T15:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/dollar-funding-stress-holds-steady-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market indicators signaled
short-term dollar funding stress stayed steady.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents what banks say it would cost to borrow from one
another,  held  at 0.302 percent, the lowest since Aug. 17, 2011,
for a fourth day, according to the British Bankers’ Association.
The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, rose
to 16.7 basis points, from 16 basis points yesterday.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average
for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The prediction in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known
as the FRA/OIS spread, was 19.25 basis points, from 19.6 basis
points on Jan. 18, according to the second rolling three-month
contracts.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $27.8 billion to $1.1328 trillion in the week ended Jan.
16, according to Fed data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 16.5 basis points below Euribor, from 17 basis
points below yesterday.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  Euribor-OIS  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 10.7
basis points, compared with 11.1 basis points yesterday.  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.11 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.099 percent on Jan. 18,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.18 percent on Jan. 18. The rate opened
today at 0.16 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Fed Bank of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  