-- DuPont Profit Tops Estimates on Sales of Auto Plastics
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-22T21:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/dupont-earnings-top-estimates-as-sales-of-auto-plastics-climb.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest U.S.
chemical maker by market value, reported fourth-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates as demand climbed for plastics
used in autos.  Profit was 11 cents a share after excluding one-time costs
such as settlements for claims that an herbicide killed trees,
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement. The
earnings beat the 7-cent average of 10  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales were little changed at $7.33 billion, compared
with the $7.25 billion average of 15 estimates.  Adjusted profit in 2013 will be $3.85 to $4.05 a share, an
increase of 2 percent to 7 percent from comparable 2012 earnings
of $3.77, DuPont said. The average of 13 estimates was for
profit of $3.93. The forecast includes a gain of 5 cents from a
$1 billion share repurchase program that should be completed in
the first half, Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Fanandakis said
on a call with reporters today.  Sales in 2013 will climb to $36 billion from $34.8 billion,
DuPont said, topping the $35.9 billion average of 17 analysts’
estimates. DuPont expects a “modest decline” in profit during
the first two quarters of the year, Fanandakis said on a
separate call with analysts.  “You are going to see a couple softer quarters before
things firm up,”  Matt Arnold , a St. Louis-based analyst at
 Edward Jones  who recommends buying DuPont shares, said by phone
today. “Autos seem to continue to strengthen, housing is on the
mend and  China  is poised to potentially re-accelerate.”  Performance Materials  Fourth-quarter profit gains were led by the performance
materials unit, which makes engineered plastics for car parts,
where “strong demand” from North American automakers helped
boost pretax operating profit 68 percent, DuPont said.  DuPont rose 1.8 percent to $47.82 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain since Jan. 2.  The shares  have gained 6.3
percent this year.  First-quarter pretax operating profit will drop in three
segments, led by a “substantial” decline in the performance
chemicals unit, while industrial biosciences will lead gains in
three other segments, DuPont said in a slide presentation on its
website.  Pretax operating margins in the performance chemicals unit
may narrow by 7 to 9 percentage points this year, compared with
a December forecast of as much as 7 points, CFO Fanandakis said
on the call. Without performance chemicals, earnings would climb
by a percentage in the “high teens,” Fanandakis said.  Titanium Dioxide  DuPont’s performance chemicals unit, the world’s largest
maker of titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paint, should
stabilize by the end of the first half as excess inventories are
used up and demand hits bottom, Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said on the call. The business has a “strong”
competitive position and is a “strong cash generator,” helping
to make up for its earnings cyclicality, she said.  The 2013 forecast assumes global economic growth of about 2
percent and 5 percent higher costs for raw materials, energy and
transportation, primarily because of higher seed making costs,
the company said.  Capital spending  will rise to about $1.9
billion this year, from $1.8 billion in 2012, DuPont said.  Kullman, who is also chairman, announced 1,500 job cuts in
October as a weak global economy challenges her target for
adjusted annual earnings growth of 12 percent. Net income in the
fourth quarter fell 70 percent to $111 million, or 12 cents a
share, from $373 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier.  Agriculture Loss  DuPont said it narrowed the fourth-quarter loss in the
agriculture unit, which sells crop seeds and pesticides, to $92
million, from $116 million a year earlier, on improved sales
volumes in  Latin America . The fourth quarter is seasonally weak
because farmers in  North America  and  Europe  haven’t begun spring
planting.  Earnings from the auto paint unit, which is being sold to
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  for $4.9 billion, were excluded from adjusted
earnings as the business is now a discontinued operation.
Kullman, who said the sale should close in “a few weeks,” is
shedding the unit as she shifts DuPont’s focus to products that
help meet global demand for food, energy and security.  Items excluded from adjusted fourth-quarter profit include
$135 million to resolve claims that Imprelis weedkiller
destroyed trees, $66 million in restructuring costs, a $33
million impairment charge in the performance chemical unit and a
$117 million gain from the sale of an agriculture business.
Imprelis charges now total $750 million and may rise to $900
million, DuPont said.  The full-year forecast excludes pension costs and an
anticipated U.S. tax gain, DuPont said.  DuPont, founded in 1802 to make gunpowder, produces
thousands of products from Corian countertops and Teflon
coatings to Tyvek weather barrier and Kevlar bullet-proof
fibers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  