-- The British Bank That Forever Altered the U.S. Economy
-- B y   K r i s t i n   A g u i l e r a
-- 2013-01-22T17:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/the-british-bank-that-forever-altered-the-u-s-economy.html
This month marks 250 years since
Barings Bank, one of the first significant international
investment banks, opened its doors.  Much of Barings’s early success can be attributed to its
willingness to invest in the development of the U.S. in the late
18th and early 19th centuries, despite the nation’s newly
established credit and undeveloped economy. Without Barings’s
involvement, the U.S. would probably be a very different place -
- geographically and economically -- from what it is today.  Founded by Francis and John Baring on Christmas Day, 1762,
the company began operations on New Year’s Day 1763, with
offices in London and Exeter,  England .  By 1774, the bank was conducting business in the U.S., and
by 1818, the Duc de Richelieu declared it to be “the sixth great
European power,” after England,  France , Prussia,  Austria  and
 Russia .  In 1796, Barings was involved in the purchase of about 1
million acres of remote land that would eventually become part
of the  state of Maine . While the deal wasn’t as lucrative for
the bank as its directors had hoped, Alexander Baring (son of
Francis) leveraged the transaction to ingratiate himself with
the American financial elite. This paved the way for future U.S.
business for Barings, including important government accounts,
such as the Bank of the  United States .  Louisiana Purchase  Barings’s most significant land deal came in 1803, when it
helped finance the  Louisiana  Purchase, in which the U.S. bought
more than 800,000 square miles of territory from France. As the
largest financial transaction of its day, the $15 million deal
doubled the geographic size of the nation and became one of the
most historically significant trades of all time.  This was no small accomplishment for Barings and its Dutch
investment partner, Hope & Co. The negotiations for the
territory were conducted during a brief time of peace between
France and England, when another war was imminent. British Prime
Minister Henry Addington expressed concern that although the
transaction might financially benefit Barings, it could
ultimately hurt his country.  “In view of the projected invasion of this Kingdom ... I
have ... to desire that you would decline being party to any
remittances to France on account of the debt due from the  United
States of America  in consequence of the cession of Louisiana,”
Addington advised Sir Francis Baring in 1803.  Addington’s fears were realized, as Barings successfully
helped in the sale of $11.25 million of U.S. government bonds to
finance the purchase of the territory from France, which by the
end of the year was again at war with Britain. Barings’s
involvement in the purchase essentially meant that the firm was
contributing to the war effort against its own country.  But Barings wasn’t deterred from making further investments
in the future of the U.S. The bank assisted companies and
governments in raising funds by issuing securities, and like
many other investors in the 19th century, it participated in the
U.S. railroad boom. In the 1870s and ’80s Barings was involved
in 22 U.S. public issues, 14 of which were railroads, including
the storied Atchison, Topeka and  Santa Fe  Railway.  Another of Barings’s most significant -- and profitable --
corporate investments was in the U.S. communications network. In
1905, Barings was responsible for selling $6.5 million of  AT&T (T) ’s
securities in  Europe . The following year, it participated in a
$100 million bond offering for the company, and from 1905 to
1908 the bank shared in the issue of more than $150 million in
AT&T stock, plus an additional $70 million in stock for its
subsidiary,  New York  Telephone Co., from 1909 to 1912.  AT&T turned out to be one of Barings’s most lucrative
American investments, and the funds raised enabled the company
to expand its long-distance phone network across the U.S.  Rogue Trader  Although Barings had its share of successes, some of its
investments in America and elsewhere were failures. Its
investment in the American Bicycle Co., for example, was a major
disappointment.  The venerable bank was ultimately taken down not by
miscalculated investments or a drop in business, however -- but
by one man.  In 1995, rogue derivatives broker  Nick Leeson  lost the bank
about $1.3 billion through unauthorized trading, and Barings
couldn’t recover. Dutch bank ING Group subsequently purchased
the bank for a token 1 pound, a minuscule amount for what was
once a driving force behind the economic and physical
development of the U.S.  (Kristin Aguilera is the deputy director of the  Museum of
American Finance  and the editor of Financial History magazine.
“Barings in America: An Interactive Investment Experience” is  on
view  at the museum until April 27. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kristin Aguilera at
 kaguilera@moaf.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 