-- Emerging ETF Declines as Hungary to Brazil Stocks Slide
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-22T23:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/technology-shares-lead-emerging-market-index-to-two-week-high.html
The  exchange-traded fund  tracking
developing-nation shares slipped for the first time in three
days, as Hungarian lenders tumbled and  Brazil ’s benchmark index
fell to an 11-day low.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,  Hungary ’s largest lender, led a 2.3 percent
plunge in the nation’s benchmark equity index on concern a
leadership change at the central bank may lead to non-
traditional easing steps.  Oi SA (OIBR4) , Brazil’s third-biggest
telephone company, sank the most since August after replacing
its chief executive officer.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  jumped the
most since Jan. 10, sending emerging  technology (MXEF0IT)  shares higher,
as a strengthening yen lifted the outlook for exporters.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.2 percent to
$44.71 in  New York , dropping from a one-week high. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent to 1,079.07 even as 396
stocks fell while 360 rose. The benchmark gauge of developing-
nation equities gained 0.7 percent last week to trade at 10.9
times estimated 12-month earnings, within 1 percent of the
highest level since May 2011.  “There are many investors who still do not believe that
we’ve entered a different cycle than the one we’ve been in,”
 Christopher Palmer , director of global emerging markets at
Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said by phone from  London .
“There is some concern about the weakness that is still
permeating European economies, and some investors have gotten
very used to the idea of doubting any information or data they
hear from  China  and will want to see more confirmation.”  Economic Indicators  Fifty-day volatility on the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index fell to 11.59, the lowest in at least a decade. The
 Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, climbed 2.5 percent to 16.24.  Sales of U.S. existing homes unexpectedly dropped in
December, constrained by the lowest supply of properties in more
than a decade. Purchases fell 1 percent to a 4.94 million annual
rate last month, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today.  “All the economic indicators are more linked than ever
before,” Palmer said. “Any information from a big economy like
China or the U.S. is going to play a very big role for emerging
markets.”  China’s economic growth accelerated for the first time in
two years amid government efforts to revive demand, data
released Jan. 18 revealed. The nation’s unexpected surge in
December exports renewed concern from analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., UBS AG and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. that statistics from the nation can be unreliable.  Brazil, Hungary  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.3 percent in its third day of
losses as preferred shares of Oi dropped the most five months.
Oi, Brazil’s fourth-largest mobile operator by market share,
fell 7.9 percent to become the worst performer on the emerging
markets gauge after it named Jose Carneiro da Cunha as its new
CEO, replacing Francisco Tosta Valim Filho.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, sank 6.1 percent after Banco BTG Pactual SA
cut its recommendation on the stock to sell.  Cyrela Brazil
Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s biggest
homebuilder, slid 2.7 percent after 2012 sales dropped.  Hungary’s BUX Index sank the most in seven months and the
forint weakened 0.4 percent to 294.18 against the euro.
Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  may be nominated to
replace central bank President Andras Simor in March, hvg.hu
reported after the market closed yesterday. Matolcsy has urged
the bank to “bravely use unorthodox tools” in providing
economic stimulus, according to the report.  IMF Aid  Hungary, which requested International Monetary Fund aid in
November 2011, stands little chance of obtaining a bailout as
views on the type of bailout and Hungary’s growth prospects
differ too much between the IMF and the Cabinet,  Mihaly Varga ,
Hungary’s chief negotiator, said in an M1 television interview.  OTP Bank, which accounts for 32 percent of the benchmark
BUX Index, sank 3.1 percent in Budapest, the most since Oct. 18.  Russia’s Micex Index added 0.2 percent during the day as
OAO Magnit, the nation’s biggest food retailer, led a retreat in
consumer stocks. Vietnam’s VN Index lost 1.1 percent as the
nation’s President Truong Tan Sang said the country must accept
“low” growth amid a restructuring of the economy. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  slipped 1.1 percent from a
record.  Turkey’s lira weakened while the ISE National 100 Index
climbed 0.4 percent after the central bank cut  interest rates 
for the second time in three months as it seeks to prevent
investment inflows from driving up currency.  Energy Stocks  Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN) , whose operations range from airport
construction to investments in hydroelectric power, surged 7.8
percent in Istanbul, the highest close since July 2011. The
company will ask the Turkish market regulator for permission to
issue 145.5 million bonus shares in a plan to double paid-in
capital from its own funds.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets /Energy Index fell 0.3 percent,
the most among 10 industry groups in the broader index.
Technology shares jumped 0.7 percent, leading gains. The
benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 2.3 percent this
month, trailing the 4.1 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed countries.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, tumbled 6.8 percent, the most since September 2009.
The company decided not to sell 5.4 trillion won ($5.1 billion)
of asset-backed securities after getting guidelines from the
Korea Accounting Standards Board, the Korea Economic Daily
reported today, citing an unidentified company official.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest oil and gas company, fell 1.2
percent in Moscow, the most since Nov. 27.  Strengthening Yen  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones and
TVs, advanced from a one-month low. The yen strengthened 1
percent against the dollar, bolstering the outlook for exporters
including Samsung which competes with Japanese companies. A
stronger yen cuts the value of earnings for Japanese exporters.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 264 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  