-- Medalist Poised to Be First Female Australia Aboriginal Lawmaker
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-22T04:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/medalist-poised-to-be-first-female-australia-aboriginal-lawmaker.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard selected Olympic gold medalist Nova Peris to run for
parliament, clearing the way for the field hockey and track star
to become the nation’s first female Aboriginal federal lawmaker.  Gillard today said she will ask her Labor Party’s national
executive to endorse Peris’s candidacy for a Northern Territory
Senate seat in elections set for this year. Labor, which has
held one of the region’s two Senate seats  since 1975 , has never
had an indigenous member of parliament.  “I have been very troubled that we have never been able to
count amongst our number an indigenous Australian,” Gillard
told reporters in Canberra. “I’m determined that at the 2013
election, we change that.”  Gillard’s Labor, which trails in polls ahead of elections
that must be held by Nov. 30, has pledged to narrow
discrepancies between Aborigines and the rest of the population
in health, education and employment. They remain the poorest and
most disadvantaged group in society more than 200 years after
Europeans settled in 1788.  Peris, 41, became the first Aboriginal Australian to win an
Olympic gold medal when the Australian women’s field hockey team
was victorious at the 1996 Atlanta games. Two years later she
won gold medals at the Commonwealth Games in sprinting events.  “This is an amazing part of my life,” Peris said at the
Canberra press conference. “Through my sporting successes I’ve
always been in control of my own journey. Here, I’m all about
being successful. I want to be the best person that I can
possibly be for Australian youth and Aboriginal  Australia .”  Contentious Issue  The Liberal-National coalition, led by Tony Abbott, has had
two Aboriginal parliamentarians, including Ken Wyatt who won the
lower-house seat of Hasluck in Western Australia in 2010. The
decision to endorse Peris would force incumbent Trish Crossin to
step aside.  Indigenous Australians populated the continent at least
50,000 years ago. About 2.3 percent of the population identified
themselves as Aboriginal in a 2006 census.  Indigenous rights remain a contentious issue. Clashes
between aboriginal protesters and riot police during last
January’s Australia Day marking the arrival of white settlers
forced officers to rescue Gillard and Abbott from a restaurant
in Canberra, the nation’s capital.  Gillard’s predecessor, Kevin Rudd, offered the nation’s
first apology in 2008 to Aborigines taken from their families
for assimilation with the white community, saying the policy was
a “blemished chapter” in the nation’s history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  