-- EDF to Raise More Than $5.3 Billion From Perpetual Hybrid Notes
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-22T12:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/edf-to-raise-more-than-5-3-billion-from-perpetual-hybrid-notes.html
Electricite de France SA  is raising
more than 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) from its first issue of
perpetual hybrid bonds in 16 years.  The state-controlled utility is pricing the subordinated
benchmark bonds in euros and pounds today and dollar notes later
this week, according to a person with knowledge of the sale. The
offering comes as the cost of insuring against default on
investment-grade debt rose, with the Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index
of credit-default swaps increasing 1.5 basis points to 104 at
11:44 a.m. in London.  Investment-grade borrowers in Europe raised at least 26
billion euros this year, compared with more than 42 billion
euros at the same point of 2012. Paris-based EDF’s deal is the
fourth perpetual issue in the region this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Demand should be very strong given the high quality
issuer and it’s very cheap capital for EDF,” said Jeroen van den Broek, a strategist at ING Groep in Amsterdam. “If I were
an issuer with investments planned and in a regulated industry
with some economically led slowdown in demand, I would shore up
my balance sheet in the same way.”  EDF is selling two tranches of debt in euros. One portion
callable in 2020 will yield 4.375 percent, while the second,
which can be redeemed in 2025, will have a 5.5 percent yield.
The pound tranche, callable in 2026, will yield 6.125 percent,
the person with knowledge of the terms said.  The notes will rank above ordinary and preference shares
and contain special event clauses that could defer coupon
payments, according to the person with knowledge of the deal.
Fitch Ratings will grade the bonds A-, two levels below EDF.  Intesa Debt Sale  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-largest lender, is also
tapping credit markets today, selling senior unsecured floating-
rate notes due July 2015.  Italian utility  Hera SpA (HER)  is offering benchmark-sized senior
unsecured bond in euros, a person with knowledge of that
transaction said.  In derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield
ratings rose five basis points to 420. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of contracts on the senior debt of banks and
insurers increased four basis points to 136.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  