-- EDF Investors at Risk of Losing Record Dividend on Costs: Energy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-22T16:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/edf-investors-at-risk-of-losing-record-dividend-on-costs-energy.html
Electricite de  France  SA’s near
record  dividend  is at risk for the first time in four years as
costs spiral at the world’s biggest atomic-power producer.  The French state-controlled utility, which is yielding 7.7
percent, last week said it was seeking to pay a “sustainable”
dividend. That backed away from a previous pledge to keep it
“at least stable” for 2012 and beyond. The stock has  lost  14
percent in the past year and about 65 percent since 2008.  “There is a growing fear among equity investors that EDF’s
current dividend is not sustainable longer-term,” said Roland
Vetter, an analyst at CF Partners (UK) LLP in  London . “EDF
faces fundamental headwinds.”  European utilities from Germany’s EON SE to Iberdrola SA in
Spain face increased tax demands from governments seeking to
ease spiraling budget deficits. Italy’s Enel SpA last year cut
its dividend target.  EDF (EDF)  must fork out billions of euros for
safety upgrades after the 2011 Fukushima disaster at the same
time it’s being prevented from raising prices to cover costs.  Shares in Paris-based EDF closed 1.1 percent lower in the
French capital at 14.71 euros, the biggest decline in seven
trading days. The Stoxx 600 Utilities Index fell 0.5 percent.  EDF hasn’t cut its dividend since 2009. The payment was
long considered safe because it’s mostly collected by the French
government, its  largest  shareholder with an 84 percent stake.
The state received 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) in 2011.  Bloomberg analysts yesterday said they cut the forecast for
EDF’s final 2012  dividend  by 3.3 percent to 58 euro cents a
share, while leaving the full-year 2013 dividend forecast
unchanged from this year at 1.15 euros.  Highest Yield  Carole Trivi, a spokeswoman at EDF, declined to comment on
the payout which will be decided by the board next month. The
utility is raising more than 4 billion euros from its first
issue of perpetual hybrid bonds in 16 years, Bloomberg reported
today, citing a person with knowledge of the sale.  EDF’s current yield is about tied with EON and EDP-Energias
de Portugal SA as the highest of European utilities after the
9.6 percent paid by  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , which has pledged to cut
spending to maintain the payment. EDF ended the fourth quarter
yielding 8.2 percent, a record quarterly close, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The highest yielding company among the major U.S. utilities
is Exelon Corp. at 6.9 percent, and among Japanese it’s Hokuriku
Electric Power Co., currently paying investors 4.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With President  Francois Hollande  pledging to shore up
France’s energy mix in favor of renewable power, EDF is facing
cost overruns on a new reactor as it expands a workforce that’s
already double the size of its nearest rivals. The French
utility owns 58 French and 15 U.K. reactors.  Taking Comfort  “In this uncertain environment, the market seems to be
taking comfort in the dividend but there is no guarantee,” said
Ingo Becker, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “It’s
deceiving to believe that this is a floor for the stock because
in the end dividends have to follow fundamentals.”  EDF will be  compensated  by the government for the higher
cost of renewable energy. The government has pledged to
reimburse EDF almost 5 billion euros by the end of 2018 through
higher levies on power bills.  The size of this year’s reimbursement will be “small”
compared with future years, according to Thomas Piquemal, chief
finance officer.  February Decision  “Whether this agreement will have an impact on our
dividend is up to the board to decide in February together with
2012 accounts,” Piquemal said last week. EDF is “committed to
a sustainable dividend policy,” he said. That’s a departure
from what the company said in November when it pledged the
payout would be “at least stable” for 2012 and beyond.  “Investors are at the end of the road,” said Per Lekander, an analyst at UBS AG. “There isn’t much left for
them.”  Analysts are losing faith as well. The  recommendation
consensus  for EDF of 20 analysts is close to a record low of 2.9
reached in November, with buy ratings getting five points, holds
three and sells one.  Their concerns are being magnified as Hollande seeks to
encourage the country’s renewable energy industry and reduce
reliance on nuclear power. EDF’s French reactors currently
provide three quarters of the nation’s electricity output, where
the utility derives almost two thirds of its earnings.  The French president has already pledged to shut EDF’s
oldest plant at Fessenheim by the end of 2016 for safety
reasons.  Energy Mix  Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho has said an
energy debate that got under way this month will culminate in a
law mid-year to outline the country’s future energy mix. A
central feature will be cutting dependence on atomic energy to
50 percent of power production by 2025 from about 75 percent.  “The debate can’t go on too long,” said Francois Brottes,
a Socialist lawmaker who’s promoting a law on power and gas
tariffs. “It’s a period of uncertainty, vulnerability” for
EDF.  EDF shares slid 26 percent last year, cutting the company’s
market value to 28 billion euros. That’s down from a record 158
billion euros in November 2007 when it was the biggest company
listed on France’s benchmark CAC 40 index, surpassing oil
explorer Total SA.  Moody’s Investor Services last month lowered its outlook on
the utility to negative from stable, due in part because of
rising debt and pressure on profitability and free  cash flow .  Cost Overruns  That came after EDF said 2013 profit may be in line with
last year’s results, compared with a previous forecast for
growth, and cost overruns of 2 billion euros for a new-
generation EPR reactor under development at Flamanville in
Normandy.  The price tag for the EPR is now expected to be 8.5 billion
euros, more than double the initial estimate, and about a third
of EDF’s current market capitalization. The utility assigned a
value of 47 billion euros to all its reactors at the end of
2011.  In addition to ballooning costs to develop new reactors,
EDF’s employee ranks are also swelling at a time when the
government is grappling with joblessness at a 14-year high. EDF
has promised to hire a net 2,000 workers in France, adding to
156,000 worldwide, more than twice that of EON AG,  Germany ’s
largest power generator.  The utility was created in 1946 when the government
nationalized energy companies. EDF workers, along with those of
former gas monopoly GDF Suez, benefit from perks including
discounted power rates.  Subsidize Bills  EDF said in 2011 it set aside 2.3 billion euros to
subsidize bills for existing and retired workers so they could
pay just 5 percent to 10 percent of the tariffs charged to
regular consumers. The two utilities also by law contribute 1
percent of operating income, which amounted to 307 million euros
in 2011 for EDF and its distribution arm ERDF, into a fund for
workers’ social and cultural activities.  EDF will spend an estimated 10 billion euros on safety
measures at French reactors ordered by the national watchdog
after the Fukushima disaster. Total planned spending on French
reactors on safety and extending operating lives of existing
plants would reach 55 billion euros, the company has said.  To help pay for investment, the utility would benefit from
higher power rates at home. French state-regulated tariffs
charged by EDF should increase by about 30 percent by 2016,
Philippe de Ladoucette, head of the energy regulator, has said.
The increase would reflect inflation, higher wholesale rates at
which EDF sells nuclear power to rivals, a subsidy for renewable
power and transport and distribution costs.  Cash Flow Break-Even  With Hollande’s pledge to contain household energy costs,
it’s unclear whether the utility will obtain tariffs high enough
to pay costs.  EDF won’t break even on cash flow until 2018, according to
Citigroup analyst Sofia Savvantidou.  The utility is expected to spend an average of 13.8 billion
euros a year through 2016, most of which amounts to maintenance
rather than adding earnings capacity, she wrote.  The company will give details next month about a plan to
cut costs by 1 billion euros, Herve Machenaud, head of
production and engineering, said last week. “EDF is confronted
with financial constraints.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  