-- Medical Marijuana Backers Lose Bid for Looser Regulations
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-22T19:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/medical-marijuana-backers-lose-bid-for-looser-regulations-1-.html
Medical marijuana backers’ bid to
ease federal controls of the drug was rejected by a U.S. appeals
court that ruled the government properly kept the substance in
its most-dangerous category.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 Washington  today upheld the Drug Enforcement Administration’s
decision to maintain marijuana as a Schedule I drug under the
Controlled Substances Act because there are no adequate
scientific studies finding an acceptable medical use.  “The question before the court is not whether marijuana
could have some medical benefits,” U.S. Circuit Judge Harry Edwards wrote in the opinion.  Edwards said the court’s review was limited to whether the
DEA’s decision declining to reschedule the drug was arbitrary
and capricious. He said the court found there was “substantial
evidence” to support the agency’s determination that such
studies don’t exist.  The case involves a 10-year-old petition from medical
marijuana advocates who asked the DEA to reclassify marijuana as
a Schedule III, IV or V drug, which would allow for looser
regulation. On June 21, 2011, the DEA rejected the request,
stating that existing clinical evidence wasn’t adequate to
warrant reclassification.  ‘Sufficient Evidence’  “To deny that sufficient evidence is lacking on the
medical efficacy of marijuana is to ignore a mountain of well-
documented studies that conclude otherwise,” Joe Elford, chief
counsel with Americans for Safe Access, the medical marijuana
advocacy organization that brought the case, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Elford told the court during arguments in October that
there were more than 200 studies that the agency refused to
consider.  The group said it will appeal today’s ruling, according to
the statement.  Lena Watkins, a lawyer for the Justice Department, told the
court in October that the studies cited by the marijuana
proponents were rejected because the research didn’t meet
government standards. She said about 15 studies meet the
standards, though the government doesn’t have the final results
yet.  The court also waved off claims that government blocked
efforts to study the medical effects of marijuana, citing the
Health and Human Services Department policy supporting the
clinical research with botanical marijuana.  “It appears that adequate and well-controlled studies are
wanting not because they have been foreclosed but because they
have not been completed,” Edwards said in the ruling.  The case is Americans for Safe Access v. Drug Enforcement
Administration, 11-1265, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 