-- Medicare Cuts for Readmissions to Target Large Hospitals
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-01-22T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/medicare-cuts-for-readmissions-to-target-large-hospitals.html
Large U.S. teaching hospitals such
as those affiliated with major universities are more likely to
be penalized under a U.S. program linking Medicare pay cuts to
higher rates of patient readmission, research suggests.  About 67 percent of 3,282 hospitals studied will receive
lower payments for providing care to patients in Medicare, the
U.S. government’s health program for the elderly and disabled,
as a result of the policy that took effect on Oct. 1, according
to a research letter published today in the Journal of the
American Medical Association. Major teaching hospitals are more
likely to be highly penalized, which the authors define as being
in the top half of penalized hospitals.  Data from July 2008 to June 2011 will be used to determine
if readmission rates are higher than predicted for patients with
heart attacks, pneumonia and other ills. Hospitals with higher
rates will receive a Medicare cut of as much as 1 percent. The
penalties may  cost hospitals  about $280 million this year, the
government has estimated.  While the current penalties “may be modest for some
hospitals, they may represent substantial financial shortfalls
for hospitals operating on low profit margins,” wrote Karen
Joynt, a cardiologist at Boston-based  Brigham and Women’s
Hospital  and lead author of the letter.  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  and  LifePoint Hospitals Inc. (LPNT) 
may face the biggest reductions in payments in fiscal 2013 among
for-profit hospital companies, CRT Capital Group LLC reported in
September after analyzing 2012 government data.  Medicare Costs  The initiative is among the Medicare changes aimed at
saving billions of dollars under the Affordable Care Act, which
will cost $828 billion through fiscal year 2019 by expanding
health insurance coverage, according the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services. While the initial cuts may be small, they’re
due to increase in future years, the research letter found.  Prior studies suggest patients served by large hospitals
have more complex medical conditions, leading to higher
readmission rates, Joynt wrote. The rate also may be linked to
the patients’ socioeconomic mix, she wrote.  “There is less evidence that differences in readmissions
are related to measured hospital quality,” she wrote.  So-called safety net hospitals, which provide a large
amount of care to low-income and uninsured patients, also are
more likely see payment cuts under the initiative, the research
found.  Forty percent of large hospitals will be highly penalized
compared with 28 percent of small hospitals, the research
suggests. The authors defined large hospitals as those with 400
or more beds.  About 45 percent of safety-net hospitals are likely to be
highly penalized compared with 30 percent of hospitals that
don’t serve a significant number of low-income and uninsured
patients, based on the findings. About 20 percent of safety-net
hospitals won’t be penalized, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  