-- Test-Prep Company Education Holdings Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-22T02:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/education-holdings-1-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Education Holdings 1 Inc. (REVU) , the test-
preparation company formerly known as Princeton Review, filed
for bankruptcy protection, a month after settling a fraud
lawsuit with the U.S.  Education Holdings listed  liabilities  of $100 million to
$500 million, as well as $100 million to $500 million in assets,
in Chapter 11 court filings today in Delaware. The company filed
a so-called prepackaged reorganization plan that it said has
already received approval from some creditors.  Senior secured claim holders, who are owed at least
$36.3 million, second-lien facility claimants due $7 million and
other note holders owed more than $110 million will be allowed
to vote on the plan submitted today as the proposal impairs
their claims, according to a court filing. The plan also
requires bankruptcy court approval.  The U.S. Justice Department on Dec. 20 announced the
settlement of a suit filed against the company in May in
Manhattan federal court. The U.S. claimed that Princeton Review
received tens of millions of dollars in federal funds for
tutoring services to  New York  City school children that it
didn’t provide. The U.S. said the settlement amount is as much
as $10 million.  Robin Weinberg of Sard Verbinnen & Co., a spokeswoman for
Framingham, Massachusetts-based Education Holdings, declined to
comment on the bankruptcy filing.  Unit Sold  Another company, TPR Education LLC, is now doing business
as The Princeton Review. TPR Education, which purchased
Princeton Review’s Higher Education Readiness unit on May 18,
wasn’t sued in the U.S. case, it said in a statement last month.
TPR Education didn’t buy Princeton Review’s Supplemental
Educational Services division. It isn’t part of today’s
bankruptcy filing, according to available court records.  Education Holdings said in its filing that as of Jan. 17 it
had 100 percent approval of its proposed bankruptcy plan from
holders of senior secured claims, second-lien facility claims
and senior and junior note claims.  “The company has received a sufficient number and amount
of votes in favor of the prepackaged plan,” according to the
filing.  The company listed Bain Capital Venture Fund LP of Boston
as its biggest equity security holder, with 9.7 percent. Falcon
Investment Advisors LLC and Sankaty Advisors LLC are the biggest
unsecured creditors according to the filing, which says each is
owed $56.3 million. Liabilities to the Justice Department are
“undetermined,” according to the filing.  The company didn’t file a schedule of assets and
liabilities, seeking an exemption from the filing because its
restructuring plan has already been approved, according to a
statement from Chief Restructuring Officer Christian Kasper.  The case is In Re Education Holdings 1 Inc., 13-10101, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  