-- EE Cuts Prices of 4G Plans Before Competitors Buy U.K. Spectrum
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-22T16:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ee-cuts-prices-of-4g-plans-before-competitors-buy-u-k-spectrum.html
EE, the U.K. mobile joint venture of
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , cut the prices of its
fastest fourth-generation services ahead of an auction that will
make the technology available to competitors.  The company’s cheapest plan, which includes 500 megabytes
of data, will be cut from 36 pounds ($57.12) a month to 31
pounds for customers who sign up for a two-year contract between
Jan. 31 and the end of March, EE said in a statement today.  EE is the first operator to introduce 4G service in the
U.K., with typical data speeds five times faster than older,
third-generation networks. The company is working to snap up
customers before competitors, such as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
acquire spectrum in a U.K. auction beginning this month, Matthew
Howett, an analyst at Ovum, said in a note today.  “It is a pre-emptive strike aimed at its competitors who
are soon to launch tariffs of their own once the long-overdue
auction of 4G licenses is completed,” Howett said. “Trying to
convince consumers to buy into something they haven’t yet seen
or had experience of is a difficult task, and is further
complicated by EE’s desire to both make the most of its head
start over the other mobile operators and to clearly
differentiate the 4G offering.”  EE has also responded to customers who want more data
capacity. The faster 4G networks can encourage customers to use
more high-bandwidth applications, such as streaming video and
downloads of larger files.  EE more than doubled the size of its largest plan, offering
a one-year, SIM-only plan for “super users” who sign up by the
end of February with 20 gigabytes of data a month for 46 pounds.
The company’s largest plan previously was 8 gigabytes. The
bundle is also available with 4G handsets on a 24-month contract
at 61 pounds a month, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  