-- Egan-Jones Banned for 18 Months From Rating Sovereigns, ABS
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-01-22T20:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/egan-jones-faces-18-month-ban-on-sovereign-asset-backed-ratings.html
Egan-Jones Ratings Co. was barred
from grading government debt and asset-backed securities for 18
months after settling claims it made material misstatements to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Egan-Jones misled the regulator by asserting it had been
ranking the two asset classes since 1995 when registering for
so-called Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization
status, the SEC said today in a statement. In fact, the closely
held, Haverford, Pennsylvania-based company started rating the
debt in 2008, the year it applied for the designation.  The “misrepresentation of the firm’s actual experience
rating issuers of asset-backed and government securities is a
serious violation that undercuts the integrity of the SEC’s
NRSRO registration process,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
enforcement director, said in the statement.  The SEC decides which companies can issue NRSRO grades,
which allow investors to meet regulatory requirements. The
financial watchdog incorporated ratings in its rules in 1975,
specifying that the only companies whose rankings could be used
were Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings. Ten companies now carry the designation.  ‘Agreeable Terms’  “Egan-Jones is very pleased to announce that the firm has
settled its issues with the SEC on mutually agreeable terms,”
Bill Hassiepen, co-head of the ratings desk, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Egan Jones remains an NRSRO for all of its
corporate, bank/finance, and insurance ratings and will re-apply
for NRSRO designation in relatively short order.”  Egan-Jones, which was first accused of making the
misrepresentations last April, must conduct a self-review and
implement policies that correct issues identified in the order,
according to the statement. In its July 2008 application, Egan-
Jones said it had 150 outstanding ABS issuer ratings and 50
government grades.  Investors pay Egan-Jones for its opinions unlike S&P,
Moody’s and Fitch, which charge issuers of debt securities for
their grades. The company had 1,136 ratings outstanding and five
employees at the end of last year, according to a November SEC
 report .  Egan-Jones, which has moved markets with its rating
decisions, preceded Moody’s by an hour on June 13 in cutting
Spain’s credit grade by two steps to CCC+ from B. Yields on the
country’s 10-year  obligations  rose to a euro-era record the
following day. The company reduced its rating on the U.S. by one
step to AA+ from AAA on July 18, 2011.  President Sean Egan joined Bruce Jones, a former credit
analyst at Moody’s, to form the company in 1995. Egan-Jones
became an NRSRO in December 2007 after seven years of being
denied the status, following passage of the Credit Agency Reform
Act of 2006.  The legislation, which sought to increase competition among
credit-rating firms, pushed the SEC to authorize companies to
assign debt grades that banks use for determining capital
withholding requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  