-- Telefonica Obtains Peru Mobile Phone Concession Renewal
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2013-01-22T00:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/telefonica-obtains-peru-mobile-phone-concession-renewal-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  reached an agreement
with the Peruvian government to renew its mobile-phone
concession for almost 19 years after the company agreed to
invest 3 billion soles ($1.18 billion) to expand rural coverage.  The Telefonica Moviles unit will halve rates for pensioners
and state workers in rural areas, provide coverage in 1,842
villages and give free Internet service for rural state schools,
Transport & Communications Minister Carlos Paredes said. The
agreement ends 18 months of negotiations days before the visit
of Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy on Jan. 24.  “Having received the company’s unconditional acceptance of
all the government’s terms, we will renew the concession,”
Paredes said today at a press conference in Lima. The lowered
rates will benefit “more than a million” Peruvians, he said.  President  Ollanta Humala  took office in 2011 on pledges to
extend greater social benefits to Peru’s population of 30
million, a third of whom live on $1 a day, according to the
World Bank. Madrid-based Telefonica, which bought state Cia.
Peruana de Telefonos in 1994, operated 20 million mobile phone
lines in Peru through 2012, according to its website.  The company, which competes with  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ,  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  and Viettel Group, accepted the government’s
“tough” conditions, Telefonica Moviles said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “The conditions represent unprecedented efforts to extend
coverage,”  Telefonica del Peru SAA (TELEFBC1)  Chief Executive Officer
Javier Manzanares said in the statement. “We’re going to
continue investing in Peru and work faster with the authorities
to expand telecommunications as a tool for development.”  Telefonica del Peru rose 1.2 percent to 2.55 soles in  Lima 
trading. Telefonica SA gained 0.4 percent to 10.91 euros in
Madrid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  