-- EPA Soot-Screening Rule Thrown Out by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-22T21:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/epa-soot-screening-rule-thrown-out-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency doesn’t have authority to waive mandatory tests intended
to determine whether projects at large power plants would
increase soot pollution, a federal appeals court ruled.  Regulations challenged by the Sierra Club, which allow some
power plants and other industrial facilities to avoid testing,
violate the intent of the Clean Air Act, Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote for a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  Washington .  The court today also struck down the authority of the EPA
to issue waivers for monitoring soot before construction to
establish a baseline on pollution for future testing.  “The monitoring requirement is a regulatory function that
provides benefits, and the statute precludes the EPA from
exempting that requirement,” Sentelle wrote.  The lack of a baseline test is “like a doctor telling
someone they don’t know how much of a dangerous drug they’re
taking before giving them more,” said David Baron, managing
attorney for Earthjustice, a San Francisco-based environmental
advocacy group, who argued the case on behalf of the Sierra
Club.  The rules apply only to plants that produce large volumes
of emissions, Baron said.  David Bloomgren, a spokesman for the EPA, didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Too Far  The regulation struck down by the court automatically
exempts a proposed facility from further testing by a range of
state and federal permitting authorities if it’s projected to
produce low levels of soot.  The EPA, saying the rule was flawed, argued that those
agencies should instead have discretion to require testing and
corrective action at any level, Sentelle wrote in his opinion.  “Permitting authorities should determine when it may be
appropriate to conclude that even a de minimis impact will
’cause or contribute’ to an air quality problem and to seek
remedial action from the proposed new source or modification,”
the judge wrote, citing EPA statements.  The San Francisco-based Sierra Club probably will challenge
any new EPA rule that sets a soot level below which new plants
might be subjected to less scrutiny, Baron said.  “They can’t possibly know that every plant that comes in
under some arbitrary number isn’t going to tip an area into
violation,” Baron said in a telephone interview.  The Utility Air Regulatory Group, a coalition of power
companies and other interests affected by the rule, asked the
court to uphold the waiver provision.  Andrea Bear Field, an attorney for the group, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The case is Sierra Club v. U.S. EPA, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  