-- Mergers to Rebound as Companies Spend Cash, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-01-22T22:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/mergers-to-rebound-as-companies-spend-cash-morgan-stanley-says.html
U.S. mergers and acquisitions are
poised to rebound as borrowing costs stay near zero and
companies deploy their $1.5 trillion in cash, according to a
Morgan Stanley report.  Gilead Sciences Inc.,  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Smithfield Foods Inc.
are among stocks in the Russell 1000 with a higher chance of
being acquired compared with other companies,  Adam Parker , the
U.S. equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, said in a note today.
Health-care providers are among those most likely to receive
takeover offers, he said.  “With huge cash on U.S. corporate balance sheets, many
investors have been asking about the prospects for an M&A cycle,
even if the economy remains more muted,” Parker said in the
research report.  About $42 billion in U.S. deals has been announced this
year, including Dish Network Corp.’s bid for  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley made its
forecasts using a quantitative model using industry trends and
factors such as valuation and dividend yield.  Utilities (S5UTIL)  and
companies that make household goods have a smaller chance of
getting a bid, the note said.  Executives have hoarded cash after the credit crisis,
bringing the total to $1.5 trillion excluding financial
companies, data from Morgan Stanley showed. The  Federal Reserve 
said last month that it will keep rates near zero as long as the
jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and inflation is forecast to
be 2.5 percent or less.  Shares in target companies usually rally ahead of an offer,
the note said. They surged 22 percent on average from the end of
the prior quarter through the day of the offer, based on data
compiled by Morgan Stanley. That period is six weeks on average,
the report said.  An average of 2.8 percent of the 1,000 largest companies by
market value received a tender offer during 12-month periods
since 1983, Morgan Stanley said.  Morgan Stanley’s List of Companies with Higher Odds of a
Takeover Offer: 