-- Eritrean Ambassador Dismisses Coup Reports; Soldiers Retreat
-- B y   B e a l f a n   T .   H a y l e
-- 2013-01-22T10:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/eritrean-ambassador-dismisses-coup-reports-troops-in-asmara.html
Eritrea’s ambassador to the  United
Nations  dismissed speculation of an attempted coup as news
agencies including  Agence France-Presse  reported that government
forces have withdrawn from the capital, Asmara.  About 100 soldiers stormed the Information Ministry in
Asmara yesterday and took control of the building, according to
 Awate.com , a California-based opposition website. The mutinying
soldiers ended the occupation and tanks that had surrounded the
vicinity yesterday left this morning, AFP said, citing an
unidentified European diplomat.  Reports that an attempt was made to overthrow President
Isaias Afwerki’s government are “nonsensical,” Ambassador
Araya Desta said in a phone interview from New York late
yesterday. “Everything is fine and under control.”  Eritrea has been ruled by Afwerki, a former rebel leader,
since it gained independence from  Ethiopia  in 1993. The country
has no privately owned press and the government has arbitrarily
detained thousands of people including opposition supporters and
journalists over the past decade, according to  Amnesty
International , the London-based advocacy group.  The UN has imposed sanctions on Eritrea for supporting al-
Qaeda-linked militants fighting to topple the government of
Somalia. The Eritrean government denies the allegations.  Demands  The troops who seized control of the Information Ministry
building, which is known as Enda Zena, ordered a newsreader to
read a statement on state television calling for the release of
political prisoners and the implementation of the country’s
constitution, according to Awate.com.  The Ministry of Information’s website, which normally
provides daily updates of news from Eritrea, hasn’t been updated
since Jan. 20.  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU) , the operator of a gold mine in
Eritrea, fell the most in six months yesterday after the reports
about the events in Asmara. The company said its Bisha mine in
the Horn of Africa nation was operating normally.  Sunridge Gold Ltd. (SGC)  said the military activity in the
capital had no impact on its continuing engineering studies in
the country. The stock fell as much as 32 percent in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bealfan T. Hayle in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 