-- Merkel and Hollande Put on Show of Unity as Economies Diverge
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-22T16:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/merkel-marks-ties-with-hollande-amid-french-german-economy-split.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
President  Francois Hollande  put on a show of unity to mark a
half century of Franco-German cooperation even as economic
malaise in the euro area exposes divergences between the two.  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies met in Berlin
today to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the  Elysee Treaty ,
which sealed the countries’ cooperation after World War II. The
two said they’ll forge a common approach to stabilize the 17-
member euro area by May.  “We’re aware of our great responsibility to improve the
situation in the European Union and to overcome the euro
crisis,” Merkel said alongside Hollande. The French leader
added: “We have this friendship that we have to make work.”  The joint overture at wresting the euro area out of crisis
comes as the two countries’ economies head in opposite
directions, with  France ’s unemployment approaching a euro-era
record and German joblessness near a two-decade low. Still, the
leaders went on to deliver speeches in parliament marking the
historic embrace between West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer
and France’s  Charles de Gaulle  in 1963.  “We must go beyond our friendship to open up new
ambitions,” Hollande told German and French lawmakers in a
joint session of parliament in  Germany ’s lower house, or
Bundestag. “We are ready to talk to anyone, to hear any ideas,
from those who want to go further in European construction.”  Debt Crisis  Franco-German proposals to address the three-year-old debt
crisis will plot a course toward closer economic cooperation and
bind in the bloc’s employers and unions, Merkel said. The
measures will be discussed at a June European Union summit.  Merkel and Hollande have struggled to reach agreement on
the crisis as the French leader has worked to assemble a
counterweight to Germany’s pro-austerity policies while allies
of the German leader have urged Hollande to move more quickly on
overhauling France’s labor market.  The two today sought to project a functional working
relationship after Hollande’s predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
aligned himself with the chancellor enough to give rise to the
term “Merkozy” to describe the duo.  Merkel openly backed Sarkozy over Hollande during last
year’s presidential elections in France, while Hollande has met
with leaders of the German opposition  Social Democratic Party  in
Paris. The French leader championed a plan opposed by Merkel to
pool debt, while she has publicly singled out France’s rising
unit labor costs as part of the region’s problems.  ‘Not Easy’  “What’s not easy is to persuade her -- that’s not very
easy,” Hollande told reporters. “But the chemistry works
between us, a current runs without having to tap more power.”  “It’s one of our biggest secrets that the chemistry works,
so that we can work calmly together,” Merkel said.  As the two work to improve personal ties, their economies
are displaying differing challenges.  Hollande’s government has confronted sluggish growth and a
10.3 percent unemployment rate as companies such as  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  and  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  slash jobs. Last week the French
president brokered an agreement between businesses and unions
that allows companies to cut work time and pay as demand slows,
while extending benefits and raising a tax on employers.  The French malaise contrasts with a German labor market
that’s weathered the three-year debt crisis even as the
government projects growth to slow to 0.4 percent this year.
Germany’s unemployment rate was 6.9 percent in December.  “A fundamental problem of today’s Franco-German
relationship is that the former symmetry between the two
countries has changed thanks to the Germany’s increased economic
power,” Ulrike Guerot, a Berlin-based analyst with the European
Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  