-- EU Carbon Market Is at Risk of Total Collapse, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-22T11:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/eu-carbon-market-is-at-risk-of-total-collapse-lawmaker-says.html
The European Union’s emissions
trading system, the world’s largest, is at a risk of “total
collapse” and a draft measure to fix it must become a top
priority for governments, a member of the EU Parliament said.  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December sank to a
record of 4.79 euros a metric ton yesterday amid oversupply
triggered by an economic crisis that cut industrial output.
Indecision by policy makers whether to back a rescue plan
designed by the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm,
has pushed the cap-and-trade emissions program “to the brink”,
said Bas Eickhout, a Dutch member of EU Parliament.  “This latest warning should redouble the resolve of
decision-makers” to approve a proposal to delay sales of some
carbon permits, Eickhout, who is a member of the Greens in the
assembly, said in an e-mailed statement.  At stake is the price of EU emission allowances, which
analysts at banks including UBS AG said may extend record lows
unless governments support the strategy to reduce the record
glut. Most member states, including  Germany  and the U.K., were
undecided whether to back the so-called backloading measure at
their last meeting in December, an EU official said at that
time.  Postponing the sales of 900 million permits from 2013-2015
to 2019-2020 is not sufficient to save the market and should be
followed by a deeper overhaul of the EU emissions trading
system, or the ETS, according to Eickhout. It should include a
permanent removal of at least 1.4 billion allowances and
accelerating the pace of carbon reductions in the ETS to 2.5
percent per year from the current 1.74 percent, he said.  “Ultimately though, stepping up the EU’s outdated
emissions reduction target to at least 30 percent by 2020 would
be necessary to properly rescue the ETS,” he said in an e-
mailed statement. “Failure to deliver a permanent solution will
mean the emissions trading scheme will continue to fail in its
purpose of delivering domestic emissions reductions and
stimulating investment in green technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  