-- Short-Term Bank Debt May Escape Bail-In, EU Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-22T09:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/eu-lawmaker-says-short-term-bank-debt-may-escape-bail-in-plan.html
Bank debt with a remaining maturity
of six months or less may be exempted from compulsory writedowns
by European Union regulators, said Gunnar Hoekmark, the EU
lawmaker leading work on rules for failing lenders.  Such debt “could be an exemption” to avoid the creation
of “volatility on the financial markets,” Hoekmark told
legislators meeting in Brussels today. He said that a clear
hierarchy was needed to set out which instruments would face
forced writedowns. Such losses shouldn’t be limited to a special
category of so-called bail-in-able debt, and as wide a range of
securities as possible should be eligible for writedowns, he
said.  The EU plans, which were presented in draft form last year
by  Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief, should
also make it clear that governments can still bail out their
banks with taxpayer money as a last resort, Hoekmark said.  EU governments have provided 4 trillion euros ($5.3
trillion) in guarantees, capital injections and other aid to
banks since the global financial crisis erupted in 2007. The
Group of 20 nations has called on lenders to draw up plans for
how they could be wound down in a crisis, and has tasked
regulators will drawing up measures to impose losses on failing
banks’ creditors, so that taxpayers will not be called on in
future.  ‘Systemic Risk’  Some banks may be exempted from the rules entirely if they
don’t pose a “ systemic risk ” to the financial system, Hoekmark
said.  Hoekmark said that further work was needed on plans to
force nations to set up bank financed funds that would be tapped
to stabilize failing lenders. Governments have different views
on whether to create such pre-financed funds, he said.  It is “very likely” that governments “will not agree
that such a fund should be used cross-border,” said Wolf Klinz,
a member of the parliament’s Liberal group working on the
dossier.  Individual banks’ contributions to the resolution funds
should be determined based on perceptions of their riskiness,
said Elisa Ferreira, the lawmaker leading work on the file for
the EU assembly’s Socialist group.  The final version of the law must be agreed on by lawmakers
in the assembly and by national governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  