-- Europe Stocks Little Changed as ZEW Offsets U.S. Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-22T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/european-futures-little-changed-as-euro-area-debates-aid.html
European stocks  were little changed
as German investor confidence surged, offsetting an unexpected
decline in U.S. sales of existing homes.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost 1.9 percent after a person familiar
with the matter said Germany’s regulator asked the lender to
simulate an operational split.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  retreated the most
since August after the chief executive officer of its SFR phone
unit predicted a difficult market for as long as 18 months.
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA slid 5.7 percent after a
report said it used derivatives that are hurting profit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell less than 0.1 percent to
287.66 at the close of trading, after earlier losing as much as
0.8 percent. The gauge has still gained 2.9 percent this year as
U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget and optimism rose
that U.S. companies would report better-than-expected earnings.  “The existing home sales figures for December were worse
than expected and they add to the mixed picture with indicators
pointing in many directions,” Peter Garnry, an equity
strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, wrote in a message.
“However, if you filter out the noise, the U.S. economy is
slowly approaching trend growth again. And with an improving
housing sector, regardless of today’s existing home sales, the
U.S. economy could surprise to the upside in 2013, which should
be positive for stocks.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
today was 6 percent greater than the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 was little changed, while
 France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.6 percent. Germany’s DAX lost 0.7
percent.  German Confidence  German investor confidence increased to the highest in 2
1/2 years in January. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its  index  of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, climbed to 31.5 from 6.9 in December. That’s
the highest since May 2010. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast a gain to 12.  Sales of U.S.  existing  homes unexpectedly dropped in
December, restrained by the lowest supply of properties in more
than a decade.  Purchases fell 1 percent to a 4.94 million annual rate last
month, the National Association of Realtors said in a report in
 Washington . That’s the second-highest reading since November
2009. The  median  forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for sales to increase to a 5.1 million rate.  In Asia, the Bank of Japan said it will shift to Federal
Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases in its strongest
commitment yet to ending two decades of deflation.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank slid 1.9 percent to 35.94 euros after a
person familiar with the matter said the regulator, Bafin, asked
 Germany ’s biggest lender to simulate a split of its business.  A group led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen
called for banks to move their trading activities into
separately capitalized units. Deutsche Bank has the biggest
trading activities compared with its balance sheet in Germany,
according to the group.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment.  German newspaper Boersen Zeitung reported earlier today
that Bafin asked two banks to simulate a split along the lines
put forward by the Liikanen group, citing unidentified people.  Vivendi SA,  Europe ’s biggest media and telecommunications
company, lost 4 percent to 16.08 euros. Stephane Roussel, chief
executive officer of Vivendi’s SFR phone business, said the unit
expects a tough market for as long as 18 months, according to an
interview published in Le Parisien.  Monte Paschi  Monte Paschi (BMPS) , the world’s oldest bank, fell 5.7 percent to
27.8 euro cents on concern that losses from derivatives
contracts are hurting profit.  The bank’s former managers signed an agreement with  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  three years ago that will reduce 2012 earnings by
220 million euros, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported today, citing an
internal report written by Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola.  Monte Paschi said Jan. 17 it will review its accounts after
Bloomberg News reported the lender engaged in a transaction with
Deutsche Bank at the height of the financial crisis that
obscured losses before it sought a government bailout.  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  gained 2.8 percent to 1,599 pence as UBS AG
upgraded the British property-listings website owner to buy from
neutral, saying that its competitive strengths remain intact.  Opap SA (OPAP)  rallied 5.1 percent to 6.95 euros after Greek
officials met to coordinate state asset-disposal plans, which
include the sale of a 33 percent stake in  Greece ’s biggest
gambling company.  Drillisch AG jumped 3.7 percent to 12.30 euros, its highest
price in more than 12 years. The German telephone-services
provider said it will increase its 2012 dividend to 1 euro a
share from 70 cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  