-- Gupta Says in Appeal Trial Judge Hampered Defense Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-22T17:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ex-goldman-sachs-director-gupta-seeks-new-trial.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
 Rajat Gupta  asked a federal appeals court for a new insider-
trading trial, arguing that evidence in his favor was kept from
the jury and evidence against him was wrongly allowed.  Gupta, 64, who sat on the board of New York-based Goldman
Sachs and Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble Co., was sentenced
to two years in prison after being convicted of passing
information he gathered at board meetings to Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  erred when he
allowed the government to present wiretaps of conversations not
involving Gupta and limited Gupta’s defense case by barring
evidence that Rajaratnam had alternative sources of nonpublic
information about Goldman Sachs, defense lawyers  Gary Naftalis 
and  Seth Waxman  said Jan. 18 in court papers.  “The court’s decidedly asymmetrical interpretation of the
rules of evidence left the jury with a distorted picture, in
which Gupta was accused by the self-serving hearsay of a known
fabulist beyond Gupta’s power to cross-examine, but was unable
to explain to the jury that he had neither the motive nor the
inclination to benefit that person, and that there was a
plausible alternative perpetrator,” the defense lawyers wrote.  Remains Free  In a rare move, a federal appeals court in Manhattan in
December granted Gupta’s request to remain free while he fights
his conviction. Rakoff, who presided over the trial, originally
ordered Gupta to begin serving his sentence on Jan. 8.  Rakoff “significantly curtailed” Gupta’s principal
defenses and made erroneous rulings in the prosecution’s favor
that “decisively tipped the scales” against him, Gupta argued.  Gupta challenged the government’s use of court-authorized
wiretaps, saying Rakoff shouldn’t have permitted prosecutors to
play recordings of September and October 2008 telephone calls
between Rajaratnam and others that didn’t include Gupta.  Wiretaps Attacked  “The prosecution’s case rested exclusively on
circumstantial evidence and predominantly wiretap statements --
not of Gupta, but of Rajaratnam, a highly unreliable declarant,
speaking with other people with no connection to Gupta,” his
lawyers wrote. “The district court admitted these hearsay
statements -- which Gupta could not cross-examine given
Rajaratnam’s unavailability.”  Gupta’s lawyers argued that Rakoff wrongly allowed
prosecutors to use three recordings of telephone calls in which
Gupta wasn’t a participant.  Rakoff also erred when he didn’t allow Gupta’s daughter to
testify that he told her he had discovered that Rajaratnam had
“swindled” him when he’d withdrawn money from the fund. Gupta
lost $10 million, his lawyers said.  Rajaratnam’s Sentence  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison term for  insider
trading  at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,
 Massachusetts .  Gupta, who also served as managing partner of McKinsey &
Co. from 1994 to 2003, was convicted by a jury in June of one
count of conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He was
accused of passing illegal information about New York-based
Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner.  A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Gupta of twice
passing information about Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, once on
Sept. 23, 2008, and again on Oct. 23, 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York 
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 