-- Ex-Senator Nelson to Run Insurer Watchdog Group
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-22T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ex-senator-nelson-to-run-insurer-watchdog-group.html
The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners named ex-Democratic Senator Ben Nelson
to be its chief executive officer as the regulators’ group
tackles U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Nelson’s duties will include working with U.S. and
international agencies as overseers increase their scrutiny on
financial firms, the NAIC said today in a statement. A former
industry executive, Nebraska governor and state regulator, he
was one of the more conservative Democrats in the Senate.  “We needed the gravitas, the phone calls returned, to go
to Capitol Hill, to tell our story, defend our turf, and beyond,
protect and promote our system around the world,” Jim Donelon,
NAIC president and Louisiana insurance commissioner, said in an
interview today at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  “I
think all the way up to and including President Obama would
return Senator Nelson’s phone calls.”  Regulators in the U.S. states are contending with the
Federal Insurance Office created by the Dodd-Frank law, expanded
U.S. involvement in health insurance and European efforts to
regulate capital known as Solvency II. State regulation has
served U.S. consumers and insurers well and deserves to be
defended, Nelson said in an interview.  “To impose their standard solvency regulation I think is a
mistake, and I hope to work to try to convince them of that,”
Nelson said in an interview in New York. “It isn’t broken, so
we’re not going to let them fix it.”  State Regulation  State commissioners are shaping their health-insurance
markets to comply with the 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. NAIC committees have considered standards
for the online insurance exchanges mandated by the law.  Nelson provided the 60th vote needed to help push the
health legislation through the Senate. He secured a provision
exempting Nebraska from paying for expanded Medicaid coverage,
derided by Republicans as the “Cornhusker Kickback.” Nelson,
71, later asked the provision be dropped and that all states get
equal treatment.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-
based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , praised Nelson for voting for the
health-care bill in 2010.  “Senator Nelson knew that probably a majority of people in
the state were not for it, but he went with what he thought was
right,” Buffett said, according to an interview in the Lincoln
Journal Star. “It is time for us to try to make an
improvement.”  Insurance Exchanges  Eighteen states are building exchanges that will let
uninsured residents buy medical plans starting in October.
People who don’t get insurance through their employers would use
the exchanges to select coverage from private insurers, often
with taxpayer-subsidized premiums.  Some states are also revamping Medicaid programs for the
poor by broadening eligibility rules. Congressional budget
projections show that more than half of the 30 million uninsured
targeted by the law will eventually buy subsidized plans through
the state exchanges and at least 11 million others will become
eligible for state-run Medicaid coverage.  Enrollment in the exchanges must begin by Oct. 1 for plans
that will take effect next year. The U.S. government is giving
states that run their own exchanges a share of about $2 billion
to help get them started. The remainder of the 50 states will
either have to let the U.S. run the exchanges or choose to
provide services such as consumer assistance in a partnership
with the federal government.  Beal, Vaughan  Nelson replaces NAIC’s acting CEO Andrew Beal, who took
over the post at the end of November, when Therese Vaughan
departed to revise a textbook. Beal will return to his role as
the group’s chief operating officer, the NAIC said in the
statement. Vaughan was CEO of the NAIC since 2009, and
previously was the group’s president and the Iowa insurance
commissioner.  Nelson was replaced by Deb Fischer, a Tea Party-backed
Republican, in last year’s Senate election. He had opted against
running for a third term, saying in December 2011 it was “time
to move on.”  He was  Nebraska ’s governor from 1990 to 1998. Nelson
previously was the state’s insurance regulator and is former CEO
of the Central National Insurance Group.  As a politician, Nelson won endorsements from the National
Rifle Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National
Federation of Independent Businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  