-- Ex-UVA Lacrosse Player Seeks New Trial in Girlfriend Murder
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-23T01:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ex-uva-lacrosse-player-seeks-new-trial-in-girlfriend-murder-1-.html
George W. Huguely V, the former
 University of Virginia  lacrosse player serving 23 years in
prison for beating to death his sometimes girlfriend,  Yeardley
Love , asked a state appeals court to order a new trial because
of judicial errors and a lack of evidence against him.  Huguely, who was found guilty of second-degree murder in
February, told a state appeals court today that his conviction
was the result of flawed rulings by Circuit Judge Edward
Hogshire in Charlottesville, Virginia, during jury selection and
then throughout his 10-week trial. The 25-year-old also argued
that there was insufficient evidence to convict him of a crime
more serious than manslaughter.  “The court made a number of erroneous rulings that valued
expediency and convenience over Mr. Huguely’s right to a fair
trial,”  Paul Clement , a lawyer for Huguely, wrote in the 57-
page brief.  Huguely, of  Chevy Chase , Maryland, was also charged with
first-degree murder, robbery, burglary, breaking and entering
and murder in the commission of a robbery, and acquitted on
those counts. In addition to murder, he was found guilty of
grand larceny for walking off with Love’s computer after beating
her in her bedroom at a Charlottesville apartment.  Jurors recommended a 25-year sentence for the crime, an
intentional killing that, unlike first-degree murder, isn’t
premeditated.  Huguely’s appellate lawyer, Clement of Bancroft Pllc in
Washington, has become the go-to lawyer for conservatives on the
country’s highest-profile legal fights.  Bush’s Solicitor  Clement, who was the U.S. solicitor general in the George
W. Bush administration, has argued the Republican case against
the Obama administration on illegal immigration, voter-
identification laws, gay marriage and recess appointments, as
well as health care.  Love’s badly bruised body was discovered by a friend and
fellow player on her lacrosse team who went to her apartment at
about 2 a.m. on May 3, 2010. Love, of Cockeysville,  Maryland ,
was in her bedroom, face down on a pillow in a pool of blood.  Huguely told police investigators he entered Love’s
apartment through the unlocked front door and then kicked open
the door to her bedroom. He said the two had an altercation
during which he “shook Love and her head repeatedly hit the
wall,” according to an affidavit filed by prosecutors.  Violent Man  At his trial prosecutors portrayed Huguely as a violent man
who intentionally killed the young woman.  The defense attempted to show that Huguely and Love had a
tempestuous relationship animated by jealousies that led both to
lash out physically.  In today’s filing, Clement told the appeals court that
Hogshire violated Huguely’s right to a fair trial by refusing to
allow the defense to ask questions during jury selection that
were relevant to determining bias, failed to strike several
jurors whose answers the defense said “raised serious doubts”
about their ability to remain impartial, and didn’t sequester
the jury during trial, according to the filing.  Hogshire also didn’t properly instruct the jury on the
meaning of malice under  Virginia  law and the evidence at trial
failed to establish the required malice, Clement said.  Sick Lawyer  The judge violated Huguely’s right to a lawyer by moving
forward with the trial even while one of his lawyers was sick.  Prosecutors deprived Huguely of his constitutional rights
by failing to disclose to the defense that Love’s family was
planning to file a $30 million lawsuit against Huguely.  Elliott Buckner, a lawyer for the Love family, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
filing.  Huguely’s mother, Marta Murphy, said in an e-mailed
statement that her son “continues to have the love and support
of his family.”  “We have faith in our legal system and look forward to the
appeals process ahead,” Murphy said.  The case is Huguely v. Commonwealth of Virginia, 1697-12-2,
Court of Appeals of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
 Washington  at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  