-- Ex-Vitesse Executives Face Second Trial Over Fake Numbers
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-22T22:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ex-vitesse-executives-face-second-trial-over-fake-numbers.html
Two former  Vitesse Semiconductor
Corp. (VTSS)  executives face a second trial over charges they conspired
to misstate earnings at the chipmaker in a pared-down case after
an earlier trial failed to produce a verdict.  Louis Tomasetta, a co-founder and former chief executive
officer of Vitesse, the Camarillo, California-based maker of
integrated circuits, and former chief financial officer Eugene Hovanec went on trial today in  Manhattan  federal court, charged
with orchestrating a scheme to meet financial targets by
backdating  stock options  and falsely inflating sales from 2001
to 2006.  “They cooked Vitesse’s books and lied to the public about
Vitesse’s performance,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Miller 
told jurors in his opening statement.  In April, U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty declared a
mistrial on the fourth day of deliberations after jurors said
they couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on any of the seven
counts against the two men.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
filed a new indictment last month, dropping most of the counts
and charging each of the men with a single count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud. If convicted, Tomasetta and Hovanec
face as long as five years in prison. Both men have pleaded not
guilty.  Nu Horizons  Miller told jurors that the former executives shipped
millions of dollars’ worth of products to Nu Horizons
Electronics Corp., a distributor, near the end of financial
quarters and fraudulently recorded the shipments as revenue.
Vitesse and Nu Horizons had secret side agreements that let the
distributor make unlimited returns of the products to Vitesse,
he said. The practice allowed Vitesse to meet unrealistic sales
targets set by Tomasetta, according to Miller.  “At Vitesse, there was constant pressure to meet these
revenue targets quarter after quarter,” Miller said.  Lawyers for Tomasetta and Hovanec, in their opening
statements today, said other employees decided how to treat
returns for accounting purposes. They said the jury shouldn’t
believe the testimony of two former Vitesse employees who will
appear as government witnesses.  Backdated Options  Tomasetta and Hovanec also conspired to grant backdated,
“in-the-money” options as compensation for themselves and
other Vitesse employees without disclosing the options to
regulators and investors, Miller said. The practice permitted
them to underreport compensation expenses, making the company
appear more profitable than it was, he told jurors.  Prosecutors said the men created phony documents, including
compensation committee minutes, to show the options were
approved at earlier meetings and weren’t backdated.  Tomasetta and Hovanec were both fired in May 2006.  Jurors will hear testimony from Yatin Mody, Vitesse’s
former vice president of finance, and its ex-director of
accounting, Nicole Kaplan. The two former executives pleaded
guilty to  securities fraud  in 2010 and are cooperating with
prosecutors in hopes of leniency when they’re sentenced. They
both also testified in the first trial.  “These people will give you the inside story about how
Tomasetta and Hovanec committed their crime,” Miller said.  Engineer Client  Lawrence Gerschwer, a lawyer for Tomasetta, told jurors his
client is an engineer who was focused on the company’s
technology, relying on others for decisions on how to account
for revenue. He said jurors should be skeptical of Mody and
Kaplan.  “Their stories have, to put it charitably, evolved,”
Gerschwer said.  Gerschwer said Tomasetta admits that during an internal
investigation into options backdating in 2006, he and Mody
planted electronic copies of meeting minutes they had created on
the computer of a Vitesse employee. They turned back the
computer’s internal clock to make it appear that minutes
approving options grants were created in 2001 rather than 2006.  Gerschwer told jurors that a plan by Vitesse to acquire an
Intel Corp. unit was being delayed until the completion of the
internal investigation. Tomasetta backdated the computer files
to try to resolve the investigation and move the deal forward,
not to cover up a fraud, as prosecutors claim, according to the
defense lawyer.  ‘Huge Mistake’  “It was a huge mistake, but it was not a crime,”
Gerschwer told jurors.  Hovanec’s lawyer, Gary Lincenberg, called Mody and Kaplan
“admitted liars” who shouldn’t be trusted. He said his client
checked with one of them before accepting big returns of
merchandise from Nu Horizons because that was their
responsibility.  Both sides last week selected a jury of 12, with four
alternates, to consider the case. One juror was excused before
the start of the trial today because of a medical matter that
wasn’t disclosed in court. The trial may last three or four
weeks, Crotty told jurors today.  Vitesse agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  for $3 million.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta, 10-1205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  