-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Sales Short of Some Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/texas-instruments-forecasts-sales-that-may-miss-some-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, predicted first-quarter sales that fell
short of some analysts’ estimates as electronic-device makers
postpone orders to keep inventory low amid lackluster demand.  First-quarter sales will be $2.69 billion to $2.91 billion,
the Dallas-based company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts
on average had predicted $2.89 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments’ customers, from home-appliance makers to
military-hardware manufacturers, are holding off on buying to
avoid stockpiles of unused parts amid uncertain demand. The
 company  needs a broad economic recovery before its sales and
earnings improve, according to Vernon Essi, an analyst at
Needham & Co.  “You need a lift across a lot of areas to move the needle
at TI,” Essi said. “I don’t think there’s enough strength.”  Texas Instruments fell as much as 2.1 percent after the
results. The shares declined less than 1 percent to $33.46 at
yesterday’s close in New York, leaving them up 8.3 percent this
year.  Fourth-quarter  net income  was $264 million, or 23 cents a
share, compared with $298 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier.
Sales fell 13 percent to $2.98 billion. Analysts on average had
predicted revenue of $2.95 billion.  “Weak Demand”  “We continue to operate in a weak demand environment,”
Richard Templeton, Texas Instruments’ chief executive officer,
said in the statement. “Our visibility into future demand
remains limited as our lead times are short and our customers
are reluctant to commit to extended backlog.”  Customers are asking Texas Instruments for orders at short
notice and keeping their parts stockpiles at low levels, Chief
Financial Officer Kevin March said in a telephone interview.  “Even the slightest uptick in their end-demand and they
are going to be caught short,” March said. “Everybody’s going
to have to replenish.”  On Nov. 14, the company said it was cutting 1,700 jobs to
reduce expenses by about $450 million a year, part of
Templeton’s planned shift away from digital chips that run
mobile phones and tablets. The measures were expected to result
in costs of $325 million, mostly in the fourth quarter, Texas
Instruments said at the time.  The exit from the phone-processor business will knock about
$135 million off first-quarter sales, or 75 percent of the total
decline from the fourth quarter, at the midpoint of the
company’s forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  