-- ExxonMobil Says State’s Expert Foresees Natural MTBE Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-22T20:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/exxonmobil-says-state-s-expert-foresees-natural-mtbe-drop.html
ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)   said in a trial
over claims it polluted New Hampshire’s groundwater with a
gasoline additive that the state’s own research indicates the
chemical’s level will decrease over time without having to be
cleaned up.  The oil company today concluded its cross-examination of
the state’s chief witness, Graham Fogg, a professor of
hydrology, in the state court trial in Concord. Fogg responded
by saying ExxonMobil’s lawyer was selecting isolated pieces of
information and taking them out of context in his questioning.
The trial began Jan. 14.  ExxonMobil is a defendant in the state’s $816 million
lawsuit on claims the oil companies knew that the chemical MTBE,
or methyl tertiary butyl ether, would contaminate groundwater.  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores over MTBE against
refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers. New Hampshire
Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver agreed last week to excuse
another defendant in this case, Citgo Petroleum Corp., while the
company and the state work to complete a settlement.  The oil company’s lawyer was trying to show the jury that
Fogg’s own research indicated that the amount of MTBE in the
groundwater would naturally decline to levels that aren’t
hazardous. Fogg replied that while that was true of some wells,
others would have a higher concentration of the additive.  Fogg testified last week that about 2 percent of the
state’s private wells are polluted with hazardous levels of
MTBE, determined by the state to be 13 million parts per
billion.  Falling Levels  “In six years you were projecting that 40 percent of the
private wells that you estimate were above 13 million parts per
billion would already be down to 2 million parts per billion,
correct?,” David Lender, a lawyer for ExxonMobil, said during
cross-examination of Fogg today.  Fogg said that would be “true for some wells.”  “I made calculations that did not assume that it’s going
to keep growing forever and ever,” he said. “I also projected
there would be other wells that would see an increase in
concentration.”  A professor at the University of  California , Davis, Fogg
estimated that about 40,000 wells are contaminated with MTBE in
the state, and that about 5,590 are contaminated at levels
determined to be unfit for drinking.  The number of contaminated wells is one element in the
determination of monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable.  The state is also seeking damages based on the companies’
market share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the
period covered by the lawsuit.  Market Share  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on the state’s estimated cost of $816 million to test for,
monitor and clean up the contamination, New Hampshire could be
seeking about $245 million from the company.  Citgo’s market share during that time ranged from
3.1 percent to 8.7 percent, the state said. Based on those
figures, New Hampshire could be seeking $25 million to
$71 million from Citgo in a settlement.  The two sides have until Feb. 15 to agree. If they don’t,
Citgo will be reinstated to the case, barring an extension. The
New Hampshire attorney general’s office declined to comment on
terms of any proposed settlement.  Fernando Garay , a spokesman
for Citgo, declined to comment on the matter.  In 2003, New Hampshire sued ExxonMobil, Citgo, Shell Oil
Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA and
Hess Corp. All settled before the trial except Irving, Texas-
based ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of Petroleos
de Venezuela SA, the country’s state-owned oil company.  Earlier Accord  Shell and Sunoco agreed to pay New Hampshire $35 million in
a settlement announced in November.  New Hampshire has collected more than $100 million so far
from the defendants, according to court papers.  The state contends that the oil companies knew MTBE
presented a risk of groundwater contamination when they decided
to use it.  ExxonMobil and Citgo argued that they were complying with
federal regulations that pre-empt state law. They said MTBE was
added to gasoline to make it burn more thoroughly and thus
comply with a federal mandate to reduce air pollution. They also
said MTBE never caused any New Hampshire resident to become ill.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions.  In 2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay New York
City $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells
in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  In today’s cross-examination, Lender questioned Fogg about
the money his firm has received for work on the case.  “It’s been a significant amount of money,” Fogg said.  “Could it be more than a million dollars?” Lender asked.  “If you want to suggest I’m getting rich off this, I think
you’d be sadly disappointed,” Fogg replied.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 