-- Farmer Crop-Diversity Hurdles Include Lack of Variety, INRA Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-22T15:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/farmer-crop-diversity-hurdles-include-lack-of-variety-inra-says.html
Farmers seeking to diversify from
commodity crops such as wheat, touted as a way to lower
agriculture’s environmental impact, face hurdles including a
lack of seed variety and plant-care products for minor crops,
French agricultural researcher INRA said.  Obstacles also include a dearth of documentation about how
to grow crops such as linseed or hemp, and a lack of markets,
Paris-based INRA wrote in a  report  published on its website on
why crop diversification has been lackluster.  In  France ,  Europe ’s largest agricultural producer, farmers
plant a fifth of the country’s 27 million hectares (66.7 million
acres) of  farmland  with wheat every year. Crop specialization in
the past 40 years has increased pesticide and water use and
pollution by agriculture, INRA said.  “Crop diversification is not making much progress,” INRA
wrote. The study “confirmed the hypothesis of lock-in regarding
the crop-system specialization,” the researcher said, referring
to a situation where a dominant product benefits from economies
of scale.  One of the main obstacles for farmers to growing minor
crops is a lack of varieties adjusted to various growing
conditions, or to meet particular customer demands, INRA wrote.  Many plant-protection products are not certified for minor
crops because the market size means they’re of limited economic
interest to agrochemical companies, according to INRA.  “The absence of a chemical solution to respond to parasite
problems or weeds is perceived as an additional risk by the
farmers, and therefore constitutes a brake on the development of
diversification crops,” INRA said.  Edible Plants  While the world has more than 50,000 edible plants, just 15
provide 90 percent of the world’s energy intake, according to
the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization. Rice, corn
and wheat jointly provide 60 percent of energy intake.  INRA’s study followed a demand by the ministries of
agriculture and environment to find out what is holding back
crop diversification in France, the researcher said.  The government can support crop diversification by funding
research, tracking statistics for minor crops, promoting use of
different crops and pushing to reduce input use by farmers,
according to INRA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  