-- Florida Leads U.S. in Fake Insurance Claims, Group Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-22T19:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/florida-leads-u-s-in-fake-insurance-claims-group-finds.html
Florida  leads the U.S. in insurance
fraud fueled by scam artists in Miami and Tampa who smash and
crash cars to generate claims, an industry group said.  Florida, the fourth most-populous state, reported 3,530
questionable claims from Jan. 1, 2008, through June 30, 2012,
the National Insurance Crime Bureau said today in a  statement .
The bureau reported on cases tied to organized groups, or crime
rings, that repeatedly generate fake claims.  Criminals who intentionally damage property and then file
claims collect millions of dollars each year through insurance
fraud, according to the report. Claims tied to personal
automobile policies accounted for more than 10,000 of the 13,014
questionable claims nationwide.  “Most often, it’s either real accidents with phony
injuries sustained by a number of people who are part of the
scam, or it’s completely phony, paper accidents, where
everything is a scam,” said Frank Scafidi, a spokesman at the
National Insurance Crime Bureau.  California  followed Florida with 2,679 claims, and  Michigan 
came in  third with 1,080.  Los Angeles  and New York topped the
list of U.S. cities with the most attempts at insurance fraud,
followed by Miami, Detroit and Tampa.  “It is easier for people involved in scams like this if
there is a huge immigrant population” because newcomers to the
U.S. may not understand the insurance process and are easier to
exploit, Scafidi said. “We find that in Florida, we find that
in New York, we find that in Los Angeles.  Total questionable claim referrals in the U.S. grew 47
percent, according to the report. The number of fraudulent
claims filed may continue to grow, the report projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net  