-- Forint Drops Most in Week as Goldman Sees Slump on Policy Change
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-22T16:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/forint-drops-as-goldman-sees-slump-minister-varga-warns-on-imf.html
The forint weakened the most in
almost a week as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast a slump in
the currency on concern a change in leadership at the central
bank may bring monetary loosening via unconventional methods.  The forint depreciated 0.6 percent to 294.76 per euro by
4:31 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest drop since Jan. 16. Yields on
the government’s benchmark 10-year local-currency bonds rose
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.41 percent,
the highest in a month.  The forint has slumped 1.7 percent in the past month on the
expectation that the new president due to take over at  Hungary ’s
central bank in March will ease monetary policy in a non-
traditional way. Goldman Sachs cited such a threat from the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank while revising its forecast for the forint
to 292, 303 and 303 in 3, 6, and 12 months, from 282, 285, and
288, respectively.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. also projected a forint slump, citing
the same reason.  “The actual shift to more accommodative policies is likely
to lead to a sell-off,” Goldman analysts Magdalena Polan and
Themistoklis Fiotakis wrote in a report yesterday. The
currency’s decline was “driven primarily by increasing market
concerns over the succession in the leadership of the National
Bank of Hungary and policy statements indicating government’s
higher tolerance for weaker forint.”  The government may nominate Economy Minister  Gyorgy
Matolcsy  to replace central bank President Andras Simor in
March, hvg.hu reported late yesterday. Matolcsy has urged the
bank to “bravely use unorthodox tools” and follow the  European
Central Bank  in providing stimulus for the economy.  ‘Prolonged Depreciation’  The forint may weaken “well beyond 300” in the first half
of 2013 because of the expected shift in monetary policy,
Budapest-based broker Equilor said in a report today. A
subsequent change in government rhetoric may then bring the
forint back to 290 by year-end, Equilor said.  “The government’s tolerance for prolonged depreciation is
still limited,” the Goldman analysts wrote.  The government targets a forint rate of 285 per euro as
substantial depreciation would be dangerous,  Mihaly Varga ,
Hungary’s chief aid negotiator, said Jan. 20. Varga’s comments
helped recoup forint losses after Matolcsy said Jan. 10 he
opposes strengthening the forint to fight inflation.  The forint appreciated 8.1 percent against the euro and 10
percent to the dollar last year, the biggest advance among more
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Polish zloty.  IMF Aid  Hungary, which requested International Monetary Fund aid in
November 2011, stands little chance of obtaining a bailout as
views on the type of bailout and Hungary’s growth prospects
differ too much between the IMF and the Cabinet, Varga said in
an M1 television interview today.  The forint may weaken to 300 per euro by March, Wolfgang Ernst, a Vienna-based analyst at Raiffeisen, wrote in a research
report today.  Ernst cited the unresolved question of the central bank
succession, the “unlikely” success in IMF talks, Hungary’s
“bleak” economic outlook and last week’s warning from  Fitch
Ratings  that it’s not planning to upgrade the country to
investment grade in the near future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  