-- Fossil Fuel Projects from U.S. to China Raise CO2 by 20%
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-22T13:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/fossil-fuel-projects-from-u-s-to-china-raise-co2-by-20-.html
Global coal and natural-gas
extraction threatens to increase fossil-fuel emissions by a
fifth by 2020, jeopardizing efforts to stem rising temperatures,
Greenpeace International said.  Planned expansion of fossil-fuel production in 14 parts of
the world, including Australia, Iraq, the  Gulf of Mexico  and the
Arctic, would add an annual 6.34 gigatons (6.34 billion tons) of
carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by 2020, according to a report
prepared for Greenpeace by consultants Ecofys.  “We are running out of time to prevent catastrophic
 climate change ,” Greenpeace International Executive Director
Kumi Naidoo said today in an e-mailed statement. “The companies
promoting, and the governments allowing, these massive climate
threats must replace them with renewable energy right away.”  Burning fossil fuels already results in 31.2 gigatons of
CO2 a year, according to the International Energy Agency. Global
temperatures will increase by 3.6 degrees Celsius (6.5
Fahrenheit) if greenhouse gases rise to 37 gigatons in 2035, IEA
projections show.  The  United Nations  has a target to contain temperature
gains to 2 degrees Celsius compared with Industrial Revolution
levels. Temperatures have already risen by about 0.8 of a
degree. To stand a 50 percent chance of meeting that goal, more
than two-thirds of estimated coal, gas and oil reserves must
remain in the ground, unless carbon-capture and storage
technology is successfully brought to market, the IEA says.  Warming Climate  The 14 projects analyzed in the Greenpeace report would add
300 gigatons of CO2 to the atmosphere by 2050, Ecofys analysis
shows. That compares with the maximum 884 gigatons that the IEA
says can be emitted by the entire energy industry by then.  “It is more than likely that these new emissions will
cause the global average temperature to soar to 4 degrees
Celsius and quite possibly to 6 degrees Celsius of global
warming,” the report's authors wrote.  The projects examined involve mining and oil companies
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) , China Power Investment Corp., Rio Tinto
Group,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and OAO Gazprom.  The planned ventures include a 408 million-ton increase in
coal exports from Australia by 2025; a 620 million-ton expansion
in coal production from China’s five northwestern provinces by
2015; and a U.S. plan to export 190 million tons more coal a
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  