-- French Industrial Power Use Fell Last Year Amid Economic Slump
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-22T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/french-industrial-power-use-fell-last-year-amid-economic-slump.html
French industrial power demand fell
4 percent last year as car and steel factories slowed output
amid an economic slump, the country’s grid operator said.  The decline may also signal that French industry is growing
less power-hungry, according to a statement from  Reseau de
Transport d’Electricite , a unit of Electricite de France SA.
Total demand rose 2.1 percent to 489.5 terawatt-hours as the
coldest weather in three decades drove up use of home heating.  French President Francois Hollande, confronting a stalled
economy and sliding popularity, has rejected calls for “shock”
measures to revive growth. The country’s economy,  Europe ’s
largest after Germany, has been more or less flat since the
first three months of 2011, which was the last time it had a
quarterly gain of more than 0.2 percent.  EDF, Europe’s biggest power generator, lowered atomic
output last year by 3.8 percent to 404.9 terawatt-hours, missing
its target as reactor maintenance was extended, the grid said.  EDF has struggled to raise output from its 58 reactors in
 France  as they age and undergo safety reviews to obtain approval
to continue operating. Last year’s decline in nuclear production
follows a pledge by Hollande to lower reliance on atomic energy
and raise investment in renewables. An energy debate is due to
culminate this year with a law outlining the future energy mix.  Renewable-energy output rose to a five-year high in 2012,
making up 16 percent of the total, according to RTE. When
hydropower is excluded, it accounted for 4.6 percent. Installed
wind capacity was close to 7,500 megawatts at the end of the
year, while solar capacity reached 3,500 megawatts, RTE said.  Imports, Exports  France was a net importer of power from  Germany  last year,
experiencing a drop in net exports to 44.2 terawatt-hours from
55.7 terawatt-hours in 2011. It relied on imports on 20 days,
especially during the cold spell, while remaining a net exporter
over the year to Belgium, Italy, Switzerland and the U.K.  Electricity consumption peaked at a record 102.1 gigawatts
on Feb. 8. The country’s reliance on electric heating makes the
grid vulnerable to colder-than-usual weather.  RTE plans to invest 1.44 billion euros ($1.9 billion) this
year, compared with 1.36 billion euros in 2012. EDF and RTE are
boosting spending to meet rising peak power demand, fund planned
offshore wind farms and increase energy trading with other
European countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  