-- Schroders Worker Among FSA Insider-Trading Probe Arrests
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-01-22T14:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/fsa-arrested-employee-at-schroders-company-says.html
An employee at  Schroders Plc (SDR) ,
 Europe ’s largest publicly traded money manager, was arrested
along with four others as part of a U.K. insider-trading probe.  Damian Clarke, an equity trader at Schroders, was among two
men and three women arrested by the Financial Services
Authority, according to a person familiar with the
investigation. The FSA searched four locations in London and the
north of  England , the watchdog said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The FSA has informed us that the allegations relate
entirely to this individual’s personal actions,” Schroders said
in an e-mailed statement, which didn’t identify Clarke. “There
is no indication of any detrimental impact on our clients or
financial results.”  The arrests come as the FSA scored a conviction in its
biggest  insider-trading  case. Paul Milsom, the former Legal and
General Group Plc equities trader, pleaded guilty last week to
passing inside information to an independent stockbroker.  The suspects are being questioned in custody, the FSA said.
Clarke wasn’t available to take a call at his office at
Schroders in London.  Little Tavern  The regulator charged five other individuals last year as
part of the investigation into the front-running of block
trades, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little tavern.  Tabernula, conducted along with the U.K. Serious Organised
Crime Agency, is the “largest and most complex insider dealing
investigation to date,” the regulator has said. The FSA
arrested seven people and raided 16 addresses in  London  and
southeast England in March 2010 as part of the crackdown. Two
more arrests came later.  Schroders shares were little changed in London trading at
2:20 p.m., down 2.1 percent from their intraday high.  The FSA has stepped up the number of insider trading cases
it takes on in recent years. The agency last year failed to
convict Jessica Mang and Christina Weckwerth, two girlfriends of
former Mizuho International Plc investment banker Thomas Ammann,
of trading on tips from him.  Ammann, a German national who worked on the Mizuho mergers
and acquisitions team, had pleaded guilty to insider trading and
encouraging the women to commit the crime.  In Britain, insider trading is punishable by as many as
seven years in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  