-- Fortress’s Gagfah Said Near Refinancing of $1.5 Bln Loan
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-01-22T17:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/gagfah-said-to-be-close-to-refinancing-1-5-billion-dresden-loan.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
property company by market value, may refinance a 1.1 billion-
euro ($1.5 billion) loan maturing in May as early as this month,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Gagfah, controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , wants
to refinance the loan, used to buy apartments in Dresden in
2006, rather than sell the homes, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. In August,
Gagfah said it may divest the 38,000 properties it owns in
Dresden to pay off the loan. Most of the funding will probably
come from U.S. banks, including  Bank of America Corp ., the
people said.  Fortress is among the private-equity firms facing debt
deadlines after buying German real estate with the cheap credit
available in the years before the global financial crisis
started in 2008. The New York-based company  owns about 66
percent of Gagfah , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dirk Schmitt, a spokesman for Luxembourg-based Gagfah, and
John McIvor, a Bank of America spokesman, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  Gagfah was little changed at 9.20 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Frankfurt , after gaining as much as 1.9 percent
earlier. The stock has more than doubled in the past 12 months,
making it the second-best performer on the 50-member MDAX Index
for medium-sized companies, which has gained about 28 percent.
Gagfah has a market value of about 1.9 billion euros.  Dresden Homes  Gagfah’s Dresden homes account for about 25 percent of the
company’s portfolio.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s largest
publicly traded residential landlord, said in August it was
interested in buying the properties.  Gagfah has an additional 2.1 billion euros to repay in
August 2013, which it will probably refinance after completing
the refinancing of the loan at its Woba Dresden unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 