-- Galena Drops as Commodity Hedge Funds Trail for Second Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n ,   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-01-22T16:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/galena-slides-as-commodity-hedge-funds-trail-index-a-second-year.html
Hedge funds lost money for commodity
investors for a second straight year as managers from the Galena
Metals Fund to Clive Capital LLP trailed benchmark indexes of
raw materials.  The Newedge Commodity Trading index of 56 hedge funds fell
2.6 percent last year, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total
Return Index of energy, metals and agricultural products added
0.1 percent. Galena retreated 8.9 percent, the first annual loss
since its inception in 2004, according to a letter to investors
obtained by Bloomberg News. The performance was confirmed by the
company. Clive,  Europe ’s biggest commodity hedge fund, declined
8.8 percent after a 9.9 percent slide in 2011.  Commodity funds were whipsawed by markets that fell as
 China ’s economic growth faltered, then recovered as European
officials calmed the sovereign debt crisis and fluctuated as
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his Republican opponents battled
over the budget deficit. While the GSCI index slid more than 8
percent in the first five months of the year before rebounding
12 percent in the third quarter, it ended the year little
changed.  “A lot of funds were caught on the wrong foot by the
change in macro fundamentals,” Fraser McKenzie, head of
research at 47degrees North Capital Management Ltd., a $250
million fund that invests in other hedge funds, said in a Jan.
15 phone interview from Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “We have light
exposure to commodities funds at the moment and it doesn’t look
like it’s going to turn around any time soon.”  2011 Loss  Galena’s assets under management declined 17 percent from
April through December to $675 million, based on a comparison of
data in letters sent to investors for those months. It lost 3.5
percent in August and 3.4 percent in both September and
December, one of the letters showed. Galena may replace
redemptions with money from existing investors, the company said
by e-mail.  The risk-on-risk-off “mentality” hurt Galena’s positions
last year, Duncan Letchford, the firm’s 40-year-old chief
investment officer in  London , said in the most recent letter.
“We remain positive about future potential in commodity markets
particularly as a result of lessening political interference and
hopefully more normalized monetary policy from central banks.”  Letchford joined the fund in 2005 after positions at HSBC
Holdings Plc and NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. and has traded metals
for 22 years, according to Galena’s website. The fund returned
11 percent in both 2011 and 2010, 13 percent in 2009 and 22
percent in 2008.  Antiques Collector  Clive’s assets tumbled by $1.7 billion last year to $1.95
billion, two people with knowledge of the performance said this
month. Both declined to be identified because the London-based
fund is private.  Hedge funds typically receive 2 percent of assets and 20
percent of profits in fees from the high-net-worth individuals
and other investors who use them. That ensures that managers get
paid even if they lose money. Clive charges clients 2.5 percent
of assets and 25 percent of profits, according to an investor
letter. Elizabeth Holstein, an investor relations official at
Clive, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Clive was founded in 2007 by 42-year-old  Chris Levett , an
antiques and modern art collector who opened the Musée d’Art
Classique de Mougins in the south of  France  in 2011 and became a
director of London’s Vigo gallery in September last year.  $60.8 Million Wage  Clive’s highest-paid partner received $60.8 million for the
12 months ended in February of last year, according to the hedge
fund’s most recent financial report filed with the U.K.’s
Companies House. It didn’t identify the employee.  The last time commodity hedge funds beat the GSCI index was
in 2010. That year, they made 10 percent, compared with a 9
percent return on the gauge of 24 raw materials. In 2011, funds
lost 3.8 percent, according to Newedge, as the GSCI fell 1.2
percent.  Hedge funds of all types advanced 6.7 percent in 2012,
rebounding from a 5.1 percent loss a year earlier, according to
the  Bloomberg Global Aggregate Hedge Fund index . The S&P 500
index of U.S. shares rose 13 percent and the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Non-Sovereign Index of bonds returned 7.3
percent.  Of the 42 commodity funds that had reported performance to
Newedge by Jan. 16, 22 declined and 20 gained.  Mastic, Frere  Among the better performers last year was Mastic Investment
Advisory AG, managed by Zug, Switzerland-based Chief Investment
Officer Kieran McKenna, 38, who has also traded energy at
Citadel LLC and is a former global head of oil trading at Credit
Suisse Group AG. The fund returned 21 percent in its first full
year by investing in crude and oil products, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. McKenna declined
to comment when reached by phone.  Frere Hall Capital Management, founded by Taimur Hassan,
who also worked at Citadel, returned 8.9 percent through
December after opening in July, it said in a letter to
investors. Hassan left Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in December
2011, little more than a year after the firm named him a
managing director at the age of 28. The $400 million fund has
its biggest positions in natural gas, crude and distillate
markets. Chief operating officer Damian Dwan declined to comment
when contacted by phone on Jan. 15.  Grains, Soy  Wheat futures increased 19 percent in 2012, the best
performer on the S&P’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities, after dry
weather hurt crops in the U.S., Australia and  Russia , the
biggest exporters. Soybeans climbed 17 percent and corn rose 8
percent.  Global Ag LLC , a $422 million investor in grains and
oilseeds that started in 2008, returned 35 percent last year,
according to its website. Singapore-based Matcham Capital
Investment Pte’s agriculture-focused hedge fund returned almost
18 percent in 2012 after a 13 percent advance from May through
December 2011, according to a report to investors obtained by
Bloomberg News. Andrew Lenton, founder and chief investment
officer, declined to comment.  The containment of the euro-region debt crisis and the
prospect of an announcement by the Federal Reserve in September
that it would expand its asset-purchase program, known as
quantitative easing, fueled optimism about world economic
growth. U.S. crude gained 10 percent in August, the biggest
advance in 10 months, before retreating 4.4 percent in September
and 6.5 percent in October.  Armajaro, Brevan  “The third quarter saw a rally in oil spurred by QE3, only
for it to run out of steam in September,” Axel Belorde, an
analyst at Liongate Capital, said by e-mail.  Two of the largest commodity hedge funds recovered last
year. The $789 million Brevan Howard Commodities Strategies
Fund, returned 5.9 percent in 2012 after a 2.6 percent loss the
previous year, according to an investor letter. The fund, which
started in March 2010, increased its assets by more than $200
million from August to November. Max Hilton, a company spokesman
in London, didn’t respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment. The S&P GSCI Total Return  index  has advanced 2.4
percent this year.  The Armajaro Commodities Fund gained 1.7 percent. It posted
a 7.1 percent decline the previous year, the first loss since
the $1 billion fund opened in 2005, two people with knowledge of
the returns said. The fund didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  ‘Political Decisions’  Black River Asset Management LLC’s commodities fund, which
began trading in 2006, returned 8.8 percent in 2012 after
declining 6.7 percent a year earlier, according to a letter to
investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  RK Capital Management LLP’s $240-million Red Kite Metals
Fund returned 12 percent in 2012 after gaining 29 percent a year
earlier, the company said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The $360-million Red Kite Compass fund rose 11 percent after a
68 percent increase in 2011, said the London-based money
manager, which oversees $3 billion in assets.  The $640 million Krom River Commodity Fund slid 4.9
percent, adding to a 3.9 percent loss in 2011. The Baar,
Switzerland-based fund, managed by Chris Brodie, held $730
million of assets in August.  “Political decisions on the economy had large effect on
our markets while commodities-specific fundamentals took back
seat apart from grains,” Itay Simkin, chief executive officer
of Krom River Trading AG, said yesterday by e-mail from Baar,
Switzerland.  ‘Less Complacent’  The Merchant Commodity Fund, which lost about two-thirds of
its capital in the year through January 2012, declined 7.6
percent following a 30 percent slump the previous year, two
people with knowledge of the returns said. It had assets of $210
million at the end of December, down from $550 million in
January. Michael Coleman, the fund’s chief risk officer in
 Singapore , declined to comment.  “We expect to see a less complacent attitude from
investors toward some of these larger funds that have
underperformed,” said Gabriel Garcin, a money manager in Paris
at Europanel Research and Alternative Asset Management, a $550
million fund of hedge funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  