-- Gasoline Advances to Three-Week High on U.S. Refinery Repairs
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-22T14:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/gasoline-advances-to-three-week-high-on-u-s-refinery-repairs.html
Gasoline jumped to a three-week high
on speculation that planned and unplanned refinery repairs may
reduce inventories.  Futures gained as Philadelphia Energy Solutions plans to
close the Girard Point section of the largest plant near  New
York  Harbor, the delivery point for gasoline futures, this
month, and a fluid catalytic cracker remained down at Delta
Airlines Inc.’s Trainer, Pennsylvania,  refinery .  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO) ’s McKee, Texas plant and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Mississippi
operation shut units.  “Gasoline in New York Harbor continues strong on back of
problems at Delta Trainer and upcoming maintenance at
Philadelphia Energy Solutions’ refinery,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for February delivery rose 3.3 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $2.8298 a gallon at 9:37 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Prices touched $2.8369, the highest intraday level since
Dec. 28. Prices advanced 2.1 percent last week, the first gain
in three weeks.  There was no Nymex floor trading yesterday in observance of
the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in the U.S.  Motiva Enterprises LLC will shut a crude unit, a delayed
coker and a sulfur recovery unit at the  Port Arthur , Texas,
refinery Feb. 17 for a 38-day maintenance turnaround, according
to two people familiar with operations.  Refinery Rates  U.S. refinery utilization fell 1.2 percentage points in the
week ended Jan. 11, the lowest level in eight weeks, data from
the U.S. Energy Information Administration show.  Between now and May, an average 1.5 million barrels a day
of U.S. refinery capacity will be shut for maintenance, said
Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd.,
a research consulting company in  London .  Heating oil for February delivery gained 2.18 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.0743 a gallon on the exchange. Prices were up 1.5
percent last week.  The  retail price  for regular gasoline, averaged nationwide,
rose 0.5 cent to $3.310 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the fifth consecutive increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  