-- German Investor Confidence Increases to 2 1/2-Year High
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-22T11:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/german-investor-confidence-increases-to-2-1-2-year-high.html
German investor confidence increased
to the highest in 2 1/2 years in January, adding to signs that
 Europe ’s largest economy may gather momentum.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, jumped
to 31.5 from 6.9 in December. That’s the highest since May 2010
and the biggest gain in 11 months. Economists forecast an
increase to 12, according to the median of 39 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  While  Germany ’s statistics office estimates the economy may
have shrunk as much as 0.5 percent in the final quarter of 2012,
the Bundesbank said yesterday there are indications that a
recovery has already begun. Business confidence rose for a
second month in December and the country’s service industries
returned to growth. The  European Central Bank  predicts that the
euro-area economy will exit its recession later this year.  “It gives reason for optimism,” said Jens Kramer, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “We should see a
considerable economic improvement toward mid-year with stronger
momentum. The worst in the crisis seems to be behind us.”  The euro appreciated after the ZEW release and was up 0.4
percent at $1.3361 as of 12:18 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  U.K. Recession  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation rose to 7.1 from 5.7
in December. Economists forecast a gain to 6.2, according to the
median of 24 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.  Other European economies are still struggling to regain
strength. Britain’s budget shortfall excluding government
support for banks widened to 15.4 billion pounds ($24.4 billion)
in December from 14.8 billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office
for National Statistics  in  London  said today. A U.K. factory
index unexpectedly fell this month as export demand weakened, a
separate report showed today.  Data on Jan. 25 will show U.K. gross domestic product fell
0.1 percent in the fourth quarter after the economy resumed
expansion in the third, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Economists define a recession as two quarters of declining
economic output and a contraction in the fourth and first
quarters would be the third slump since GDP reached its peak
before the financial crisis.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , who has said U.K.
economic output is showing a “zig-zag pattern,” will deliver
his first speech of 2013 to business executives in  Belfast  this
evening.  ‘Moderate Level’  For his part, ECB President  Mario Draghi , who will hold a
speech in Frankfurt tonight before attending the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos later this week, has signaled confidence in the
economic outlook. He said on Jan. 10 that while “persistent
uncertainty” will continue to weigh on growth, the 17-member
euro region should show a “gradual recovery” this year.  “The financial market experts seem to expect that the
positive sentiment on the financial markets may soon result in
companies realizing investments that had been postponed earlier
on,” said ZEW President  Wolfgang Franz  in a statement.
“However, the economic situation of important trade partners is
rightly considered to be weak. This suggests that the German
economy will further grow at a moderate level in 2013.”  German economic expansion slowed to 0.7 percent in 2012
from 3 percent in 2011, the Federal Statistics Office said last
week. The Bundesbank based in Frankfurt predicts expansion of
just 0.4 percent this year.  Marcus Kappler, an economist at ZEW, told reporters in
Mannheim that “there’s a good chance” that the Bundesbank will
revise up its economic estimate.  ‘Marked Pickup’  “Today’s outcome supports our view that the worst for
German growth has passed and a marked pickup looks likely,”
Gizem Kara, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in an
e-mailed note. “If the global economy picks up by more than we
currently expect and euro-zone market stress eases further, this
is likely to show up as higher export growth and confidence
triggering a stronger rebound investment.”  Financial markets have rallied since the ECB pledged to do
whatever needed to prevent a breakup of the euro area, easing
concerns that the region’s sovereign debt crisis will continue
to spread. Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  has gained more
than 20 percent since July 24.  German carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said this month that 2012
deliveries rose 11 percent to 9.07 million vehicles. It “was
the best sales year ever,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said.  Record Unemployment  Still, the currency bloc fell into its second  recession  in
four years in the third quarter and the ECB expects the economy
to shrink 0.3 percent this year. Unemployment in the euro
region, which is destination for about 40 percent of German
exports, reached a record 11.8 percent in November.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest maker of auto
parts, said last week that sales and profitability growth may
slow in 2013 as demand within the region falters.  The  Bank of Japan  today made its strongest commitment yet
to end two decades of stagnation, shifting to Federal Reserve-
style open-ended asset purchases. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
six of nine board members voted for a 2 percent inflation
target, to be achieved “at the earliest possible” -- a pace
not sustained in  Japan  since the early 1990s. The BOJ refrained
from adding immediate stimulus.  The economic outlook for the euro area is “much more
downbeat” than in Germany, said  Ralph Solveen , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt before the ZEW release. At the same
time, “indicators should also gradually start to rise again”
and “with the sovereign debt crisis ebbing, the most important
brake on economic activity is being removed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  