-- German Angst Grows Over Japanese Yen, Merkel Ally Meister Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-22T15:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/german-angst-grows-over-japanese-yen-merkel-ally-meister-says.html
Japanese government moves to devalue
the yen risk retaliatory action by other Group of 20 nations and
might harm the fragile economic recovery, said the parliamentary
finance spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s move to invigorate exports by
pushing the yen lower against competitors is “very worrying,”
said Michael Meister, a senior member of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union who is due to meet with government officials in
 Japan  starting on Feb. 7. Germany will probably seek support
from fellow G-20 nations to urge Japan to change its course, he
said.  “What can Japan’s competitors do?” Meister said today in
a telephone interview. “Either we’re all smart and do nothing,
or we follow suit and create a spiral that hurts us all.”  Meister is the third senior German official to take issue
with Abe in a week. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble attacked
Japan’s “false understanding” of monetary policy in a Jan. 16
speech to the lower house, saying it will pump “excessive
liquidity” into global financial markets. Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann said in a speech in  Frankfurt  yesterday that Abe
risked “politicizing” the yen’s exchange rate.  German discomfort at Japan’s monetary policy occurs at a
critical juncture in the health of the euro-area economy,
including that of its German motor. Merkel, who is seeking a
third term at federal elections this fall, may have to fall back
on German exports to help bolster economic growth that the
government forecasts to be just 0.4 percent this year.  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy, whose exports are
forecast to grow 2.8 percent this year from 4.1 percent in 2012,
will probably seek the support of fellow Group of Eight and G-20
states to persuade Japan to rethink manipulating the yen’s
exchange rate, said Meister.  Japan’s ‘Real Problems’  Aside from a potential backlash from Japan’s G-20 partners,
any economic gains from the policy may be short-lived as
monetary steps to reflate the economy bring higher import
prices, said Meister. “The Japanese economy’s real problems are
structural and beg structural remedies, not tampering with the
exchange rate,” he said.  Abe, sworn in as Japan’s prime minister on Dec. 26, has
called on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to unleash unlimited monetary easing
and accept a higher central bank inflation target to help revive
the world’s third-biggest economy. The yen rallied today after
the Bank of Japan said it will wait a year to begin open-ended
asset purchases. The yen has declined 12 percent in the past
three months, leveraging its competitiveness against its main
competitors.  The World Economic Forum that kicks off today in Davos,
Switzerland, will be a likely venue for leaders to deliberate
Japan’s move, said Alexander Schumann, the German  DIHK  industry
and trade chambers’ chief economist. Merkel and Japanese Economy
Minister Akira Amari are both due to attend. Schumann described
the situation as a potential “tinderbox,” with any decision by
the central bank to bow to Abe and buy unlimited amounts of
Japanese bonds “loaded with risk.”  “Fears of a politically-generated currency spiral are
justified,” Schumann said in a telephone interview. “With
investment inflows to the U.S. helping to push up the dollar on
the one hand and a truly nagging deflation problem in Japan on
the other, there’s a real temptation to dust off the tool box to
adjust currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  