-- Spanish Bonds Rise on Sale Demand; Portuguese Debt Climbs
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-22T16:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/german-bunds-are-little-changed-before-confidence-report.html
Spain ’s government bonds rose after
the nation was said to sell 7 billion euros ($9.3 billion) of a
new 10-year benchmark bond through banks, underscoring demand
for the nation’s assets.  Ten-year yields fell toward the lowest level in a week
after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the sale had the
biggest demand in Spain’s history. Rates on Portugal’s 10-year
debt fell below 6 percent for the first time since 2010 after
Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said the nation is ready to carry
out primary-market sales. German 10-year yields fell from near
the highest in three months after data showed sales of U.S.
existing homes unexpectedly dropped in December.  “It’s a very successful day for Spain,” said Owen Callan,
an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “To be able to issue
about 7 billion euros in one go is very encouraging. This makes
up about 6 percent of what they require for the whole year.”  Spain’s 10-year yield declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.11 percent as of 4:49 p.m.  London  time.
The 5.85 percent bond maturing in January 2022 rose 0.365, or
3.65 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 105.22.  The two-year yield fell three basis points to 2.57 percent
after climbing to 2.63 percent, the highest since Jan. 2.  The Spanish sale may be priced around 375 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate, a person familiar with the plan said
earlier.  ‘Substantial Demand’  “There seems to be substantial demand out there for this
new bond,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London, referring to the Spanish sale. “It
was a key hurdle, which we think Spain will pass quite
successfully. From this point there is room for Spanish yields
to fall again.”  The Treasury has hired banks including Barclays Plc,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banco Santander SA to sell the new
benchmark, a person familiar with the arrangements said
yesterday. Investors sought 24 billion euros of the bond, de
Guindos said.  “Never in the history of Spain’s Treasury has there been
such a volume of demand, whether in an auction or a syndicated
sale,” he told reporters in Brussels following a meeting with
his European Union counterparts. “This is a clear indication of
the Spanish economy’s credibility.”  Spanish Bills  The nation sold 2.8 billion euros of bills today, exceeding
the 2.5 billion-euro maximum target.  Ten-year Portuguese bonds rose for a fourth day, pushing
yields down 23 basis points to 5.86 percent after reaching 5.84
percent, the least since before the nation requested financial
aid from the European Union on April 6, 2011.  “ Portugal  is now in a condition to take advantage of any
opportunity that presents itself in bond markets to carry out
primary market issuance,” Gaspar said in Brussels last night
following a meeting of euro-area finance ministers. His comments
were broadcast by television station SIC Noticias today.  Portugal has appointed banks to manage a syndicated sale of
4.35 percent bonds due October 2017 according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to speak about.  Ireland and Portugal could draw on a European Central Bank
bond-buying program to help them become the first countries in
the three-year debt crisis to be weaned off official aid,
Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels today.  Portuguese Volatility  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of  Belgium  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the
yield spread between two-year and 10-year securities, and
credit-default swaps.  Germany  allotted 810 million euros of 10-year inflation-
linked bunds at a so-called real yield of minus 0.19 percent.
The yield on 10-year bunds slid two basis points to 1.57
percent. It rose to 1.64 percent on Jan. 18, the highest since
Oct. 18.  Dutch two-year note yields slipped three basis points to
0.25 percent after the Netherlands sold a total of 2.085 billion
euros of bonds due 2014 and 2042.  Sales of U.S. existing homes fell 1 percent to a 4.94
million annual rate last month, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The reading
was still the second-highest since November 2009. The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for sales
to increase to a 5.1 million rate.  German bunds have handed investors a loss of 1.3 percent
this month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish bonds returned 1.3 percent, while Dutch
securities fell 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  