-- German Stocks Drop as Deutsche Bank, Continental Retreat
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-22T16:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/german-stocks-drop-before-u-s-companies-report-earnings.html
German stocks  fell the most in a
week as the financial regulator, Bafin, was said to ask Deutsche
Bank AG to simulate splitting its business, outweighing a report
that showed investor confidence rebounded this month.  Deutsche Bank dropped 1.9 percent, paring an earlier plunge
of 4 percent. RWE AG fell 2.9 percent after Macquarie Group Ltd.
lowered its recommendation for Germany’s second-largest utility.  The  DAX Index  declined 0.7 percent to 7,696.21 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt, after earlier slumping as much as 1.5
percent. The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed
on the equity benchmark was 17 percent greater than the average
of the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The broader HDAX Index retreated 0.6 percent today.  “We are hearing some chatter that is weighing on the
market,” said  Stephane Ekolo , chief European strategist at
Market Securities in London in written comments. “Deutsche Bank
may guide lower. These rumors, coupled with the fact Bafin has
asked two banks to simulate a split-bank model, are taking their
toll on the markets.”  Deutsche Bank lost 1.9 percent to 35.94 euros, after
earlier sinking as much as 4 percent. Commerzbank AG,  Germany’s
second-largest bank , retreated 2.5 percent to 1.65 euros.  Regulatory Request  Bafin asked Deutsche Bank to simulate a split of its
business, according to a person with knowledge of the situation
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private. A
group led by Bank of Finland Governor  Erkki Liikanen  has called
for banks to move their trading activities into separately
capitalized units. Boersen Zeitung earlier reported that Bafin
requested Deutsche Bank simulate a split based on the Liikanen
group’s proposals. The newspaper cited unidentified people.  Separately,  Christian Streckert , a spokesman at Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment on the rumors about the earnings
outlook for Germany’s largest lender.  Stocks earlier pared their decline after a report showed
German investor confidence increased to its highest level in 2
1/2 years in January. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its  index of investor and analyst
expectations , which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, climbed to 31.5 from 6.9 in December.
Economists had forecast the measure would rise to 12, according
to the  median of 39 estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  RWE Retreats  RWE  lost 2.9 percent to 28.47 euros. Macquarie cut its
recommendation on the stock to neutral from outperform, meaning
that investors should not buy more of the shares.  “Without radical overhaul, we conclude the German power
system is structurally broken,” the analysts wrote in a note.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. climbed 2.3
percent to 34.97 euros. The company will meet or beat earnings
and sales goals for its four main units when it reports
financial results for 2012, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders 
said. The CEO told journalists that the Airbus SAS commercial
aircraft unit, Eurocopter division, Astrium space operation and
Cassidian defense business all contributed toward the targets.  Wirecard AG  slipped 4.3 percent to 17.26 euros. The
provider of software and systems for online payments was cut to
hold from buy at Berenberg Bank AG. The analysts cited the
stock’s strong performance last year. Wirecard soared 50 percent
in 2012.  Drillisch AG  gained 3.7 percent to 12.30 euros after the
German provider of telephone services said it plans to increase
its dividend for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  