-- Glaxo Plaintiff Lawyers Settle Dispute Over $143 Million
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-22T19:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/glaxo-plaintiff-lawyers-settle-dispute-over-143-million.html
Lawyers who won what may be a
$2.3 billion settlement with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over its
Avandia diabetes drug resolved their own fight over the
allocation of more than $143 million in legal fees.  Eight lawyers on a court-appointed fee committee agreed to
take a smaller portion of the fee fund after nine objectors
challenged their payouts, a special master assigned to review
the recommendations said in court papers made public Jan. 18 in
federal court in Philadelphia. The fee committee had asked for
71 percent of the fund set aside by U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe for the Avandia cases before her.  “Allocating a limited pot of common benefit fees among
numerous counsel, all of whom are talented and capable attorneys
and many of whom have made a significant contribution to the
ultimate success of (a) case, is an unenviable task that is sure
to lead to hurt feelings and bruised egos,” Bruce Merenstein,
the special master, wrote in the filing. “Yet, all of the
parties involved handled this difficult task with care and
equanimity.”  The fee fund is 6.25 percent of the total  settlement ,
according to court records. That means the total accord may be
worth $2.3 billion and the average payout for the 40,000 users
of Avandia involved in the litigation would be about $57,500 --
before legal fees. People familiar with the settlement who
didn’t want to be named because the terms weren’t public have
said the fee fund was 7 percent of the total.  Glaxo Payments  Glaxo, the U.K.’s  biggest drugmaker , has said it paid more
than $3 billion to settle federal and state government claims
that it illegally marketed Avandia, once the world’s best-
selling diabetes pill, and other medications. Company officials
haven’t said what the drugmaker spent to settle the Avandia
lawsuits before Rufe, and in state courts, alleging executives
failed to properly warn consumers about the drug’s risks.  Glaxo said in 2010 it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after regulators said marketing for the drug would be
halted in  Europe  and sales would be limited in the U.S. because
of studies linking the drug to increased risks of heart attacks.
Sales fell 43 percent after those restrictions were imposed,
Glaxo said.  The fee-advisory group, led by Philadelphia attorney Dianne
Nast, agreed to a lower payout as part of the accord. Nast
agreed to take $6.3 million, down from $6.7 million, according
to court papers. Joseph Zonies, a Denver-based attorney who was
slated to get the highest recommended fee, will see his firm’s
payout reduced to $22.5 million from $24.4 million for 18,232
hours of work. Vance Andrus, another Denver-based lawyer, saw
the biggest reduction, a cut of about $3 million that left him
with a payout of $14.6 million, according to the filing.  Fee Reductions  Other lawyers in the group, including Thomas Cartmell,
Bryan Aylstock, Stephen Corr, Paul Kiesel and Bill Robins III
all agreed to reductions from about $700,000 to $1.3 million
each, according to court papers.  Fifty-eight law firms are seeking payment from the fund for
common benefit work. The proposed payout for 41 firms that did
not object will remain unchanged, Merenstein said in the filing.
The allocation is subject to final approval from Rufe.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  