-- Glaxo Cuts Sugar in Lucozade and Ribena in U.K. in Obesity Fight
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-22T16:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/glaxo-cuts-sugar-in-lucozade-and-ribena-in-u-k-in-obesity-fight.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the maker of
Lucozade Energy and Ribena drinks, said it will cut the calories
and sugar in the beverages in the U.K. as part of a government
plan to fight obesity.  Glaxo will reduce the calories in the drinks by as much as
10 percent by 2014, equivalent to removing 1,433 metric tons of
sugar and 5.6 billion calories, the London-based company said in
a  statement  today. The cuts don’t apply to other drinks in the
Lucozade range and only apply in the U.K. and Ireland, the
company said.  Glaxo joins companies including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Nestle SA (NESN) 
and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  in signing up to a British government pledge to
reduce calories in their products, the U.K. health department
said in a separate statement today. About 60 percent of adults
and one third of children ages 10 and 11 are overweight or
obese, the department said.  “We have a responsibility to help people make healthier
choices,” Glaxo said in its statement. “We also have a duty to
promote our products responsibly and will continue to ensure our
advertising, sponsorships and messaging encourage healthier
behaviors and are appropriate for their intended audiences.”  A 500 milliliter (16.9 fl oz) bottle of ready-to-drink
Ribena contains 216 calories, and a 380 milliliter bottle of
Lucozade Energy contains 266 calories, Caroline Bishop, a Glaxo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. An average man needs about 2,500
calories a day to maintain his weight and an average woman needs
about 2,000 calories, according to the U.K. National Health
Service.  Sales of nutritional products, which include Lucozade,
Ribena and Horlicks, expanded 7 percent to 815 million pounds
($1.29 billion) in the first three quarters of last year, Glaxo
said on Oct. 31.  Diabetes, Obesity  The reductions come as the  World Health Organization 
considers a  draft action plan  that calls on nations to cut sugar
in food and drink in an effort to halt the global rise in
diabetes and obesity. The proposals are part of a WHO target to
reduce deaths from so-called non-communicable diseases by 25
percent by 2020.  Increasing or decreasing intake of sugar is associated with
changes in body weight, according to a review of evidence
commissioned by the Geneva-based WHO and published last week in
the British Medical Journal.  Increased consumption of so-called free sugars, including
additives to foods and those naturally present in honey, syrups
and fruit juices, led to an average gain of 800 grams (1.8
pounds) in body weight in adults, researchers at the University
of Otago in  New Zealand  found in a review of 71 studies.
Limiting the analysis to studies lasting longer than eight
weeks, weight gain was 2.7 kilograms, they said.  Obesity Epidemic  The WHO commissioned the review in preparation for updating
its 2003 recommendation that free sugar be limited to less than
10 percent of energy intake. The study adds to a debate over
public policy aimed at curbing the obesity epidemic and related
diseases, including  New York  City’s decision to restrict sales
of large-sized sugary soft drinks.  In September,  New York City ’s Board of Health approved
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to restrict sales of those soft
drinks to no more than 16 ounces (450 grams) a cup. They
rejected arguments from Coca-Cola,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and restaurant
companies whose coalition said consumers should be free to
choose. The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  