-- Glencore Wins South Africa Competition Approval for Xstrata Deal
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-22T08:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/glencore-wins-south-africa-competition-approval-for-xstrata-deal.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  won
approval from South Africa’s antitrust regulator for its $36
billion takeover of coal producer  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , leaving Chinese
agreement as the sole outstanding requirement for the deal.  “The merger may be implemented in South Africa,” the
Pretoria-based Competition Tribunal said in a statement today.
The merged company needs to limit the number of job cuts for
skilled workers to 80 and those for unskilled employees to 100,
it said.  Glencore, the Baar, Switzerland-based commodities trader,
and Xstrata said last week they were extending the deadline for
completing the deal to March 15 from Jan. 31, as regulatory
processes in South Africa and  China  “remain ongoing.” Glencore
on Nov. 22 won European Union approval to create the fourth-
largest mining company after offering to end a zinc-purchase
agreement with  Nyrstar (NYR)  NV and sell its stake in the company.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., South Africa’s state-run power
utility, agreed Jan. 18 to withdraw its intervention in the
transaction after reaching an accord with Glencore and Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata over coal supplies. The terms the
companies agreed to are confidential, a point criticized by
competition regulator Deputy Commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele at
a Pretoria hearing as “not desirable.”  South Africa’s National Union of Mineworkers, which also
raised concern about the deal, is satisfied, NUM representative
Lungile Tyatya told the hearing. The National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa’s issues with the deal were aligned
with Eskom’s and have also been settled, Nandi Mokoena, a
spokeswoman for the tribunal, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  