-- GM May Close German Plant Two Years Early as Sales Drop
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-22T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/gm-may-close-german-plant-two-years-early-as-sales-drop.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , seeing Germany
at risk of slipping into recession, may shutter a factory in
that country two years earlier than planned as the European auto
market sinks for a sixth straight year.  The automaker’s Opel unit may stop building the Zafira van
at the plant at Bochum as soon as the end of 2014 when a labor
agreement securing production at the plant runs out, Stephen Girsky, GM’s interim European chief, wrote in a letter to
employees today. Opel had said previously that the company would
probably stop making the Zafira in Bochum in 2016.  “They are trying to get in front of the trouble and have
come to the realization that it is a very long road ahead,”
Jeff Schuster, an industry analyst with LMC Automotive, said
today in an e-mail. “My view is that this is the painful
reality of what needs to be done across Western  Europe .”  Opel is losing share in the region’s shrinking auto market.
Sales of the German brand and Vauxhall sister marque dropped 16
percent in Europe last year. That compares with an industrywide
contraction of 8 percent. The Bochum plant has 3,100 workers.  “The situation on the European market is still
disastrous,” Girsky wrote in the letter, which called on
employees to make contributions to cut costs and ruled out wage
increases as long as the company is losing money in the region.  Earlier this month, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson
told reporters in  Detroit  that Germany may be slipping into
recession.  ‘Different Valuation’  “A lot of people thought that  Germany  was probably going
to be that cornerstone which was going to see out the troubles
of 2012 and probably be fairly stable throughout 2013,” Mark Fulthorpe, a London-based industry analyst with IHS Automotive,
said today in a telephone interview. A weakening Germany becomes
“a totally different valuation that you’re going to make.”  A German recession would pose an “incremental challenge”
to GM’s turnaround plan, Girksy told reporters on Jan. 13 in
Detroit. “Germany is slowing down,” he said. “France, Spain
and  Italy  haven’t found a bottom yet.  Russia  is slowing down; on
the other hand, the U.K. is looking a little better.”  GM  fell 2.2  percent to $28.63 at the close in New York.  GM Europe has racked up $17.3 billion in losses since 1999
and aims to return to profitability by mid-decade. The U.S.
automaker is willing to support Opel financially, if the German
operations are set up competitively and profitably, Girsky
wrote.  Union Balks  The threat to close Bochum by 2015 is “unacceptable,” the
IG Metall union said in a statement following negotiations today
with management. The union would “never agree” to permanent
wage cuts at the carmaker, Wolfgang Schaefer-Klug, the Opel
works council leader, said in the statement.  “Negotiations with the works council are still ongoing,”
Johanna Lomp-Knetsch, an Opel spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. “No decisions have been made yet.”  To adapt production volumes to the lower demand,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  is closing three European sites, scrapping 6,200 jobs, and
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is shutting a plant in the Paris suburb of
Aulnay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  