-- Goldman Jury Reviews Testimony Bank Not at Fault on Deal
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-01-23T05:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/goldman-sachs-jury-seeks-ex-dragon-president-s-testimony.html
A jury deliberating whether  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was negligent in helping arrange the doomed 
$580 million sale of speech-recognition pioneer Dragon Systems
Inc. asked to see testimony by a former Dragon president who said
the bank wasn't at fault for the deal's failure.  The former executive, John D. Shagoury, testified on Jan. 9
in federal court in  Boston  that he didn’t blame the bank for the
2000 all-stock deal that was rendered worthless months later
when buyer Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV collapsed in an
accounting fraud and filed for bankruptcy. U.S. District Court
Judge Patti Saris said yesterday that the jury can review a
transcript of Shagoury’s testimony.  Dragon founders Jim and Janet Baker and two other
shareholders, Robert Roth and Paul Bamberg, are suing for gross
negligence and intentional misrepresentation. The four sold a
small part of their Lernout & Hauspie stock for $11 million
before the fraud was exposed. The Bakers lost the technology
they spent decades developing.  Goldman Sachs argued at trial that Dragon’s leaders ignored
its advice to hire an accounting firm to take a closer look at
Lernout & Hauspie. Shagoury, who went to work for Lernout &
Hauspie after the deal and is now president of Eliza Corp.,
agreed with a Goldman Sachs attorney that Dragon’s board was
focused on “speed and certainty” in the months leading to the
deal.  ‘Getting Worse’  “The company’s financial situation was getting worse
instead of better, and at the same time we felt it was creating
a huge distraction for the employees,” he said. “We needed to
get something done, or decide how the company was going to
continue.”  “Do you blame Goldman Sachs that the  stock options  became
worthless in the merger with L&H?” Paul Vizcarrondo, an
attorney for the New York-based bank, asked him.  “No,” said Shagoury.  Jurors began deliberating Jan. 18. They are scheduled to
resume deliberations today.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  