-- Goldman Sachs Names Equities Head Chavez to Management Committee
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-22T23:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/goldman-sachs-names-equities-head-chavez-to-management-committee.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the bank
that generates the most revenue from equity trading worldwide,
named R. Martin Chavez, one of the leaders of that business, to
its management committee.  Goldman announced Chavez’s appointment in an internal memo
from Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and President
Gary D. Cohn that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based firm, confirmed the
contents of the memo. Chavez runs the equity-trading business
with Michael D. Daffey and Paul M. Russo.  Chavez, 48, is a director of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association and oversees Goldman Sachs’s principal
strategic investments group, which invests in exchanges and
other trading facilities. He has co-founded technology companies
Quorum Software Systems and Kiodex, according to the memo.  “Marty’s previous work in the technology industry, his
cross-divisional experience and his deep insight into regulatory
reform, market structure and operational infrastructure will add
a unique perspective to the management committee,” Blankfein
and Cohn wrote in the memo. “This will be particularly valuable
as our sales and trading businesses, and the ways in which our
clients transact, continue to evolve.”  Goldman Sachs generated $8.2 billion of revenue from equity
trading, almost $3 billion more than its closest U.S.
competitor, Morgan Stanley. Goldman disclosed last week that
$1.08 billion of that revenue came from its reinsurance
business, which it is considering selling.  The management committee will remain at 30 members once
David Viniar, the firm’s chief financial officer until the end
of this month, departs and joins the board of directors. Reuters
reported the appointment earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  