-- Golfer Mickelson Apologizes for Comments on Income Taxes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-22T19:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/golfer-mickelson-apologizes-for-comments-on-high-income-taxes.html
Phil Mickelson apologized for saying
he would have to make “drastic changes” due to new U.S. and
 California  tax laws. The 42-year-old golf champion said the
comments should have remained private.  “Finances and taxes are a personal matter and I should not
have made my opinions on them public,” Mickelson, a winner of
four major golf titles, said in a statement released today by
his management company. “I apologize to those I have upset or
insulted and assure you I intend to not let it happen again.”  Following his final round of the U.S. PGA Tour’s Humana
Challenge in La Quinta, California, two days ago, Mickelson was
asked to elaborate on his comments during a Jan. 14 conference
call about the reduced schedule of another veteran U.S. golfer,
45-year-old Steve Stricker.  “I’m not going to jump the gun, but there’s going to be
some drastic changes for me, because I happen to be in that zone
that has been targeted federally and by the state,” Mickelson
told reporters. “It doesn’t work for me right now, so I’m going
to have to make some changes.”  Stricker has said he will play a limited schedule this
season. When asked if he would consider a similar plan,
Mickelson said he wasn’t sure.  “I’m not exactly sure what I’m going to do yet,” he said
after tying for 37th at Humana. “If you add up all the federal
and you look at the disability and the unemployment and the
Social Security and the state, my tax rate is at 62 to 63
percent. So I’ve got to make some decisions on what I’m going to
do.”  Mixed Reaction  The comments, made the day before Democrat  Barack Obama  was
publicly sworn in for his second term as U.S. president, drew a
mixed reaction from golf fans. Many of the more than 1,200
comments received on a  GolfChannel.com  article about his remarks
were critical of his plan, while others said it would be “hard
to blame” him if he wanted to move out of California.  California’s Proposition 30, a recently passed sales- and
income-tax law, raised state taxes on income over $1 million
annually to 13.3 percent from 10.3 percent, a 29.1 percent
increase. The top rate under new federal laws is 39.6 percent on
taxable income above $450,000 for married couples, up from 35
percent in 2012. There also are higher rates on capital gains
and dividends.  Florida Move  Many professional athletes, including California-born Tiger Woods, live in  Florida , where there is no state income tax.
Woods holds the money-winning record for the PGA Tour, with $101
million in career purses.  “I moved out of here in ’96 for that reason,” Woods said
in a pre-tournament press conference for this week’s U.S. PGA
Tour event at Torrey Pines golf club in San Diego, California.
“I understand what he was, I think, trying to say.”  Forbes magazine ranked Mickelson the seventh highest-paid
athlete in 2012 with $47.8 million in earnings, including $43
million in endorsements from sponsors, including the accounting
firm KPMG LLP and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank.
He’s won $67.7 million in prize money during his PGA Tour
career.  In December, Mickelson withdrew his ownership interest in
Major League Baseball’s San Diego Padres. Asked after his final
round at Humana if the new tax laws affected that decision,
Mickelson said, “Yeah, absolutely.”  ‘Intelligent Decisions’  “Right now, I’m like many Americans who are trying to
understand the new tax laws,” he said in today’s statement.
“I’ve been learning a lot over the last few months and talking
with people who are trying to help me make intelligent and
informed decisions. I certainly don’t have a definitive plan at
this time, but like everyone else I want to make decisions that
are best for my future and my family.”  A San Diego native, Mickelson will play this week at Torrey
Pines near his hometown. He originally said he planned to
address his recent comments during a press conference tomorrow
before deciding to issue today’s statement.  “I absolutely love what I do,” he said. “I love and
appreciate the game of golf and the people who surround it.  I’m
as motivated as I’ve ever been to work on my game, to compete
and to win championships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  