-- Groupon Halts Gun-Related Deals After Sandy Hook Massacre
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-01-22T19:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/groupon-halts-gun-related-deals-after-sandy-hook-massacre.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest provider
of online daily deals in the U.S., halted gun-related offers
amid nationwide debate about weapons sales following a school
massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut .  “The category is under review following recent consumer
and merchant feedback,” Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for
Chicago-based Groupon, said by e-mail, without elaboration. The
suspension covers areas including ranges and clay shooting, she
said.  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  last month halted sales of
military-style rifles similar to the one used in the Dec. 14
Sandy Hook Elementary School carnage, which resulted in the
deaths of 26 pupils and staff members. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
largest seller of guns in the U.S., continues to offer the
weapons at about 1,200 of its almost 4,000 stores.  Central Texas Gun Works, an Austin, Texas-based gun store,
lost potential customers after Groupon ended its deal for half-
off a $140 handgun safety class earlier than planned, said
Michael Cargill, the owner of the business.  Groupon is “targeting law-abiding citizens who are taking
time out of their busy schedules to take a gun safety course,
learn conflict resolution and all the laws that surround them
carrying that firearm,” said Cargill, who is asking customers
and other business owners to boycott the website.  Groupon declined 2.6 percent to $4.82 at 2:08 p.m. in New
York. The shares are down 76 percent from the company’s initial
public offering in November 2011.  The Groupon suspension was reported yesterday by the Los
Angeles Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  