-- Sharapova to Face Li in Australian Semi; Djokovic Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-22T13:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/li-na-beats-radwanska-to-advance-to-australian-open-semifinal.html
Maria Sharapova yesterday set an
Australian Open record to advance to a semifinal against  Li Na ,
who ended Agnieszka Radwanska’s perfect start to the tennis
season.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic overcame a four-set
challenge by Tomas Berdych. The top-seeded Serb will next play
No. 4  David Ferrer , who came back from two sets down to make the
final four in Melbourne for the second time.  Second-seeded Sharapova, who won the title in 2008, beat
Ekaterina Makarova 6-2, 6-2 in an all-Russian quarterfinal at
Rod Laver Arena. Sharapova has dropped nine games in reaching
the semifinals of the season-opening Grand Slam, the fewest
since the tournament moved to a 128-player draw in 1988.  “If I start the match well, I want to follow through with
that along the whole way,” Sharapova, 25, said in a news
conference. “That’s the important thing. It’s not to think,
‘Oh, well, should I just give away a few games.’ It’s not really
a mentality of a winner.”  Three-time champion Djokovic beat Berdych of the  Czech
Republic , 6-1, 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 to move to his 11th consecutive
major semifinal. He’s not lost in Melbourne since 2010.  Today’s quarterfinals line-up includes defending champion
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus against  Russia ’s Svetlana Kuznetsova, while  Serena Williams  faces fellow American Sloane Stephens.  France ’s Jeremy Chardy meets  Andy Murray  of Britain,
while  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  plays Jo-Wilfried Tsonga,
also from France.  Djokovic struggled in the previous round, needing more than
five hours to overcome Switzerland’s Stanislas Wawrinka in a
fourth-round match that finished at 1:41 a.m. local time.  Against the fifth-seeded Berdych, Djokovic raced through
the first set before the momentum shifted as he dropped his
serve in the opening game of the second. After saving a set
point at 5-3 down, Djokovic squandered four break points for 5-
5. Berdych, 27, recovered to take the set 6-4.  Taking Control  Djokovic, 25, took control of the match, winning the third
and fourth sets as he improved his first-serve percentage and
cut down on errors.  “It was a great performance, I was hoping to have a
shorter match and not to go over five hours like the last
match,” Djokovic said in a court-side interview after he won
with his tenth ace. Djokovic, who said he’d taken lots of ice 
baths to speed up his recovery, produced 44 winners and 23
unforced errors, while Berdych had 29 winners and 42 mistakes.  Sharapova, who withdrew from her only tune-up event because
of a collarbone injury, fired twice as many winners as Makarova
in a repeat of their quarterfinal in Melbourne 12 months ago.
Makarova, seeded 19th this year, upset higher-ranked players
 Marion Bartoli  and Angelique Kerber to reach the last eight.  Tough Matches  Four-time Grand Slam singles champion Sharapova will face
former French Open winner Li tomorrow for a place in the Jan. 26
final. Sharapova leads Li 8-4 in career meetings.  “I’ve beaten her the last few times that we’ve played, but
they’ve always been really tough matches,” Sharapova added. “I
certainly expect it in the next one. She’s had a great start to
the year and is playing really well.”  Sixth-seeded Li of  China  earlier ended Radwanska’s run of
13 straight victories, including 26 sets in a row, to reach her
third Australian Open semifinal.  Li, the 2011 runner-up at Melbourne Park, beat No. 4
Radwanska 7-5, 6-3 at Rod Laver Arena 12 days after losing to
her in Sydney. She’s seeking her second major title after
becoming the first Chinese player to win a Grand Slam singles
championship at  Roland Garros  two years ago.  “To win a Grand Slam, you have to win seven matches,” Li,
30, said in a news conference. “Before I thought, ‘If I win,
who will I play in the fourth round or fifth round?’ Now I’ve
changed a little bit. I didn’t look at the draw, I’m just taking
it match by match.”  Li Rematch  Poland’s Radwanska, 23, had tuned up for the season-opening
major by winning back-to-back tournaments in Auckland and Sydney
and hadn’t dropped a set in 2013 before the quarterfinals. She
beat Li 6-3, 6-4 on her way to the Sydney title.  Radwanska served for the first set after Li made three
unforced errors and a double fault to give her a 5-4 lead, only
for the Pole to lose her service to love. Li held before taking
the first set in 66 minutes by winning a 22-shot rally.  Li broke to love for a 4-2 lead in the second set and
fought her way back from 15-40 down when serving for a place in
the semifinals. She hit her ground strokes deep and hard to win
four straight points, securing the victory when Radwanska hit a
backhand long.  “Some of the games she didn’t let me do anything,”
Radwanska told reporters. “Very deep balls all the time. Good
serve. She was really playing good tennis.”  Comeback  Ferrer, who tuned up for  Melbourne  Park by defending his
Auckland title, scored his fourth career comeback from two-sets-
to-love down to beat 10th-seeded Nicolas Almagro, who served for
the match on three occasions and injured his thigh in the
fourth-set tiebreaker.  Ferrer won 4-6, 4-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 at Rod Laver Arena
to lift his record against his fellow Spaniard to 13-0. Almagro
served for the match in the 10th game of the third set and the
10th and 12th games of the fourth set only to be broken each
time by Ferrer, his Davis Cup teammate.  “It was a miracle,” Ferrer, a semifinalist in Melbourne
two years ago, said after winning in three hours, 44 minutes.
“He had chances to win and I tried to fight every point. I’m
happy because in important points I played more consistent, but
in the next round I need to play better.”  Djokovic is expecting a tough match against the 30-year-old
Ferrer, who led the men’s tour with seven titles in 2012.  “David never gives up,” said Djokovic, who leads the
Spaniard 9-5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle
Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  