-- Micron’s Elpida Takeover Seen Restoring PC Memory-Chip Profits
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-01-23T10:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/micron-s-elpida-takeover-seen-restoring-pc-memory-chip-profits.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) ’s takeover of
Elpida Memory Inc. and the exits of Taiwanese makers could help
challengers to PC memory-chip leader Samsung Electronics Co.
return to profit after losing $21 billion in five years.  Prices of  benchmark  dynamic random-access memory chips, the
most common component in personal computers, have climbed 50
percent since Nov. 30, according to TrendForce Corp.’s
DRAMeXchange, which tracks the market. That rebound followed a
23 percent drop in the previous six months that pushed prices
below break-even levels.  Micron, the largest U.S. maker of memory chips, agreed in
July to buy bankrupt Elpida for 200 billion yen ($2.3 billion)
as it seeks to compete with  South Korea ’s Samsung and  SK Hynix (000660) 
Inc. Closure of that deal and moves by Taiwan-based
manufacturers to leave the business would put at least 90
percent of the market under the control of three companies.  “Hynix and Micron had been making a bit of a loss at these
prices, but going forward I think they are going to go into
profitability by the end of the year,” said Mark C. Newman, a
Hong Kong-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein who rates
Micron and Samsung outperform and SK Hynix market perform.  DRAM chips are used in computers to temporarily store data
and speed up processing. They are made according to industry
standards, so products from different makers are comparable,
making them a commodity. Versions of the chip used in
smartphones and servers are customized for clients and less
susceptible to those same market forces.  Apple, Samsung  Global DRAM revenue was down 8.7 percent last year to $26.8
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries, as
demand for PCs fell amid climbing popularity of mobile devices
including Apple Inc.’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy.  That followed a 25 percent drop the year before as
competition between as many as nine DRAM makers forced
manufacturers to sell chips at a loss.  Micron, based in Boise,  Idaho , last month posted a wider-
than-expected loss of $275 million for the quarter ending Nov.
29. Incheon, South Korea-based SK Hynix, the second-largest DRAM
maker, posted a fourth operating loss in five quarters for the
three months ended Sept. 30.  Industry output of DRAM may fall and prices may climb as
manufacturers use factories to make other types of chips, Micron
Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan said Dec. 20.  PC Shipments  It’s those cuts in supply, instead of increased demand,
that’s driving up prices, Micron’s vice president of  investor
relations , Kipp Bedard, said at a Jan. 16 conference.  Prices of benchmark 2 gigabit DDR3 chips reached $1.23
today, up from 82 cents on Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg
Industries data based on prices from DRAMeXchange, the largest
 spot market  for memory chips. Global PC shipments dropped 6.4
percent in the fourth-quarter from a year earlier, researcher
IDC Corp.  said  Jan. 10.  “I don’t think anybody in the room or any of our
salespeople would sit here and try and convince you that demand
has necessarily gotten better in the PC space,” Bedard said.  These higher prices should boost income at industry-leader
Samsung, push SK Hynix’s DRAM business into profit and bring
Micron within reach of breaking even, Bernstein’s Newman said. A
“flat” PC market will help the DRAM industry this year after a
decline last year, he said.  Chip Oligopoly  Samsung’s size and scale allows it to produce a standard
2Gb DRAM chip for about $1.05, Newman said. Hynix likely spends
$1.16 each, and Micron and Elpida about $1.30, he said.  Decisions by Taiwanese makers, accounting for 10 percent of
the DRAM market in 2007, to quit the business cuts supply and
helps create an oligopoly comprising Micron and the two South
Korean companies, DRAMeXchange analyst Avril Wu said.  “DRAM prices may be propelled back to healthy levels,”
she said.  SK Hynix, Micron, Nanya Technology Corp., Powerchip
Technology Co. and other Samsung rivals lost a combined $21
billion from 2008 to 2012, according to Bloomberg calculations
using company financial data and analyst estimates for last
year.  SK Hynix and Micron shifted capacity to NAND flash, a type
of chip that stores data in smartphones and tablets.  Taiwan ’s largest memory-chip suppliers, Nanya and  Inotera
Memories Inc. (3474) , haven’t posted profits since at least 2007. Nanya
plans to shift its factories to specialty memory products, Wu
said. Inotera, a venture between Micron and Nanya, will become a
made-to-order foundry selling its output to Micron.  Powerchip, once Taiwan’s largest DRAM maker, will focus on
making chips on contract for clients instead of producing memory
under its own brand name.  Micron’s takeover of Elpida will put it in second position,
from fourth, with 25.2 percent of the market, based on Bloomberg
Industries data. Elpida creditors will vote on the takeover next
month, with a judge likely to make a ruling in March, Bedard
said.  “We believe we’re entering at least a period where the
next decade will be significantly better than the last decade,”
Bedard said Jan. 16. “It all comes around to this arms race
that’s no longer there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 