-- ILFC Says Six Airbus A320s of Kingfisher ‘Held Hostage’
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-22T14:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ilfc-says-six-airbus-a320s-of-kingfisher-held-hostage-.html
International Lease Finance Corp. is
struggling to retrieve six Airbus SAS aircraft in India formerly
operated by  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , saying it’s being “held
hostage” by local government authorities.  The world’s second-biggest aircraft leasing company had
sought to repossess the planes, saying the carrier was in
default of contract conditions. While India’s civil aviation
authority said it has deregistered four aircraft and will soon
proceed with the other two, ILFC still can’t get them back
because other government bodies have yet to cooperate, ILFC
Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron said today.  “Deregistration is only one of the steps you need to get
the airplanes out of the country,” Courpron said in an
interview in Dublin at a conference sponsored by Airline
Economics. “There are other authorities in the country, like
airports and tax authorities, who have an ax to grind against
Kingfisher and we are being held hostage to this process.”  ILFC’s woes in  India  underscore the commercial constraints
to fund growth in a country of 1 billion people that promises to
be one of the fastest-growing aviation markets. Airbus SAS
predicts demand in India for more than 1,040 planes valued at
$145 billion by 2030, while Boeing has a more optimistic
forecast for 1,320 jets by then.  Arun Mishra, director general of civil aviation in India,
said the proper measures are being taken.  “As far as we’re concerned, we’ve deregistered four
aircraft belonging to ILFC and the remaining two aircraft, we’ll
be deregistering them soon,” he said by telephone.  India Growth  Carriers in India face rising aircraft financing costs
after Kingfisher defaulted on leases and government
authorities failed to help recover the planes, DVB Bank SE said
this month. The lender suspended all financing to Indian
carriers because of the situation.  India acceded to the Cape Town Convention in 2008, defining
the rights of aircraft owners or lessors in case of a default on
payments, allowing them to get their equipment back quickly if
there is no resolution.  The Indian administration at this point isn’t adhering to
the rules in the agreement, or to its own laws in place before
that agreement, said Bertrand Grabowski, managing director for
aviation at DVB Bank, who wants to repossess two Airbus A320
planes that DVB financed. The government has refused to de-
register those planes, making it impossible for him to sell them
elsewhere.  The two planes financed by DVB with Kingfisher were
purchased before the Cape Town agreement was in place, he said.  Investor Confidence  “It’s not good news,” Nigel Taylor, Airbus’s director of
aircraft finance said in an interview at the conference, talking
about the difficulties faced by DVB and ILFC. “I think India
should react to restore investor confidence in financing
aircraft to India.”  Kostya Zolotusky, managing director at Boeing Capital
Markets, the Chicago-based planemaker’s finance arm, said
cooperation is needed with Indian authorities.  “What we need to do is essentially work on how India
starts to apply the treaty and evolve from the past difficult
resolutions of defaults and repossessions,” said Zolotusky.  ILFC is losing monthly revenue on renting the aircraft
because it cannot commit to leasing the single-aisle planes to
another customer. It doesn’t know when it may get the aircraft
back, and negotiations with local authorities continue, Courpron
said today.  India’s Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said today that
Kingfisher needs at least 10 billion rupees for a “restart” of
the carrier. The government supports the company’s revival plan,
and Kingfisher needs to get endorsement from all stakeholders,
including employees, Singh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  