-- ILFC’s Courpron Sees Boeing Success in Fixing Dreamliner
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-01-22T18:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ilfc-s-courpron-sees-boeing-success-in-fixing-dreamliner.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s biggest customer for
the 787 Dreamliner, International Lease Finance Corp., is
confident that the planemaker will figure out how to fix the
battery faults that grounded the jet.  “Boeing is quite sure we’re talking about a battery,”
ILFC Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron said today in an
interview in Dublin. “We’re not talking about the shape of the
wing” or a structural defect imperiling the 787’s
airworthiness, he said.  The 787 was grounded last week by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration and regulators worldwide. While investigators are
focusing on the lithium-ion batteries and electrical system,
they haven’t zeroed in on the cause of a Jan. 7 fire on a  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  787 in  Boston  or a battery-related cockpit warning
that led to a Jan. 16 emergency landing in  Japan .  Courpron, whose lessor has 74 Dreamliners on order, said
management at the Chicago-based planemaker “is doing everything
they can to understand the problem.” No one yet has a “firm
handle” on the jet’s issues, he said.  ILFC, the Los Angeles-based plane-leasing unit of insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , is an important customer
because it places jets with multiple carriers. The biggest 787
buyer among airlines is Japan’s  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , which
has 66 on order, according to Boeing’s website. Last week’s
emergency landing involved an ANA plane.  AIG’s sale of an 80.1 percent stake in ILFC to a group of
Chinese investors for $4.23 billion is still targeted to close
in the second quarter, said Courpron, who commented on the
sidelines of an aviation-finance conference sponsored by Airline
Economics magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  