-- Impax Laboratories Falls as FDA Rejects Parkinson’s Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-22T21:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/impax-laboratories-falls-as-fda-rejects-parkinson-s-drug.html
Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  declined the
most in more than two months after the company failed to win
U.S. approval for an extended-release formulation of a
Parkinson’s disease drug used to relieve spasms in patients.  Impax  tumbled  7.1 percent to $19.53 at the close in  New
York , its largest single-day drop since Oct. 31. Shares of the
Hayward, California-based company have decreased 2.4 percent in
the past 12 months.  The  Food and Drug Administration  requires a re-inspection
of a plant involved in the development of the medicine called
Rytary, which combines standard Parkinson’s medications in a new
sustained release formulation, Impax said yesterday in a
statement. A warning letter was issued in May 2011, Impax said.  “We will work with the FDA on the appropriate next steps
for the Rytary application,” Impax President and CEO Larry Hsu
said in the statement. “We remain committed to resolving the
warning letter and bringing this new treatment option to
patients who are suffering from Parkinson’s disease.”  The medication would likely be used most among patients for
whom the standard medicines, levodopa and carbidopa, have
stopped working as reliably, said  David Amsellem , an analyst
with Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York. Rytary could generate peak
sales of $200 million to $300 million, Amsellem said.  “A controlled-release product is something that has been
elusive over the years,” Amsellem said in a telephone
interview.  Involuntary Movements  Impax will develop and sell Rytary in the U.S. and  Taiwan 
while  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based in London, will market it in
other regions throughout the world. Impax already markets a
generic version of a longer-acting combination called Sinemet,
sold by  Merck & Co. (MRK)   Merck’s Sinemet extended-release carbidopa-levodopa tablet
received approval in 1991 though it’s not widely used, Amsellem
said. People who use it are more likely to suffer impairment of
voluntary movement than those who use the immediate-release
version, according to the label for the medication.  Patients with advanced  Parkinson’s disease  who used Rytary
experienced a 34 percent decrease in the amount of time during
waking hours when the medication wore off and involuntary muscle
movements returned, the companies said in an August 2011
statement. This was compared with a decrease of 10 percent for
those who used the immediate-release generic drugs combined with
entacapone, a medicine that helps more of the other treatments
reach the brain.  The starting point was 5.9 hours, improving to 3.8 hours of
“off time” when Rytary wore off compared with 5.2 hours for
the generics.  Parkinson’s  is a progressive neurological disorder that
causes body tremors, the loss of muscle control and impaired
movement, according to the  National Institutes of Health . There
is no cure. A variety of medicines provide relief from symptoms
for the estimated 10 million people worldwide with the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  