-- India Nifty Futures Swing Between Gain, Loss on Deficit Policy
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-22T02:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/india-nifty-futures-swing-between-gain-loss-on-deficit-policy.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses as the government took further steps to
cut the fiscal deficit and amid signs corporate earnings are
improving.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for January delivery fell
0.2 percent to 6,090.5 at 10:07 a.m. in  Singapore  after rising
as much as 0.2 percent. The underlying S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on
the National Stock Exchange of  India  Ltd. added 0.3 percent to
6,082.30 yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
gained 0.3 percent to 20,101.82. The Bank of  New York  Mellon
India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares fell 0.3 percent.  India, the world’s largest bullion buyer, increased taxes
on gold imports yesterday, extending measures to reduce a record
current-account deficit that widened to $22.3 billion in the
three months to Sept. 30 as a faltering global economy hurt
exports. Only one out of 10 Sensex companies that have reported
December-quarter earnings has trailed forecasts.  “Increasing diesel prices and gold duty are the right
steps taken by the government to the cut the current account
deficit,” U.R. Bhat, managing director of Dalton Capital
Advisors India Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone yesterday. “Equity
market investors will like the move but we don’t see a big rally
in stock markets because valuations are high.”  The Sensex has gained 3.5 percent this year, extending last
year’s 26 percent jump, as the government allowed refiners to
increase diesel prices to cut the deficit. The gauge is trading
at  15.9 times  estimated earnings, the highest level since
February. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is valued at 11 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cairn India  Shares of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , operator of the nation’s
biggest oilfield on land, may be active after the company
reported profit for the quarter ended Dec. 31 surged 48 percent
after it increased production.  Net income  rose to 33.4 billion
rupees ($623 million), beating the 30.7 billion-rupee median
 estimate  of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd., India’s biggest home-products
maker, may report quarterly net income increased 18 percent to
8.9 billion rupees, according to the median of 30 analyst
estimates.  “While the undertone remains bullish, the indices appear
to be consolidating,” Amar Ambani, head of research at
brokerage IIFL Ltd, said by e-mail yesterday. “Corporate
results have brought in some cheer but the movement seems
restricted to select counters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  