-- British Woman Sentenced to Death by Indonesia Court in Drug Case
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-01-22T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/indonesia-court-sentences-british-woman-to-death-in-drug-case.html
An Indonesian court sentenced
British national Lindsay Sandiford to death for her role in
attempting to smuggle drugs into Bali, a court spokesman said.  “We strongly object to the death penalty and continue to
provide consular assistance to Lindsay and her family during
this difficult time,” U.K. Foreign Office minister Hugo Swire
told lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today. “We’ve
made repeated representations to the Indonesian authorities.”  Sandiford was found guilty of carrying cocaine when she
entered the island through the airport, Amser Simanjuntak, a
spokesman and judge at the Denpasar district court in Bali, said
by telephone, confirming a report by the  Associated Press .
Prosecutors had demanded a 15-year sentence, the report said.
Simanjuntak declined to comment further.  In 2006, two of the Australians known as the Bali Nine were
sentenced to death and the rest to life in prison for trying to
smuggle heroin into the resort island. In 2005, Australian
Schapelle Corby was sentenced to 20 years in prison for
attempting to smuggle 4 kilograms (8.8 pounds) of marijuana into
Bali. Her sentenced has since been reduced by five years,
 Australia ’s Foreign Minister Bob Carr said in May.  Sandiford, 56, was arrested in May carrying 3.8 kilograms
of cocaine valued at $2.5 million in her luggage, the AP
reported. Lawyers said she would appeal, according to the
report. Her alleged accomplice, British man Julian Anthony
Pounder, may receive his verdict tomorrow while two other
British citizens and an Indian have already been convicted and
sentenced to prison in connection with the bust, the AP said.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  raised the case with the
Indonesian government during a state visit to Britain by
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in November 2012, Swire said.  There are two further avenues for appeal under Indonesian
law along with the opportunity to apply for presidential
clemency, he told lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  