-- Hindustan Unilever Falls on Higher Royalty Payment: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-01-22T10:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/hindustan-unilever-net-income-misses-estimates-amid-competition.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, fell
to the lowest level in more than five months in Mumbai trading
after saying royalty payments to parent  Unilever (ULVR)  will increase.  Hindustan Unilever fell 3.3 percent to close at 480.90
rupees, the lowest level since Aug. 8.  India ’s benchmark BSE
India Sensitive Index fell 0.6 percent.  This will be the second Unilever unit in  Asia  that in the
past two months has said it will increase royalty payments to
the parent as they add more products and get new technology.
Some investors aren’t convinced higher royalty payments will
help the Mumbai-based local unit, according to Sachin Bobade, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd.  “This is a big negative for the stock,” said Bobade, who
has a reduce  rating  on Hindustan Unilever. “I don’t buy the
argument that just by giving new royalty they will get access to
new products.”  The royalty Hindustan Unilever pays will increase to 3.15
percent of revenue in phases through the year ending March 2018
from 1.4 percent, the company said in a statement today. The new
agreement will be take effect Feb. 1 and the increase in royalty
payment in the period through March 2014 is estimated to be 0.5
percent of revenue, it said.  The company today reported third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Net income  rose to 8.71 billion rupees
($162 million) in the three months ended December from 7.54
billion rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in
a statement today. That lagged behind the 8.8-billion rupee
 median  of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales at Hindustan Unilever, a unit of Unilever based in
 London  and Rotterdam, increased to 64.3 billion rupees in the
third quarter from 58.4 billion rupees. That was lower than the
65.9 billion rupee median of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  PT Unilever  Indonesia  on Dec. 12 said that total royalties
to Unilever would increase to 5 percent of its revenue beginning
2013, compared with 3.5 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  