-- Inmet in Talks With Parties After Rejecting First Quantum
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-22T21:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/inmet-in-talks-with-parties-after-rejecting-first-quantum-bid.html
Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  said it’s in
talks with several parties about other deals after recommending
shareholders reject a C$5.1 billion ($5.1 billion) hostile
takeover bid from  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   Inmet has approached third parties who have “expressed an
interest in considering alternative transactions involving Inmet
or its assets,” the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Inmet said shareholders should reject First Quantum’s
C$72-a-share offer because it undervalues the company and
because the potential buyer has no experience developing a mine
the size of Inmet’s Cobre  Panama  project.  “Our shareholders can do significantly better and we urge
them to reject First Quantum’s offer,” Inmet Chairman David R. Beatty said in the statement. “The board is engaged in a
thorough and rigorous process aimed at investigating all
potential strategic alternatives to maximize  shareholder
value .”  First Quantum took its cash and stock bid directly to Inmet
investors Jan. 9 after Inmet’s board rejected two earlier
offers. Vancouver-based First Quantum is seeking to gain control
of the Cobre Panama project to create one of the world’s five
largest producers of the metal.  Inmet rejected the bid even though its biggest investor,
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , said Jan. 10 it would tender its 16
percent stake in support of First Quantum’s bid “in the absence
of changed circumstances or new information.”  Temasek Stake  Inmet rose 0.5 percent to close at C$71.29 in Toronto. The
shares have closed below First Quantum’s C$72 offer price every
day since Jan. 9, when the company made its formal offer. First
Quantum  declined  1.9 percent to C$20.92.  Cobre Panama is the second-largest copper project under
construction, after Rio Tinto Group’s Oyu Tolgoi mine in
 Mongolia , according to a  November presentation  posted on Inmet’s
website. The mine will cost about $6.2 billion and produce an
average of 266,000 tons a year of the metal, which has more than
quadrupled in price in the past 10 years.  Buying Inmet, which also operates mines in Finland, Spain
and  Turkey , would help First Quantum diversify geographically
and increase its output, First Quantum President  Clive Newall 
said on a Dec. 17 conference call. First Quantum can develop
projects more cheaply than its peers and would use its expertise
to cut the cost of building Cobre Panama, Newall said.  ‘Underestimating’ Costs  Inmet said it disputes First Quantum’s claims that it could
achieve substantial savings in developing the project.  “First Quantum has a track record of repeatedly
underestimating development costs and overestimating anticipated
copper production on projects that are much smaller and simpler
than Cobre Panama,” Beatty said in a letter to shareholders.  A First Quantum spokesman declined to comment on Inmet’s
statement today.  Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd.,  Singapore ’s state investment
company, is Inmet’s second-biggest  shareholder , with 11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal
Bank of Canada are advising First Quantum.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and law firm Torys LLP
are advising Inmet. Scotiabank is financial adviser to the
special committee of the Inmet board and Osler, Hoskin &
Harcourt LLP is its legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  