-- Islamists Boycott Polls in Jordanian Parliamentary Vote
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-23T10:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/islamists-boycott-jordanian-ballot-as-elections-begin.html
Majeeda Saeed joined hundreds of
Jordanian demonstrators at a rally before parliamentary
elections today, holding an orange sign in front of her white
face cover saying “We are Boycotting.”  Saeed, the 47-year-old director of a Koranic studies
center, took to Amman’s Firas Square in response to a call from
the  Muslim Brotherhood , the largest opposition bloc in Jordan,
to join a six-hour rally last week. The group, which is
organizing the boycott, said the sit-in provided a foretaste of
further street protests scheduled to follow the poll and
designed to force the government into political change.  While the Brotherhood also shunned Jordan’s last election
in 2010, this year’s vote comes amid a series of other
challenges: the kingdom faces economic difficulties including
lower aid from abroad, an influx of Syrian refugees, street
protests about rising prices and a rise of Brotherhood-led
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia .  That’s led analysts like Oraib al-Rantawi, director of the
Amman-based  Al-Quds Center for Political Studies , to question
what the new elected assembly will be able to achieve.  “I don’t think the elections will produce a representative
parliament, one that mirrors the plurality in  Jordan ’s
society,” he said. “The new parliament won’t change much.”  Results Tomorrow  More than 1,400 candidates are running for the 150-seat
assembly, with 123 elected for individual constituencies and the
rest through a proportionally allocated national list, according
to the Independent Elections Commission. About 300,000 of
Jordan’s more than 3 million eligible voters had cast their
ballots by 11:30 a.m., commission President Abdul Ilah Al Khateeb said today. The polls close at 7 p.m. local time and
official results are announced tomorrow.  The outcome will be closely watched. Jordan is a key U.S.
ally, one of two Arab countries with a peace treaty with Israel
and has a Palestinian population, which gives it a stake in the
stalled Middle East peace process.  The prospect of a weakened Jordan is a major concern for
both  Israel  and the U.S., said Jacob Shapiro, an analyst at the
Austin, Texas-based geopolitical consulting firm  Stratfor .  “Jordan is a partner for both in the region, particularly
for Israel, whose environment has grown increasingly hostile in
the past year with the collapse of  Syria  and the rise of the
Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt,” Shapiro added.  No Revolution  Jordan’s Brotherhood says it’s not seeking revolution.
Asked why he had a picture of King Abdullah II on his office
wall, Zaki Bani Irsheid, vice chairman of Jordan’s Muslim
Brotherhood, said in an interview that the group wanted to
reform rather than to topple the regime.  The Brotherhood has been a licensed political party in
Jordan for decades, unlike its allied movement in  Egypt , which
was banned. Its members have won previous elections and have
held ministerial posts in past Cabinets.  It issued the call for an electoral boycott because it says
the king has offered too little change -- including a demand
that he amend electoral law to allow half the chamber’s 150
seats to be chosen by proportional representation, Bani Irsheid
said.  While no one in Jordan wants “the Syria model” and the
group will avoid confrontation with police that might lead to
violence, Bani Irsheid said the government will face sit-ins and
other peaceful protests since the “power of the street has
proven to be the most effective in bringing about change.”  ‘Undemocratic Act’  “The boycott is an undemocratic act, especially since its
aim is to make amendments to the constitution and the law that
suits their own ends,” Prime Minister Abdullah Ensour said in
an interview last week. Ensour said today he’ll submit his
resignation once the elections are complete, the state-run Petra
news agency reported.  Jordan has one of the smallest economies in the  Middle
East . It imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on
foreign investment and grants to support public finances. In the
past year, its economy has been under immense pressure -- Jordan
received only 650 million Jordanian dinars ($916 million) in
foreign grants last year, half the sum it received in 2011,
Central Bank Governor Ziad Fariz said in an interview in Amman.  Budget Pressure  The drop “has put pressure on the budget and some pressure
on the domestic market,” he said. In addition, there are close
to 300,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan, straining its
infrastructure, especially the scarce supply of water. Jordan’s
energy bill has risen as gas supplies from Egypt dropped to less
than half the 250 million cubic feet agreed on, forcing Jordan
to buy more expensive fuel elsewhere.  Jordan is working with the  International Monetary Fund  on a
$2 billion economic reform program that forced subsidy cuts on
cooking and vehicle fuel that triggered occasionally violent
public protests in November.  At least one protester was killed when he joined an armed
mob storming a police station in the northern city of Irbid,
more than 150 people were arrested and three banks in the
northwest province of Balqa were robbed and burned, the
government said at the time. The state was so short of money
that it couldn’t pay for the cargoes carried by two fuel ships
docked in the port of Aqaba, Ensour said in November.  The streets of Amman are bedecked with pictures of the
candidates. Yet, many ordinary Jordanians express apathy, both
for voting and for revolt. Among them were three female, 21-
year-old university students having coffee at a café in the
upscale Abdoun area one evening this month. “We don’t know who
the candidates are and what they can do for us,” said Razan
Hanna.  Asked whether the so-called Arab Spring that has toppled
four leaders in the past two years wasn’t enough to inspire
them, Mays Tamimi said: “Egypt hasn’t improved. It hasn’t been
a good model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  