-- Israel Stocks Fall in U.S. Trade as Netanyahu Loses Seats
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-23T08:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/israeli-stocks-fall-in-u-s-as-netanyahu-set-for-vote-win.html
Israeli stocks traded in the U.S.
fell the most in two weeks as exit polls showed support for
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s party in nationwide
elections weakened.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-
traded Israeli companies dropped 0.6 percent to 85.98 yesterday
in  New York . Technology developer  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) 
slid the most since Jan. 8, while  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) 
retreated 3.8 percent as Scailex Corp. said regulators approved
the sale of a portion of its Partner stake. The benchmark  TA-25
equities index  climbed for the second time this week, gaining
1.1 percent at 9:52 a.m. in Tel Aviv after being closed
yesterday for election day.  Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu ticket fell short of projections
as some voters moved to the upstart Yesh Atid party, according
to Channel 2 and Channel 10 exit polls. Likud-Beitenu probably
won 31 seats in  Israel ’s 120-member Knesset, down from 42 seats
the alliance of two parties currently holds. Pre-election polls
had projected his ticket would get between 32 and 37 seats.
Netanyahu called an early vote in October after failing to reach
agreement with coalition partners over the 2013 budget.  “The surprising strength of Yesh Atid was the reason for
the pull back today as it was viewed by some investors as
disappointing,” Steven Schoenfeld, the founder of Bluestar
Global Investors LLC, a financial research company focused on
Israel and the  Middle East , said yesterday in a telephone
interview from New York. “Nonetheless, there’s enough consensus
on economic reforms with Yesh Atid.” This party “will be good
for the economy,” he said.  More Competition  The Bloomberg US-Israel Index dropped as much as 1 percent
to 85.69 yesterday in New York. The measure pared some of its
declines after the exit polls showed Netanyahu was re-elected
for a third term.  A former finance minister, Netanyahu stoked competition in
Israel’s telecommunications sector by opening the market to new
providers, initiated steps to break the nation’s biggest
monopolies and reduced the  unemployment rate . He also ensured
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  stayed in office for a
second term by pushing a new central bank law through
parliament, a condition Fischer gave for signing a second term.  “What is important is for investors to get clarity about
what this government plans to do in regulation and reforms,”
Jacob de Tusch-Lec, who helps oversee $20 billion at Artemis
Investment Management LLP, including Israeli stocks, said in a
telephone interview yesterday from  London . “What really matters
is what key people will be put in charge of regulating various
sectors, what policy initiatives the government signals it will
undertake most quickly.”  Shekel Rallies  Israel’s local bonds have rallied 36 percent in dollar
terms since Netanyahu took office on March 31, 2009, compared
with a 22 percent increase for a global index of government
debt, data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show. The
shekel rallied 13 percent, its best advance under any government
since at least 1984 as the premier fostered economic growth
faster than in the U.S. and  Europe . The benchmark  stock index 
climbed 65 percent and hit a  record  1,341.89 during Netanyahu’s
term, in April 2011. The shekel was little changed at 3.7315 per
dollar at 9:57 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Since 2009, the Israeli economy has expanded by 14.7
percent, compared with 3.2 percent in the U.S. and a contraction
of 1.5 percent in the euro region, the  Finance Ministry  in
 Jerusalem  said in a Jan. 1 report. The jobless rate in 2012 was
6.8 percent compared with 10.9 percent in the euro region, based
on an average of quarterly data, the ministry said.  Mellanox’s Earnings  Yesh Atid, Hebrew for “There is a Future,” came in second
with about 19 seats, according to exit polls. Led by ex-TV host
Yair Lapid, the party called for reforms to lower housing costs
and draft ultra-Orthodox Jews into the army.  Mellanox, the Yokneam Elit-based maker of technology used
to transfer and store data, slumped 4.2 percent to $48.08,
sliding for a third day in the U.S. The company’s  shares  traded
in  Tel Aviv  lost 2.3 percent to 181 shekels, or the equivalent
of $48.57 this morning.  The company is scheduled to report today that fourth-
quarter sales  rose  65 percent to $120 million, according to the
mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares
tumbled 17 percent on Jan. 3 after Mellanox cut its fourth-
quarter revenue forecast, citing weaker-than-expected demand.  Mellanox was rated overweight, or the equivalent of buy at
Piper Jaffray Cos. in an initial coverage of the shares with a
12-month price target of $65.  Partner, SodaStream  Partner, Israel’s second-largest mobile phone operator,
dropped 3.8 percent to $5.76, the lowest close in New York since
Dec. 18. Partner’s Tel Aviv shares advanced 1.6 percent to 21.99
shekels, or $5.90.  Moshe Kahlon, Israel’s communications minister, approved
the sale of a portion of Partner shares that are owned by
Scailex to a unit of Saban Capital Group Inc., Scailex said in a
statement to the stock exchange Jan. 21.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the maker of soda machines,
gained 2.1 percent to $49.75 on trading volume that was four
times the stock’s three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  