-- Italy Finance Minister Says He Made Side Payment for Rome Home
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2013-01-22T07:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/italy-finance-minister-says-he-made-side-payment-for-rome-home.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli , who declared a purchase price for his  Rome  apartment
that was about half its assessed value, said the mismatch is due
to a separate payment he made to a relative of the seller for
earlier renovations of the 14-room home.  Grilli, appointed by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to
spearhead a drive to prevent  tax evasion , declared in an April
27, 2004, purchase document filed with the Italian  land registry 
that he paid 1.065 million euros ($1.39 million) for the
apartment. The same day, he signed a loan agreement in which he
and his mortgage lender attributed a value of 2.03 million euros
to the property, according to a copy of the document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Grilli, 55, disclosed the additional payment made to the
seller’s relative in a letter to Bloomberg News, in which he
also said his declared price was compatible with tax-roll
numbers  Italy  uses to calculate property levies. Grilli wrote
the letter in response to a Dec. 20 story that revealed details
of his purchase, including a mortgage of 1.5 million euros.  Writing in Italian on his personal letterhead, Grilli said
the mortgage was based on a valuation of the property that
“took into consideration the actual state of the property
including the improvements made” by the relative of the seller,
“the dealings with whom were subject to a separate settling of
accounts.” He said that extra payment was made by transparent
and traceable means.  In his letter, dated Jan. 8, Grilli invoked his right of
“rectification” under Italian law to publish a response to the
Dec. 20 report, which he said was based on “superficial
valuations” and interfered with negotiations in a divorce
settlement with his wife.  Seller’s Relative  Grilli wrote that he bought the house through a mediator,
to whom he paid correct and traceable commissions.  He said, “in the past, important works of refurbishment
and of improvement have been made by a relative of the seller”
and that “I had to settle all the economic aspects regarding
such works carried out by him in order to avoid a likely
conflict with the above mentioned person and proceed to a
purchase that would not raise future controversies for me.”  The statement didn’t name the relative or disclose the size
of the payment. The seller was Massimo Tosato, executive vice
chairman of London-based fund manager  Schroders Plc. (SDR)  Tosato’s
assistant at Schroders in  London  said he declined to comment on
personal matters.  Monti’s Pick  Grilli’s letter also said his declared purchase price was
in line with Italian tax-roll numbers -- in his case, he said,
more than twice the official tax value. “The taxes calculated
based on the declared price have been paid in an amount much
higher than the required fiscal minimum,” he wrote.  Prime Minister Monti picked Grilli in November 2011 to help
shore up Italy’s finances. At Monti’s Dec. 23 year-end news
conference, a reporter asked the premier whether he had sought a
clarification from Grilli regarding the Bloomberg News report on
the purchase. Monti answered, “Si,” or yes, without
elaborating. Grilli declined to comment on the conversation with
Monti.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the bank Grilli
originally borrowed from, declined to comment on his mortgage.
The Italian newspaper Libero earlier reported the property’s
valuation of 2.03 million euros in a story following up on the
original Bloomberg News report.  Grilli, who has spent most of his career in civil service,
bought the 310-square-meter (3,336 square feet) apartment in
Rome after returning to government work from London, where he
was a managing director and head of Italian  investment banking 
at  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  First Boston for about a year from 2001 through
2002. At the time of the 2004 purchase, he was serving as
Italy’s general accountant.  Grilli said in October that he won’t seek a government post
or a Treasury position after Italy holds its general elections
on Feb. 24-25, which are due in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  