-- Italian Debt Better Bet Than Nordic Bonds, BofAML’s Jooste Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-01-22T11:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/italian-debt-better-bet-than-nordic-bonds-bofaml-s-jooste-says.html
Italian and Spanish debt are better
investments than Nordic  government bonds  as Europe’s financial
crisis fades, according to Johannes Jooste, a strategist at Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.  “Investors are more comfortable with risk -- the areas
where they were defending against risk have become very fully
valued,” Jooste said today in an interview in Helsinki. “The
safe-haven argument is slightly diluted by the fact that some of
the things you need to hedge against have become less risky.”  Yields on bonds issued by AAA rated Nordic nations Denmark,
 Finland ,  Norway  and  Sweden  plunged in 2012 as the  European debt
crisis  attracted investors who favored safety over returns. As
investors gain confidence that Europe’s leaders can end the
region’s turmoil, markets have turned. The euro has had its best
start to a year against the dollar since 2006 on bets the worst
of the three-year debt crisis is now over.  “On the fixed income side, one of our themes for the year
is unloved assets, mispriced ones,” Jooste said. “For the
right risk profile, we’re looking to add some Italian and
Spanish exposure. Some government, or high-grade corporate.”  Spanish lenders have raised more than 8 billion euros
($10.7 billion) as they returned to bond markets this year and
today the country sold 2.8 billion euros of bills, overshooting
the maximum target to tap investor demand. Italy is on track to
meet its goal to balance the budget in structural terms, or
excluding the effects of the recession, this year, Finance
Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said last week.  ‘High-Grade’  “Some of the high-grade corporates in Italy and Spain have
got very solid fundamentals,” Jooste said.  Stocks may outperform bonds this year as banks, acting
“like the canary in the  coal mine ,” are looking “stable,”
suggesting better conditions for equities, the analyst said.
“We continue to watch sectors which have good exposure to
 emerging markets .”  International investors are the most bullish on stocks in
at least 3 1/2 years, with close to two-thirds planning to raise
their holdings of equities during the next six months, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  