-- IVRCL to Sell Gasfield Holdings to Fund Road Projects
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-01-22T06:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ivrcl-to-sell-gasfield-holdings-to-fund-road-projects.html
IVRCL Ltd. (IVRC) , an Indian construction
company, plans to sell its stake in five gas exploration blocks
and use the proceeds to fund road-building projects.  The company, based in Hyderabad, plans to complete the sale
in a “few weeks,” Chairman Sudhir Reddy said in an interview.
IVRCL holds 25 percent each in three areas in Yemen and 20
percent each in two blocks in  Egypt , through a subsidiary. The
balance is held by  Gujarat State Petroleum Corp. (GSPC) , and two other
partners, according to IVRCL’s annual report.  The stake sales will help the company raise funds for road
projects as flagging revenue due to regulatory bottlenecks and
the highest borrowing costs in Asia prevent them from bidding
for new projects. IVRCL in September said it plans to invest 11
billion rupees over three years in four highway projects.  “It has come to a bit of a matured stage, where we thought
we should sell out,” Reddy said. “We would like to hang on.
But in today’s investment climate, we thought it would be better
to exit.”  IVRCL’s  shares  gained 0.4 percent to 43.55 rupees at 10:51
a.m. in Mumbai. They have dropped 4.4 percent this month.  The company has invested 2 billion rupees in the gas
projects. The ventures have discovered the fuel during
exploration, “but it is not quantifiable,” Reddy said.  India ’s central bank will lower its repurchase rate to 7.75
percent from 8 percent at a Jan. 29 review to spur growth,
according to 11 of 14 analysts in a  Bloomberg survey . The rate
was last lowered by half a percentage point in April. Asia’s
third-largest economy may expand as little as 5.7 percent in the
year through March, the least in a decade, according to the
finance ministry’s estimates.  “We are praying and hoping that interest rates come down
soon,” Reddy said. “Until then, we have to survive by selling
stakes in our projects. But with all players looking for exits,
there are just too many sellers and not enough buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  