-- J&J’s Forecast Misses Analyst Estimates, May Sell Unit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-22T23:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/j-j-s-forecast-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, may sell its $2.2 billion
diagnostics unit for blood and cholesterol tests as the company
focuses on genetic screening to complement its drug pipeline.  J&J is reviewing options for the Ortho Clinical Diagnostics
division, Chief Executive Officer  Alex Gorsky  said today at an
investor meeting in New York. The unit makes devices for
screening blood bank donations and sells more than 120 tests for
everything from high cholesterol to fertility hormones.  The business isn’t a market leader, a key objective for
J&J, Gorsky said. Fourth-quarter sales for the unit, J&J’s only
diagnostics division, fell 4.3 percent from a year earlier. The
unit generates about 3.3 percent of the company’s  revenue ,
analysts estimate.  “While we certainly believe in the future of diagnostics,
we think that will be more likely in an area outside of clinical
diagnostics, such as molecular diagnostics, biomarkers or some
of the other things we are already working on with some of our
oncology programs,” Gorsky said.  It isn’t certain that any transaction may occur, the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said in a statement.  Possible Buyers  Companies that have been acquiring businesses and are large
enough to absorb a sizable purchase in diagnostics include  Roche
Holding AG , Abbott Laboratories,  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) 
and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , said Michael Manns, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst in Princeton,  New Jersey . J&J may also spin
off the unit, giving current shareholders access to broad
potential demand, he said.  “There is a scarcity value for large diagnostic companies
with proprietary products,” Manns said in a telephone
interview. “This would be a very attractive property if it
ended up coming to the market.”  Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche, didn’t immediately return phone calls left after hours.
 Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
Abbott, and Ron O’Brien, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-
based Thermo Fischer, declined to comment. Suzanne Clancy, a
spokeswoman for Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  J&J is very early on in the evaluation process and has not
hired a financial adviser for the deal yet, said Karen Licitra,
worldwide chairwoman of global medical solutions. She said it
could take 12 to 24 months before any decision is made.  Spinoff Potential  It may be more beneficial to spin off the unit, rather than
sell it outright, said Bill Smead, chief investment officer at
Smead Capital Management in  Seattle , which manages about $290
million of investments, including about 85,000 J&J shares. J&J
doesn’t need more cash and spinning off the unit may create more
opportunity, provided it is well-capitalized, he said.  “They have a large cash balance and they gush  cash flow ,”
Smead said in a telephone interview. “Companies like J&J don’t
earn enough interest on cash balances to make it attractive.”  Earlier today, J&J provided a full-year earnings forecast
that was less than expected. Profit for 2013 will be $5.35 to
$5.45 a share, J&J said in a statement. The guidance missed the
$5.49 average of 23 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe J&J may be conservative -- potentially setting
the bar low for 2013 to set up more consistent beat and raise
quarters,” Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.
in New York, said in a note to investors today.  J&J dropped less than 1 percent to $72.69 at the close in
New York. The  shares  have gained 11 percent in the past 12
months.  Mature Market  The clinical diagnostic business is “a mature and
competitive market, with growth driven primarily by new product
launches and emerging market expansion,” wrote  Ross Muken , an
analyst with ISI Group LLC in New York, in a note to investors
today. “We also view the blood screening market as mature and
likely to grow in-line with global gross domestic product, with
potential upside coming from  China .”  Sales of new drugs, which also included therapies for
psoriasis and hepatitis C, helped fourth-quarter earnings
excluding one-time items of $1.19 beat by three cents the
 average  of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  climbed  to $2.57 billion, or 91 cents a share,
from $218 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, when legal
settlements and a hip recall hurt results, the company said.
Sales of medical devices and diagnostics, the J&J’s biggest
division, rose 14 percent after it exited the market for drug-
coated stents.  J&J took $800 million in charges during the quarter, mainly
litigation losses; money set aside for the DePuy hip recall; and
costs related to the acquisition of Synthes Inc. The company,
which is fighting more than 10,000 lawsuits over its recalled
hip implants, is negotiating a potential settlement that may
eventually total more than $2 billion, according to five people
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  