-- Jain Calls With JPMorgan’s Dimon to Allow Banks to Fail
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-22T13:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/jain-calls-with-dimon-to-allow-banks-to-fail.html
Regulators and banks should develop
a system allowing lenders to go bust without damaging the world
economy to help restore public trust in the industry,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said.  “We’ve got to get rid of too big to fail,” Dimon, 56,
told clients of the bank during a panel discussion in the German
town of Koenigstein, near  Frankfurt , late yesterday. “We have
to ensure big banks can be taken down without harming the public
and at no cost to them.” Global regulators should also work
together to wind down failed multinational banks, he said.  Governments and central banks propped up banks with
trillions of dollars to prevent further shocks to the financial
system and ensure the flow of credit following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Regulators are pushing
banks to strengthen capital reserves and liquidity to help them
weather future turmoil and avoid taxpayer-funded rescues.  “There’s still the presumption that we can’t let some
global banks go to the wall,”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-CEO Anshu Jain said at the panel. Some countries such as Spain may not be
confident enough to allow smaller lenders to fail, he said.  Bank Size  Deutsche Bank is  Europe ’s largest bank, with 2.19 trillion
euros ($2.92 trillion) in assets under locally applicable
accounting rules, company filings show. JPMorgan is the biggest
U.S. bank, with $2.36 trillion of assets under U.S. rules that
allow the netting of derivatives, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Deutsche Bank has 1.28 trillion euros of assets under such
rules, according to the company.  “Size alone is not the real issue,” Nikolaus von Bomhard,
CEO of Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, said on the
panel. Banks need sufficient capital to back up their operations
and should cease to offer products that their regulators don’t
understand, he said.  Dimon said that while a bank the size of JPMorgan can be
wound down at no cost to the taxpayer, coordination among
regulators in different countries is necessary because of
businesses that stretch across borders.  New liquidity and capital requirements known as Basel III
are taking banks to a “very good destination,” Jain, 50, said.  Liikanen Proposal  Germany ’s financial markets regulator has asked Deutsche
Bank to simulate splitting its securities and retail business, a
person with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private said today.  Such a split, as proposed by the European Union-
commissioned group led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen, would raise costs for clients and should only be
applied if banks around the world are forced to adopt the model,
Jain said.  Regulators in Europe are at different stages of considering
whether or planning to implement such a split, which would aim
to protect depositors and taxpayers from potential losses.  Large banks that can offer companies an array of services
are in the interest of the economy, said Jain and Dimon.  Dimon said he disagreed with parts of Basel III, such as
the definition of securities that banks may count as easy-to-
sell liquidity reserves. The capital surcharge for the world’s
biggest banks “was not well done,” he said.  While JPMorgan’s $6.2 billion trading loss last year was
“embarrassing,” the bank has delivered three years of
“record” profit, he said.  “It was one of the stupidest things I’ve seen,” Dimon
said. “I’m mostly sorry to my shareholders. But JPMorgan is not
obviated by a mistake.”  Dimon said Tom Brady, the New England Patriots football
player who has passed Joe  Montana  for the most National Football
League playoff wins by a quarterback, called to cheer him up
after the loss.  “I owe him a lot,” Dimon said without specifying when the
call took place. “At first I thought it was a friend of mine
pulling a prank. I thought it was Lloyd Blankfein,” he said,
referring to the CEO of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  