-- Jakarta Flood Refugees Return Home as Quake in Aceh Kills One
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-01-22T05:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/jakarta-flood-refugees-return-home-as-quake-in-aceh-kills-one.html
Jakarta residents began to return
home a week after flooding inundated houses across the
Indonesian capital, while an eight-year-old girl died as a 6-
magnitude earthquake struck Aceh province on Sumatra island.  The number of refugees in Jakarta fell to about 33,500 from
nearly 46,000 yesterday, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman at
the nation’s disaster management agency, said. The death toll
remained at 20 with some victims swept away by swollen rivers or
electrocuted in their homes, he said.  “Although the water has receded, a number of people chose
to stay at refugee shelters,” Nugroho said in a mobile-phone
text message today. “The government, the local administration,
the business community and local people are working hand in hand
to provide aide to the flood victims.”  Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo is confronting his first major
test since his election in September as floods in the capital
highlight infrastructure gaps in  Indonesia ’s largest city. The
inundation disrupted businesses, stranded travelers and swamped
the offices of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in a city that
accounts for 16 percent of Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  Flights at Jakarta’s main international airport are
operating normally, with no flood-related delays, Kristanto, a
spokesman at the airport’s operator PT Angkasa Pura II, said by
telephone today. Passengers and airline crews are aware of the
situation in Jakarta and have allotted more time to get to the
airport, he said.  Jakarta sits in a low-lying area with 13 rivers and more
than 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) of man-made waterways, making
it prone to flooding, according to the World Bank. About 40
percent of Jakarta’s land area is below sea level.  In Aceh the earthquake today caused several several houses
to collapse, killing the girl and injuring seven other people,
Nugroho said in a separate mobile-phone text message. The
province, located on Sumatra’s westernmost tip, was hit by an
8.6-magnitude quake in April that killed at least 10 people and
injured 12 others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  