-- Japan Proposes High-Speed South African Railway Link
-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-22T13:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/japan-proposes-high-speed-south-african-railway-link.html
Japan  today joined  Germany , China
and  France  in bidding to build a 157 billion rand ($18 billion)
high-speed rail link between  South Africa ’s eastern port city of
Durban and Johannesburg, the country’s commercial hub.  Funding models include partnerships between government and
private business, with a combination of yen loans and equity,
Yoshimasa Sakon of  Japan International Consultants for
Transportation Co. , told officials from government, the
construction industry and business in Durban. The railway will
be built in two phases, with completion in 2025, according to
Sakon’s pre-feasibility presentation made on behalf of the
state-owned Japan External Trade Organization.  In the national budget last year, the Finance Ministry
lists 3.2 trillion rand of infrastructure projects it is
considering implementing by 2020, including 300 billion rand for
a high-speed railway, to boost economic growth and create jobs
for the one in four  South Africans  who are unemployed.  In South Africa, “currently only 7% of passenger and
freight transport is by rail,” Sakon said. The study proposes
that the first phase, between King Shaka Airport, north of
Durban, Durban and Pietermaritzburg, 80 kilometers (50 miles)
inland, be completed by 2020, he said. The second phase to
Johannesburg would be completed by 2025 at a total cost of 157
billion rand, he said.  South Africa wants to increase the amount of goods and
passengers transported by rail to 80% by 2025, Ruth Bhengu,
chairwoman of the government’s portfolio committee on transport,
said in an interview after the presentation.  ‘Economic Heartbeat’  The committee visited France, Germany,  China  and Japan to
assess their transportation systems, Bhengu said. One of the
conditions of foreign investment in the project would be the
creation of local manufacturing hubs to supply the rolling stock
and rail components, she said.  “We define transport as the heartbeat of economic
development,” Bhengu said. “We must use transport to develop
social standards, to make the movement of people and goods easy
and to make trading with South Africa easy.”  The trains would be able to transport 48 shipping
containers, known as TEUs, of 160 kilometers per hour (100 miles
per hour) and 600 passengers at 300 kilometers per hour, Sakon
said.  “Passengers would travel between Johannesburg and Durban
during the day, and freight would be transported at night,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  