-- Japan’s Solar Tariff May Drop 12% as Costs Sink, BNEF Estimates
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-01-22T02:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/japan-s-solar-tariff-may-drop-12-as-costs-sink-bnef-estimates.html
Japan  will cut its tariff for
purchases of solar power by as much as 12 percent as costs to
install systems to generate energy from the sun decline,
according to an estimate by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The so-called feed-in tariff for solar could fall to as low
as 37 yen (41 cents) per kilowatt hour for 20 years from a
current rate of 42 yen per kilowatt hour, according to Yugo Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst with New Energy Finance.  A committee appointed by the government began talks
yesterday on setting above-market rates for clean energy project
applications for the year starting April 1.  Average system costs for non-residential solar, which
includes photovoltaic panels, power conditioners and
installation, has fallen to 280,000 yen per kilowatt since
October, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said in a
document  posted  on its website yesterday. That was 14 percent
below the 325,000 yen per kilowatt amount used by the committee
to set the solar tariff for the year ending March 31.  “Equipment costs for solar power have been declining
considerably,” Toshimitsu Motegi, the minister for economy,
trade and industry, said yesterday at a news conference. The
solar tariff could possibly be cut somewhere in the range of 35
yen to 39 yen per kilowatt hour, Motegi said.  Under the incentive program for clean energy, the industry
ministry sets tariffs based on proposals by the committee.  Japan’s feed-in tariff program started in July to promote
clean energy after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear crisis.  Boost to Investment  The program has boosted investments in utility-scale solar
projects and has prompted companies such as  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone company, to enter the market.  Solar pioneers Spain and  Germany  have been winding down
subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, along with other
European governments in the past two years. Developers have
begun trying to build large-scale plants to sell electricity at
market prices following a decline in equipment costs.  Solar panel prices have  dropped  to $0.8 per watt on Jan. 14
from $0.99 per watt on Jan. 16, 2012, according to data on
multi-crystalline silicon module prices compiled by Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  