-- JPMorgan Hires UBS Banker Amid Quest for Bigger Islamic Slice
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-01-22T11:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/jpmorgan-hires-ubs-banker-amid-quest-for-bigger-islamic-slice.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has named
former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker Hussein Hassan to head global  Islamic
finance  as the biggest U.S. lender strives to boost its share of
an industry whose assets are set to double by 2015.  New York-based JPMorgan said Hassan, previously global head
of Islamic structuring for UBS, would focus on clients in
countries including Saudi Arabia and  Malaysia , according to an
e-mailed statement today. Malaysia hosts the world’s biggest
market for Islamic bonds, or sukuk, while Saudi Arabia boasts
the world’s biggest share of Shariah-compliant assets.  “As we have observed a significant increase in the demand
for Shariah-compliant banking products, we have decided to
invest in high-caliber people, systems and technology,” Sjoerd Leenart, JPMorgan’s senior country officer for the Middle East
and North Africa, said in the statement.  Global banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Standard
Chartered Plc have set up Islamic banking units to take
advantage of growing demand for financial products that comply
with the religion’s ban on interest. Global Islamic financial
assets are set to double to as much as $3 trillion by 2015,
according to Standards & Poor’s estimates.  Islamic Offering  Hassan, who also headed Zurich-based UBS’ Middle East and
North Africa structuring, will be based in Dubai, a Persian Gulf
emirate striving create a hub for Shariah-compliant banking that
would take on such centers as Malaysia and Bahrain. He will lead
JPMorgan’s effort to “further build out its Islamic offering
across different lines of business and regions,” the bank said.  Global sales of Islamic bonds surged 26 percent last year
to $46 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers
in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, accounted for almost half
of the total after sukuk sales tripled and borrowing costs
plunged to records.  JPMorgan helped arrange $119 million of global sukuk sales
last year, or 0.3 percent of the total, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with $11 billion, or almost a
quarter of the total, for HSBC, the world’s top underwriter of
Islamic bonds. Dubai, which is home to the world’s tallest
skyscraper, plans to sell 10-year dollar-denominated sukuk
today, four people familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  