-- Juncker Takes Euro Act Offstage in Handoff to Newest Minister
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-22T08:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/juncker-takes-euro-act-offstage-in-handoff-to-newest-minister.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker,  Europe ’s most seasoned politician, was either
making up policy on the hoof or had blurted out a decision that
was supposed to be secret.  Briefing reporters close to midnight on Nov. 12, Juncker
mumbled that Greece’s debt-reduction timetable was being
extended to 2022 from 2020. The ad-lib earned an instant rebuke
from International Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde . It
also hastened moves to push him out of the job as chairman of
the group of 17 euro finance ministers, two European officials
said.  “I was trying to express myself in a so-timid way that you
couldn’t understand,” explained Juncker, flanked by Lagarde and
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  Juncker’s remark after the Brussels meeting wasn’t his
first gaffe since emerging as a leading spokesman for policy
makers battling the financial turmoil spawned by Greece in 2009.
The 58-year-old Juncker has incarnated both the clandestine
politics that flailed for three years at a solution and the
spirit of improvisation that, for now, has kept the currency
intact.  “Despite the tendency to improvise in a number of
memorable out-of-office-hours press conferences, Juncker was
functional in helping buy time for Europe,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Nomura International in  London , said in an e-mail.
“In a sense, he had the most challenging part of the job, which
was having to communicate the state of affairs about the euro
area, not being the key decision maker.”  Treaty Signer  A Luxembourg government minister since 1984 and prime
minister since 1995, Juncker has spent his career shaping the
common currency. A signer in 1992 of the Maastricht Treaty
establishing the EU and euro, Juncker was the intermediary
between  Germany  and  France  in hashing out the deficit-limiting
stability pact in 1996 and in softening it in 2005. He ceded the
euro post yesterday, to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who has been Dutch
finance minister for all of 78 days.  Capable of sphinxian circumlocutions in French, German,
English and his native Luxembourgish, Juncker combined back-
channel diplomatic instincts with an embrace of the media,
especially in Germany and France. Speculation that he would drop
his part-time euro job accompanied each of his three
reappointments.  The Luxembourger’s reputation for ambiguity was legendary.
Asked about his effectiveness as a communicator late yesterday,
Juncker said “it’s very difficult to communicate in the name of
17 governments.”  Impossible Task  “If you look at how sometimes the different governments
sometimes sent different, if not sometimes opposing messages
into the world, then it’s of course not possible for the one who
is supposed to speak in the name of them all to send a uniform
message,” Juncker told reporters in Brussels after
Dijsselbloem’s appointment was announced.  Spats with the  European Central Bank  and an alternating
friend-and-foe relationship with the leaders of Germany and
France, the euro’s main patrons, marked Juncker’s eight years in
a role he himself crafted.  The 1997 compromise foreseeing that finance ministers from
the single-currency countries  “may meet informally among
themselves”  was the Luxembourger’s handiwork, setting up a
steering committee with ill-defined powers to accommodate rival
national interests.  Conflicting Goals  France wanted a council that would evolve into an
“economic government.” Germany pushed back, fearing a French
ploy to curb the ECB’s autonomy. And Britain, now considering an
exit from the EU, wanted a seat even though it wasn’t going into
the euro.  While the euro group obtained EU treaty status in 2009, it
is still informal, with competing views over whether its leader
should be a moonlighting finance or prime minister or a full-
time appointment. Whatever the case, the unpaid chairmanship
carries little power beyond the ability to set the agenda,
orchestrate who speaks when in meetings and announce the
outcome.  Starting with the euro’s birth in 1999, it rotated along
with the EU presidency, until the baton was passed in 2005 to
Juncker, then Luxembourg’s finance minister in addition to prime
minister. Initially, he was tapped for a two-year term.  In defiance of smoking bans recently imposed in EU
buildings, Juncker granted himself the right to puff during euro
policy discussions -- his unique privilege, a nicotine-free
fellow finance minister once groused.  Spokesman’s Role  His main public role amid the European market turmoil has
been chief spokesman, a task that clashed with his desire to
conceal market-sensitive information and his temper after round-
the-clock conferences.  Juncker’s covert streak was at work on May 6, 2011, when he
issued a denial -- which soon emerged as untrue -- of an
emergency meeting on Greece he was hosting at a secluded
Luxembourg chateau. Eleven days later, the overt Juncker floated
-- in breach of a promise to fellow ministers -- the “soft
restructuring” of Greek bonds.  The irritable Juncker was at work when he abruptly canceled
a post-meeting briefing on March 30, 2012, after learning that
his Austrian counterpart, Maria Fekter, had already divulged the
decision to cap new rescue lending at 500 billion euros ($668
billion). Fekter subsequently apologized.  “He certainly was not the leader that we needed to do
 crisis management ,” said Paul De Grauwe, a professor at the
 London School of Economics .  Full Juncker  All of his facets were on display in last November’s press
conference after the euro panel failed to nail down the new
Greek package in talks with Lagarde, a past and present rival.
As French finance minister in 2010, Lagarde was in the mix for
the euro group job; now, as IMF managing director, she was
pressing European governments to absorb more of Greece’s debt.  Instead, the freelancing Juncker said, the Europeans wanted
to delay the deadline for bringing down Greece’s debt to a
“sustainable” level by two years to 2022.  “Zweitausendzweiundzwanzig,” he said, giving the new date
in German in a translator-free press room. “That was not a
joke.”  Lagarde, unamused, responded: “We clearly have different
views.” The deal with the IMF to keep  Greece  solvent took two
more weeks. By then, pressure was mounting to accelerate the
departure of Juncker, who was talking about giving up the euro
post sometime in 2013.  Candidate Shortage  The problem was the shortage of eligible candidates.  Finance ministers from the four, and soon to be five,
countries in aid programs were ruled out at the start. Belgium
and Luxembourg had recently gotten central bank posts and were
out too. Italy already has the top job at the ECB and Finland
the European Commission’s economics portfolio.  Finance chiefs from two eastern countries, Estonia and
 Slovakia , were too far from the center of the policy making
universe. Slovenia is teetering on the edge of a bank-aid
program. A German or French chairman wouldn’t have sat well with
smaller countries.  Enter Dijsselbloem, 46, with a background in farming,
fishing, and education and youth issues. The transition from one
of Europe’s most senior to one of its most junior political
figures followed the process-of-elimination principle that often
governs high-level European appointments: the Dutchman was the
only remaining viable candidate.  Inexperience  Handing off to the most callow of euro finance ministers
was facilitated by two factors overcoming Dijsselbloem’s
inexperience: he hails from one of the euro area’s five
remaining top-rated countries, and the Netherlands hadn’t gotten
a plum European post since Neelie Kroes was made antitrust chief
in 2004.  “One would hope that he really succeeds in making sure
that Europe speaks with one voice, and imposes a greater
discipline,” said  Alessandro Leipold , a former IMF official who
is now chief economist of the Brussels-based Lisbon Council, an
independent research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  