-- Karachi Gunfights Kill 13 After Lawmaker Assassination
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-01-22T05:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/karachi-gunfights-kill-13-after-lawmaker-assassination.html
Police in Karachi said 13 people
have been shot dead today, continuing a surge in violence in
 Pakistan ’s commercial capital that has followed the
assassination of a provincial lawmaker.  Police spokesman Imran Shaukat confirmed the number of dead
in the latest clashes, while television channels, including the
 Geo network , said those killed since midnight included
gangsters, local traders and political activists.  Geo said almost 40 people have now died since the killing
on Jan. 17 of a legislator from the Muttahida Qaumi Movement,
Karachi’s biggest political party. The assassination was claimed
by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, which also took
responsibility for a bomb attack on a MQM gathering on New
Year’s Day,  The News Tribe  website said.  The city of 18 million people, whose banks and businesses
generate 45 percent of the country’s economy, has for years
witnessed spikes in violence involving members of rival
political parties, ethnic communities or criminal groups.  The MQM represents Urdu-speaking immigrants from  India  who
settled in Pakistan during partition in 1947. Its fiercest
opponent is the the  Awami National Party , which draws support
from Karachi’s Pashtuns, a community that has grown rapidly as
fighting between the army and Taliban guerrillas intensified in
the country’s northwest.  Putting aside their historical antagonism, leaders of the
ANP attended the funeral of the assassinated MQM politician,
Manzar Imam. Representatives of the two groups later told
reporters they need to stand together and fight the Taliban,
which has attacked workers of both parties.  Targeted assassinations killed 85 people in Karachi in
August, and more than 2,000 people died in attacks in the city
in 2012, according to police data.  Last week, President Asif Ali Zardari asked workers of his
 Pakistan Peoples Party  to prepare for polls that are planned for
May. The MQM is Zardari’s ally in the federal coalition and in
the regional administration that runs Sindh province, of which
Karachi is the capital.  -- Editors:  Mark Williams , Tony Jordan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  