-- Kingfisher Air Revival Needs $186 Million, Minister Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-22T12:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/kingfisher-air-revival-needs-186-million-minister-says.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that stopped flying in October because of a cash crunch,
needs at least 10 billion rupees ($186 million) to restart
operations, Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said.  “They need to prove they’ve the ability to scale up funds
to sustain operations,” Singh told reporters in New Delhi
today. Kingfisher Airlines also needs to obtain statements from
creditors, including banks, airport operators and employees that
they don’t object to a resumption of flights, he said.  Singh’s estimate on funds required by Kingfisher exceeds a
6.5 billion-rupee recovery plan that Chairman  Vijay Mallya , a
founder of the airline, outlined to employees on Jan. 10. The
Bangalore-based carrier, which lost its operating license on
Jan. 1, has sought cash for more than two years and was in talks
with possible investors such as Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways
PJSC for its revival.  India ’s government is willing to support Kingfisher’s
efforts to restart business provided the carrier pays employees
back wages in full, a Civil Aviation Ministry official, who
declined to be identified citing government rules, said in New
Delhi today. Kingfisher, the only Indian carrier with orders for
Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, hasn’t paid workers since May.  Kingfisher jumped 7 percent to 14.45 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, the first gain in four trading sessions. The benchmark
BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.7 percent.  India’s aviation regulator suspended Kingfisher’s permit in
October following flight disruptions caused by strikes triggered
by unpaid wages. Employees later agreed to resume work after the
management pledged to pay salaries. Sanjay Aggarwal, chief
executive officer of Kingfisher, today met K.N. Shrivastava,
secretary in the Ministry of Civil Aviation, on the restart
efforts.  International Lease Finance Corp., the world’s second-
biggest aircraft-leasing company, said today that it’s
struggling to retrieve six single-aisle Airbus A320s provided to
Kingfisher because of the carrier’s disputes with government
agencies in India such as airport operators and tax authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  