-- King Reigns Unchallenged at BOE Due to Lax Regime, Posen Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-01-22T12:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/king-reigns-unchallenged-at-boe-due-to-lax-regime-posen-says.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Adam Posen  said Governor Mervyn King exerts too much power that
goes unchallenged by officials at the central bank.  Supervision of the governor and other executives by the
central bank’s court was “very lax,” Posen told lawmakers in
Parliament today. He spoke during an unprecedented
“debriefing” on his time on the bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee, which ended in August.  “There was a very strong culture that if the governor
and/or the broader bank executive made a decision and dug in
their heels, there was no point in challenging them,” Posen
said. “That was the widespread belief of the court, of many
staff in the bank and some external members of the MPC.”  Posen highlighted a disagreement on his view that the  Bank
of England  should widen its focus of  asset purchases  beyond
gilts, a clash that led him to complain to the central bank’s
supervisory board. He also referred to the “mess” surrounding
the introduction of the Funding for Lending Scheme, a credit-
boosting plan whose development in secrecy by the governor
prompted a letter of protest by Posen and colleagues.  On the asset purchases, “I complained directly to a couple
of members of court, saying the governor is insisting we should
not do this, I don’t think that is fair or right that the
governor can just say that,” Posen said. “I was told by court
we cannot do anything about that until the governor leaves.”  Abdication of Responsibility  Posen said he replied that this was “an abdication of what
court should be doing” and that “no one should have that
sway.”  “I was told, ‘sorry, that’s the way it is,’” he said.
“The same thing happened when I said that to members of the
bank’s executive.”  The U.K. Treasury was also unwilling to challenge the
governor, Posen said.  “The current and previous chancellor wanted to see strong
monetary easing and wanted at least contemplated alternative
asset purchases,” but were unwilling to take on an independent
central bank, he said.  “But an independent central bank isn’t the same as one
individual being able to block discussion,” Posen said.  King faced a revolt in June when he shut out policy makers
from the FLS plan. Posen, along with Monetary Policy Committee
members Ben Broadbent,  David Miles , and  Martin Weale , wrote to
King after finding out he and key aides were privately designing
the program.  FLS ‘Mess’  “Part of the reason there was such a mess, a
misunderstanding and lack of communications with the broader MPC
when the FLS proposal came through was because there were all
these incredible machinations going on between Treasury and the
bank executive to get this through,” Posen said. “Therefore,
we couldn’t all know about it, we couldn’t all gang up on him,
it had to be done delicately.”  “I was quite furious at the time -- not at the governor --
he was advocating what he thought was right,” Posen said. “It
was at the people around Governor King and at the Treasury and
the court who let him get away with that.”  Posen, 46, left the MPC in August and took over as head of
the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International
Economics this month. The U.S. citizen led the charge for the
Bank of England to restart  quantitative easing  during his three
years at the MPC. Since his departure, he has expressed concern
that Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will have too much
power when he takes over from King in July.  With the Bank of England adding control of financial
regulation to its monetary-policy role, Posen said today that
the governor should be more of a chairman than an executive and
delegate more responsibility to his deputies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  