-- Naira Advances Second Day as Central Bank Holds Rate
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-01-22T14:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/naira-advances-second-day-as-central-bank-holds-rate.html
The naira retreated the most in a
week as the  Central Bank  of Nigeria warned against government
spending that may stoke inflation and left the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record high.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer slipped as
much as 0.4 percent, the most since Jan. 15, to 157.75 a dollar,
and traded less than 0.1 percent weaker at 157.2 by 3:06 p.m. in
Lagos, the commercial capital. The naira advanced 3.9 percent
last year, the strongest performer in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee left the  policy rate 
at 12 percent, Governor Lamido Sanusi told reporters yesterday
in the capital, Abuja. Inflation, which slowed to 12 percent in
December, is still above the central bank’s target of less than
10 percent. Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest economy remains
at risk to shocks that could arise from lower crude demand and a
weaker exchange rate as well as price pressures from higher
 government spending , Sanusi said.  “There are high expectations that the president will soon
sign the 2013 budget bill, which will open spending on various
capital projects, thereby increasing liquidity,” Ecobank
Transnational Inc. strategists, led by Paul-Harry Aithnard,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. The central bank
left rates unchanged “due to still high inflation” and “to
support the naira,” the analysts wrote.  Budget Increase  Nigeria’s legislature approved a 4.98 trillion-naira ($31.7
billion) budget for 2013 in December, 7 percent higher than this
year, and raised the benchmark oil price in this year’s budget
by $4 to $79 a barrel, giving more funds to the government for
spending. The budget will be based on an  exchange rate  of 160
naira a dollar. President Goodluck Jonathan hasn’t yet signed
the budget or rejected it.  “The CBN’s target is to bring consumer price inflation to
single digits,” Melissa Verreynne, an analyst at NKC
Independent Economists in Paarl,  South Africa , wrote in e-mailed
comments. “Since it has not yet succeeded in doing so, a
reduction in the MPR rate at this point could mean that the CBN
loses some credibility in its fight to uphold  price stability .”  Eight members of the MPC voted to keep the rate at 12
percent, Sanusi said, with two voting to reduce it by 25 basis
points.  Yields on naira debt due 2022 fell six basis points to
11.19 percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021 were
little changed at 3.722 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9095 a dollar in
Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  