-- Najib Visits Hamas-Run Gaza Strip as Malaysia Election Nears
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-01-22T17:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/najib-to-tour-hamas-run-gaza-in-first-visit-by-malaysian-leader.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
arrived in the Gaza Strip in the first visit to the Palestinian
enclave by a leader of the Muslim-majority Southeast Asian
nation, which comes months before he must call elections.  Najib, who was in neighboring  Egypt  on an official trip, is
scheduled to meet Palestinian members of parliament and visit
the site of a new office for Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh
to replace one destroyed during Israeli bombing in November,
according to Bernama, Malaysia’s state news service.  “It is an emotive issue for Malaysians,” Joseph Chinyong
Liow, associate dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies in  Singapore , said of the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. “This visit certainly won’t be a game-
changer, but as far as the Muslim vote is concerned -- and that
tends to be the constituency that is most sympathetic and drawn
to the issue of  Palestine  -- it would capture their attention.”  Najib, whose approval rating fell to the lowest level in 16
months in December, must call an election by April 28. In the
last vote in 2008, the governing National Front coalition led by
his party lost the two-thirds majority in parliament that it had
held for four decades.  Najib’s approval was at 63 percent in December, down from
65 percent in November, the lowest since he received 59 percent
support in August 2011, the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research
said Jan. 10. The survey included 1,018 voters and had a margin
of error of about 3 percent.  Qatar, Egypt  “I came here to express my solidarity with the Palestinian
people,” Najib said in a joint press conference with Haniyeh.
“This is a humanitarian visit to express our deep concern with
what is happening to the Palestinian people in Gaza.”  Qatar’s Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani in October became
the first head of state to visit Gaza since its takeover by
Hamas in 2007. In a show of support, Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi sent his prime minister, Hisham Qandil, to Gaza in
November during an eight-day conflict between  Israel  and Hamas.  The U.S.-backed Fatah party of Palestinian President
Mahmoud Abbas and Hamas have been at odds since the Islamic
group ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza a year after winning
parliamentary elections. Abbas now rules the West Bank. Several
attempts at reconciliation have failed.  Political Dimensions  Palestinian Authority Minister of Religious Affairs Mahmoud
al-Habash said the visit increases divisions between Fatah and
Hamas and will negatively affect Palestinian reconciliation
efforts, according to Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency.
“We are not against any humanitarian visit to the Gaza Strip,
but when the visit has political dimensions, then it must come
within the state protocols,” MENA cited him as saying.  Israel, which dismantled its Gaza settlements in 2005, has
fought a war with Hamas since the group’s takeover of the strip,
invading the enclave in early 2009 in response to rocket
attacks. Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel,
the U.S. and the European Union.  Israelis are voting today in elections, with polls
forecasting that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will win
another term.  Najib is traveling with his wife, Rosmah Mansor, Bernama
reported. They’re scheduled to visit a Malaysian-funded school,
the news service said.  An Israeli naval patrol boat fired warning shots at a ship
chartered by  Malaysia  carrying aid to Gaza in 2011 after it
failed to respond to calls, the Israeli army said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  