-- Nebraska Governor Approves TransCanada’s Keystone XL Route
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-01-22T21:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nebraska-governor-approves-transcanada-s-keystone-xl-route-3-.html
Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman
approved  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s revised route for the Keystone XL
pipeline, clearing the way for a final decision from U.S.
regulators on the project that would bring Canadian oil to the
Texas coast.  The new route avoids Nebraska’s Sand Hills, an
environmentally sensitive region overlaying the Ogallala
aquifer, the state’s main source of groundwater. The pipeline
will still cross the aquifer, though in a less sensitive area,
according to a letter Heineman, a Republican, sent today to
President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
informing them of his decision.  “Keystone would have minimal environmental impacts in
Nebraska,” Heineman said in the letter. “The concerns of
Nebraskans have had a major influence on the pipeline route, the
mitigation commitments and this evaluation.”  Heineman requested that Nebraska’s environmental review and
route approval be added to the study underway by the U.S. State
Department, which has authority over the project because it
crosses an international border. TransCanada executives have
said U.S. approval for the pipeline may come by the end of
March. Victoria Nuland, a spokesman for the State Department,
said the review won’t be ready by then.  ‘Minimal Impact’  “Keystone XL is the most studied cross-border pipeline
ever proposed, and it remains in America’s national interests to
approve a pipeline that will have a minimal impact on the
environment,” Russ Girling, chief executive officer for the
Calgary-based pipeline company, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Supporters of the 1,661-mile (2,762-kilometer) project have
said it will provide thousands of jobs and help the U.S. avoid
dependence on energy sources from politically unstable places.
Critics have turned the pipeline proposal into an environmental
debate over Canada’s oil sands and the heavy crude’s
contributions to air and water pollution. Blocking pipeline
transport of the oil to markets in the U.S. and overseas may
jeopardize development of the resource.  Producing and using western Canadian crude adds annual
carbon dioxide emissions equivalent to 6 million cars compared
to conventional crude, said Anthony Swift, staff attorney for
the Natural Resources Defense Council.  Inconsistent Policy?  Approving the pipeline would be inconsistent with the
environmental vision the president described in his second
inaugural address yesterday, Swift said in a telephone interview
today.  “We’re running out of time for action, and the problem
with Keystone XL is that it locks in a dirtier source of energy
for 50 years,” he said.  Obama can offset any potential increase in emissions from
oil sands by encouraging more use of cleaner-burning natural gas
in U.S. power plants instead of coal, said Kevin Book, managing
director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based
policy analysis company.  TransCanada’s original permit request to build the $7.6
billion pipeline, planned to stretch from Alberta’s oil sands to
Gulf Coast refineries, was delayed and ultimately rejected last
year by the U.S. State Department after Heineman and other
Nebraska officials criticized the route.  Final Approval  The project should now get “the final green light,” U.S.
Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican who opposed
TransCanada’s original route, said in a statement. “I hope
President Obama will swiftly approve the project so we can take
a significant step forward in meeting our energy needs.”  Jane Kleeb, executive director of Bold Nebraska, a group
that opposes the project, said Heineman’s approval was “one of
the biggest flip-flops in Nebraska political history.”  “He approved the pipeline route that crosses the aquifer
after he asked Obama to deny the route that crossed the
aquifer,” she said in an e-mail today.  After the initial proposal was rejected last year,
TransCanada broke the project into two pieces, one running from
Alberta to Steele City, Nebraska, and the other from Oklahoma to
Texas refineries. Construction has begun on the southern portion
of the pipeline, and environmental activists have been arrested
in several areas of Texas after staging protests or chaining
themselves to construction equipment.  The Nebraska decision now shifts the debate to larger
economic and national security questions, Steven Paget, an
analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary, said in a
telephone interview.  “I always believe local opposition is usually the most
powerful opposition,” said Paget, who has a market perform
rating on TransCanada and doesn’t own any of its stock. The
Obama administration must now decide, “does the U.S. want to
source more oil from Canada, versus continuing to supply from
other areas of the world?”  TransCanada fell less than 1 percent to C$48.78 at the
close in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  