-- Manhattan to Get First ‘Micro-Unit’ Apartment Building
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-22T21:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/new-york-city-to-get-first-micro-unit-apartment-building.html
New York City’s first “micro-unit”
building will have apartments as small as 250 square feet (23
square meters) and pantries that pull out from the wall, New
York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced today.  The “My Micro NY” building, a conversion of a city-owned
property at 335 E. 27th St., will be the first multifamily
building in  Manhattan  to be built entirely from prefabricated
modular pieces, the mayor said in a statement. Monadnock
Development LLC, Actors Fund Housing Development Corp. and
nArchitects, the project’s developers, won the adAPT NYC
competition, which sought proposals for space-optimizing units.  “The growth rate for one- and two-person households
greatly exceeds that of households with three or more people,
and addressing that housing challenge requires us to think
creatively and beyond our current regulations,” Bloomberg said
in the statement.  The 55 apartments in the building will have ceilings 9 feet
to 10 feet (2.7 meters to 3 meters) high, balconies and loft
space overhead, according to the statement. The building’s
apartments will range in size from 250 square feet to 370 square
feet, with 40 percent of them designated affordable units
renting for below-market rates.  Each unit’s kitchen will include a full-height
refrigerator, range and space for a convection microwave oven.
The building, in the Kips Bay neighborhood, is designed with
public spaces, such as a rooftop garden, porch with picnic
tables and a lounge that can seat 20 for dinner or accommodate
40 for standing-room events, according to Bloomberg’s statement.  Construction Cost  The developer paid the city $500,000 for the land, and the
cost of construction will be about $15 million, Nicholas Lembo,
president of Monadnock, said in an interview.  Of the 55 units, 22 will be rent-restricted depending on
tenants’ incomes, and 33 will rent at market rates, Lembo said.
The restricted rents would range from $939 a month for those who
earn 80 percent of the area’s average annual income, or $55,000
annually for a couple, to $1,873 for those earning 155
percent, or $106,640 for a couple, according to the mayor’s
office.  The city’s housing codes don’t currently allow for an
entire building of micro-units. Under the pilot program,
Bloomberg will waive some zoning regulations at 335 E. 27th St.
to test the market for micro-units, the mayor’s office said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Appealing Idea  Micro-units may be an appealing idea for developers, who
prefer building studios and one-bedrooms and find doing so a
challenge because they need larger apartments to cover the costs
of construction in the city, said Steven Spinola, president of
the Real Estate Board of New York.  “I believe there’s a market for this,” he said in a
telephone interview. “But at what rent? What will it cost to
build and to carry the units, and will the market rent that can
attract people cover the costs? That’s the real question.”  Manhattan rental prices have climbed in the past year
across all apartment sizes, as demand escalated. The average
monthly rent for a studio increased to $2,012 in the fourth
quarter, up 3.2 percent from a year earlier, while rates for
one-bedroom units rose 5.1 percent to $2,794, according to a
report by broker CitiHabitats. A two-bedroom apartment commanded
an average of $3,909 a month, up 4.8 percent.  The city’s request for proposals for the pilot project was
downloaded 1,600 times and resulted in 33 completed submissions.
It was the largest response ever to a request by the city’s
 Department of Housing Preservation & Development , according to
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  