-- NYC Police Can Continue Stop-and-Frisk During Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-23T01:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/new-york-stop-and-frisk-ruling-stayed-while-city-appeals.html
A federal judge said the  New York
City Police Department  can continue to make “trespass” stops
outside of privately owned buildings in the Bronx after
previously ruling that the practice may be unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan today
agreed to halt immediate enforcement of her Jan. 8 ruling
ordering the NYPD to cease its “stop-and-frisk” practices
while the city appeals. She also denied a request by the city to
postpone the trial of a related case scheduled to begin in
March.  “Despite my reservations regarding the likelihood of
defendants’ success on appeal, however, I recognize that
reversal is always a possibility,” Scheindlin said today.  “The opinion acknowledges at the outset that many of the
questions raised by stop-and-frisk are not easily answered and
that it may be difficult to say where, precisely, to draw the
line between constitutional and unconstitutional police
encounters.”  The Jan. 8 ruling followed a hearing held by Scheindlin
from Oct. 15 to Nov. 7 in a lawsuit filed last year by a group
of black and Latino residents challenging police stops of
individuals outside buildings enrolled in the city’s Trespass
Affidavit Program, or TAP.  ‘Clean Halls’  TAP, formerly called “Operation Clean Halls,” permits the
police to patrol participating buildings. Scheindlin found that
officers were violating the civil liberties of residents and
visitors by stopping, frisking and questioning them without
sufficient cause to believe they were trespassing.  The city has asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan
to overturn Scheindlin’s Jan. 8 ruling in a case called Ligon v.
City of  New York . The judge said the Jan. 8 order will remain
lifted during the city’s appeal until she issues rulings in
related cases.  In letters to Scheindlin sent on Jan. 14 and Jan. 17, the
city said it was appealing her ruling and asked that she grant a
request to immediately halt to enforcement of her Jan. 8 order.
The city called the judge’s ruling “unduly burdensome,” and
“inconsistent” with current NYPD training practices.  The city also argued the public’s safety was at stake
because officers following the Jan. 8 order “may not act when
they see suspicious behavior falling short of reasonable
suspicion.”  ‘Sewn Confusion’  City lawyers told the judge that her 147-page opinion in
the Ligon case had “sewn confusion” over U.S. laws governing
police stops “making it at a minimum impossible for defendants
to advise police officers how to comply” with the court order.
The city said that unless its request was granted, the NYPD
would be required to take the immediate and burdensome step of
having to retrain its police officers.  “We believe the court correctly lifted the immediate
relief it had ordered in Ligon,” Heidi Grossman, a city lawyer,
said today in a separate statement.  Scheindlin described the Ligon case as the most narrow of
the three court challenges to stop-and-frisk policies in New
York. A separate suit targeting all such police stops citywide
is scheduled for jury selection on March 11. Another seeks to
end alleged rights violations in trespass stops in public
housing.  ‘Strong Criticism’  “The judge’s ruling today affirmed her very strong
criticism of the city’s unconstitutional stop-and-frisk policy,
and it may well expedite the final remedy process for dealing
with the abuse of stop-and-frisk for all  New Yorkers  in a more
efficient way,” said New York Civil Liberties Union Executive
Director Donna Lieberman.  The case scheduled for trial in March was brought by David
Floyd, a black man who alleges that NYPD has a “suspicionless”
stop-and-frisk policy that violates the rights of citizens. The
complaint was filed in January 2008 as a class-action, or group,
lawsuit.  “After five years of preparation, the trial is scheduled
to begin in less than two months,” Scheindlin said in her order
today. “It would be unfair and inappropriate to delay the case
any further.”  Scheindlin said today her decision allowing what she called
“a longstanding unconstitutional practice” to persist for a
few months while she determines an appropriate remedy is “quite
distinct” from allowing such a practice to continue during
years of litigation.  The case is Ligon v. City of New York, 12-cv-02274, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  