-- New York City May Be Bypassed by Next Northeast Storm
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-22T17:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/new-york-city-may-be-bypassed-by-next-northeast-storm.html
A snowstorm forecast for the U.S.
East Coast at the end of the week may be more of a miss than a
blow for  New York City .  The system has a 50 percent chance of bringing snow to the
city after noon on Jan. 25, according to the  National Weather
Service  in Upton,  New York . While that may cause some minor
travel delays, there probably won’t be much accumulation, said
Rob St. Pierre, a meteorologist with  Hometown Forecast Services 
in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  “The system doesn’t look like it’s going to get going
until it’s too far to the east,” St. Pierre said by telephone.
“It doesn’t look like a major problem.”  Computer forecast models show the storm sweeping south of
New York City before it intensifies off the coast of Cape Cod in
Massachusetts. That track would mean perhaps 2 to 4 inches (5 to
10 centimeters) of snow in the mid-Atlantic states and some
accumulation in  Massachusetts  while New York is left mostly dry,
St. Pierre said.  Since the storm is still three days away, it must be
watched because the track might change, he said.  In the meantime,  Chicago  and the Midwest are in the grip of
a deep freeze.  The high temperature in Chicago today is expected to reach
only 9 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 13 Celsius), according to the
weather service. The temperature at O’Hare International Airport
was 3 as of 11 a.m. local time.  Tomorrow, temperatures in Chicago are expected to rise to a
high of 23 with a chance of snow flurries.  The frigid air also has a hold on southern  Canada . The
temperature in Toronto was 7 degrees Fahrenheit at noon and is
expected to remain below freezing for the rest of the week,
according to Environment Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  