-- News Corp. Sun Journalist to Be Charged in U.K. Bribery Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-22T17:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/news-corp-sun-journalist-to-be-charged-in-u-k-bribery-probe.html
U.K. police probing a bribery
scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid, Britain’s best-selling
daily newspaper, charged a journalist and a former London police
officer with conspiring to commit misconduct in public office.  Virginia Wheeler, the title’s crime editor, paid ex-
 Metropolitan Police Service  constable Paul Flattley for secret
information about murder victims and suspects over a four-year
period, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said today.  “The information provided included information about the
tragic death of a 15-year-old girl, as well as details about
both suspects and victims of accidents, incidents and crimes,”
Alison Levitt, the agency’s lead legal adviser, said in a
statement about the so-called charging decision.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of the
U.K. unit, and  Andy Coulson , who edited its News of the World
tabloid, were charged last year in the same bribery probe. The
pair has also been charged in a parallel investigation into
phone hacking at the News of the World, which News Corp.
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed in 2011 to quell public anger
over the scandal.  Wheeler, 33, paid Flattley, 30, at least 6,450 pounds
($10,200) for confidential information between 2008 and 2011,
the Metropolitan Police said in a separate statement. Flattley
was charged today and released on bail, while Wheeler was
ordered to appear in court on Feb. 11 to face the charge.  Emily Coen, a spokeswoman at News Corp.’s News
International unit in London, declined to comment on the CPS
decision.  56 Arrests  Another Sun journalist and two more police officers were
detained on Jan. 17, for a total of 56 arrests since the
investigation started. The probe has snared reporters, editors,
prison workers, a Defence Ministry employee and a terrorism
detective, among others.  Police officers issue formal charges based on CPS
decisions.  Prosecutors allege Brooks paid 100,000 pounds to a defense
ministry employee, while Coulson is accused of swapping cash for
a palace phone directory for the royal family and their staff.
Two other journalists and the defense employee were also charged
over claims they conspired with Brooks and Coulson.  April Casburn, a  London  police detective who specialized in
counter-terrorism, became the first person to face prison in the
bribery probe after a London jury found her guilty of misconduct
on Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  