-- NFL Reinstates Saints Coach Payton After ‘Bountygate’ Suspension
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-22T16:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nfl-reinstates-saints-coach-payton-after-season-long-bounty-ban.html
New Orleans coach  Sean Payton  was
 reinstated  following a season-long suspension for operating what
the  National Football League  said was a bounty program that paid
players for injuring opponents.  Former NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue threw out player
suspensions in the case on appeal last month, placing blame on
the team’s coaches and front office.  Payton said in a statement today that he and the team’s
general manager, Mickey Loomis, “take full responsibility for
all aspects of our football program.” He also said he had
assured the current commissioner,  Roger Goodell , that the team
will be “more diligent” about player safety.  “I clearly recognize that mistakes were made, which led to
league violations,” Payton said.  The NFL had said that about two dozen Saints players, led
by then-defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , paid each other as
much as $1,500 from 2009 to 2011 for trying to injure players
such as Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Kurt Warner  and  Brett Favre .  Current and former Saints players and coaches said that a
performance pool existed to reward defensive plays such as hard
tackles. They have denied that money was used as an incentive to
intentionally injure opponents.  Goodell chose Tagliabue, 72, his predecessor, in October to
hear the appeals after his original penalties were thrown out by
an arbitrator who ruled the commissioner had overstepped his
bounds.  Player Bans  Tagliabue agreed with Goodell that Jonathan Vilma, Anthony Hargrove and  Will Smith  engaged in detrimental conduct and said
a fourth player,  Scott Fujita , didn’t take part in the bounty
plan.  His decision to lift the suspensions applied only to the
players. The full-season ban of Payton and the indefinite
suspension of Williams remained in effect.  Payton  is now free to return to the team, while Williams
will be considered for reinstatement if he finds another job in
the NFL. Today’s action means Payton also will be allowed to
attend the Super Bowl championship between the  Baltimore Ravens 
and the  San Francisco 49ers  at the Superdome in New Orleans on
Feb. 3, the NFL said in a statement announcing his to return.  “Sean fully complied with all the requirements imposed on
him during his suspension,” Goodell said. “More important, it
is clear that Sean understands and accepts his responsibilities
as a head coach and the vital role that coaches play in
promoting player safety.”  Richest Coach  Payton signed a five-year contract extension through the
2017 season. ESPN reported on Dec. 29 that the coach will
receive more than $8 million per season, making him the NFL’s
highest-paid coach. The cable network cited a person in the
league who requested anonymity.  Since being hired by the Saints in January 2006, Payton,
49, has led the franchise to a 62-34 record, three division
titles, four postseason appearances and a Super Bowl
championship after the 2009 regular season. The Saints finished
7-9 this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  