-- NFL Is Reviewing Brady’s Slide Into Reed During AFC Championship
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-22T20:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nfl-is-reviewing-brady-s-slide-into-reed-during-afc-championship.html
The National Football League will
review the slide by New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady
in which his leg struck Ed Reed of the Baltimore Ravens during
the American Football Conference championship game.  During the closing seconds of the first half in the Ravens’
28-13 victory, Brady slid to the ground after scrambling out of
the pocket. His right leg extended upward and made contact with
Reed, who jumped over the quarterback and wasn’t injured.  NFL spokesman Corry Rush said plays like Brady’s slide are
routinely reviewed to determine if discipline is warranted.  Ravens coach John Harbaugh yelled at officials after the
play, asking why no penalty had been called on Brady, and said
yesterday that it’s “pretty straight-forward what happened.”
NFL quarterbacks can’t be hit by a defensive player when they
slide to the ground after a run.  “I’m going to leave it up to you guys to make those
evaluations and to the league to make that evaluation,”
Harbaugh said at a news conference, a day after his team
advanced to the Super Bowl.  Ravens safety Bernard Pollard told reporters yesterday that
Brady should be fined for sticking his leg up.  “We all know that emotions are on the field, we’re going
to say things, we’re going to do things,” Pollard said. “But
when it’s all said and done, if you want to keep the game clean,
everyone should be penalized for their actions.”  Detroit Lions defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh was fined
$30,000 by the NFL in November for striking Houston quarterback
Matt Schaub in the groin with his foot. That fine for
unnecessary roughness came after four other cases in which Suh
had been fined or suspended by the NFL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  