-- Irish, Portugal May Get Rescue-Loan Extensions, Noonan Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-22T10:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/noonan-says-eurogroup-may-extend-ireland-portugal-efsf-loans.html
Euro-area finance ministers will
consider extending the maturities of rescue loans to Ireland and
Portugal, Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  European authorities will examine whether to give Ireland
and Portugal more time to repay loans from the  European
Financial Stability Facility , a euro-area bailout fund, and also
loans from the  European Financial Stabilization Mechanism , under
which the European Commission can borrow with an implicit
European Union budget guarantee.  “Lengthening maturities at low interest rates has the
potential to enhance the sustainability of the Irish debt and
over a period of time cost us less in servicing the debt,”
Noonan told reporters in Brussels today before a meeting of EU
finance chiefs. “This will make the overall debt position more
sustainable and increase the willingness of the markets to lend
to us at low  interest rates .”  Noonan said in November that the government would examine
the aid package given to  Greece  last year and would push for
anything that helps Ireland exit its bailout program. European
finance ministers  agreed  in November to cut Greece’s rates on
bailout loans, suspend interest payments for a decade and give
the nation more time to repay.  ‘Full Market Access’  Bailout loan extensions have “the potential to improve the
funding profile of the sovereign and increase its ability to
gain the full market access necessary to successfully exit the
bailout program,” said Juliet Tennent, an economist at Dublin-
based Goodbody Stockbrokers in a note.  “This recognizes the efforts being made by well performing
program countries,” Noonan said in a statement late yesterday.
A report from senior officials on the proposal is due in March,
he said today.  Portugal ’s Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar initially
championed the proposal to extend EFSF bailout fund maturities,
with Ireland joining him yesterday to make a joint appeal to
euro-area peers, Noonan said. A similar proposal will be made
today at a meeting of EU finance ministers regarding EFSM loans,
he said.  “The 27 may not agree as readily as the 17,” Noonan said.
Ireland and Portugal aim to extend bailout loan maturities “to
the longest term available,” he said, declining to give further
details.  Irish Yields  Noonan said the push for longer maturities is “entirely
separate” from Ireland’s campaign to get  Europe  to share the
burden of the country’s bank bailout.  The yield on benchmark Irish October 2020 notes was
unchanged at 4.17 percent today. At the end of 2012, Ireland had
loans of 21.7 billion euros from the EFSM, with a weighted
average life of 12.4 years. The country had loans from the EFSF
of 12.7 billion euros with an average life of 11.7 years,
according to the country’s debt agency.  Greece was given an extension of the maturities of the
bilateral and EFSF loans by 15 years and a deferral of interest
payments on EFSF loans by 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  