-- Nordic February Power Rises as Spot Price Surges on Cold Weather
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-01-22T15:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nordic-february-power-rises-on-colder-forecast-after-record-drop.html
Nordic electricity for February
advanced, rebounding from yesterday’s record low as forecasts of
lower-than-average temperatures caused tomorrow’s price to jump.  The February contract rose as much as 1.4 percent. Power
for delivery tomorrow was 16 percent higher in today’s auction
on the the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange than in yesterday’s
auction for power today. Low temperatures tomorrow in Oslo may
be minus 16 degrees Celsius (3 Fahrenheit), according to
CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg. That compares with a 10-
year average of minus 8.  “The spot price for tomorrow is much higher than the one
for today, which is a bullish sign, and adds to the technical
recovery from yesterday’s price plunge,” Martin Brink, a trader
at Goeteborg Energi DinEl AB, a Swedish power-trading company,
said by phone from Gothenburg. The increase in the spot price
was driven by cold weather, lower wind power output and a rise
in German prices, Brink said.  The month-ahead contract rose as much as 1.4 percent to
42.10 euros ($56.01) a megawatt-hour and traded at 41.8 euros as
of 3:29 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo,
after falling as low as 40.85 euros yesterday. Power for
delivery tomorrow will cost 54.24 euros a megawatt-hour on
average, as set in today’s auction.  Electricity use in the Nordic region tracks temperatures
during winter months, with demand surging and electric heating
increasing when temperatures drop. Forward contracts frequently
track movements in prompt prices.  Water resources available for hydropower production, which
meets half of the region’s electricity demand, may drop to a
deficit of 15 terawatt-hours over the next month,  SEB AB (SEBA) ,
 Sweden ’s third-largest bank, said today in an e-mailed research
note. The Nordic region had a surplus of 9 terawatt-hours at the
end of November, according to Markedskraft AS data on Bloomberg.  “This is an excellent illustration of just how rapidly the
Nordic power system can shift from one extreme to another,”
Mats Forsell and Mats Hedberg, commodity traders at SEB, said in
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  