-- Nortel Mediation Over Splitting $9 Billion Extended by Judge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-22T23:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nortel-mediation-over-splitting-9-billion-extended-by-judge-1-.html
Creditors of  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,
the defunct telecommunications company, will continue trying to
negotiate a way to split $9 billion in cash, the mediator
overseeing talks said.  Mediator Warren K. Winkler, the chief justice of Ontario,
said in an e-mailed statement today that talks which began on
Jan. 14 will continue for an undetermined amount of time.
Winkler, who was appointed by the Canadian and U.S. judges
overseeing the biggest parts of Nortel’s bankruptcy, had
summoned participants to the Hilton hotel in downtown Toronto
for a week of talks that began Jan. 14.  While participants were no longer at the hotel, talks
continued today, Peter Rehak, a spokesman for Winkler, said in
an interview. At the end of the day Winkler issued a two-
sentence statement saying talks would be extended without giving
a new end date.  The mediation involves Nortel’s Canadian and U.S. entities
and their creditors, who have been opposed by the company’s
European units and their creditors, including retirees seeking
to retain pensions.  The groups have been fighting over a shrinking pile of cash
that won’t cover all of the debt owed by Nortel and its units.
Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in claims in
 Canada , according to a status report filed in a Toronto court in
October.  Retiree Payments  Pension administrators in the U.K. are demanding
$2.67 billion from Nortel’s main U.S. unit, claiming the money
is needed to fund payments to about 38,000 retirees, according
to court documents.  The talks were designed to prevent court battles in Canada,
the U.S., the U.K. and  France , where conflicting rulings by
different judges would be “a catastrophic outcome,” Winkler
wrote in April, when the current mediation started. The first
two mediation efforts failed.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in Toronto, Delaware, the U.K. and France in 2009, with various
units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under
the jurisdiction of different courts.  The European units were placed under the control of court-
appointed administrators. In 2011, those administrators filed a
claim in the U.S. bankruptcy court, alleging that the parent
company and the U.S. unit had siphoned money away from the
European units for years, leaving them unable to pay pensioners
and other creditors.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  