-- North Korea to Boost Nuclear Power After New UN Sanctions
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-01-23T11:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/north-korea-faces-new-un-sanctions-as-china-acquiesces.html
North Korea vowed to boost its
nuclear capability after the United Nations Security Council,
including its ally China, imposed new sanctions against the
totalitarian state for last month’s rocket launch.  “Denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is impossible,”
North Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement carried by
the official Korean Central News Agency. The North “will take
physical counteraction to bolster the military capabilities for
self defense including the nuclear deterrence.”  The Security Council yesterday unanimously agreed to
measures that build on a series of travel bans and  asset
freezes . The U.S.-drafted resolution imposes sanctions on North
Korea’s space agency, targets the illicit smuggling of sensitive
items and updates a list of nuclear and ballistic missile
technology prohibited for transfer in or out of the country.  “Some may say these sanctions are ‘low-hanging fruit’ and
don’t really bite as tightly as they might, yet two factors make
these sanctions meaningful,” George Lopez, a former UN
sanctions investigator on North Korea, said in an e-mail.  “It signals that consequences await a future violation of
any type and acts on recommendations regarding smuggling
networks and specific materials to be prohibited,” said Lopez,
who teaches at the Kroc Institute for International Peace
Studies at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana.  Kim’s Stance  North Korea successfully launched a long-range rocket in
December, boosting its ballistic capabilities after a failure
last April. South Korean officials have warned that the North is
prepared to conduct a nuclear weapons test “soon” in a follow
up to the missile launch.  Kim Jong Un, who succeeded his late father Kim Jong Il as
North Korea’s leader in December 2011, has sought to boost
foreign investment while showing no willingness to return to
nuclear disarmament negotiations. His Foreign Ministry today
announced an “end” to the six-nation talks, which have not met
since December 2008.  “There can be talks for peace and stability of the Korean
Peninsula and the region in the future, but no talks for the
denuclearization of the peninsula,” the ministry said, quoting
an unidentified spokesman.  North Korea traditionally responds to U.S.-led sanctions
“head-to-head,” with possible options including another
missile firing or nuclear test, said Chon Hyun Joon, senior
research fellow at the Korea Institute of National Unification
in Seoul.  ’Wait-and-See’  “There will be some sort of North Korean response but
considering the timing of new leadership in China, South Korea
and especially in the U.S., the North is likely to take a wait-
and-see approach,” Chon said, in reference to the Jan. 20 start
of President  Barack Obama ’s second term.  Incoming South Korean President Park Geun Hye has said that
a nuclear North Korea is “unacceptable under any situation,”
and vowed to “respond firmly” to any future “reckless
provocations” by the North, her spokesman Park Sun Kyoo said on
Jan. 13. Park, who takes office on Feb. 25, promised during her
campaign to revive inter-Korean dialogue to mend ties battered
during her predecessor Lee Myung Bak’s term.  Park’s transition team “strongly urges” North Korea to
refrain from testing a nuclear device and other provocative
acts, Yonhap News reported, citing spokesman Yoon Chang Jung.  “Park’s greatest challenge is to set sail amid the burdens
imposed by the outgoing government,” Chon added. “As a
conservative administration, it will be difficult for the Park
government to forgo South Korea’s alliance with the U.S. over
improving ties with the North.”  China Support  South Korea, a new non-permanent member of the Security
Council, welcomed yesterday’s actions, citing close cooperation
with the U.S. and Japan as well as discussions with China --
North Korea’s most powerful diplomatic backer. Park Geun Hye’s
delegation of special envoys will meet incoming Chinese leader
Xi Jinping today.  The most significant aspect of the UN vote may be
political, with China siding against its ally and neighboring
Communist regime in the world body for the first time in four
years. North Korea has ignored repeated calls to abandon its
nuclear weapons program and to stop test launches to develop
long-range ballistic missiles that could carry nuclear warheads.  In the past, China has used its veto power as one of the
council’s permanent members to protect the international pariah
state. North Korea’s main trading partner had been making the
case that quiet diplomacy would be more effective to get
cooperation from the totalitarian regime.  ‘Prudent’ Action  “We believe action taken by the council should be prudent,
measured, proportionate,” China’s Ambassador to the UN, Li Baodong, told reporters in New York. “Sanctions alone do not
work.”  China’s decision to back off its opposition to further will
do little to change the realities on the ground.  The 19-year-old daughter of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman Eric Schmidt, Sophie, described North Korea as “very, very strange”
and “like The Truman Show, at country scale,” according to a
 blog account  of her three-day visit this month as part of a
nine-person American delegation that included her father and
former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson.  In “The Truman Show,” a 1998 satirical movie starring Jim Carrey, the lead character lives in an artificial town and isn’t
aware that his entire life is a reality television show.  Foreign Luxuries  Evidence points to the North Korean elite still being able
to get their hands on foreign merchandise even though luxury
goods such as Mercedes cars and champagne are banned.  In her online observations on North Korea, Sophie Schmidt
wrote that the country’s “officials blame American sanctions
for just about everything, though somehow the sanctions didn’t
stop them from stocking the sparkling new supermarket we saw
with Doritos.”  The Security Council last tightened sanctions on North
Korea in 2009, shortly after it fired a long-range rocket
carrying a communications satellite that failed to enter orbit.
The botched April launch of a rocket that exploded minutes after
liftoff was met with only a statement of condemnation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  