-- Norway Mulls Sending Army Personnel to Help Mali Fight Militants
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-22T09:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/norway-mulls-sending-army-personnel-to-help-mali-fight-militants.html
Norway, which is still missing five
citizens after a hostage siege in  Algeria , is considering
joining a European Union mission to Mali to help train soldiers
backing French troops who are fighting Islamist militants.  Norway, which isn’t a member of the EU, has received an
informal request from neighboring Sweden to contribute army
officers and instructors, Elisabeth Kjaer, a Defense Ministry
spokeswoman, said by phone today. While the government has yet
to respond, Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide and Defense
Minister Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen are open to offering army
support, she said, confirming comments in local newspaper
 Aftenposten .  “It’s about stabilizing a region,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Kjetil Elsebutangen said in a phone interview from
Oslo. “Military contributions are one element, but far from the
only one. The efforts to create stable states, support of the
rule of law, building institutions, are also an important
contribution.”  Norway  is still missing five of its citizens after last
week’s terrorist siege on an Algerian gas complex that left at
least 38 hostages dead. The attackers struck a plant run jointly
by  Statoil ASA (STL) , the 67 percent state-owned Norwegian company, BP
Plc and Algeria’s Sonatrach.  Al-Qaeda  Militants of the al-Qaeda-linked al Mulathameen group
claimed responsibility for the attack, which they said was a
reaction to the deployment of French troops to stop jihadists
taking over neighboring Mali. The group has said other attacks
could follow.  The EU last week decided to speed up the deployment of its
training mission that will assist troops in Mali, and to spend
50 million euros ($67 million) to support West-African soldiers.  Togo, Nigeria,  Burkina Faso , Guinea,  Senegal ,  Benin  and
Ghana have pledged to contribute troops to the African-led
International Support Mission to Mali, or Afisma. The force was
conceived by the  African Union  before France’s airstrikes and is
assembling in the Malian capital Bamako this week.  The force is set to reach 5,500, French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius said on Europe1 radio on Jan. 20, exceeding an
earlier plan of 3,300.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  