-- Nuclear Output Falls to 22-Day Low as Two Reactors Shut
-- B y   K e n n e t h   C h r i s t e n s e n
-- 2013-01-22T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nuclear-output-falls-to-22-day-low-as-two-reactors-shut.html
U.S. nuclear-power generation fell
to the lowest level in three weeks as reactors shut in Louisiana
and  Ohio .  Output dropped 2.5 percent to  90,979 megawatts , or 89
percent of capacity, the least since Dec. 31, according to U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.
Production was  3.2 percent  below a year ago, with 10 of 104
reactors offline.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  shut the 1,250-megawatt Waterford 3 reactor,
which operated at 85 percent of capacity yesterday, according to
a filing with the commission. The plant, about 25 miles (40
kilometers) west of New Orleans, automatically tripped offline
after one of the steam generators reached a “low level
condition,” the filing showed.  “The cause is still under investigation but initial
indications are that we had a problem with one of the feedwater
pumps,” Carl Rhode, a company spokesman based at the plant,
said in an e-mail.  Feedwater pumps supply water to steam generators. The
Waterford unit went online last week for the first time in three
months after Entergy replaced two steam generators, a reactor
vessel head and a coolant pump.  Perry Trip  The 1,261-megawatt Perry 1 plant operated by  FirstEnergy
Corp. (FE)  tripped offline early today. The unit, 35 miles northeast
of  Cleveland , was at full power until its water level began to
drop, Jennifer Young, a company spokeswoman based in Akron,
Ohio, said in an e-mail. The levels have been restored to
normal, she said.  “The plant will remain shut down until the issue is fully
understood and resolved,” Young said.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Christensen in  New York  at 
 kchristense9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  