-- New York Police Sued Over Empire State Building Shootout
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-22T23:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/nypd-sued-by-woman-hurt-in-shooting-near-empire-state-building.html
New York  and its police department
were sued by a North Carolina woman who said she was wounded by
police responding to a shooting outside the Empire State
Building in August.  Chenin Duclos of  Chapel Hill  was in a crosswalk between
34th Street and Fifth Avenue at about 9 a.m. on Aug. 24 when she
was hit by a bullet from the gun of a New York police officer,
according to her lawsuit.  Duclos was “frantically running to get away from the
bedlam and hysteria that was unfolding on the street around
her” when she was shot in the leg, according to the complaint
filed today in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan . She is
seeking unspecified damages.  A man fired from his job near the Empire State Building
returned to his former workplace that morning and shot and
killed a co-worker, triggering a firefight with police that left
the shooter dead and as many as nine people injured, according
to the NYPD.  The assailant,  Jeffrey Johnson , was fired last year from
his job as a women’s accessory designer at Hazan Imports Corp.,
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said at a news briefing at the
time. The 58-year-old Manhattan resident returned to the
business on West 33rd Street and shot Steve Ercolino in the head
at close range on the street at 9:03 a.m., officials said.  ‘Cold Blood’  “Police officers were dealing with a killer who had just
assassinated a man in cold blood moments earlier, just around
the block, and who was still armed and who constituted a real
and present danger to the officers and the public at large,”
 Paul Browne , a spokesman for the police department, said today
in an e-mailed statement. “He produced a gun and pointed it at
officers when they fired.”  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg
News .  “These officers had to make split-second decisions in
dealing with a life-threatening situation presented by an armed
gunman who had just killed someone,” Michael A. Cardozo,
corporation counsel for the city, said today in a statement.
“The state’s highest court has recognized that police officers’
split-second decisions to use deadly force must be protected
from this kind of second-guessing. To allow otherwise would have
a chilling effect on the ability of our police to enforce the
law and would put the lives of police officers and the public at
risk.”  Doctorate Student  Duclos, 32, is studying for a doctorate in physical therapy
at the University of  North Carolina  and was in New York for a
family reunion in  New Jersey  when she was shot, her attorney,
Amy Marion, said in a phone interview. Duclos had stayed with a
friend in the New York suburb of Westchester County the night
before and was walking to Pennsylvania Station from Grand
Central Terminal to travel to the reunion when she was caught in
the crossfire, Marion said.  Duclos was knocked to the ground by the bullet and remained
in the crosswalk, “shot, motionless and fearing for her life,”
according to the filing. The bullet lodged in her left leg and
her thighbone was “completely destroyed,” according to the
complaint.  Duclos was hospitalized from Aug. 24 to Sept. 8, when she
was discharged to receive physical therapy. NYPD officers are
accused in the lawsuit of failing “to follow and to exercise
proper police tactics and procedures during the incident, giving
rise to the injuries sustained by plaintiff.”  The 1,453-foot (443-meter), 103-story  skyscraper  was
completed in 1931. It was the tallest building in the world
until New York’s World Trade Center was built in the 1970s. Its
86th- and 102nd-floor observatories attract about 4 million
visitors a year, according to its website.  The case is Duclos v.  New York City , 150593/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  