-- Obama Likes to Socialize, Just Not With Congress
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/obama-likes-to-socialize-just-not-with-congress.html
One criticism of the president that
permeated the nonstop socializing around the inauguration was
that a lack of socializing by  Barack Obama  is to blame for much
of the partisan rancor crippling  Washington .  If the president would have more parties with members of
Congress, the argument goes, the appetite for going over a
fiscal cliff just for the fun of it would be replaced by a lofty
spirit of cooperation.  It isn’t going to happen, and maybe it shouldn’t. We
exaggerate the value of such social events. And, by the way,
Obama early on did a lot of having people over to watch sporting
events or picnic on the South Lawn. As he said at a recent news
conference in answer to a question about the growing criticism
of his isolation: He builds it, they come, but the next day they
trash him anyway.  Watching the Obamas during the inaugural parade made clear
why he has chosen evenings with his wife and daughters over
evenings with Congress. A more comfortable foursome you’re
unlikely to find.  The president recently lamented that his 14-year-old
already doesn’t have time for the card games they used to play,
the cry of parents everywhere about teenagers soon to be
driving, dating and dreaming of college. In the hours they sat
together on Inauguration Day, the girls were fully engaged with
their parents -- they giggled, got their parents to kiss for
photos and boogied to the passing bands. There’s a lot you can
fake in politics, but it would be hard to get your kids to rock
to parade music with mom and dad.  Happy Marriage  The balls told a story, too. Obama may have mugged for the
cameras at the Commander-in-Chief Ball, but it wasn’t the first
time he sang  Al Green ’s “Let’s Stay Together” to Michelle.
We’ve had so many unhappy marriages in the White House that we
underestimate the impact of a happy one.  What we do exaggerate is what having people over can do. We
look at the marble busts in the Capitol Rotunda and see beating
hearts where actually there rested organs of stone. The Founding
Fathers spent plenty of time together -- their families weren’t
with them -- and wanted to shoot one another. We romanticized
 John F. Kennedy ’s Camelot after it ended abruptly as a place
where legislators would have slapped backs or traded horses
before after-dinner concerts featuring Pablo Casals.  Listen to the tapes if you think  Lyndon Johnson  got his way
by forming relationships. He wasted hours sweet-talking his
opponents but succeeded in the end by twisting their arms until
they cried for mercy. The vaunted relationship between the
Irishmen  Tip O’Neill  and  Ronald Reagan ? When the going got tough
on reforming  Social Security , they didn’t reach an agreement
over an after-hours whiskey. They punted to a commission.  The denizens of Washington thought that the Obamas would be
an antidote to the Arkansas hick  Bill Clinton  -- who preferred
barbecue and  Diet Coke  to Georgetown dinner parties -- and to
the cowboy ethos of  George W. Bush  and  Dick Cheney . But they
didn’t bank on a suburban dad who would rather eat at home above
the store than join House Speaker  John Boehner  on the Truman
balcony for a glass of merlot and a Camel Ultra Light.  Of course, it wasn’t Obama’s failure to hang out with
Boehner that doomed last year’s grand bargain on  deficit
reduction , but it’s a comfort to Republicans to say that it was.
If having people over for the evening is such an essential
requirement, then we shouldn’t elect presidents whose tenure in
government coincides with their peak child-rearing years.  Party Politics  Obama tried to quiet the growing chorus of voices saying
that more partying would soften the sharp policy differences.  He
said  that he has a fine time with members of Congress when they
come to the White House, but that doesn’t stop them from
“blasting me for being a big-spending socialist,” or, he could
have added, questioning his citizenship. When Boehner came to
the White House Christmas party, he left without shaking hands
with the first couple.  Part of the reason there are many fewer relationships these
days is that so few members bring their families to Washington
(that was a rare sighting of Boehner’s wife at the inaugural
lunch). Members work three days and then fly home to raise
funds. The possibility of friendships disappeared long before
Obama decided to socialize with friends he already had and spend
quality time with his family.  In his memoir of the Clinton administration,  David Gergen 
wrote that he could tell when Clinton had a fight with Hillary.
The president would arrive in the West Wing red-faced and fit to
be tied. It would take hours for him to reach equilibrium.
Washington can resent the “me time” required to have a stable
and happy inner life, but Obama gets such high marks from the
public on temperament in part because he isn’t beset by the
angst that comes from unhappiness.  Obama made very nice at the lunch with Congress after he
was inaugurated. It didn’t stop Republicans from blasting the
speech he had just given. If I were on  Capitol Hill , I wouldn’t
be waiting for a call to join the president for beer and
pretzels on Super Bowl Sunday.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 