-- Obama Joined by Biden at Prayer Service to Start New Term
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-01-22T17:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/obama-joined-by-biden-at-prayer-service-to-start-new-term.html
President  Barack Obama  and Vice
President  Joe Biden  began the first day of their second four-
year term at a prayer service meant to underscore the nation’s
diversity of faith.  The two leaders went to Washington National Cathedral,
which has served as the backdrop for U.S. leaders in times of
celebration, crisis or sorrow.  The cathedral “will once again bring Americans together to
pray for the nation at the start of a new presidential term -- a
service it has provided since 1933,” according to a statement
on its  website . The interfaith service included voices of faith
from several Christian denominations as well as Islam, Judaism
and Sikhism.  “We’re in need of a new common national vision,” said the
Reverend Adam Hamilton, pastor of the United Methodist Church of
the Resurrection in Leawood,  Kansas , who gave the sermon.  “To many Americans, we feel like a House divided that
cannot stand” on issues from the debt ceiling to health care,
he said. Government leaders should serve with humility and
compassion, and when times get tough and people “feel like
giving up,” Hamilton said it is “faith that sustains us. He
will renew your strength.”  Besides Obama and Biden and their wives, the White House
said administration officials and Cabinet members attended,
including Jack Lew, Obama’s nominee as Treasury secretary,
Attorney General Eric Holder, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius . House Democratic leaders
 Nancy Pelosi  and Steny Hoyer also were there, the White House
said in a statement.  Presidential Tradition  Prayer services have been a tradition dating to  George Washington , the first U.S. president, and services have been
held at the cathedral since  Franklin Roosevelt ’s first
inauguration in 1933.  It marked the third consecutive day Obama attended church.
He went to Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in
Washington on Jan. 20 and St. John’s Episcopal Church one block
from the White House yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  