-- Obamas Have Ball With Paisley, Keys, Hudson: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-22T15:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/obamas-have-ball-with-paisley-keys-hudson-d-c-scene.html
President Barack Obama introduced
his “date” and “dance partner,” Michelle Obama, at the
Commander-in-Chief Ball last night in the Walter E. Washington
Convention Center. The crowd roared their approval.  The Obamas danced on a stage to  Al Green ’s “Let’s Stay
Together” performed by  Jennifer Hudson . The president could be
seen whispering the lyrics into his wife’s ear. Michelle Obama
wore a bespoke red Jason Wu gown that will be donated to the
National Archives, her office said.  The guests sang along while producing a sea of phone-camera
lights that competed with the blue glow from the illuminated
inaugural seal.  Most of the guests at the Commander-in-Chief Ball were
military members and their spouses who started gathering early
around the stage, anticipating the presidential guest of honor.  Army First Lieutenant Jason Pak, a West Point graduate who
lost both legs last month in Afghanistan, was among the wounded
singled out for their bravery.  “The world doesn’t change, but presidents do,” said Air
Force Technical Sergeant Joseph Deslauriers, who lost his legs
and an arm in  Afghanistan  in 2011.  Country crooner Brad Paisley dedicated his hit “She’s
Everything” to the female soldiers in attendance.  Alicia Keys, in red sequins, did her “Girl on Fire,” with
lyrical variation: “Obama’s on fire,” she belted.  More Parties  The official Inaugural Ball, open to the public, was also
at the Washington Convention Center. Many guests from both
events dispersed to parties all over Washington.  BET Networks held an after-hours event sponsored by
 Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  where hip-hop pulsated
throughout the National Portrait Gallery, which had been turned
into a chic dance club.  These and weekend parties offered a chance for figures from
both Obama terms to take a bow. Secretary of State nominee
Senator  John Kerry  and Treasury Secretary nominee Jack Lew did
just that over cocktails at the Park Hyatt last night for a
celebration hosted by Eli and Edythe Broad.  The invitation featured Jasper Johns’s “Flag, 1967,” from
the Broads’ collection, while the guest list drew from the upper
echelons of the White House.  Current cabinet members Kathleen Sebelius, Leon Panetta,
Tom Vilsack and Janet Napolitano spoke during dinner, as well as
 Nancy Pelosi . Walter Isaacson and  Jeff Koons  were guests.  Kerry was also at Cafe Milano on Sunday, for a brunch
hosted by Tina Brown’s Newsweek-Daily Beast.  David Axelrod ,
Obama’s campaign mastermind, relaxed around the seafood-and-
pasta buffet.  Red Wagon  Former Secretary of State  Colin Powell  wore a lapel pin in
the shape of a little red wagon -- the symbol of his America’s
Promise organization for children and a reminder, he said, that
every young person deserves a happy and cheerful childhood.  Alan Greenspan , 86, was hard-pressed to name a favorite
inauguration.  “I’ve been to so many,” the former Federal Reserve
chairman said Saturday evening at a house party hosted by
Atlantic Media Co.’s David Bradley, where Israeli Ambassador
Michael Oren and Hungarian Ambassador Gyorgy Szapary were
guests.  Former Democratic National Committee chairman  Terry
McAuliffe  dashed in briefly enroute to another party. Ashley Judd arrived late in a little black dress.  Creative Coalition  Actors Alfre Woodard and Lynn Whitfield shared their
inaugural memories at the Creative Coalition’s Sunday dinner
party at the Russian restaurant Mari Vanna. David Arquette and
Robin Bronk, executive director of the Creative Coalition, were
also in attendance.  Woodard, who campaigned for Obama in 2008, said that seeing
him sworn in the first time was emotional because she knew
firsthand the hard work it took to get there.  International cuisine was featured at the Indiaspora Ball
at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.  Guests included Congressman Edward Royce, California
Republican and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
and his wife, Marie Therese Royce, senior director of
international affairs for Alcatel-Lucent. They chatted with
Sanjay Puri, the chairman of the U.S.-India Political Action
Committee.  Many in the crowd wore saris and Nehru jackets. Shots of
strawberry lassi were served on arrival.  British Ambassador Peter Westmacott’s tea Saturday
afternoon brought out media, entertainment and political
royalty.  “I love coming to the British Embassy,” said Briton Tina
Brown. “I have to take the train down from New York to get a
decent cup of tea.”  Top Priority  Actress Rosario Dawson, a political activist for Latino
issues, wore Dolce & Gabbana demure tweed and said that
immigration reform was her No. 1 priority for the president’s
new term.  Barbara Walters, in a bold turquoise necklace, said her
favorite British prime minister to interview was  Margaret Thatcher .  Obama senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  wore silver Giorgio
Armani and gave  Michelle Obama ’s new haircut, with eyebrow-
grazing bangs, a thumbs up.  Senator  Kay Hagan , North Carolina Democrat, sipped tea with
her husband, Chip, Montana Democratic Senator Jon Tester, and
former Majority Leader Tom Daschle, who came with his lobbyist
wife, Linda.  Tony and Heather Podesta, who recently announced their
separation, also attended, a sign as good as any other that for
inaugurations, differences can be set aside.  (For a slide show of inaugural photographs, click  here .)  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Greg Evans  on
 film .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 