-- Obama Health Law Needs Delay, State Insurance Head Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-22T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/obama-health-law-needs-delay-state-insurance-head-says.html
President  Barack Obama  may need to
delay his health-care overhaul or risk “chaos” when subsidized
insurance plans go on sale in October, the head of the  National
Association of Insurance Commissioners  said.  It’s unclear how well the federal government or any of the
participating states will perform on Oct. 1, when millions of
Americans are supposed to begin shopping at online markets
created by the law, Jim Donelon, the NAIC’s president, said in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. While the
administration has shown no sign of seeking a delay, it may be
in the president’s best interest, he said.  “It’s his calling-card, signature issue and to rush it
into implementation before it’s ready would not be in his
overall interest,” said Donelon, a Republican who’s also
 Louisiana ’s insurance commissioner. State officials around the
U.S. “don’t want it to create chaos.”  The Obama administration and 18 states are preparing to
establish the insurance markets, a centerpiece of the 2010 law
designed to extend coverage to millions of uninsured people. The
association, which represents state regulators, today named
former Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska as its chief
executive officer, in an attempt to expand its influence in
 Washington .  “We needed the gravitas, the phone calls returned, to go
to  Capitol Hill , to tell our story, defend our turf, and beyond,
protect and promote our system around the world,” Donelon said.
“I think all the way up to and including President Obama would
return Senator Nelson’s phone calls.”  Dodd-Frank  Regulators in the U.S. states are contending with the
Federal Insurance Office created by the Dodd-Frank law, expanded
U.S. involvement in health insurance and European efforts to
regulate capital known as Solvency II. State regulation has
served U.S. consumers and insurers well and deserves to be
defended, Nelson, 71, said in the interview.  “To impose their standard solvency regulation I think is a
mistake, and I hope to work to try to convince them of that,”
Nelson said in an interview in New York. “It isn’t broken, so
we’re not going to let them fix it.”  A former insurance industry executive,  Nebraska  governor
and state regulator, Nelson was considered one of the more
conservative Democrats in the Senate. He provided the 60th vote
to help push Obama’s Affordable Care Act through the Senate.  Eighteen states are building exchanges that will let
uninsured residents buy medical plans starting in October.
People who don’t get insurance through their employers would use
the exchanges to select coverage from private insurers, often
with taxpayer-subsidized premiums.  30 Million  Some states are also revamping Medicaid programs for the
poor by broadening eligibility rules. Congressional budget
projections show that more than half of the 30 million uninsured
targeted by the law will eventually buy subsidized plans through
the state exchanges and at least 11 million others will become
eligible for state-run Medicaid coverage.  The U.S. government is giving states that run their own
exchanges a share of about $2 billion to help get them started.
The remainder of the 50 states will let the U.S. run the
exchanges or choose to provide services such as consumer
assistance in a partnership with the federal government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  