-- Mobily Set for Biggest Weekly Gain in Year: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-22T12:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/mobily-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-year-riyadh-mover.html
Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC)  was headed for
its biggest weekly gain in almost a year after the second-
largest telecommunications operator in Saudi Arabia posted
quarterly results that beat estimates.  Shares of the company also known as Mobily advanced 2.7
percent to 75 riyals, the highest level since April 2006, at the
close in  Riyadh . The shares have surged 5.6 percent since
results were announced before the market open on Jan. 19, and
are poised for the biggest weekly gain since February. The stock
was the  biggest gainer  on the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index
today, which increased 0.3 percent.  Mobily’s fourth-quarter profit rose to 1.9 billion riyals
($507 million) from 1.7 billion riyals after revenue rose 17
percent, helped by subscriber roaming charges and data services.
That beat the 1.75 billion-riyal  average estimate  from 13
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mobily’s main focus in 2012 was to increase revenues
generated from the business sector, which grew 71 percent year-
on-year,” Asim Bukhtiar and Ahmed Korayem, analysts at Riyad
Capital, said in an e-mailed note Jan. 20. The company also
benefited from Muslim pilgrims heading to the country and using
its mobile phone roaming services, he said. Bukhtiar has a buy
rating on the stock with a 12-month price estimate of 80 riyals.  Mobily and other Saudi telecommunications companies
benefited from economic growth of 6.8 percent last year in the
Gulf Cooperation Council’s most-populous country. The kingdom,
with a population of 28 million people, had 53.1 million mobile-
phone subscriptions and 4.74 million for fixed lines at the end
of the third quarter, according to the Communications and
Information Technology Commission. Shares of Mobily rallied 45
percent in 2012, outpacing an advance of 6 percent for the
benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index. (SASEIDX)   Seventeen analysts  recommend investors buy the shares,
while two say hold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  