-- Ocado Appoints Rose to Succeed Michael Grade as Chairman
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-01-22T10:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ocado-appoints-rose-to-succeed-michael-grade-as-chairman.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the unprofitable
U.K. online grocer, named former  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  boss
 Stuart Rose  as its new chairman, adding weight to its leadership
to help dispel doubts over the future viability of the business.  Rose, 63, will join as a non-executive director on March 11
and will succeed Michael Grade as chairman after the annual
shareholder meeting on May 10, the Hatfield, England-based
retailer said today, boosting the  shares  as much as 8.3 percent.  Rose stepped down as chief executive officer of Marks &
Spencer in 2011 after seven years at the helm of the U.K.’s
biggest clothing retailer, where he fended off a bid by
billionaire  Philip Green . He joins Ocado as the Internet grocer
seeks to double capacity with a second distribution center and
to revive sales growth that has fallen behind the online
businesses of competitors such as Tesco Plc and J Sainsbury Plc.  “His appointment for us doesn’t change the fundamental
problem for Ocado, namely that their business model doesn’t
work,” Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital, said by phone.
“The cost of competing and the cost of fulfilment are just too
high, hence it makes meagre cash flows and no earnings, never
mind dividends.” Black has a sell recommendation on the stock.  Debt Facility  Ocado, which hasn’t reported an annual profit since listing
on the stock exchange, ended doubts over its immediate survival
in November by prolonging a 100 million-pound ($159 million)
 debt facility  and selling 35.8 million-pounds of shares. The
company reported 14 percent sales growth in the six weeks ended
Jan. 6, trailing Tesco’s 18 percent gain in online food sales
over Christmas and Sainsbury’s growth of more than 15 percent.  Ocado  rose  as much as 7.85 pence to 102.9 pence in London
trading, the highest intraday price since June 26.  Rose “has the potential to bring much-needed esteem” to
the company, Shore Capital’s Black said in a note.  Alongside Ocado, Rose has taken on posts at companies
including private-equity firm Bridgepoint Capital Ltd. and South
African retailer  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL)  since leaving Marks &
Spencer, where he began his retailing career in 1971.  The executive has also run the home-furnishings division of
Debenhams Plc department stores and been CEO of fashion retailer
Arcadia Group and food wholesaler Booker Group Plc.  ‘Very Impressed’  “I have been very impressed at the impact and progress
Ocado has made,” Rose said in the statement. “As retail goes
through a fundamental shift into the digital world, I believe
Ocado’s model and the high standards of  customer service  it
provides will see it emerge as a powerful online player.”  The shares were up 4.9 percent at 99.75 pence as of 10:14
a.m., below the 180 pence at which they were sold to the public
in July 2010. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, partly
because of bid speculation, according to Panmure Gordon analyst
 Philip Dorgan . William Morrison Supermarket Plc’s gap in online
food is “an obvious home,” Dorgan said, though he added that
“a deal at current prices is very unlikely.”  While Rose was at Marks & Spencer, he may have looked at
Ocado with regards to a possible tie-up to sell food online,
Espirito Santo analyst Caroline Gulliver said by e-mail.  Rose will face a similar challenge at Ocado to that he had
at Marks & Spencer, according to Gulliver, namely “how to make
selling online profitable while at the same time protecting
return on capital and leveraging existing assets.”  The online retailer also said today that board member Wendy Becker is stepping down with immediate effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  