-- Offshore Gulf Oils Strengthen as Traders Cover Short Bets
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-01-22T20:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/offshore-gulf-oils-strengthen-as-traders-cover-short-bets.html
Oils produced offshore in the  Gulf
of Mexico  strengthened as traders bought physical crude to cover
bets that the offshore oils would fall relative to Midwest
grades after the expansion of the Seaway pipeline.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  completed the 250,000-
barrel-a-day expansion of the Seaway pipeline Jan. 11, allowing
more domestic and Canadian crude to get a higher price on the
Gulf Coast. The  discount  of West  Texas  Intermediate to Brent,
the global oil benchmark, narrowed by 13 percent since the
expansion.  “You are seeing some short-covering after you saw those
crudes get a little bit hammered on the expectation of
increasing supply heading for the region,” said David Bouckhout, senior commodity strategist with TD Securities in
Calgary.  Heavy  Louisiana  Sweet’s premium increased $1.25 to $19.25
over WTI at 12:21 p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Light Louisiana Sweet strengthened by 50 cents to
an $18.25 premium.  Other offshore Gulf oils also strengthened.  Thunder Horse 
gained $1.40 to a $16.75 premium, while Southern Green Canyon
moved $1.05 higher to a $14.30 premium. Mars Blend picked up
$1.30 to trade at $14.30 a barrel over WTI, and Poseidon gained
$1.10 to a $15.10 premium.  Motiva Startup  Demand may also increase as Motiva Enterprises LLC started
at 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit that will double the capacity
of its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery.  “The thought is that with that refinery getting closer to
its 600,000 barrel-a-day capacity, that is certainly going to
help with regional demand,” Bouckhout said.  Offshore  Gulf coast  oils delivered in Louisiana will
strengthen against Texas oils later this year, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. commodity analyst Stefan Wieler said in a research
note today. A bottleneck is developing between new supplies
coming into the Houston refining market on Seaway and other
pipelines and the Louisiana refining market, he said.  “There is a bottleneck emerging that could prevent
domestically produced crude arriving in Texas from reaching the
refineries in Louisiana, leading to a dislocation of light sweet
crude prices in Houston, TX, from those in St James, LA,”
Wieler wrote in a note to clients.  The price of light, sweet crude in Houston could be
discounted versus the offshore crude starting sometime late in
the third quarter or fourth quarter, Wieler said.  West Texas  West Texas Sour and West Texas Intermediate oil delivered
at Midland both strengthened as several pipeline projects meant
to carry away a glut of crude in the region move forward.  Each oil’s discount to domestic benchmark WTI delivered in
Cushing,  Oklahoma  has narrowed by more than $10 a barrel since
Jan. 10. WTS’s  discount  shrank $1 a barrel to $8 at 12:21 New
York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. WTI in
Midland gained $2 a barrel, narrowing its discount to $2.  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP and Magellan Midstream
Partners LP are expanding pipeline capacity from the Permian
Basin to Houston, and the 500-mile (805-kilometer) Seaway
pipeline from Cushing, Oklahoma to Freeport, Texas has resumed
service after completing the connections necessary to raise
capacity from 150,000 barrels a day to 400,000 barrels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  