-- Oil Rises as Global Investor Confidence Increases
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-01-22T20:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/oil-rises-as-german-investor-confidence-increases.html
Oil increased to a four-month high
as German investor confidence climbed more than economists
expected and a Bloomberg survey showed that international
optimism about equities gained.  Futures rose 0.7 percent after Germany’s ZEW Center for
European Economic Research said its  index  of investor and
analyst forecasts climbed to 31.5 from 6.9 last month. Global
investors are the most bullish on stocks in at least 3 1/2
years, with almost two-thirds planning to boost holdings during
the next six months, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “We’re seeing a slow steady return of confidence in the
economy,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “There’s been a
return of bullish sentiment to almost all markets.”  Crude oil for February delivery rose 68 cents to $96.24 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Sept. 17. February futures expired today. The
more-active March contract gained 64 cents to settle at $96.68.  Yesterday’s transactions in New York will be booked with
today’s trades for settlement purposes as there was no floor
trading because of the Martin Luther King Jr. Day holiday.  Brent oil for March settlement gained 71 cents, or 0.6
percent, to end the session at $112.42 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The European benchmark traded at a $15.74 premium to West
Texas Intermediate crude futures traded in New York. The spread
was $15.16 on Jan. 17, the narrowest level based on closing
prices since July 24.  Narrowing Spread  The spread has shrunk since  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) 
and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  resumed service of the Seaway pipeline running
from Cushing to the Gulf Coast on Jan. 11 at a capacity of
400,000 barrels a day, up from 150,000 barrels. The link
provides an outlet for record supplies in the central U.S.  “The improvement of the economy is helping WTI, along with
the continued narrowing of the Brent spread,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion. “As new
lines open up, relieving the bottleneck in the middle of the
country, WTI will gain strength.”  The ZEW index, which aims to predict German economic
developments six months in advance, climbed to the highest level
since May 2010 and showed the biggest gain in 11 months.
Economists forecast an increase to 12, according to the median
of 39 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  “We’re getting a boost from increasing investor confidence
both in Germany and, as a Bloomberg survey shows today, in the
rest of the world,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“There should be an increasing investment flow, boosting
prices.”  Watching Equities  The Bloomberg Global Poll also showed that 53 percent of
respondents say equities will offer the highest return in the
next year. That’s a 17 percentage point jump from the last poll
in November and the most since the quarterly survey of
investors, analysts and traders who subscribe to Bloomberg began
in July 2009.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average climbed 0.3 percent.  Republicans in the House of Representatives plan a vote
tomorrow on a plan to raise the government’s borrowing limit
until May 19. The Treasury Department has said the U.S. will
exceed its $16.4 trillion borrowing authority sometime between
mid-February and early March.  “The threat of a debt default in the next few months has
been put off for at least a few months, which will be good for
the markets,” Kilduff said. “The economy should do better and
that will be good for oil demand.”  North Africa  Futures climbed last week as an attack on the BP Plc-
operated gas field last week in Algeria led to concern that
militants may carry out a similar assault on energy facilities
elsewhere in the region.  Neighboring Libya, which holds Africa’s biggest crude
reserves, is  producing  1.1 million barrels a day, Oil Minister
Abdulbari Al-Arusi said in an interview in Tripoli yesterday.
That’s less than the International Energy Agency’s estimate for
last month of 1.4 million barrels. The country’s daily output
may rise to 2 million barrels in two years, he said.  Goldman Sachs analysts, led by Stefan Wieler in New York,
said today that West Texas Intermediate oil will average $96.50
in 2014, down from an estimate of $98 on Dec. 20.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 472,943
contracts as of 3:26 p.m. Volume totaled 563,464 contracts Jan.
18, 15 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was
1.49 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 