-- Toll Brothers Plans to Develop Luxury College Dormitories
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-23T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/toll-plans-to-develop-college-dormitories-wind-down-unit.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, is beginning development of high-end
college dormitories, according to Chief Executive Officer
Douglas Yearley Jr.  The dorms will be off campus, starting at two East Coast
universities the company will identify later. The buildings
won’t be affiliated with the schools, giving Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based Toll greater control of the properties, such
as managing the rent, Yearley said. They will feature such
amenities as a bathroom for every resident, movie-screening
rooms and gyms.  “Not the dorm living I experienced,” Yearley, 52, said in
an interview yesterday at the International Builders’ Show in
 Las Vegas .  Toll, best known as a builder of upscale single-family
houses, has diversified into urban high rises, rental apartments
and communities for residents 55 and older as it seeks to
broaden sources of revenue and reduce the cyclical disruptions
of the housing market. Toll’s primary focus remains owner-
occupied housing, Yearley said.  “Our core business is fabulous,” Yearley said.  Toll rose 2.1 percent to $37.06 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 67 percent in the past 12 months, less
than the 84 percent increase for the 11-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index. (S15HOME)   Home Sales  Sales of  existing homes  declined 1 percent last month from
November to an annual pace of 4.94 million, slower than
economists estimated, as sales were limited by a drop in
listings, the National Association of Realtors reported
yesterday. The number of sales for all of 2012 was the highest
since 2007.  U.S.  new-home  sales, which are scheduled to be reported
Jan. 25, probably climbed to an annual pace of 385,000 in
December, according to the median of 74 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  “All signs point to a very good spring,” Yearley said,
citing the number of visitors to Toll Brothers model homes and
the amount of closings. The company expects to add 74
communities and sell out of about 50 this year, bringing its
total to about 230, he said.  Echo Boomers  College enrollment is expected to increase by at least 10
percent by 2016, as “echo boomers” enter their late teens,
fueling demand for student housing on and off campus, according
to Axiometrics Inc., a Dallas-based research firm specializing
in apartments.  Demand for student housing was less robust than expected
during the first half of the 2012-2013 school year, according to
an October report by Andrew McCulloch of Green Street Advisors
Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based firm that researches
real estate investment trusts.  “A challenging economy, new supply and overly aggressive
rent hikes were the main culprits,” McCulloch said. “Newer,
more amenitized assets in close proximity to campus have been,
and are expected to continue to be, outperformers.”  Three REITs that focus on student housing had varied
returns last year.  American Campus Communities Inc. (ACC) , the largest
student housing REIT, with more than $5 billion of assets under
management, had a  total return  of 18 percent for shareholders
who reinvested their dividends in the 12 months through
yesterday.  Education Realty Trust Inc. (EDR) , a  Memphis , Tennessee-
based student-housing REIT, delivered a  total return  of 3.2
percent.  Campus Crest Communities Inc. (CCG) , based in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , had a  total return  of 27 percent.  Gibraltar Slowing  As Toll enters the dormitory market, it is seeing a
slowdown for its distressed real estate investing division,
Gibraltar Capital and Asset Management LLC, Yearley said.  “It is logical, as the housing and commercial real estate
markets continue to recover, that the volume of distressed-deal
flow should slow and there will be a point in time where
Gibraltar will either have to re-invent itself or wind down,”
Yearley said in an e-mail today. “Should the latter happen, the
members of the team will be placed back into our homebuilding
operation, finance or legal departments, where many of them
started.”  Toll Brothers started Gibraltar in 2010 to buy portfolios
of foreclosed properties and nonperforming loans from banks
following a collapse in demand for new housing. Toll’s peak
investment of $135 million in Gibraltar has declined to $125
million, Yearley said.  The Gibraltar investment hasn’t led directly to any new
Toll subdivisions or housing developments, Yearley said. A
winery in  Georgia , a Minneapolis shopping center, student
housing at  Western Kentucky University  and a condominium project
in Las Vegas are among the assets that have been acquired, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  