-- Honeywell, Dupont Lose Challenge to Cap-and-Trade Program
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-22T20:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/honeywell-dupont-lose-challenge-to-cap-and-trade-program-1-.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and
 DuPont Co. (DD)  lost a challenge to a U.S. cap-and-trade emissions
program as a federal appeals court said it already ruled the
credit-transfers at issue in the case were lawful.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington today dismissed the
companies’ complaint that improper transfers by Honeywell’s
competitors in 2008 under an Environmental Protection Agency
program for hydrochlorofluorocarbons, or HCFC, reduced the
company’s market share. The court said an earlier case, Arkema
Inc. v. EPA, found the transfers valid under the Clean Air Act.  “Put simply, Honeywell’s claim is foreclosed by this
court’s decision in Arkema,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh 
wrote for the three-judge panel.  The dispute stems from regulatory efforts to phase out all
use of the pollutant by 2030. The agency caps the production and
consumption of HCFC on an annual basis and sets allowances for
each company and each pollutant in the program. Under the Clean
Air Act, the companies are allowed to transfer or swap their
allowances.  The appeals court ruled three years ago that the EPA had to
honor transactions made by Arkema and  Solvay SA (SOLB)  that had been
overlooked by the agency when setting their allowances for 2010
through 2014.  “The company is disappointed with the court’s decision and
is currently studying the decision,” Peter Dalpe, a spokesman
for Morris Township, New Jersey-based Honeywell, said in an e-
mail.  Catherine Andriadis, a spokeswoman for Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont, said she couldn’t immediately comment on
the ruling.  The case is Honeywell International Inc. v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 10-1347,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 