-- Paschi Pressed to Disclose Derivative Losses as Vote Looms
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-01-23T17:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/monte-paschi-pressed-to-disclose-derivative-losses-as-vote-looms.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
executives are under pressure from investors to fully disclose
losses from derivative contracts as shareholders prepare for a
key vote on its government rescue this week.  Monte Paschi shares  fell 8.4 percent in Milan today,
extending yesterday’s 5.7 percent drop after Il Fatto Quotidiano
said former managers signed a derivative with  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  three years ago that will cut earnings by 220 million euros
($293 million) in 2012. The lender pledged a full review of its
accounts after Bloomberg News reported on Jan. 17 that Monte
Paschi also engaged in a swap with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  that
obscured losses before the bank’s bailout in 2009.  Former Monte Paschi Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari  resigned
yesterday as head of the Italian Banking Association lobby
group. The world’s oldest lender is under pressure to disclose
the full extent of its use of derivatives after saying in
November that it needed an additional 500 million euros of
government money to bolster capital because of the contracts.
Shareholders meet this week to approve two capital raisings
required by the Treasury for the lender to get that aid.  “We will ask for full transparency,” Guido Antolini, a
member of Associazione di Piccoli Azionisti Azione Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena, an association of the lender’s individual
investors, said in a telephone interview. “We will want to know
what was inherited from previous executives and the actions that
the bank is taking to repair the damage.”  Shareholder Vote  Shareholders will vote on Jan. 25 to approve two capital
raisings allowing Monte Paschi to qualify for the additional
funds that will bring the cost of its bailout to 3.9 billion
euros. The lender is expected to report a 1.78 billion-euro loss
for 2012, according to the average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There is no doubt investors will vote in favor,” said
Stefano Girola, who manages about 3 billion euros at Banca
Albertini Syz & Co. in Milan and doesn’t own Monte Paschi stock.
“Aid is essential to allow the bank to survive, even more so
now that managers have to clean up the balance sheet.”  Monte Paschi’s board today received the backing of its
 second-largest shareholder , the Aleotti family, which owns 4
percent of the lender. The lender’s CEO is “working hard” to
turn around the bank, Alberto Giovanni Aleotti, who also sits on
Monte Paschi’s board, said in an e-mail. The board “is
reviewing the bank’s figures and working with complete
transparency,” he said. He declined to comment on the swaps.  Former Managers  The lender discovered in October that former managers
signed an agreement with Nomura to cover losses on a mortgage-
backed derivative entitled Alexandria with new, riskier
derivatives, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported, citing an internal
report by Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola.  Nomura said yesterday that Mussari “fully reviewed and
approved” the trade. Monte Paschi’s former chairman, in his
letter of resignation from the lobby group, said he always acted
according to the law. He didn’t respond to e-mails sent to his
personal account or calls to the bank association’s Rome office.  Monte Paschi said in a statement the Alexandria transaction
was part of “restructured transactions” whose effect is
subject to a review that will be completed in the first half of
February. It added in a later statement that the Nomura
transaction was never submitted to the board for approval. KPMG,
the bank’s auditor until April 2012, said it never received
documents on the trade.  Deutsche Bank  The Italian lender also entered into a similar transaction
with Deutsche Bank in December 2008 under which it received a
1.5 billion-euro loan that helped it to mitigate a 367 million-
euro loss from an older derivative with the Frankfurt-based
bank,  Bloomberg News  reported on Jan. 17.  Deutsche Bank reaped about 60 million euros in profit in
the first two weeks of December 2008 through the loan, dubbed
Santorini, according to more than 70 pages of documents obtained
by Bloomberg News detailing the deal. As part of that trade, the
Italian lender made a losing bet on the value of the country’s
government bonds, according to six derivatives specialists who
reviewed the files. Monte Paschi never disclosed the effect of
the 2008 trade in its annual reports.  “The authorities and prosecutors have to shed a light on
what happened,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, professor
of business strategy at Milan’s  Bocconi University . “This has
been a problem of governance. Using derivatives to manage risks
is appropriate, but this must be done with full transparency.”  Antonveneta Purchase  Monte Paschi’s woes can be traced to Mussari’s decision in
2007 to spend more than Monte Paschi’s market value at the time
to acquire rival Banca Antonveneta SpA, just as bank stocks hit
their peak. The lender paid  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  36 percent more
than what the Spanish lender paid for Padua, Italy-based
Antonveneta two months previously. Monte Paschi was forced to
write down the acquisition by 4.5 billion euros last year.  Prosecutors in Siena are now probing allegations of market
manipulation and obstruction of regulatory activities
surrounding Antonveneta’s purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  