-- Morgan Stanley Finds Opportunity in Distressed Property Assets
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-22T00:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/morgan-stanley-finds-opportunity-in-distressed-property-assets.html
Distressed property markets where
deals are difficult to finance and yield spreads are at all-time
highs provide attractive investment opportunities, according to
Morgan Stanley’s real estate unit.  In the Asia-Pacific region, Morgan Stanley Real Estate
Investing is most focused on  China , India,  Australia  and  Japan ,
said Olivier de Poulpiquet, who helps oversee $36 billion in
real estate assets as the global co-head for the unit. In India
and China, demand is driven by strong demographic trends amid a
dearth of financing, while in Australia and Japan, low borrowing
costs are providing opportunities, he said.  Morgan Stanley , with a team of 280 globally in 11 countries
dedicated to the property business, has about 45 percent of its
investments in the U.S., 33 percent in  Asia  and about 22 percent
in Europe. In many developed markets, such as U.S., Japan and
Australia, the yield spread between real estate and the risk
free rate, typically the  interest rate  on U.S. Treasury bills,
is as much as 400 basis points, de Poulpiquet said.  “Asia and the U.S. will continue to offer opportunities,”
de Poulpiquet said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
“Investments in real estate have seen a flight to safety
globally and in particular in the U.S. and Europe.”  Interest in property investments by institutional investors
is improving as the asset class is viewed as an effective
portfolio diversifier and an inflation hedge, de Poulpiquet said.
Allocations to real estate by major institutions may climb from
an average of 7 percent currently to 10 percent, he said,
without providing a time frame for the increase.  India, China  In  India  and China, Morgan Stanley is finding opportunities
by financing developers that are seeking money to complete
projects amid a scarcity of capital, de Poulpiquet said.  In its almost three-year effort to tighten the property
market, the Chinese government has raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time
in Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacted home-purchase
restrictions in about 40 cities. India’s biggest developers have
struggled to rein in record debt as they grapple with high
borrowing costs, dwindling sales and banks’ reluctance to lend.  “The major trend in these markets is that this growth is
combined with a capital constrained environment for real estate,
mostly driven by government interventions and price cooling
measures,” de Poulpiquet said. “In India and China, there is
less opportunity to buy existing assets but greater opportunity
to pick the right developer and build to either lease or sell.”  Favorable Demographics  India will have 127 million more working age adults by 2020,
while in China, the 470 million adults leaving rural areas for
cities will reach a rate of 11 million per year, said de
Poulpiquet. Over the next 15 years, the total global urban space
growth will reach about 82,000 square kilometers (31,660 square
miles), 47 percent of which will be driven by India and China,
he said.  In markets such as  Shanghai , the supply of class A office
spaces is relatively low while demand is forecasted to remain
robust, de Poulpiquet said. In India, the trend is similar where
the residential sector continues to offer interesting
opportunities, he said.  In Australia, distressed assets sold by European banks
which are undergoing deleveraging processes to clean up their
balance sheets are attractive, said de Poulpiquet. In Japan,
Morgan Stanley is buying class B office assets in  Tokyo  and
greater Tokyo, he said.  “In many markets globally, including Japan and Australia
you can buy class B plus assets, at significant yield
differential between your cost of borrowing and the real estate
yield,” said de Poulpiquet. “It is a relatively safer
investment with good quality yield and return profile.”  Europe  will also increasingly offer attractive investments
in real estate with all the level of distress in the market, he
said. Still, Morgan Stanley remains “cautious” and focused on
making “defensive investments” in the region as prices still
have some room to fall, he said.  “Overall, we will see slower growth, more volatility but
in Europe, it’s neither a doomsday scenario nor in a happy
recovery and this will last for a while,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  