-- Paradis Says Canada Must Close Research Investment Gap
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-01-22T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/paradis-says-canada-must-close-research-investment-gap.html
Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis said the federal government must address the country’s
laggard status among developed economies in terms of private
investment in research.  Canada  ranks below the median of Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development countries in private sector research
spending, OECD data show. Paradis said he’s also concerned that
Canada lags behind the U.S. in productivity, and said the
government plans to rely more on direct funding rather than tax
breaks to encourage that investment.  “There’s a gap out there that needs to be addressed,”
Paradis said by telephone from Berlin today. “We need to make
sure that the incentives that we put out there are really
incentives.”  In its last  budget , the government scaled back a tax credit
designed to encourage businesses to invest in research and
development. The government removed  capital spending  from the
costs that can be claimed for the credit and reduced the rate of
the credit to 15 percent from 20 percent.  Research in Motion Ltd ., the Waterloo, Ont.-based maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, has  said  the company claims about
C$150 million ($151 million) per year through the credit, and
that amount would be reduced by about one-third under the
changes.  “The manufacturing sector is still alive in the country,
but it can no longer rely on a low currency value for
competitiveness,” said the minister, who is visiting  Germany 
this week to study that country’s manufacturing sector.  The government will consider investing any savings from
reducing tax credits into direct funding for businesses, Paradis
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  