-- Paschi Tumbles as Derivatives Call Earnings Into Question
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-01-22T18:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/paschi-slides-after-second-report-of-derivatives-hurting-profit.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the world’s oldest bank, fell the most in more than a month in
Milan trading on concern that losses from derivatives contracts
are threatening the lender’s earnings.  The stock fell 5.7 percent to 27.75 cents in Milan trading
today, the biggest decliner in  Europe ’s 46-member Stoxx 600
Banks Index, after Il Fatto Quotidiano reported Monte Paschi’s
former managers signed a derivative with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) 
three years ago that will reduce 2012 earnings by 220 million
euros ($293 million).  Monte Paschi said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts
after Bloomberg News first reported that the lender engaged in a
transaction with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  at the height of the financial
crisis that obscured losses before the Siena-based bank sought a
government bailout. The Italian lender, which was bailed out in
2009, is seeking 500 million euros more from taxpayers, bringing
the cost of its rescue to 3.9 billion euros.  “These transactions will hugely affect the bank’s
accounts, making state aid essential for the bank’s survival,”
said Fabrizio Spagna, a managing director at Axia Financial
Research in Padua,  Italy , who tracks financial stocks.  Monte Paschi, the only Italian bank that hasn’t met
European regulators’ minimum capital requirements, said in
November it needed the additional money to cover losses from
derivatives. The lender may report 1.78 billion-euro loss in
2012, according to the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Consob Criticized  The  Bank of Italy  and Consob, the country’s markets
regulator, must now explain why they didn’t review Monte
Paschi’s use of the derivatives, Senator Elio Lannutti, chairman
of Italy’s Adusbef consumer group, said in a statement today.
Neither the central bank nor Consob returned calls for comment
immediately.  The lender discovered in October that former managers
signed an agreement with Nomura to cover losses on a mortgage-
backed derivative called Alexandria with new, riskier
derivatives, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported today, citing an
internal report by Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola.  Nomura said today that Monte Paschi’s former chairman,
Giuseppe Mussari, “fully reviewed and approved” the trade.
Mussari, now head of the Italian Banking Association, didn’t
respond to e-mails sent to his personal account or calls to the
trade group’s Rome headquarters.  Monte Paschi said in a statement today the Alexandria
derivative was part of “restructured transactions” whose
effect is subject to a review that will be completed by the
middle of February.  Project Santorini  Monte Paschi also entered into a derivative with Deutsche
Bank in December 2008 under which it received 1.5 billion-euro
loan that helped it to mitigate a 367 million-euro loss from an
older derivative with the Frankfurt-based bank,  Bloomberg News 
reported on Jan. 17.  Deutsche Bank reaped about 60 million euros in profit in
the first two weeks of December 2008 through the loan, dubbed
Project Santorini, according to more than 70 pages of documents
outlining the deal and obtained by Bloomberg News. As part of
the deal, the Italian lender made a losing bet on the value of
the country’s government bonds, according to six derivatives
specialists who reviewed the files. Monte Paschi never disclosed
the effect of the 2008 transaction in its annual reports.  Monte Paschi’s earnings came under strain in 2008 following
Mussari’s decision the previous year to spend more than the
lender’s market value to acquire domestic competitor Banca
Antonveneta SpA, just as bank stocks hit their peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  