-- Penn State Sued by Victim Tied to Sandusky Shower Abuse
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-23T15:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/penn-state-sued-by-victim-tied-to-1998-sandusky-shower-abuse-1-.html
Pennsylvania  State University was
sued by one of the victims of sex abuse by former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky and accused of hiding what it knew
about the threat he posed to children.  The plaintiff, known as “Victim 6,” filed the lawsuit
yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia against the
university, Sandusky and the youth charity he founded. The
victim, who was 11 years old when the abuse took place in May
1998, accused the school and charity of negligence, conspiracy
and intentional infliction of emotion distress.  “Sandusky’s sexual misconduct was ratified” by Penn
State, lawyers for the victim said in the complaint. “Penn
State actually concealed Sandusky’s pattern of inappropriate
contact with minor boys, misrepresented the degree of danger he
posed and affirmatively held him out to the public as a
dependable and respected member of the Penn State faculty.”  Sandusky, who will turn 69 on Jan. 26, was found guilty in
June by a jury of abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period and
convicted on 45 counts. He was sentenced in October and will
serve at least three decades in prison before he’s considered
for parole.  Police Questioning  In 1998, Sandusky was questioned by police after the mother
of Victim 6 complained about a shower incident in a university
locker room. The police departments of Penn State and the town
of State College, Pennsylvania, investigated.  “We are aware of the case brought today by Victim 6
against the university, and it has been referred to legal
counsel,” Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for Penn State, said
yesterday in an e-mail. “As this is an ongoing piece of
litigation, we can’t comment further at this time.”  A grand jury report released at the time of Sandusky’s
arrest in November 2011 describes how Ronald Schreffler, a
university detective, and Ralph Ralston, a State College
detective, were allowed by the mother to eavesdrop on two
conversations she had with Sandusky in May 1998.  Sandusky Statements  She asked Sandusky whether his “private parts” touched
her son during a hug and Sandusky replied, “I don’t think so
... maybe,” according to the report.  “I was wrong,” Sandusky told the mother, according to the
report. “I wish I could get forgiveness. I know I won’t get it
from you. I wish I were dead.”  The investigation was closed after Ray Gricar, the Centre
County district attorney at the time, decided there would be no
criminal charges, according to the grand jury report. Gricar
disappeared on April 15, 2005. His laptop computer’s hard drive
was found in the Susquehanna River and, at the request of his
daughter, a judge declared him to be dead in 2011.  Sixth Lawsuit  The suit is the sixth against Penn State over Sandusky’s
abuse, Powers said. The university said in September it plans to
compensate Sandusky’s victims with money from insurance policies
and funds set aside from interest on internal loans. It hired
Kenneth Feinberg, with the law firm of Feinberg Rozen LLP, to
help facilitate negotiations.  Feinberg is best-known for serving as a mediator who
oversaw claims by victims of the Sept 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. He also served as administrator of the $20 billion  BP
Plc (BP/)  fund to pay victims of the 2010 oil spill.  University President Rodney Erikson said Dec. 21 that he’s
hopeful the process would result in the settlement of many civil
cases. Negotiations continue, Feinberg said today in an e-mail.  “The facilitators are cautiously optimistic that progress
will be made within the next few weeks,” Feinberg said in the
e-mail.  Victim 6 seeks economic and non-economic damages, in
addition to damages for pain and suffering and punitive damages,
according to the complaint. The damages sought exceed $75,000,
according to the filing.  The case is John Doe 6 v. The Pennsylvania State
University, 13-00336, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 