-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf Stole $215 Million, U.S. Says
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-01-23T05:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/peregrine-s-wasendorf-stole-215-million-u-s-says.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr., the founder
of now-bankrupt Peregrine Financial Group Inc., stole more than
$215 million from the commodity firm’s customers, U.S.
prosecutors said.  Wasendorf, then 64, pleaded guilty in September in federal
court in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to mail fraud and two counts of
lying to federal prosecutors. He faces as long as 50 years in
prison at his Jan. 31 sentencing.  “Defendant claims the loss is less than $200 million,”
Acting Iowa U.S. Attorney Sean Berry said in a sentencing
memorandum filed yesterday in federal court in Cedar Rapids.
“The actual loss in this case can be determined with remarkable
precision.”  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9 when he tried to
kill himself by piping auto exhaust into the passenger
compartment of his car outside the firm’s Cedar Falls, Iowa,
headquarters. In a written statement, Wasendorf, who was also
Peregrine’s chairman and chief executive officer, said he had
been stealing from the company for almost 20 years.  The National Futures Association, an industry self-
regulator, announced the same day as the suicide attempt that
about $200 million in customer funds the firm reported was on
deposit at its bank were unaccounted for.  According to his plea agreement, Wasendorf started stealing
from Peregrine in the early 1990s, covering his theft by
altering statements from the company’s bank and passing them to
his chief financial officer and accountants.  ‘Stolen Money’  “Defendant used the stolen money to unlawfully bolster the
apparent financial position of PFG, fund defendant’s outside
business interests, and for defendant’s own personal use and
purposes,” according to the plea document.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The regulatory case is Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  