-- Pertamina to Proceed With Algeria Oil Field Buy, Official Says
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-22T07:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/pertamina-to-proceed-with-algeria-oil-field-buy-official-says.html
PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-
owned oil company, will proceed with a bid to buy stakes in
three Algerian oil fields from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to expand its
overseas assets.  “We are going ahead with the acquisition because we have
signed an agreement with ConocoPhillips,” Ali Mundakir,
Pertamina’s vice president of corporate communications, said at
a natural gas conference in Jakarta today. “We target to
complete the transaction by the middle of this year.”  ConocoPhillips announced on Dec. 18 that it signed an
agreement with Pertamina to sell its Algerian unit for $1.75
billion. The transaction is moving ahead even after a terrorist
attack on a natural gas complex operated by BP Plc,  Norway ’s
Statoil ASA and Sonatrach Petroleum Corp., Algeria’s state-owned
 oil company , that killed at least 38 workers.  Completion of the deal is subject to approval from the
Algerian government and also contingent on ConocoPhillips’
partners waiving their rights to buy the stake, Mundakir said.
The purchase gives the Indonesian company a 65 percent interest
at the Menzel Lejmat North field, along with 3.7 percent of the
Ourhoud and 16.9 percent of the EMK sites.  The  partners  in the areas include Talisman Energy Inc.,
Anadarko Petroleum Corp., Eni SpA and Sonatrach, according to
ConocoPhillips’s website.  Pertamina plans to produce 222,000 barrels of oil a day
this year, including output from its subsidiaries PT Pertamina
EP and PT Pertamina Hulu Energi, Mundakir said. The company
produced an estimated 200,000 barrels daily in 2012, he said.  Pertamina expects the  Algeria  purchase to add 23,000
barrels a day of crude output, it said in a Dec. 18  statement.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  