-- Prasarn Says Capital Flows Remain Key Risk for Thailand Economy
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-01-22T07:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/prasarn-says-capital-flows-remain-key-risk-for-thailand-economy.html
Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said volatile capital flows are the main threat
to economic growth this year, after overseas purchases of stocks
and bonds pushed the baht to a 17-month high yesterday.  “We have to take care of capital flows, which will be more
volatile, and assess the baht’s impact on the real economy,”
Prasarn said today in an annual policy address in Bangkok. “We
have prepared tools and will use them if needed,” he added,
without saying what measures the central bank may employ.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week that
Thailand’s exchange rate is “not at a good level” and that
exporters will face difficulties should the baht strengthen
further. Policy makers in the  Philippines  and  South Korea  have
taken measures to contain their currencies as monetary stimulus
in the world’s biggest developed economies spurs capital flows
to the region. The baht is the gainer in  Asia  this year.  “If there is unusual movement, we are ready to take
action,” Prasarn said today. “This is our normal practice.
Moving against the market will create risk on cost, but that
doesn’t mean we accept that the market mechanism is perfect.”  The baht traded at 29.73 per dollar at 12:38 p.m. in
Bangkok after touching 29.66 yesterday, the strongest level
since August 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Overseas investors bought $3.1 billion more of sovereign debt
than they sold this month and purchased a net $382 million of
equities, according to data from the Thai Bond Market
Association and stock exchange.  Imbalances, Bubbles  The Bank of Thailand on Jan. 9 kept its  policy interest
rate  unchanged for a second straight meeting after cutting it
twice last year as the economy recovered from the floods in 2011.
The monetary authority last week raised its growth forecast for
this year, citing strong local demand and improving exports.  “The challenge this year is to balance between economic
expansion and financial stability,” Prasarn said. “If we keep
the key  interest rate , which is the cost of borrowing, low for a
long time, it will encourage more debt or more investments in
risky assets and lead to financial imbalances and bubbles.”  Foreign direct investment totaled $8 billion last year and
Thai investments overseas were $11 billion, Prasarn said.
Overseas purchases of Thai stocks and bonds added up to $12
billion in 2012, while Thai investments in foreign securities
were $8 billion, he said.  While the baht’s appreciation has accelerated in recent
weeks, its gains over the past year are in line with other Asian
currencies, Prasarn said. The central bank has the  resources  to
help smooth volatility in the baht even after the monetary
authority recorded 323 billion baht ($11 billion) of negative
equity and 130.4 billion baht in net losses as of end-2011.  ““We are monitoring the situation to see how business
operators cope,” Prasarn said of the baht’s appreciation. “‘We
have to look at the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  