-- Racehorses in Running as Regulators Debate Loose Liquidity Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/racehorses-in-running-as-regulators-debate-loose-liquidity-rules.html
As regulators sparred last month
over international liquidity rules in  Basel , Switzerland, one
suggested racehorses could be used as collateral to access cheap
cash at central banks in a crisis.  While the remark was said in jest, it highlights the split
between regulators over how low to set the bar for the types of
assets banks must hold to protect against funding shocks,
according to a government official familiar with the talks who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations were
confidential. The December meeting of regulators didn’t yield a
final deal on the so-called liquidity coverage ratio.  Their bosses from central banks around the world, anxious
that tough liquidity rules might sap the strength of the global
economy, agreed at additional meetings on Jan. 6 to give banks
more time and the right to use more types of securities to meet
the LCR, a buffer of easy-to-sell assets for banks to survive a
30-day credit squeeze.  Will the new rules “do the job? My personal opinion is it
won’t,” Robert Jenkins, a member of the Bank of England’s
Financial Policy Committee, said at a Jan. 17 financial
regulation conference in  London . “And that’s the opinion of a
growing body of academic research. This is a long game and it’s
not over yet.”  Financial rules on everything from capital to liquidity are
set at a global level by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, a group of central bankers and regulators. They are
in turn overseen by the Group of Governors and Heads of
Supervision, which is led by U.K. Bank of England Governor
Mervyn King and meetings are attended by central bankers such as
the U.S.’s Ben S. Bernanke and the European Central Bank’s Mario Draghi.  Shares Soar  There is a growing debate over whether the rules, toughened
to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis, are being
weakened in response to current economic realities.  Bank shares soared after the Jan. 6 deal on liquidity
rules. ECB President Draghi had argued that the original version
of the LCR, published as a draft in December 2010, would choke
interbank lending and make it harder for authorities to
implement monetary policies. Lenders had warned that the measure
might force them to cut back loans to businesses and households.  Policymakers have “consistently underestimated bank
funding as a transmission mechanism of sovereign risk and a
brake on lending,” Huw Van Steenis, head of European banking
analysis at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said in a research note. “This re-
calibration is welcome.”  Uneasy Truce  The deal marked an uneasy truce between the European
Central Bank and authorities in the U.K. and U.S. over whether
rules designed to prevent another financial crisis are actually
slowing an economic recovery.  The debate will turn to whether lenders can count on
central bank support when calculating whether they meet the LCR,
potentially leading to further relaxation of the rules on assets
banks can count as highly liquid.  “The idea of a globally defined liquidity standard and
nationally defined collateral frameworks for central bank
operations continue to be in conflict even after the latest
changes to the LCR,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president at
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank, said in an e-
mail.  Sovereign Bonds  Racehorses may be an extreme example of how low the bar can
go, but the ECB has in the past accepted low-rated Greek and
Portuguese sovereign bonds, as well as securities backed by car
loans, as collateral for funding in times of crisis.  The subject came up in the December Basel meeting as
regulators pushed back against calls from the ECB for the LCR to
be expanded to include all assets that central banks accept as
collateral.  According to two people familiar with the talks,
authorities warned that the ECB plan would amount to tethering
the LCR to frequently changing, and internationally varied,
central bank standards -- a situation in which it would be
possible, hypothetically, for anything to become an LCR-eligible
asset.  “Eventually the liquidity standards will have to reflect
the national collateral frameworks, which has the added benefit
that they reflect national financial structures,” Berg said.  Regulators at the Jan. 6 meeting could only reach a deal on
the LCR by agreeing to keep the issue of its interaction with
central bank policies under review, possibly setting up future
clashes.  Work Remains  “Important work” on the LCR “remains to be completed at
the global and European levels,” the European Commission said
in a statement after the Basel deal.  The review of how central bank facilities are treated could
affect what assets banks can count towards their LCR buffers,
the commission said.  The ECB position was resisted by some other regulators,
including in the U.S., which argued that it would undermine of
the LCR’s goal of making banks better able to withstand crises
without central bank support, the people said.  Regulators were also concerned that the ECB move might
create legal uncertainty over which assets are highly liquid, as
central banks loosen their collateral rules in crises, they
said.  The LCR is a key component of a package of capital and
liquidity measures, known as Basel III, drawn up to avoid a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. A draft version of the
standard was published in 2010.  A sample of 209 banks assessed by the Basel committee had a
collective shortfall of 1.8 trillion euros ($2.4 trillion) at
the end of 2011 in the assets needed to meet the 2010 version of
the LCR, according to figures published by the Basel group.  Increased Buffer  Stefan Ingves, the Basel committee’s secretary general, has
said the changes agreed on this month would boost the average
LCR buffer held by a sample of 200 international banks from
around 105 percent of the minimum requirement, to around 125
percent. Still, he said that the assets are unevenly spread
among lenders, and that some banks will have shortfalls.  “It’s very important we maintain the position in which
banks do not see the central banks as lenders of first resort,
but nevertheless we still can find a way in which to allow the
LCR to reflect access to central bank facilities,” Bank of
England Governor King said at a briefing following the Jan. 6
meeting of regulatory chiefs.  “It’s about whether you want the central bank really to be
the lender of last resort or as much a part of day-to-day
operations as core depositors,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing
partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.,
said in an e-mail. “In this question lies the difference
between banks as quasi-agents of the state or private
companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  