-- Rand Gains Second Day as Japan’s Policy Shift Boosts Bond Demand
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-22T13:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rand-gains-second-day-as-japan-s-policy-shift-boosts-bond-demand.html
The rand gained for a second day
after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  added to developed-nation stimulus
measures that have boosted demand for higher-yielding assets and
helped drive South African bond yields to record lows.  South Africa’s currency advanced as much as 0.6 percent
before paring gains after Gwede Mantashe, secretary-general of
the ruling  African National Congress , called for greater state
control of mining. The rand traded less than 0.1 percent
stronger at 8.8556 as of 3:22 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on
6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 dropped one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 6.39 percent.  The Bank of  Japan  set a 2 percent inflation target and said
it will shift to Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset
purchases in its strongest commitment yet to ending two decades
of deflation. Yields on South African bonds fell to record lows
in January as monetary stimulus from central banks in the U.S.,
European Union and Japan boosted demand for riskier assets.  “The outlook for local bonds remains bullish as major
central banks continue to fire up the printing presses,”
Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM
Analytics, said in e-mailed comments. “The significance of this
for a country like  South Africa  is that it confirms the yen as a
funding currency. All three major central banks remain ultra-
accommodative and will ensure that funding continues to flow
towards  emerging markets .”  Foreign investors  bought  a net 2.8 billion rand ($317
million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to JSE Ltd.
data. Yields on 2021 bonds fell to a record 6.29 percent on Jan.
9.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of raw materials gained as
much as 0.6 percent as the prices of metals including copper and
platinum rose. Commodities accounted for 61 percent of South
Africa’s exports in the first 11 months of 2012, according to
government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  