-- Travelers Rallies as Profit Exceeds Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-22T14:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/travelers-profit-falls-51-to-304-million-on-sandy-costs.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV)  posted the biggest
gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after fourth-quarter
profit beat estimates on higher income from its investment
portfolio, increased sales and a benefit from reserves.  The insurer rose 4.4 percent to $79.65 at 9:31 a.m. in New
York. Operating profit, which excludes some investment results,
was 72 cents a share, the New York-based company said in a
statement today, beating the 14-cent average  estimate  of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 60, has been boosting
the amount Travelers charges customers after storms increased
claims costs in recent years and low  interest rates  reduced
income from the company’s bond portfolio. Sandy, the October
storm that lashed the U.S. northeast, contributed to higher
catastrophe costs in the quarter.  “Given the continued low interest-rate environment and
uncertain weather patterns, we will continue to seek improved
pricing,” Fishman said in the statement.  Policy sales climbed to $5.39 billion from $5.26 billion a
year earlier. The rates paid by renewing customers rose for all
segments, including 8 percent in business insurance.  Net investment income rose to $556 million from $541
million a year earlier on gains from private-equity bets,
according to a  presentation  on the insurer’s website. Income
from the bond portfolio fell to $501 million from $526 million a
year earlier, driven by lower reinvestment rates.  The insurer booked a $146 million gain after determining it
had more money set aside than needed for claims on policies sold
in prior quarters. That compares with a benefit of $83 million a
year earlier.  Reserve Development  Profit beat estimates partly because of the “much better
than expected reserve development,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said in a note to clients today.
Investors should “react positively” to the results, he said.  Full-year profit advanced to $2.47 billion from $1.43
billion in 2011, when the results were hurt by claims from
second-quarter tornadoes and  Hurricane Irene . Travelers has
gained about 29 percent in the past year, more than twice the
advance of the 30-company Dow average.  Sandy lashed New York,  New Jersey  and  Connecticut  in
October, killing more than 100 people, cutting off electricity
to millions of customers and damaging homes, vehicles,
commercial property and public infrastructure. The storm led
Travelers’ $689 million of catastrophe costs in the quarter,
after tax and net of reinsurance, and contributed to a decline
in net income.  ‘Big Hit’  “It was a big hit, but it could have been worse,”  Mark Dwelle , an insurance analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in an
interview before results were announced.  Quarterly profit fell to $304 million in the fourth
quarter, or 78 cents a share, from $618 million, or $1.51, a
year-earlier.  Industrywide, insured losses from natural disasters in the
U.S. reached $58 billion in 2012, more than double the average
from 2000 to 2011, according to a  report  this month from
reinsurer  Munich Re . Sandy was last year’s most costly event.  Federal Reserve policy makers pledged last month to keep
interest rates near zero as long as unemployment stays above 6.5
percent and inflation is forecast to be 2.5 percent or less.
Unemployment was  7.8 percent  in December and has been above the
central bank’s target since November 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@nhbloomberg.net . 