-- Real Estate Crowdfunding, Mortgage Rule: Complaince
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-22T13:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/real-estate-crowdfunding-mortgage-rule-complaince.html
New U.S. securities laws intended to
help startup companies raise money are poised to benefit real
estate investors as well, allowing individuals to buy stakes in
offices and other commercial buildings once off limits to them.  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act will ease
restrictions on investments in closely held companies, including
those set up to own commercial property, by people making less
than $200,000 a year and with a net worth of less than $1
million. Before the law’s passage, such firms could market and
sell shares to individuals who exceed those levels, known as
accredited investors.  The JOBS Act probably will lead to more property-investing
programs like those being pioneered by Fundrise LLC, a startup
that recently raised $325,000 from 175 people, giving them a 28
percent stake in a two-story building that the firm bought in
its home city of Washington. Because Fundrise began soliciting
investors before the law’s change, the company had to get
permission from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The law, which changed parts of the  Securities Act  of 1933,
will allow non-accredited investors to put $2,000 a year or 5
percent of their income or net worth -- whatever amount is
greatest -- into closely held ventures. While the law went into
effect in April 2012, property investors aren’t able to take
advantage of it yet because proposed investor-safeguard rules
are still being worked on by the SEC. The commission missed its
own end-of-the-year deadline for drafting the regulations.  A full implementation of the JOBS Act will help companies
that currently solicit money from non-accredited investors only
if they’re residents of states where the offering is registered.
Once the JOBS Act rules are in place, the company and other
firms will be able to sell equity to investors throughout the
U.S.  Raising large amounts of money through small, individual
contributions, a process known as crowdfunding, is nothing new
and has been used in causes such as presidential campaigns.
Before the JOBS Act, such contributions were either donations or
payment for a product or service and not in exchange for equity
in a business venture.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Housing Industry Awaits U.S. Mortgage Rule on Down Payment Size  As bankers, real estate agents and others in the housing
industry absorb thousands of pages of mortgage rules issued in
the past week, they’re still waiting to see if U.S. regulators
will set a minimum down payment for home loans.  Regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the  Federal Reserve  drew protests in 2011 when they proposed
a rule requiring lenders to keep a stake in mortgages with down
payments of less than 20 percent. Bankers and consumer groups
said such a requirement would shut creditworthy borrowers out of
the market.  Now, regulators say they expect to release a final version
of that so-called Qualified Residential Mortgage rule in the
next few months. Together, the QRM rule and additional measures
governing underwriting and servicing released by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau in the past week will fundamentally
reshape who can lend and who can borrow because banks will
probably make only those loans that conform to the new
standards.  The so-called Qualified Mortgage rule issued by the CFPB
Jan. 10, weighing in at 804 pages, requires lenders to verify
borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and offers legal safe
harbor for lenders who follow guidelines for safe mortgages.  The CFPB offered legal protection for loans on which
borrowers’ debt payments are no more than 43 percent of their
income. Points and fees for such mortgages can’t be more than 3
percent of the total loan amount. Loans backed by the government
automatically qualify for legal protection for the next seven
years.  The CFPB stopped short of adding a requirement for a
minimum down payment. Now the six regulators drafting the
separate QRM rule must decide whether to include such a
requirement  -- and whether to make it less than the 20 percent
they originally proposed.  For more, click here.  Retirement Savings Accounts Draw U.S. Consumer Bureau Attention  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is weighing
whether it should take on a role in helping Americans manage the
$19.4 trillion they have put into retirement savings, a move
that would be the agency’s first foray into consumer
investments.  The bureau’s core concern is that many Americans, notably
those from the retiring Baby Boom generation, may fall prey to
financial scams, according to three people briefed on the CFPB’s
deliberations who asked not to be named because the matter is
still under discussion.  The retirement savings business in the U.S. is dominated by
a group of companies that handle record-keeping and management
of investments in tax-advantaged vehicles like 401(k) plans and
individual retirement accounts. The group includes  Fidelity
Investments ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and  T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  Americans held  $19.4 trillion  in
retirement assets as of Sept. 30, 2012, according to the
Investment Company Institute, an industry association; about
$3.5 trillion of that was in 401(k) plans.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department
of Labor are the main regulators of U.S. retirement savings
vehicles and funds. However, the consumer bureau -- established
by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act -- sees itself as a potential
catalyst for promoting a coherent policy across the government,
the people said.  With large numbers of Americans heading toward retirement
in the coming decade, the CFPB has referred internally to this
concept as “the rollover moment,” the people said.  Pay Rules for U.S. Mortgage Brokers Issued by Consumer Bureau  Loan officers will face restrictions on their ability to
give borrowers high-cost mortgages under a new rule issued by
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The new rule issued Jan. 18 prohibits compensation that
varies with the loan terms, so that an originator cannot earn
more by getting a consumer into a loan with a higher interest
rate, a prepayment penalty or higher fees.  It also bans so-called dual compensation, in which loan
originators get paid by both the consumer and another entity,
such as the creditor. It outlines eligibility requirements for
loan officers, including character fitness, background checks
and training requirements.  The CFPB decided not to proceed with an Aug. 17  proposal 
that would have required loan originators to offer a mortgage
with no up-front discount points or origination fees. Instead,
it will first take stock of how the various rules required under
Dodd-Frank affect consumer understanding of mortgages, according
to an e-mailed statement.  The rule is one in a series the bureau has written in an
effort to revamp mortgage lending practices.  For an audio report, click here.  Courts  Barclays Employees’ Request for Anonymity in Libor Case Rejected  A group of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  employees had a request to prevent
their names from being published ahead of the U.K.’s first trial
related to manipulation of the London interbank offered rate
rejected by a Judge Julian Flaux, who said he did not see “any
sufficient case of prejudice” to the trial.  Affiliates of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. sued Barclays over
an interest-rate swap tied to Libor and argued the benchmark was
manipulated. The swap resulted in a loss for the Wolverhampton,
England-based Guardian and Barclays was ordered to give the
company’s lawyers the identities and e-mails of bank staff that
were included in disclosures to British and American regulators
during a probe into interest-rate manipulation.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($459 million) over
its traders trying to manipulate Libor and other  interest rates 
for profit, while  UBS AG (UBSN)  was fined $1.5 billion in December for
rate-rigging. More than a dozen banks are being investigated in
worldwide probes into whether they profited from abusing the
process used to set Libor, the baseline for more than $300
trillion of financial contracts globally.  David Pannick , a lawyer for 24 Barclays workers, had argued
that it was unfair for the employees to be identified when they
weren’t parties to the lawsuit and could face serious
allegations.  Barclays said the case was without merit and the names
shouldn’t be released.  The names of any Barclays traders or executives won’t
necessarily be published before the trial, Flaux said. Anything
the bank discloses is still subject to confidentiality under
court rules, unless it is mentioned in a pretrial hearing.  For more, click here.  Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Seeks Dismissal of N.Y. Charges  A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  programmer who
successfully challenged a federal conviction for stealing
internal code from the bank asked a judge to dismiss state
charges filed against him for the same allegations.  Sergey Aleynikov was charged in August by the Manhattan
District Attorney’s Office and indicted the following month on
two counts of unlawful use of scientific material and one count
of unlawful duplication of computer-related material. He has
pleaded not guilty.  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Russia, was
freed from federal prison in  New Jersey  in February after a U.S.
appeals court reversed his December 2010 conviction for stealing
the bank’s trading code, saying that the two laws that
prosecutors used to charge Aleynikov -- the National Stolen
Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act -- didn’t apply to
his case.  Aleynikov has filed a lawsuit against Goldman Sachs in
federal court in New Jersey seeking payment of more than $2.4
million in legal fees, saying he’s entitled to indemnification
because he was employed as an officer of the company.  The criminal case is New York v. Aleynikov, 04447-2012, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The New Jersey case is
Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-cv-05994, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Mark Cuban Asks Judge to End SEC Insider Trading Case Again  Mark Cuban , the Texas billionaire and pro basketball team
owner, went to the federal courthouse in Dallas Jan. 18, seeking
to persuade a judge to throw out for a second time a U.S.
lawsuit accusing him of  insider trading .  The SEC sued Cuban in 2008. The agency accused him of
making illegal trades in shares of Internet search company
Mamma.com Inc. in June 2004 based on inside information from its
then-chief executive officer, Guy Faure.  Cuban claims what Faure told him wasn’t secret.  “After years of the SEC’s investigation of Mr. Cuban and
discovery in this case, there is not a shred of evidence of a
confidentiality agreement between Mr. Cuban and Mamma,” defense
lawyers argued in a court filing on July 13.  The SEC claims Cuban, upset upon learning of the company’s
imminent plans for a below-market private placement, sold his
6.3 percent stake for about $7.9 million within hours of talking
to Faure.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas)  Interviews/Hearings  Banks Should Defer Bonuses for 10 Years, BOE’s Haldane Says  Banks should defer bonus payouts for staff for as long as
10 years to improve “prudence” in remuneration, said  Andrew
Haldane ,  executive director  for financial stability at the  Bank
of England .  The current window is “far too short to capture the cycle
in credit” and a period of five to 10 years would be better,
Haldane said at a hearing of the  Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards  in London yesterday. “We had roughly a 20-
year boom in the run-up to this crisis, so measuring performance
only over a three or five-year window is far too short.”  European regulators agreed on tougher bonus rules in 2011,
including minimum three-year deferrals, blaming large cash
payouts for encouraging the type of risk-taking that led to the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
subsequent financial crisis. Haldane, who is also a member of
the Bank of England’s  Financial Policy Committee , said there’s a
case to lengthen that deferral period further.  Haldane praised the pay model at  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc, the
U.K.’s largest bank, where employees “are locked in until
retirement or resignation.”  Comings and Goings  ICIS Dismisses Gas-Pricer Freedman After Manipulation Claims  ICIS Heren, the energy price-reporting agency, fired Seth
Freedman two months after he went to regulators and the press
with allegations of attempted price manipulation by natural-gas
traders.  Freedman’s contract as a reporter in London was terminated
on Dec. 28, according to a letter obtained by  Bloomberg News 
that was sent to him by Graeme Roy, Reed Business Information
Ltd.’s human resources director. Freedman was offered three
other roles within the company on the same terms and conditions,
which he turned down, RBI said Jan. 18 in a statement.  He was fired because it was no longer practicable for him
to work within the price-reporting team after covertly recording
them and making derogatory comments about them in the press,
according to the letter. Paul Abrahams, a London-based spokesman
for RBI, declined to give any further details when contacted by
telephone. ICIS Heren is a unit of RBI.  “It beggars belief that RBI have deigned to dismiss the
very person who raised issues of alleged wrongdoing,” Shah
Qureshi, Freedman’s legal representative at Bindmans LLP in
London, said Jan. 18 by phone. “It appears he has been made a
sacrificial lamb as a result of this.” Freedman’s dismissal is
subject to an appeal, Qureshi said.  ICIS reported the case to the Office of the Gas and
Electricity Markets, saying there had been “a series of deals
done below the prevailing market trend,” according to a Nov. 12
statement.  Ofgem, as the regulator is known, said in a Nov. 13
statement it was investigating. The Financial Services
Authority, or FSA, also said Nov. 12 it had received the
information.  HSBC Names KPMG’s Horgan as Group Head Regulatory Compliance  HSBC named Ruth Horgan as global head of regulatory
compliance and a group general manager, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company.  She will begin the role April 2.  Horgan joins the bank from  KPMG  where she was Europe,
Middle East, and Africa regional audit partner for Credit Suisse
Group. She will be based in London and will report to Marc
Moses, group chief risk officer.  Horgan be the principal point of contact with the Financial
Services Authority on regulatory compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  