-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Fall Amid Decline in Home Sales
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-22T22:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/treasuries-fall-before-boj-policy-decision.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
from almost the highest level in a week after sales of U.S.
existing homes unexpectedly dropped in December, casting doubts
on the strength of the real-estate recovery.  The benchmark yield dropped as home sales were restrained
by the lowest supply of properties in more than a decade. Yields
rose earlier as inflation expectations increased to the highest
in almost three months before the U.S. sells $15 billion in
inflation-indexed debt this week.  “The housing figure was disappointing,” said  Ray Remy ,
head of fixed income in  New York  at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc. “People are starting to spend much more time
wondering and worrying about the  U.S. economy . That’s why we’ve
had an uptrade.”  The 10-year  yield  was unchanged at 1.84 percent at 5 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
rose earlier four basis points to 1.88 percent after touching
1.89 percent on Jan. 18, the highest since Jan. 11. The 1.625
percent note due in November 2022 closed at 98 2/32.  Treasuries handed investors a 0.4 percent loss this month
through yesterday, while bonds in an index of sovereign debt
around the world declined 0.2 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  Home Sales  Purchases of  existing U.S. homes  fell 1 percent to a 4.94
million annual rate last month, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast was for an increase to a 5.10 million annual rate last
month, according to the estimate of 69 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  A weaker existing-home-sales report “puts a little curve
ball into the mix, given how the data have been decent,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the  Federal Reserve . Yields have been “at the top end of a
tight range.”  Yields show inflation expectations in the U.S. are rising
before the U.S. auctions the Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities on Jan. 24.  The U.S. previously sold $13 billion of the securities on
Nov. 21 at a yield of negative 0.72 percent, compared with the
record-low yield of negative 0.75 percent at the September
auction. The last six note sales since January 2012 have drawn
negative yields.  Fed Buying  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the securities, widened to as much as 2.55
percentage points today, the most since Nov. 2. The average over
the past decade is 2.19 percentage points.  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of government and
mortgage debt each month to spur the economy by putting downward
pressure on bond yields. It bought $1.39 billion of TIPS
maturing from April 2017 to February 2042 today as part of the
program.  Yields on the 10-year note are forecast to rise to 2.2
percent by year-end, according to economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “This 1.89 percent level will be tested, but should hold
today,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate
Advisors LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “However, if we test it again, we could
break to higher yields. That’s the pivotal level.”  Bonds in an index of riskier debt yielded 4.88 percentage
points more than Treasuries on average, the smallest spread
since May 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares gained 17
percent last year including reinvested dividends, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent and
investment-grade corporate bonds gained 10 percent, Bank of
America data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  