-- Red Burgundies Ready for Drinking Before You Grow Old
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-01-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/red-burgundies-ready-for-drinking-before-you-grow-old.html
Except for Beaujolais nouveau,
Burgundy’s red wines have long been regarded as keepers, wines
you buy in the most recent vintage then stick in your cellar
until they mature, hoping you will live long enough to enjoy
them at their peak.  A few years ago, when the head of the prestigious Domaine
de la Romanee-Conti said of the new vintage, “These wines are
ready to be drunk very soon,” I asked him how soon that might
be. “Oh, in just 10 to 15 years.”  With recent vintages of Romanee-Conti selling for more than
$10,000 a bottle, that seems an awfully long time to delay the
pleasure of drinking one.  Fortunately, times are changing in Burgundy, where, on a
visit last November, most of the vignerons and winemakers I
spoke with scoffed at the idea that their wines should be held
back for years and years.  While tasting the wines of Chateau de la Tour Clos-Vougeot,
I was struck by how forward a vintage like 2007 was, an
impression confirmed by sales manager Claire Naigeon, who said,
“It is a delicate wine and not a year for keeping. In two more
years the wine will be superb.”  Less Aging  Technology and innovation do not yet trump tradition in
Burgundy. But outmoded techniques have been abandoned in favor
of more analysis of terroir to grow healthier vines, and to
produce wines with more balanced fruits and acids that don’t
require decades of aging.  Blair Pethel, a rare American who owns a Burgundy vineyard,
Domaine Dublere, began making wines in 2004 and believes that
everything from using organic soil to the gravitational pull of
the moon affect his wines.  “Once you achieve balance in a wine, it should stay
balanced for a very long time,” he told me during a tasting at
his small estate in La Montagne. I found Pethel’s wines like the
2011 Savigny Les Beaune bright, even sassy, indicative of a wine
that will be delicious upon release next year.  Earlier Maturity  “In the 1990s the style for Burgundy was power and
extraction,” Thibault Marion, owner of  Domaine Seguin-Manuel ,
said over dinner in Beaune. “But they did not always hold up.
Now, we are aiming at more finesse and fruit. I hardly ever
chaptalize my wines,” referring to the Burgundian practice of
adding sugar to grape must to increase the wine’s alcohol level.
“The wines are now better, fresher, with concentration of
flavors that come together much sooner than they did with the
old style.”  Laurent Drouhin, Mamaronek, New York-based export director
for Joseph Drouhin, explained to me that the vinification of the
Grand Cru and Premier Cru wines of Burgundy has not changed.  “We have never sought to make heavily extracted wines, so
ours can be enjoyed a bit younger,” he said.  Recently Drouhin gave a tasting for a group of bankers who
asked what Burgundies would be best for their clients to buy,
store, then re-sell as an investment. “I jumped up and told
them that is not why we produce wine,” he said.  Patience Required  “We want people to drink and enjoy them, not keep them to
sell years from now. You can easily enjoy younger Burgundies
from the village appellations. Even the Grand Crus from
Chambolle Musigny can be enjoyed a bit younger, but you’re still
going to have to wait for a Chambertin to mature fully.”  Reflecting the trend toward drinking younger red
Burgundies, wine-centric restaurants carry a deep selection of
recent vintages on their wine lists.  At Daniel Boulud’s DB Bistro Moderne in  New York , sommelier
Caleb Ganzer has more than 50 dozen red Burgundies listed,
overwhelmingly from the 2008, 2009, and 2010 vintages, including
many Premier Crus, along with a handful of bottlings from the
late 1980s and 1990s.  “Burgundies are all very allocated when you want to grab
great wines in current release and try to hold onto them to see
how they develop,” says Ganzer. “And the recent vintages
deliver so much pleasure now right out of the bottle. People are
also looking for more fruit and less earth, and producers are
delivering that now.”  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff ’s interview
with Nicolas Berggruen, and  Greg Evans  on Sundance movies.  To contact the writer of this column:  John Mariani  at
 john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 