-- ECB Buying Ireland, Portugal Bonds Weighed to Smooth Crisis Exit
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-22T15:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rehn-sees-option-of-ecb-bond-buying-for-ireland-portugal.html
Ireland and  Portugal  could draw on a
European Central Bank bond-buying program to help them become
the first countries in the three-year debt crisis to be weaned
off official aid, a top European policy maker said.  ECB bond purchases along with a  credit line  from the
European rescue fund could point the way back to market
financing, proving that  Europe ’s anti-crisis remedies are
working, Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  “The option of combining a precautionary program with the
ECB’s outright monetary transactions is something that should
not be ruled out, and is one option that should be considered as
a way of smoothing the way for a successful return to market
financing,” Rehn told reporters after a meeting of EU finance
ministers in Brussels today.  After loan pledges of 486 billion euros ($647 billion) to
four countries over three years to combat the debt turmoil,
European governments are eager to turn Ireland and Portugal into
crisis-fighting success stories. Financial markets have calmed
and peripheral sovereign yields have declined after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  in July pledged to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro, before unveiling the bond program details
in September.  Any decision by the ECB to deploy its as-yet unused
unlimited bond-purchase facility would rest with the independent
central bank, Rehn added. It restricted any bond buying to
countries that have already shown an ability to tap the markets.  Market Access  “Full  market access , complete market access” is the
requirement, Draghi said on  Oct. 4 . While a central bank
spokesman declined today to spell out what that means, Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said he understands the ECB to
be looking for “the capacity to raise bonds rather than
treasury bills.”  In Ireland’s case that would mean two sales of nine-year
bonds and “then we’re in a position to apply,” Noonan said.
“I’m certainly not ruling it out, but it’s a little bit early
yet.”  The ECB also limited any bond-market interventions to
countries meeting economic and budgetary conditions in a program
overseen by the European Stability Mechanism, the government-
managed aid fund set up last October.  Extending Maturities  In a further boost for Ireland and Portugal, Rehn said he
favors giving both countries more time to pay back bailout
loans. That could mean extending to them the same treatment
granted to  Greece  last year.  “Our standpoint is in principle favorable,” Rehn said.
Also up for debate is a cut in the loan rates, another
concession made to Greece, Rehn said. He said experts will make
proposals for the March meeting of finance ministers.  “Portugal is now in a condition to take advantage of any
opportunity that presents itself in bond markets to carry out
primary market issuance,” Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said
after euro ministers met last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  