-- Related Plans Sale of NYC’s Monterey Apartment Building
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-22T22:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/related-plans-sale-of-nyc-s-monterey-apartment-building.html
Related Cos., the New York developer
founded by billionaire Stephen Ross, is putting one of its
largest Manhattan apartment properties on the market as investor
demand for multifamily buildings grows amid rising rents.  The company is seeking to sell the Upper East Side’s
Monterey, a 519-apartment tower that may sell for at least
$500,000 a unit, according to a person who has seen the
marketing materials and asked not to be named because they are
private.  Joanna Rose , a Related spokeswoman, referred questions
to the building’s sales broker, Doug Harmon, senior managing
director at Eastdil Secured LLC.  The Monterey, located on East 96th Street near Third
Avenue, “provides a rare opportunity” to acquire a large
number of units in a “high-caliber, institutionally owned and
well-maintained property,” Harmon, who is marketing the
building with colleagues Adam Spies and Jean Celestin, said in
an e-mail. He declined to discuss the financial details of the
property or the price Related is seeking.  The Monterey, built in 1993, is a so-called 80/20 building,
in which 80 percent of the apartments are rented at market rate
and the others are reserved for tenants who earn no more than 50
percent of area’s median income, according to  guidelines  on the
website of the  New York  City Housing Development Corp. That
limits eligible income to about $41,500 for a family of four.  Under the program, developers agree to set aside the
affordable units in exchange for tax-exempt bonds to finance
construction.  Approaching Peak  Market-rate apartments  advertised  for rent at the Monterey
range from $3,125 to $3,795. The 29-story tower includes
amenities such as a pool, landscaped rooftop and fitness center,
according to the property website.  Manhattan apartment rents are poised to surpass their 2006
peak in the second quarter as tenant demand outstrips the
available supply of new units, according to  Jonathan Miller ,
president of New York-based appraiser Miller Samuel Inc.  The median monthly rent climbed to $3,150 in December, up
0.8 percent from a year earlier,  Miller Samuel  and brokerage
Douglas Elliman Real Estate said in a Jan. 10 report.  In 2012, the  dollar volume  of Manhattan apartment-building
sales more than doubled from a year earlier to $8.9 billion,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm. About 389 properties changed hands, twice as many
as in 2011.  Investors paid an average of $395,000 a unit in 2012, 13
percent less than the previous year, Real Capital data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  