-- Renault Union Says Plants May Shut Without Labor-Cut Deal
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-22T17:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/renault-union-says-plants-may-shut-without-labor-cut-deal.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, may shutter two factories in the country unless it
reaches an agreement with unions on increasing productivity,
holding back pay and cutting the workforce, a labor leader said.  A plant in Flins is most at risk of closing, Dominique
Chauvin, head of the CFE-CGC union at the carmaker, said today
by phone during a break in talks with management. The carmaker
“isn’t threatening to close an industrial plant,” as talks are
aimed at finding ways to increase competitiveness, Raluca Barb,
a Renault spokeswoman, said by phone in response.  The carmaker said earlier today that it’s willing to
increase production in France by 15 percent once a labor deal is
reached. Boulogne-Billancourt-based Renault began talks with
unions in November as part of efforts to sustain profit while
Europe’s car market falls to almost a two-decade low. Detroit-
based  General Motors Co. (GM) , which is unprofitable in the region,
said today that it may accelerate a German plant’s shutdown.  Renault is asking unions to agree to a wage freeze in
France this year and then raises of 0.5 percent in 2014 and 0.75
percent in 2015, the carmaker said today in a statement that
didn’t specify plans in the absence of an agreement.  Renault  fell  0.6 percent to 43.25 euros at the close in
Paris, valuing the carmaker at 12.8 billion euros ($17 billion).
GM dropped 2.3 percent to $28.60 at 12:04 p.m. in  New York ,
paring the stock’s 12-month gain to 15 percent.  Helping Partners  The French carmaker’s domestic factories may build 80,000
more vehicles a year by 2016 to supply manufacturers that the
company cooperates with, including  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and Daimler
AG, it said. Renault’s current full-year production in France
amounts to 530,000 vehicles for its own brand, according to
Sophie Chantegay, another spokeswoman.  “The signing of an agreement will allow our French plants
to be sufficiently competitive to attract volumes coming from
our partners,” Gerard Leclercq, Renault’s head of operations in
France, said in the statement.  Renault’s global deliveries fell 6.3 percent to 2.55
million cars and light vehicles last year, led by a 19 percent
plunge in Europe. The company forecast on Jan. 18 that
industrywide European car sales will drop 3 percent in 2013 in
the sixth straight annual contraction.  Job Cuts  The manufacturer said after talks on Jan. 15 that it wants
to eliminate 7,500 jobs through 2016 at French operations, or 17
percent of Renault’s workforce in the country. Leclercq said at
the time that the measures could be achieved by not replacing
people who retire or leave voluntarily, rather than by firings.
The job cuts are intended to produce about 400 million euros in
savings, Renault said today.  Total workers’ pay amount for 60 percent of Renault’s fixed
costs in France, the company said. The manufacturer’s proposals
come on top of other plans, including a 6.5 percent increase in
work hours at the country’s plants that would reduce spending by
65 million euros.  GM’s Opel unit may stop building the Zafira van at the
factory in Bochum as soon as the end of 2014, when a labor
agreement securing production at the plant runs out, Stephen Girsky, the U.S. carmaker’s interim chief in  Europe , wrote in a
letter to employees today. Opel had said previously that it
would stop making the Zafira in Bochum in 2016, when the plant
would be closed.  “Negotiations with the works council are still ongoing,”
Johanna Lomp-Knetsch, an Opel spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. “No decisions have been made yet.”  Renault and Opel both lost European market share in 2012 as
their deliveries fell faster the industrywide drop of 7.8
percent. Renault ranked third in the region, accounting for 8.4
percent of sales, compared with 9.5 percent a year earlier,
while Opel and its sister Vauxhall brand had a combined market
share of 6.7 percent, versus 7.3 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  