-- Republicans Renew Effort to Dismantle Obama’s Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-01-22T20:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/republicans-renew-effort-to-dismantle-obama-s-health-law.html
Two top Republican senators began a
fresh effort to dismantle President  Barack Obama ’s U.S. health-
care system overhaul, attempting to succeed where other
lawmakers have failed in trying to annul the law.  The legislation would repeal a mandate that most Americans
carry medical insurance starting in 2014, Senators  Orrin Hatch 
of  Utah  and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee said today in a
statement. The insurance mandate is the heart of the 2010
Affordable Care Act’s purpose of extending health care to most
Americans.  The Republican senators face an uphill battle with Obama’s
Democratic party controlling the Senate. Two bills that
Republicans in the  House of Representatives  passed to repeal the
law in 2011 and 2012 stalled once they reached the Senate. The
insurance mandate also survived a legal challenge in June before
the  Supreme Court .  “This legislation we are introducing today is simple: it
strikes the individual mandate, so we can instead find ways of
providing people with health care, but in a manner that doesn’t
run counter to our constitutional framework of limited
government,” Hatch, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, said in the statement.  He said the health law marked the first time that every
American would be required to buy insurance even if they don’t
want it. Alexander is the top Republican on the Senate committee
for health.  Obama’s administration has argued in court that the
government can’t require insurance companies to cover sick
people -- another key element of the law -- without also
requiring healthy people to purchase policies.  A White House spokesman, Bradley Carroll, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the proposed
legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  