-- Rift Valley Hit by Kenya War Mulls Bid by War Crime Suspects
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-23T10:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rift-valley-torn-by-kenya-war-weighs-bid-by-war-crimes-suspects.html
Simon Muchiri says he survived
having his house burned down and being left destitute in
violence following  Kenya ’s elections five years ago. Now he’s
planning to vote for the very politicians accused of leading
those attacks.  Uhuru Kenyatta, the deputy prime minister and a member of
the dominant Kikuyu community, is running as a team with former
political foe William Ruto, an ethnic Kalenjin lawmaker, in
presidential elections planned for March 4. Opinion polls show
their alliance leads in Kenya’s Rift Valley, the region where
Muchiri lives and the epicenter of post-election violence in
2007 that pitted the two ethnic groups against each other.  The two men have been indicted by the  International
Criminal Court  for directing ethnic mobs to murder and forcibly
displace people during the fighting. They  both  deny the  charges .  “If the president is a Kikuyu and the vice-president a
Kalenjin, now we are one and there will be no fighting,” said
Muchiri, a 50-year-old farmer and father of eight, as he pointed
to the police station in Burnt Forest, a town northwest of
Nairobi, where his family sought refuge for six months.  The candidates’ main challenger is Prime Minister Raila Odinga, an ethnic Luo who is running on a joint ticket with Vice
President Kalonzo Musyoka and leading in most public opinion
surveys. Their so-called Coalition for Reform and Democracy
would garner 51 percent support for the presidency against 39
percent for Kenyatta’s alliance, according to a poll by Nairobi-
based Infotrak Research & Consulting released this month. The
margin of error was plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.  Kenyatta Presidency?  That equation flips in the Rift Valley, where 52 percent of
respondents indicated they would vote for a Kenyatta presidency
over Odinga’s 38 percent, the survey showed.  Grievances over land have triggered violence in the Rift
Valley in every vote except one since 1992, when multiparty
democracy was introduced in Kenya, the world’s largest tea
exporter and East Africa’s biggest economy. Kalenjins say the
Kikuyus, Kenya’s largest ethnic group, were unjustly given land
by the government after the nation gained independence from
Britain half a century ago. The country has 42 ethnic groups.  The region accounts for a fifth of the country’s 14 million
registered voters, making it the biggest voting bloc. It grows
most of Kenya’s food, including 60 percent of the corn and
almost all its wheat. The Rift Valley is home to the majority of
the country’s tea plantations, run by companies including
London-based  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  and James Finlay Ltd.  Flashpoint  It was among the flashpoints of the 2007 violence that also
engulfed the western city of Kisumu and the slums of the
capital, Nairobi. More than 1,100 people died and 350,000 were
displaced in the clashes that slashed economic growth by two-
thirds to 1.5 percent as agricultural output slumped.  Politicians in Kenya typically draw support from ethnic
affiliations. Two out of the three Kenyan presidents since
independence were Kikuyu. The exception was Daniel Arap Moi, a
Kalenjin who was in power for 24 years.  Violence following the election was triggered by opposition
allegations that President Mwai Kibaki, a Kikuyu, secured a
second term by rigging the vote to beat Odinga, a member of the
Luo community whose supporters included Kalenjins.  ICC prosecutors accuse Ruto, 46, of mobilizing his kinsmen
to carry out pre-planned attacks on Kikuyus, Kisii and Kamba in
Eldoret, 265 kilometers (165 miles) from Nairobi, and the
surrounding area, according to a case information sheet on the
Hague-based court’s website. He “directly” supervised arms and
crude weapons purchases and gave  cash rewards  to perpetrators on
the ground who looted and killed, it says.  Reprisal Attacks  Kenyatta, for his part, is  accused  of ordering the Mungiki
criminal gang to respond with reprisal attacks, which included
rape, on the Luo, Luhya and Kalenjin communities in Nakuru and
Naivasha towns, about 140 kilometers northwest of Nairobi, the
ICC said. Their trials begin in April.  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of Kenya’s founding
president, Jomo Kenyatta, said he and Ruto can run the country
even while fighting the ICC indictments.  “Kenya is not a  banana republic , Kenya is a country that
actually has very firm and clear institutions in place,” he
said in an interview on Al Jazeera television broadcast
yesterday. “The system and the state will continue to run.”  No Wrong  Kenyatta’s defense lawyers say he had no control over the
Mungiki and that he “does not satisfy the subjective elements
of the crimes alleged,” according to a Nov. 17, 2011  court
filing . Ruto “did no wrong” and is being charged at the ICC
“because of a flawed investigation and the over-reliance on a
handful of anonymous witnesses,” David Hooper, a member of his
legal team, told the Hague-based  court  on Sept. 1, 2011.  The coalition of ICC suspects may neutralize tensions
between the feuding ethnic groups in the March vote, reducing
historical power struggles, said Macharia Munene, a professor of
international studies at the  U.S. International University .
Kenyatta and Ruto “coming together could have a positive effect
and give people a reason to think twice before doing something
untoward on ethnic lines,” he said by phone from Nairobi.  The Jubilee alliance has put “peace and stability” at the
center of its election campaign, Kenyatta said yesterday.  Peace Accord  The violence in 2007 ended after Kibaki entered a power-
sharing accord with Odinga, 68, who was installed as prime
minister. They agreed to reorganize the police and courts,
overhaul land ownership laws and adopt a new constitution.  Any changes have failed to stem long-standing resentments
from communities that say they have been economically
disadvantaged, Daniel Were, a peace activist, said in an
interview in Eldoret. The alliance between Kenyatta and Ruto may
help bridge the partisan divide, he said.  “The personal interest of the Kenyatta and Ruto alliance
is to get rid of a common enemy, Odinga, and that could increase
the chance of peace if these two groups are now united,” he
said.  While the nation enacted a charter in 2010 aimed at
improving government accountability, Rift Valley residents have
seen little practical effect, according to Nelly Ndung’u, a 41-
year-old women’s activist in the region. Some Kenyans displaced
by the violence are angered by reports that state donations of
housing, land and money meant to help them return home or
resettle are allotted on tribal loyalties, New York-based Human
Rights Watch said on Jan. 17.  Many remain in temporary mud-walled housing and have failed
to recoup their family’s possessions, including cattle herds
that were wiped out in the clashes, Ndung’u said. The sense of
injustice lingers as most of the low- and middle-level
perpetrators have escaped trial.  “Are we really going to vote back the people who are
responsible for this destruction?” Ndung’u said as she stood
near the grave of a neighbor shot dead by police during the
violence. “We want to vote for a leader who will bring us
higher, not leaders who came here to burn and kill us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  