-- Rightmove Gains on Property Search as UBS Says Buy: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-22T17:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rightmove-gains-on-property-search-as-ubs-says-buy-london-mover.html
Rightmove Plc (RMV) , owner of the U.K.’s
largest residential property website, rose the most in more than
five months after UBS AG upgraded the stock and raised its
12-month price prediction by almost 13 percent.  Growth in revenue from advertisers at the same rate as
Rightmove achieved last year would lead to a 13 percent increase
in earnings estimates, Alex Hugh, a UBS analyst, said in a note
to clients. Hugh raised his  recommendation  to buy from neutral
and increased his price target to 1,800 pence from 1,600 pence.  U.K. homebuilders are forecasting that sales will continue
to rise this year as  Bank of England  efforts to boost mortgage
lending encourage more people to make purchases. The number of
sellers coming to market so far this month is 22 percent higher
than a year ago, Rightmove, whose customers are real estate
brokers and homebuilders, said yesterday.  The  shares  rose 2.8 percent to 1,599 pence, the biggest
advance since Aug. 10 at the close of trading in  London . That
extended Rightmove’s gain this year to 11 percent.  Rightmove’s dominance of Internet searches for property
during the housing slump since the start of the global financial
crisis has resulted in a ninefold increase in its share price
since the end of 2008.  Viewing figures suggest that Rightmove’s competitive
position remains as strong after property website Zoopla Ltd.
combined with Digital Property Group Ltd., Hugh said. “There is
always a competitor to worry about,” he said, noting that
another site, PropertyLive, has closed.  The UBS upgrade was the second in four days. Gareth Davies,
an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., lifted his recommendation
to buy from add on Jan. 18 and increased his price target to
1,866 pence from 1,776 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  