-- Rio Tinto Said to Mull Riversdale Coal Sale Following Review
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-22T15:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rio-tinto-said-to-mull-riversdale-coal-asset-sale-after-review.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the second-biggest
mining company, is considering a sale of all or part of its coal
business in  Mozambique  after flagging a $3 billion writedown for
the assets last week, a person familiar with the matter said.  The London-based company has begun a review of the assets
acquired in 2011 for A$3.9 billion ($4.1 billion) with the
purchase of Riversdale Mining Ltd. and all options are being
examined, the person said, declining to be identified because
the information is private. The person said the company hasn’t
set up a timetable for the completion of the review.  Rio has been reviewing the business to study options for
transporting exports, potential joint ventures or asset sales,
the Australian Financial Review said today, citing unidentified
officials. Deutsche Bank AG values the asset at $370 million.  Rio (RIO)  Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese and head of
strategy Doug Ritchie, who led the acquisition of Riversdale,
stepped down last week after the company said it would book
charges totaling $14 billion. The company said the Mozambique
asset writedown was unacceptable, citing transportation
constraints and a cut to recoverable coking coal estimates.  “You don’t want to spend management time developing
something that is going to take years and years to ramp up, it’s
non-core and just a distraction,” said Rob Clifford, a mining
analyst at Deutsche Bank. “The sooner you can sell those things
probably the better. If they get a good price now, do it.”  Zambezi River  Rio will also study options including boosting coal exports
by co-operating on rail and port infrastructure with potential
partners, the person said. Other companies with coal mines near
Rio in the Moatize Basin include  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   “ENRC has got its own cash-flow issues, Anglo is about to
change chief and probably unlikely to do anything on the M&A
front,” Clifford said. “Vale probably of the three would be
the most likely but they’ve got enough to get on with without
having to chip more in.”  Rio, which began exports from its Benga mine by rail in
June, planned to boost shipments to about 12 million metric tons
annually by barging coal down the Zambezi River from 2014.  The Mozambique government rejected the river proposal in
March. Rio also considered a new rail line and port with
potential exports of more than 100 million tons annually from
2018, it said in a September presentation on its website.  Government Talks  Rio is talking with the government about potential export
options, the person familiar with the matter said.  Mozambique is asking to study the data that prompted Rio to
cut an estimate of recoverable coal in the country before
deciding what steps it can take to help the project, Deputy
National Director of Mineral Resources Obete Matine said.  “We are not distrusting the studies, but we have to see
all the details and after that we can probably see whatever we
can do to help the project,” Matine said in an interview.  The country won’t privilege any one company and will work
for the benefit of all in the industry, he said yesterday. “We
have to look for global solutions for all the players.”  Rio  bought  Riversdale to boost its coking coal resources,
gaining assets in what it called the “home of the best
undeveloped coking coal resources in the world” in a September
2011 investor presentation. The drop in recoverable steel-making
coal at Rio’s Mozambique mines has undermined the viability of
building multibillion dollar rail and port upgrades.  Rio is reassessing its “overall scale and ramp-up
schedule” in Mozambique, it said Jan. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  