-- Robuchon Regains Crown as Asia’s Top Restaurateur
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-01-22T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/robuchon-regains-crown-as-asia-s-top-restaurateur.html
French chef  Joel Robuchon  took first
and third places last night in the  Miele Guide  list of the Top
20 restaurants in  Asia , toppling Singapore’s Iggy’s, which has
won a record three times.  “The man many herald as the world’s greatest chef and his
lieutenants in Asia have done it again,” the guide’s editors
said in an e-mailed release. Robuchon has been a fixture in the
list since the guide’s inception five years ago.  Iggy’s, the modern European establishment of Ignatius Chan,
dropped to fourth, behind Robuchon au Dome (Macau); Waku Ghin
(Singapore) and L’Atelier de Joel Robuchon ( Hong Kong ). Waku
Ghin, a new entry, is the creation of Sydney’s Tetsuya Wakuda.  Miele’s Chef of Chefs awards went to the Australian David
Thompson, who created Nahm at the  Halkin hotel  in  London .  Nahm closed in December and will be replaced by a Basque
restaurant,  Ametsa With Arzak Instruction . (Arzak Instruction is
a group of chefs including Juan Mari Arzak and his daughter
Elena.) Ametsa is scheduled to open at the beginning of March.  Thompson, who is also a successful food writer, has gone on
to open Nahm in Bangkok. He was chosen for the award by chef
candidates from the previous edition of the guide.  Each of the 500 restaurants in the Miele Guide is selected
after a voting process involving food-and-beverage industry
professionals, food writers, restaurant critics and the public.  The winners were announced at Tamarind Hill,  Singapore . The
Miele Guide was created in 2008 after Asian establishments
failed to make an impact in the  World’s 50 Best Restaurants 
awards. The World’s 50 Best now plans to announce its own list
of  Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants  on Feb. 25 in Singapore.  (I work unpaid for the World’s 50 Best Restaurants and am
not involved in the Asia event.)  The Miele Top 20 (with last year’s rankings in parentheses):  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Martin
Gayford  on London art exhibitions and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 