-- Rousseff Targets 2013 Growth Revival as Brazil Election Looms
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-22T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/rousseff-targets-2013-growth-revival-as-brazil-election-looms.html
Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff ,
at the midpoint of her term, faces a pivotal year as she seeks
to revive economic growth in preparation for an election run in
October 2014.  With the economy advancing at a quarter of the pace she
targeted shortly after taking office, her administration has
enacted more than two stimulus measures a month in the past
year. If the world’s biggest emerging market after  China  doesn’t
rebound soon, Rousseff, 65, may face an electoral battle even
though she currently enjoys a record approval rating.  The flagging economy threatens her prospects and has
prompted the biggest opposition party to name its likely
candidate, said Andre Cesar, director at consulting firm
 Prospectiva . Gross domestic product grew in the first half 
of Rousseff’s term at an average annual rate of 1.87 percent, 
the slowest two-year pace since 1998-99.  “A poor economic performance could erode her support,”
Cesar, who forecast Rousseff’s 2010 election victory when she
still trailed in polls, said in a telephone interview from
Brasilia on Jan. 7. “Not only voters but her allies too will 
be closely watching the economy. Less than 3 percent growth 
this year puts her re-election at risk.”  Analysts surveyed by the central bank trimmed their 2013
outlook in 9 of the past 10 weeks to 3.19 percent growth from 4
percent in November, according to the central bank.  Same Ticket  While Rousseff said on Dec. 27 that she would not discuss
the presidential race, Vice President Michel Temer said on Oct.
16 the two will again run on the same ticket in 2014. Rousseff’s
press office declined to comment for this story.  When Rousseff took office on Jan. 1, 2011, her ruling
Workers’ Party was riding high. Brazil posted economic growth of
7.5 percent in 2010, and Rousseff’s predecessor and mentor,
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , ended eight years in power
with an unprecedented approval rating of 87 percent. During his
term, nearly 40 million Brazilians were lifted out of poverty.  Rousseff, who was Lula’s cabinet chief, two months into her
term said she would seek growth of 4.5 percent to 5 percent in
coming years.  Instead,  growth  slowed to 2.7 percent in 2011 and to 1
percent last year, the central bank estimates, as commodity
prices slumped and an overvalued currency caused manufacturers
to lose market share to foreign competitors. Meanwhile,
 inflation , which reached 5.84 percent in 2012, has exceeded the
4.5 percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for
three straight years.  Global Bond  Since Rousseff took office,  Sao Paulo ’s Bovespa stock index
fell 27.3 percent in U.S. dollars terms, compared with a gain of
14.1 percent in  Mexico ’s IPC index. The real was the worst
performer after  South Africa ’s rand among the 16 most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, losing 18.6 percent over the
same period.  Brazil’s global bonds returned 27 percent since Jan. 1,
2011, compared with 28.4 percent for all emerging market bonds,
according to JP Morgan.  In an attempt to revive growth, Rousseff’s government
reduced borrowing costs to a record, cut taxes for industry and
consumers, pushed banks to lower lending rates and took measures
to boost exports by weakening the real.  Yet with results from the stimulus proving slow to
materialize, concern is rising in government quarters. A close
adviser to Rousseff, who asked not be named because he was not
authorized to make public statements, said a recovery in 2013 is
crucial to assure her popularity. Opposition parties sense their
chance to gain ground.  ’Biggest Opportunity’  “The meager growth has unveiled a host of economic
problems the government has not addressed,” Rodrigo de Castro,
secretary-general of the  Brazilian Social Democracy Party , or
PSDB, said by telephone on Jan. 3. “This is the biggest
opportunity for the opposition in a decade.”  The PSDB’s presidential candidate has either won or been
runner-up in every election since 1994. Its leaders on Dec. 3
proposed Aecio Neves, a senator from  Minas Gerais  and former
governor of that state, as their next presidential candidate.  Neves attacked Rousseff’s administration in a Jan. 15
article on the editorial pages of Rio de Janeiro-based O Globo
newspaper.  “The government continues to suffer from a disease that
invariably causes severe damage to society: it spends too much
and it spends badly,” he wrote.  In a Datafolha survey that asked voters about various
electoral scenarios in 2014, Rousseff had a commanding lead: 57
percent support to 18 percent for former Environment Minister
 Marina Silva  and 12 percent for Neves. The survey of 2,588
prospective voters on Dec. 13 had a margin of error of two
percentage points. Silva, then representing Brazil’s  Green
Party , ran third in the 2010 vote.  Still, Rousseff’s own political history indicates how
volatile voter sentiment can be. A Datafolha survey taken 19
months before the 2010 election showed her with 13 percent
support to 47 percent for the PSDB’s  Jose Serra , whom she
eventually defeated by 12 percentage points.  Disappointing Growth  Brazil’s slow third-quarter growth also fueled ambitions
within Rousseff’s coalition. Members of the Brazilian Socialist
Party speculate Pernambuco Governor Eduardo Campos, one of the
organization’s leading figures, could run against her,
Prospectiva’s Cesar said. Campos didn’t reply to e-mails and
phone calls from Bloomberg seeking comment.  “GDP is an important variable, but not the only one and
certainly not the most important for Brazilian families,”
Arlindo Chinaglia, a Workers’ Party deputy and leader of the
government coalition in the lower house, said by telephone from
Brasilia on Jan. 9. “We don’t fear the opposition because of
our achievements. Over the last decade we’ve had the biggest
redistribution of income in Brazilian history.”  Last September, in announcing new regulations intended to
cut electricity costs by 20 percent, Rousseff said that lower
lending costs, a more favorable  exchange rate , and spending on
infrastructure and education are making Brazil more competitive.  Economic Model  Her efforts have not assuaged critics who say the
government is clinging to an economic model based on spurring
consumption by expanding credit and spending, rather than
boosting investment by paring red tape and simplifying taxes.  “The basic roadblocks are on the supply side of the
economy,” Paulo Vieira da Cunha, a partner at Tandem Global
Partners LLC and a former Brazilian central bank director, said
by telephone from  New York  on Jan. 4.  Such concerns haven’t as yet resonated with the public.
Rousseff’s approval rating stood at 78 percent in the latest
Ibope poll, which surveyed 2,002 people from Dec. 6-9 and had a
margin of error of two percentage points. That’s the highest
level ever for a Brazilian president after two years in office.
One reason is that slower growth hasn’t boosted  unemployment ,
which stood at 4.9 percent in November, a record low for the
month.  Easy Path  The jobless rate may finally rise, threatening what would
have been Rousseff’s easy path to re-election, if the government
doesn’t steer away from its demand-led model and lure more
investment, said  Albert Fishlow , former director of Columbia
University’s Institute of Latin American Studies, in a telephone
interview from New York on Dec. 20.  Inflation has accelerated for four consecutive months and,
if not checked by tighter monetary policy this year, could erode
her re-election chances in 2014, said  John Welch , a strategist
at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto.  “Rising prices are the worst thing she could hope for in
an election year,” said Welch. “The time to tame inflation is
now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  