-- Ruble Rises to Eight-Month High, Extending Gain on Oil, Rates
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-01-22T08:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ruble-rises-to-eight-month-high-extending-gain-on-oil-rates.html
The ruble headed for the strongest
level since May as oil traded close to a four-month high and the
government signaled the central bank is resisting an interest
rate cut.  Russia ’s currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 30.1780 per
dollar by 11:57 a.m. in Moscow. The ruble was little changed
versus the euro at 40.333, leaving it up less than 0.1 percent
against Bank Rossii’s target dollar-euro basket at 34.7489.  Crude oil, Russia’s biggest export, gained 0.2 percent in
New York to $95.70. Bank Rossii is resisting the government’s
calls to cut interest rates, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor
Shuvalov said in a Jan. 18 interview. Russia’s central bank left
borrowing costs unchanged this month after unexpectedly raising
rates in September.  “Ruble appreciation is logical and justified given the
level of the oil prices and the relatively high domestic
interest rates,”  Denis Korshilov , head of fixed income,
currencies and commodities of Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by
phone.  The yield on Russia’s ruble bond due February 2027 declined
one basis point to 7 percent.  “Euroclear’s concerns regarding the start of operations in
the local market are likely to be resolved successfully,” Maxim Oreshkin, analyst at VTB Capital, said in an e-mailed note. “We
believe it makes sense to pay attention to long-term OFZs.”  The yield on the notes, known as OFZs, is up 16 basis
points from a Jan. 10 low of 6.84 percent amid concern direct
settlement of local debt through systems including Euroclear
Bank SA may be delayed.  There are no obstacles stopping Euroclear from working in
Russia and the country’s market watchdog was due to send the
world’s biggest bond settlement system a written response to a
clarification request on Jan. 19, the Federal Financial Markets
Service said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  