-- Russian Rocker Growls at Putin in Poetry, Floydish Shows
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-01-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/russian-rocker-growls-at-putin-in-poetry-floydish-shows.html
The day after Russian rock star Yuri Shevchuk flew into New York for his band’s North American tour,
he woke up at 4 a.m. and waited for sunrise.  As the Chrysler Building rose in front of his 35th-floor
hotel room, he thought about the city all around him.  “The darkness moved away and the skyscrapers remained,”
said Shevchuk, 55, in an interview several hours later, as he
drank black instant coffee. “I thought: Are they the light or
the shadows of darkness? Do they represent pride and ambition or
something organic?”  Poetic flourishes have characterized Shevchuk’s career ever
since he founded rock band DDT in 1980. Its popularity took off
during perestroika as Shevchuk’s evocative lyrics and growling
voice drew in the reformers, common folk and intelligentsia. He
has been at the civic forefront ever since, frequently
criticizing the Kremlin.  “I have never had a close relationship with any
government, be it the Soviets, Yeltsin or, now, Putin,” he
said. “My favorite saying is, ‘An artist’s master is god, not
the czar.’”  DDT will present two programs. The band’s large-scale,
video-art enhanced “Otherwise” show will be seen at the
 Hammerstein Ballroom  in New York on Jan. 27. The smaller venues
the band is playing in Toronto and  Chicago  will have “Solnik,”
a show inspired by Shevchuk’s poetry. Booklets containing
English translations will be distributed.  ‘Hamlet Questions’  “It will be like Pink Floyd’s ‘The Wall,’ with every song
accompanied by video art,” said Shevchuk, whose brown hair,
shaggy cut and glasses bring to mind a middle-aged, scruffy-
looking Russian John Lennon.  “The songs are about who we are, how we live, the
relationship between an individual and power, an individual and
his country, an individual and love,” Shevchuk said. “The
Hamlet questions.”  In 2010, Shevchuk directed similar questions at Putin
during a meeting between the country’s cultural elite and its
then prime minister. Their debate was broadcast on a state-
controlled television channel where DDT rarely appears these
days due to censorship, Shevchuk said.  “I want to live in a free country where everyone is equal
in the eyes of the law, and I told Putin that,” said Shevchuk
remembering the incident. “He agreed with me.”  ‘Punk Prayer’  During the past three years, Shevchuk has attended
political protests and organized charity concerts to support
human rights and political prisoners. DDT’s concerts raised more
than 1 million rubles ($33,000) last year, he said. In
September, the band took part in a St. Petersburg concert
supporting Pussy Riot, after its three members were sentenced to
two years in jail following the controversial “punk prayer” at
Moscow’s Cathedral of Christ the Savior.  Despite his support, Shevchuk said he is conflicted about
the episode.  “For many people, the church is the only place where they
can cry about their difficult, even tragic lives,” he said.
“They are not heard anywhere else. And you can understand why
these people were outraged.”  Despite the government’s crackdown on the opposition and
its anti-Western initiatives, Shevchuk is hopeful about  Russia ’s
future.  “I like what’s happening in our country,” he said. “We
have a whole new generation of young people who don’t think that
personal enrichment is the meaning of life. They want to stay in
Russia and make it better, richer so that they can be proud of
their country.”  DDT’s remaining performances are in Chicago tomorrow,
Toronto Jan. 25 and New York Jan. 27.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 