-- Ryanair CEO Tweaks Aer Lingus Remedies in Move for Bid Approval
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-22T10:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/ryanair-ceo-tweaks-aer-lingus-remedies-in-move-for-bid-approval.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s chief said he
hopes regulators will make a “positive decision” by the end of
February on his airline’s bid to buy rival  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) 
as his company offers concessions to ensure competition.  “We’ve submitted a very radical package of remedies,”
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in an interview in
 Rome . “It’s a question of spending time” with the European
Commission, he said, “trying to tweak the remedies so we ensure
we address all the commission’s competition concerns and come
out with the best deal for Irish consumers and visitors.”  Ryanair, Europe’s biggest discount airline, owns about 30
percent of Aer Lingus, and in June renewed an attempt to buy the
remainder. The EU agency blocked a takeover attempt five years
earlier, saying it would create a monopoly for Irish flights.
The 694 million-euro ($926 million) bid has also drawn
opposition from Aer Lingus and Ireland’s government.  Ryanair has said it could exit all 46 Dublin routes that
overlap with Aer Lingus and that several rival carriers are
interested in competing at Irish airports. International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, owner of British Airways, in
December signed a non-binding agreement to buy landing slots at
 London ’s Heathrow airport from Ryanair if it completes the
planned takeover.  “Talks are continuing with the up-front buyers,” O’Leary
said today.  Ryanair was told by the European Commission this month that
it must propose further concessions to rescue the Aer Lingus
bid, according to two people familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  