-- SABMiller Revenue Beats Estimates on Premium Beer Demand
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-22T09:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/sabmiller-lager-volume-rises-less-than-analysts-anticipated.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, reported organic revenue that beat estimates for
the third quarter as consumers opted for pricier beers.  Revenue at the maker of Grolsch and Peroni rose 8 percent
on an organic basis, which excludes the effects of acquisitions
and disposals, the London-based company said today in a
statement. That was ahead of the 6.5 percent median estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The report shows price increases and an appetite for more
premium tipples buoyed sales in Latin America, one of
SABMiller’s biggest regions, even as cold weather in  China  and
lackluster  consumer spending  in Europe damped demand for thirst-
quenching lagers, causing volume growth to miss analyst
estimates. SABMiller’s shares rose as much as 1.4 percent in
 London  trading to 3,000.5 pence.  “We think the revenue beat will offset the volume miss,”
Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Banco Santander SA in London,
wrote in a note today. Santander recommends buying the stock.  SABMiller gets most of its revenue from  emerging markets 
including  Latin America  and Africa, where volume rose 6 percent
and 4 percent, respectively. The brewer said in November that it
had seen “moderation of economic growth” in some countries,
though emerging-market growth potential remained strong.  “The positive surprises come in high-margin areas and the
misses in low ones” in the report, analysts at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in London wrote in a note.  Wet Weather  So-called organic lager volume increased 2 percent in the
third quarter, lower than the 3 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Volume in Europe gained 1 percent, less than the 5 percent
median analyst estimate, as markets including Poland and the
Czech Republic suffered “depressed  consumer confidence ,” the
company said. Volume in the Asia-Pacific region showed an
unexpected 1 percent decline, missing the median estimate for a
5 percent gain, as China’s wet weather depressed spending. China
represents about 20 percent of group volume, but only 2 percent
of profit, according to analysis by UBS AG.  SABMiller bought Foster’s Group Ltd. in 2011 for about
A$10.5 billion ($11.1 billion), which boosted first-half
earnings in Asia. The Australian brewer has higher margins than
SABMiller, which is aiming to increase sales of pricier, more
profitable beers in that country as volumes wane.  Australian volume slid 4 percent in the quarter, an
improvement from the first half’s 8 percent decline. Volume fell
15 percent including the loss of some discontinued brands.  Sales to wholesalers at the company’s U.S. joint venture
MillerCoors LLC dropped 1.4 percent, according to the statement.
South  Africa , where the brewer was founded, showed a 3 percent
increase in volume, ahead of estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  