-- Samsung Ventures Buys Fixmo Stake to Take on BlackBerry
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-22T15:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/samsung-ventures-buys-fixmo-stake-to-take-on-blackberry.html
Samsung Venture Investment Corp. (005930) 
bought a stake in Canadian security software maker Fixmo Inc. to
extend the Asian company’s growth with business and government
clients traditionally served by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   Samsung Ventures , which invests on behalf of Suwon, South
Korea-based smartphone maker Samsung Electronics Co. and other
parts of the Samsung group of companies, is making the
investment in return for a “small” equity stake, Fixmo Chief
Executive Officer Rick Segal said in a phone interview. He
declined to disclose exactly how much Samsung invested. Nam Ki
Yung, a spokesman for Samsung Electronics, declined to comment.  The investment shows that “Samsung is getting very serious
about taking on RIM in their own backyard, in government and
enterprise,” Segal, who founded Fixmo, said yesterday. RIM is
based in Waterloo, Ontario.  Samsung is looking to replicate the success it’s had with
consumers among businesspeople as more workers use their own
devices instead of company-issued phones. Operating profit at
Samsung, the biggest maker of devices on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
platform, jumped 89 percent last quarter to 8.8 trillion won
($8.3 billion), paced by sales of its Galaxy smartphones.  RIM is counting on its new BlackBerry 10 smartphones, set
to debut Jan. 30, to trigger a wave of upgrades from lawyers,
bankers and public servants faithful to their BlackBerrys. The
company was poised to finish 2012 with a 4.7 percent share of
the global smartphone market, hurt by an aging smartphone
lineup, market researcher IDC said last month. Android had about
68 percent market share.  RIM is also wooing companies with features such as
BlackBerry Balance, which allows users to operate two versions
of their device for work and personal life that separately
quarantine e-mail, applications and other data.  Security Software  Fixmo sells security software including Sentinel and
SafeZone it has developed with the U.S. National Security Agency
to bolster device safety. The Toronto-based company secured $23
million from investors including Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers in 2011 and has secured more than $40 million in
investment to date, Segal said.  “Samsung is looking at companies like us to give them
insight but more importantly to lay down those strategic markers
in areas like security and storage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  