-- Samsung Seeks California Apple Case Documents for Japan Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-22T20:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/samsung-seeks-california-apple-case-documents-for-japan-suit-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  asked a U.S.
judge to allow it to use documents from its patent-infringement
case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in  California  for litigation pending
between the companies in  Japan .  Samsung told U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose ,
California, today that it needs information exchanged between
the companies in his court to contest the validity of Apple’s
patents at issue in cases pending in Japan.  Samsung seeks any documents concerning iPhone sales before
June 29, 2007, as well as the actual device introduced as
evidence, according to a court filing. Samsung also wants the
iPhone that Apple founder  Steve Jobs  used when he introduced the
device at his Jan. 9, 2007, MacWorld presentation.  “Samsung’s request is not an attempt to circumvent foreign
proof-gathering restrictions,” Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung
said in a court filing. “Quite simply, a Japanese court cannot
order Apple to produce evidence without the cooperation of court
within the U.S.”  In the San Jose case, a jury decided Aug. 24 at the end of
a trial that Samsung should pay $1.05 billion for infringing six
Apple patents. Apple awaits a decision from U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh on its request for additional damages against Samsung
after the iPhone maker lost its bid to block U.S. sales on 26 of
the Galaxy maker’s devices. Apple failed to establish that
consumer demand for Samsung products was driven by technology it
stole, Koh ruled.  Four Continents  Samsung and Apple, which together make about half of the
smartphones sold worldwide, have each scored victories in their
patent disputes fought over four continents since Cupertino,
California-based Apple accused  Asia ’s biggest electronics maker
of “slavishly copying” its devices. The companies are
competing for dominance of a global mobile-device market
estimated by  Yankee Group  at $346 billion this year.  Samsung’s request should be denied because it is
“attempting an end-run around the discovery procedures of the
Japanese courts and because Samsung has not presented this court
with evidence that it has a substantial need for the information
it belatedly seeks,” Apple said in a court filing.  Apple said two of the cases at issue are in Tokyo district
court, where the company seeks a temporary sales ban and damages
based on its “rubberbanding” patent that Koh, in the San Jose
case, found to be valid and infringed. Rubberbanding is the the
way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls
to the end of a file.  Appeals Cases  Two other appeals cases concern Apple’s request for a
preliminary injunction involving a patent covering the
synchronization of a media player, according to a court filing.  Apple asked Koh at a Dec. 6 hearing to increase the damages
awarded by the jury by $536 million, while Samsung said the
verdict should be reduced by more than $600 million.  The iPhone maker has asked a full panel of judges at the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  to
review two appeals seeking to block sales of Samsung products
that Apple says violate its patents.  A three-judge Federal Circuit panel said in October that
Samsung could continue selling its newest Galaxy Nexus
smartphone while battling patent-infringement claims by Apple.
To obtain an order that would block sales, Apple must show that
the patented search feature under dispute drives consumer demand
for the product, the panel said.  The San Jose case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 12-cv-80275, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  The appeals in Washington are Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 13-1129, and Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  