-- HSBC Sees Flows Into Debt Extending After Gold Tax: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-23T06:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/hsbc-sees-flows-into-debt-extending-after-gold-tax-india-credit.html
India ’s move to curb gold imports to
improve its current account is buoying confidence in the rupee,
prompting HSBC Global Asset Management to bet foreign  holdings 
of local debt will extend last year’s 26 percent surge.  An offering of bond-purchase quotas to foreigners by the
market regulator was oversubscribed on Jan. 21, according to two
people familiar with the matter, the same day government raised
the tax on bullion shipments to 6 percent from 4 percent.
Dollar-based investors will earn 10.2 percent, including
interest income, from holding rupees this year, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. That would be the highest
in the world after 10.7 percent on  Argentina ’s peso.  Efforts by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration
to damp demand for gold, India’s biggest import after oil, may
drive money into financial markets, helping extend gains in
Asia’s best-performing bonds. Singh has put his popularity on
the line to avoid a cut in the nation’s debt rating to junk,
cutting energy subsidies and allowing more foreign investment.  “We are bullish on rates and also on the currency in the
short-term,” Gordon Rodrigues, investment director in Hong Kong
at HSBC Global Asset Management, which oversees $32 billion of
Asian fixed-income assets, said in an interview yesterday. “The
latest debt-quota auction results tell us that the market has
confidence in the government. I think this policy momentum will
continue and I don’t think we’ll have populist measures in the
budget, even though 2014 is an election year.”  Best Performers  The gold tax increase is part of the government’s policy
changes aimed at boosting investor confidence, said Rodrigues.  Rupee-denominated sovereign securities handed investors
11.1 percent in the past year, the most among Asia’s 10 biggest
local-currency debt markets tracked by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  Funds
based abroad bolstered holdings of Indian government and company
bonds by $6.9 billion in 2012 to $32.9 billion, according to
data from the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government debt has slid
71 basis points, or 0.71 percentage point, since the end of
2011, compared with a 16 basis point rise in  similar  rates in
 China , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The amount paid by the
8.15 percent note due June 2022 climbed one basis point to 7.86
percent today, while the rupee was little changed at 53.785 per
dollar. Indian bonds due in a decade pay 603 basis points more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Indian bonds, along with those of Russia and  Poland , will
be the biggest gainers among  emerging markets  in 2013 as
confidence in the rupee rises and cooling inflation allows the
central bank to cut the highest interest rates among Asia’s
biggest economies, Morgan Stanley predicted last month.  ‘Loses Sheen’  “Bond funds are expected to give better returns while gold
loses its sheen in the current risk-on environment,” Rajesh Cheruvu, chief investment Officer for India at RBS Private
Banking in  Mumbai , said in an interview yesterday. “Recent
policy strictures have reduced the attractiveness of the metal.
They are trying to address the current-account deficit by
bringing down gold imports. This is already attracting a decent
amount of interest from foreign investors.”  Cheruvu prefers India’s longer-maturity bonds, predicting
the 10-year yield to drop to 7.30 percent by year-end.  Overseas purchases of gold, which accounts for 80 percent
of the nation’s current-account  deficit , may decline 12 percent
to 750 tons in the fiscal year starting April on higher taxes,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Current Account  The gap in the broadest of trade will narrow to 4.3 percent
of gross domestic product in the year through March 2014 from an
estimated 4.9 percent this period,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage
said in a Jan. 21 report. That would still be higher than the
“sustainable level” of 2.5 percent, it said.  The deficit, which reached an unprecedented $22.3 billion
in the three months to Sept. 30, fueled a slide in the rupee to
a record low of 57.3275 per dollar on June 22. Gold imports are
“a huge drain,” Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said
Jan. 2. Purchases in the nine months through December were
estimated at $38 billion, compared with $56.5 billion in
2011-2012, the finance ministry said in a statement on Jan. 21.  India also doubled a levy on gold ore, concentrate and so-
called dore bars for refining to 4 percent, while an excise tax
on refined gold will climb to 5 percent from 3 percent, the
customs department said on its website this week.  ‘Penchant for Gold’  “One of the reasons why households have a penchant for
gold is that it has provided the best return among all
instruments during a period of high inflation,‘‘  Sonal Varma  and
Aman Mohunta, economists at Nomura in Mumbai, wrote in the
research report. ‘‘We think import duties will only lead to a
reduction in gold imports through the official channel and
result in a rise in imports through unofficial channels.’’  Bond risk in India has fallen every month since September,
when Singh started unveiling the nation’s most aggressive policy
changes in a decade aimed reviving the economy and improving
public finances. The government reduced taxes on companies’
overseas debt, cut energy subsidies and allowed more foreign
investment in industries including aviation and retailing, after
Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s last year warned the nation
may lose its investment-grade rating.  The cost to insure  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s debt, considered a
proxy for the sovereign by some investors, for five years
against non-payment using credit-default swaps fell 144 basis
points in the second half of 2012 to 225, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Rupee, Rates  ‘‘Higher taxes on gold will help the rupee at the
margins,” Nick Verdi, a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in
 Singapore , said in an interview on Jan. 22. “This development
joins the larger picture, where the Reserve Bank of India is
ready to cut rates to boost growth. Global liquidity, which is
quite flush, will boost inflows and help currencies like the
rupee.”  The British bank predicts India’s monetary authority will
lower the benchmark  repurchase  rate by 100 basis points over the
next six months, starting with a 25 basis point cut to 7.75
percent at a Jan. 29 review. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
last month India’s monetary policy needs to shift focus toward
supporting the economy from containing inflation.  Option traders are the most bullish on India’s currency in
four years. One-year contracts conferring the right to sell the
rupee against the dollar cost 140 basis points more than those
to buy today, near the least since November 2008. The so-called
risk reversal rate slid 270 basis points in the past year.  The move to curb gold imports “is part of the overall
reform movement that has taken on positive momentum over the
past few days and is supportive of the rupee,” economic growth
and inflows,  Paresh Nayar , head of money markets and currency at
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Mumbai, said in an interview on Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  