-- School Dropout Convicted of Money Laundering in Hong Kong
-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r
-- 2013-01-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/school-dropout-convicted-of-money-laundering-in-hong-kong.html
A 22-year-old Chinese man who had
dropped out of school and worked as a delivery man was convicted
of laundering HK$13 billion ($1.68 billion) through a  Hong Kong 
bank over eight months ending in 2010.  A jury of seven yesterday rejected Luo Juncheng’s defense
that he had no knowledge of the funds flowing through accounts
set up in his name. Luo faces a sentence of as long as 14 years,
which Judge Esther Toh said would be decided today following
further arguments.  Prosecutors accused Luo, a middle school dropout from south
 China ’s  Guangdong Province  near Hong Kong, of laundering around
HK$50 million a day through a corporate account set up with
Chiyu Banking Corp., a subsidiary of Bank of China Ltd.’s Hong
Kong unit. A bank spokesman said by e-mail that it complied with
all relevant laws and has vigorous systems to control and
mitigate  money-laundering  risks.  Luo told the court he was acting on behalf of a family
friend, called Uncle Pang, who asked him to open the bank
accounts and set up a company in Hong Kong called Ace Creation
Development Ltd.  Luo said he was one of four brothers and worked as a
delivery man for factories in the industrial export hub of
Shenzhen until he quit to care for his ailing mother. His mother
had introduced him to Uncle Pang, who had helped pay for his
father’s medical bills before he died in 2002.  Uncle Pang approached Luo to go to Hong Kong to set up the
company and accounts after Luo’s mother died in 2010, Luo
testified.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region v. Luo
Juncheng, HCCC159/2012 in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  