-- Senators Say U.S. Must Do More to Aid Syria Opposition
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-22T21:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/senators-say-u-s-must-do-more-to-aid-syria-opposition.html
The Obama administration must do
more to bolster the Syrian rebels, including channeling
humanitarian aid through the opposition, senators from both
parties said.  “We heard desperate pleas for U.S. support and
assistance,” Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, said
today at the Capitol after leading a bipartisan delegation to
Jordan, Egypt, Israel and Afghanistan last week.  Funneling more humanitarian aid through the Syrian
opposition coalition rather than non-government organizations
will add to the credibility of the groups fighting to oust
President Bashar al-Assad, the senators said.  “The United States has an obligation to do more, to do it
now, and to do it dramatically,” said Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat from Connecticut.  Since the Syrian crisis erupted in March 2011, at least
60,000 people have been killed, according to the United Nations.
The fighting also has produced more than 650,000 refugees, many
of whom are in neighboring Jordan and Turkey, Blumenthal said.  While the five senators attending a press conference today
agreed on greater support for the Syrian rebels, they disagreed
on more direct U.S. involvement.  Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, joined
McCain in calling for the U.S. to arm the rebels and create a
“no-fly zone” to protect them from Assad’s air force. No
Democrats voiced support for those measures.  Other senators who were on the trip and spoke today were
Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat, and  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat. McCain said a sixth member of the
group, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina,
remained behind in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  