-- Texas Shooting May Add Fuel to Debate Over Gun Controls
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/shooting-near-houston-wounds-three-on-lone-star-campus.html
A shooting that left three people
wounded on a college campus near Houston may add fuel to the
U.S. debate over tighter limits on firearms, which took on new
life after the Newtown, Connecticut, elementary-school massacre.  President  Barack Obama  has challenged Congress to revive an
assault-weapon ban, bar access to high-capacity ammunition
magazines and require gun-buyer background checks. At a Jan. 16
event, he announced his proposals surrounded by children who
wrote to the White House following the Newtown killings. Fellow
Democrats say the slayings there created a political opening.  In Texas, yesterday’s shooting on a Lone Star College
campus near Houston began as a fight between two people and
involved at least one handgun, according to Major Armando Tello
of the Harris County Sheriff’s Office. Two “persons of
interest” in the incident, both men, are hospitalized and under
armed guard, said Alan Bernstein, a department spokesman.  “With the shootings at Newtown,  Connecticut , and elsewhere
fresh on our minds, we remain vigilant about the aching need for
students of any age to feel safe in their classrooms and
other facilities,” Sheriff Adrian Garcia said in a statement.  Six adults and 20 youngsters in first and second grade died
in the Dec. 14 Newtown massacre, shot by a gunman wielding an
assault-style semiautomatic rifle with high-capacity magazines.  Argument Flared  The incident yesterday in Texas appears to have started as
an argument outside the school library between the two “persons
of interest,” the sheriff’s office said in a statement. It said
criminal charges may be brought against one or both men, adding
that at least one was armed.  The three victims were taken to nearby hospitals by Harris
County Emergency Corps, according to  Mark Smith , a spokesman for
the service. One was in critical condition and was sent to Ben
Taub Hospital, while the other two went to Northwest Houston
Medical Center, Smith said.  The third victim, described as a campus maintenance worker,
was wounded in the crossfire, Tello said.  “It appears he was an innocent bystander,” the major
said. He said an investigation is continuing and no arrests have
been made.  One of the two people involved in the fight was carrying
student identification, Tello said. He said he couldn’t identify
either “person of interest.”  In Austin, state Senator Brian Birdwell, a Granbury
Republican, said the Lone Star shooting didn’t alter his views
on the need for legislation he filed last week, with 12
cosponsors, that would let licensed individuals carry concealed
handguns on college campuses in Texas. A similar bill failed to
pass during the previous legislative session, in 2011.  ‘Trusting Citizens’  “This legislation is about ensuring that law-abiding
citizens are able to defend themselves,” Birdwell said in a
statement. “It’s about trusting citizens with their rights.”  At  Lone Star  after the shooting, Lariza Rosa, a 20-year-old
student, said she was on the third floor of the campus library
when she heard five consecutive gunshots ring out.  “It was crazy,” said Rosa, who was getting a ride home
because her car was stranded by a campus shutdown in the
aftermath of the incident. “I’m still jittery.”  Chemistry student Froylan Solis, 25, heard several shots at
about 12:20 p.m. local time, then looked out of his classroom
window and saw a group of students huddled around someone lying
on the ground. Police and paramedics weren’t there, he said.  A fourth person was also taken to a hospital after the
shooting, although not because of gunshot wounds, said Niky
Smith, spokeswoman for Cypress Creek Emergency Medical Service.  The campus is about 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of
downtown Houston, the nation’s fourth-largest city by
population. Total enrollment at the six campuses making up Lone
Star College is about 90,000, according to its website.  The school was set to reopen today, according to the
sheriff’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas , at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 