-- Siemens to Post Stable Profit and Revenue, Handelsblatt Says
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-01-22T09:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/siemens-to-report-stable-profit-and-revenue-handelsblatt-says.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, will report fiscal first-quarter profit and
sales on a similar level to the previous year, Handelsblatt
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Profit from continuing operations was probably about 1.3
billion euros ($1.7 billion) in the three months through
December, the newspaper said. That compares with a 1.36 billion-
euro profit in the same period last year. Revenue was stable at
about 17.9 billion euros, the newspaper said. The average
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for sales of
18.2 billion euros.  The company will also report some charges for the solar
business it is leaving and train delivery delays. Siemens
spokesman Philipp Encz declined to comment. The Munich-based
company is scheduled to report results tomorrow. The stock
 gained  0.3 percent to 84.73 euros as of 9:49 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Siemens is one of the first major industrial companies to
report earnings for the final three months of 2012, offering an
insight into global demand for its products, which span trains,
power turbines, medical scanners and factory automation gear.
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  has come under growing
pressure to prove his strategic skills, after most deals that he
supervised soured, and a push into environmentally-friendly
energy generation led to spiraling costs.  Delayed Delivery  Profitability at Siemens last year dropped back to the
levels when Loescher started in 2007. The CEO issued a new
program to cut costs in November after acknowledging he’d been
too slow to react to falling demand.  Costs relating to the delayed delivery of new ICE trains to
Deutsche Bahn AG, the German national rail operator, will
probably exceed 100 million euros, Handelsblatt said, citing
estimates from unidentified people. Siemens’ departure from the
solar energy business also hurt profit, the newspaper said.  “The 17.9 billion euros revenue seems slightly weak
compared to consensus,” London-based Sanford Bernstein analyst
Martin Prozesky, who rates Siemens market perform, said by
phone. “There is a public spat between Deutsche Bahn and
Siemens. They haven’t previously indicated that they would take
a charge, but people won’t be surprised if it comes given the
disputes.”  Deutsche Bahn said Nov. 22 it didn’t expect new ICE high-
speed trains manufactured by Siemens to be operational before
2016, affecting planned routes to France and  Belgium . It is
seeking compensation for the delay.  Deteriorating Prices  The solar energy unit was put up for sale in October as
part of a cost-cutting plan, two years after its founding
through acquisitions including Archimede Solar Energy and Solel
Solar Systems. Deteriorating prices for photovoltaic modules
have made concentrated solar power less attractive, and the
activities had been unprofitable since Siemens bundled the
operations into a separate unit in 2011.  Siemens’ equipment joint venture with Nokia, called Nokia
Siemens Networks, has already reported better-than-expected
results for the last three months of 2012, posting an operating
profit of 13 percent to 15 percent of sales excluding some
items.  Siemens predicts revenue this year “approaching the
level” of 2012’s 78.3 billion euros, Chief Financial Officer
Joe Kaeser reiterated Jan. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  