-- Slovenia Government on Brink of Ruin as Bailout Looms
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-23T16:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/slovenia-government-on-brink-of-ruin-as-bailout-decision-looms.html
Slovenia is on the brink of early
elections amid corruption allegations against Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa  that threaten to sink the government as it fights to
avoid an international bailout.  The Citizens List party began meeting at 5 p.m. in the
capital, Ljubljana, to decide whether to quit the ruling
coalition after the country’s anti-graft agency said the premier
failed to declare some private assets. The party’s departure
would force the government into minority rule or prompt
elections unless it finds a replacement.  Slovenia is looking to avoid becoming the sixth euro-area
nation to resort to financial aid after the government devised a
4 billion-euro ($5.33 billion) bank bailout. Jansa’s Cabinet,
less than a year in office, is working on an economic overhaul
and savings measures to cope with the country’s second recession
in three years.  “An early vote would in all likelihood mean a delay in
Slovenia’s much-needed reforms, particularly to the banking
sector,”  William Jackson , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. said by phone from London. “Without these, it’s difficult
to see how Slovenia will escape from recession and will remain
vulnerable in the event of a deterioration in the external
financing environment, which could lead to renewed fears that a
bailout would be needed.”  Rating Outlook  The country risks a credit-rating downgrade, an increase in
 risk premium  on Slovenian bonds and in the cost of capital in
case of snap elections, which would also halt efforts to lead
the economy out of the crisis, Jansa said Jan. 11. Moody’s
Investors Service rates Slovenia at Baa2, its second-lowest
investment grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  gives it an A rating
with a credit-watch negative outlook.  Jansa said today that he warned the coalition partners
yesterday of the “consequences of political instability,” the
newspaper Vecer reported.  The yield on Slovenia’s 2022 dollar-denominated bond rose
14 basis points to 5.128 percent by 4.54 p.m. in Ljubljana to
the highest level since Dec. 19 on a closing basis, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  SBITOP (SBITOP)  index was down
for a third consecutive session, sliding 0.7 percent to close at
639.61 in Ljubljana.  CDS Rise  The cost of insuring the debt with credit-default swaps
rose four basis points to a month high of 251, the third-highest
level among countries in emerging Europe tracked by Bloomberg
after Ukraine and  Hungary . The contracts rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen.  Citizens List gave Jansa, who allegedly failed to declare
more than 200,000 euros in assets, until midnight yesterday to
resign. Finance Minister Janez Sustersic, a member of the party,
said yesterday in Brussels that he would step down if the group
leaves the coalition. Jansa has said the omission was an
accident.  “A coalition break-up would represent a hurdle for the
implementation of the proposed bad bank, despite the law already
being approved, as key implementation rules have not yet been
set up,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Prague , wrote in a note to clients today. “This would be of a
particularly negative consequence, if the bad bank becomes the
topic of any preelection campaign.”  Bad Banks  Sustersic helped passed legislation to create the so-called
bad bank that will take non-performing loans from lenders such
as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor. (KBMR) 
In exchange, the banks would receive government-guaranteed
bonds. Lawmakers also passed budgets for this year and next as
well as changes to the pension system to ease the burden on
public finances.  Slovenian public-sector workers, including teachers,
doctors and customs officials are on strike today, to protest
against a 5 percent wage cut. About 100,000 people are
participating in the industrial action, Branimir Strukelj,
president of one of the trade unions, was quoted by the
newspaper Finance as saying.  Investors’ Trust  “All the demand for bonds that Slovenia was able to
generate in October was built on investors’ trust in the
government being willing and able to implement reforms,” Otilia
Simkova, an analyst at Eurasia Group in London, said by phone.
Failure to implement the changes “would have its impact on
investors’ considerations. Slovenia will be approaching markets
quite soon so this would be a problem.”  The government may sell as much as 3 billion euros of debt
this year to repay maturing credits as yields fall, finance the
budget and recapitalize the banking industry, Deputy Finance
Minister Dejan Krusec told reporters in Vienna Jan. 15.  Gross domestic product fell 3.3 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the third-biggest drop in the euro
region after Greece and  Portugal , as consumption slumped and
exports to  Europe  eased. GDP is forecast to recover in 2014 to
0.9 percent growth, according to a European Commission report in
November.  Croatian Membership  Croatia’s July entry to the EU as its 28th member may also
become a casualty if the turmoil deepens. Slovenian lawmakers
have yet to approve the accession of their neighbors because of
a banking dispute stemming from the breakup of  Yugoslavia . All
of the bloc’s members must approve any expansion of the world’s
largest trading area.  “I had assumed that Slovenia would not dare to go it alone
and be the only EU member state not to have ratified the treaty,
thereby delaying Croatian EU accession,” Timothy Ash, chief
emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London , wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. “If the Jansa government
collapses, and early elections are called with parliament in
recess, it might be technically difficult for Slovenia to ratify
the treaty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  