-- South African ANC Risks Investment With Attack on Anglo
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-01-23T14:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/south-african-anc-risks-investment-with-attack-on-anglo.html
South Africa’s ruling party attacked
some of the country’s largest companies this week as it sought
to defend its record in government, straining its relationship
with business and threatening investment.  Gwede Mantashe, secretary-general of the African National
Congress, yesterday accused London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  of
theft, after its platinum unit announced plans to fire as many
as 14,000 workers. The day before, the party described a new
advertising campaign by the nation’s second-largest lender First
National Bank that calls on the youth to unite against “greed,
mistrust and anger” as “insulting.”  With elections scheduled next year, President Jacob Zuma is
struggling to reduce a 25.5 percent  unemployment  rate and
contain anger over a lack of housing and basic services. A
souring of relations between business and the ANC threatens to
deter the investment Zuma needs to meet a goal of creating 11
million jobs and slashing the jobless rate to 6 percent by 2030.  “The wider ANC will find bashing big business to be
fertile ground in reinforcing its support base,” in the run-up
to the vote, Jolyon Ford, a political analyst at Oxford
Analytica in Oxford, U.K., said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “This is unfortunate since to retain support the ANC
needs growth and job creation, and for this it needs big
business on board.”  Township Riots  The ANC has ruled  Africa ’s largest economy since the first-
all race elections in 1994, and currently controls almost two-
thirds of the seats in Parliament. Since September, Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have
downgraded the nation’s debt, citing deteriorating social
stability as a contributing factor.  South Africa had a record 173 protests over the lack of
housing and basic services, according to Johannesburg-based
research group Municipal IQ. In the past three days, township
residents in Sasolburg, about 70 kilometers (43 miles) south of
Johannesburg, have stoned cars, looted shops and blocked roads
with burning tires to protest plans to redraw the area’s
municipal boundaries. Two people died and three policemen were
injured during clashes with as many as 5,000 residents,
according to police.  “The fact that violence can escalate over an issue that
seems so small shows the underlying social tensions and risks
that the rating agencies highlight and keep the rating bias to
the downside,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note to clients
yesterday.  Marikana Protests  The rand has slumped 5.5 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of the year, the worst performer of 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg. It was trading at 8.97 a
dollar as of 4:45 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The cost of protecting South African debt against non-
payment using credit default swaps over five years has climbed
24 basis points in the period to 164, the highest in two months.  South Africa has been wracked by violent strikers since
August, when police opened fire on thousands of protesters at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum mine, killing 34 of them in the
deadliest police action since the end of apartheid. That
prompted credit-rating downgrades and led Eurasia Group to
include South Africa on its list of the top 10 potentially risky
geopolitical areas in 2013.  “Populism, spearheaded by the ruling ANC party, is on the
rise,” New York-based Eurasia said on Jan. 7. “Coming
retrenchments in mining will almost certainly spur another bout
of labor unrest, which has the potential to spread into other
sectors as well, and taken together all these factors increase
the risk of further credit downgrades.”  ‘Stolen Money’  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer
of the metal which is controlled by Anglo American, announced
its planned job cuts on Jan. 15, saying they were necessary to
restore profitability.  Mines Minister Susan Shabangu rebuked the companies last
week and threatened to revoke some their mining licenses, while
Mantashe said yesterday the government needs to take greater
control of mines. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an
interview on SAfm radio today the company’s acted “less than
satisfactorily.”  Anglo and Amplats “have stolen our money,” Mantashe said
in an interview on Johannesburg-based SAfm radio. “They are a
British company now. They have a responsibility to talk to South
Africa on the operations.”  Peter Leon, head of Africa mining and energy projects at
law firm Webber Wentzel in Johannesburg, said on Jan. 18 the
government will face “formidable regulatory hurdles” if
carries out a threat to revoke licenses. Anglo American, which
was founded in Johannesburg in 1917, moved its headquarters to
London in 1999.  FNB Advertisements  FNB, the bank owned by Johannesburg-based  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,
came under attack from the ruling party this week for an
advertising campaign featuring school children discussing their
hopes and concerns for the country, some of which are critical
of Zuma.  The FNB marketing campaign is an “undisguised political
statement that makes random and untested accusations against our
government,” the ANC said. FNB denied the allegation.  The ruling party’s handling of the two incidents did little
to dispel negative perceptions of South Africa, according to
Mzukisi Qobo, a politics lecturer at the University of  Pretoria .  “This sends a very wrong message to business in South
Africa that they should stay away from politics and should not
point out deficiencies of government,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday. “It also sends a wrong message outside of
South Africa. It paints the ruling party as intolerant and as
taking a position that is hostile to business. There are long-
term implications of this kind of messaging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  