-- South African Protesters Attack Police Houses During Riot
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-22T14:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/south-african-protesters-attack-police-houses-during-riot.html
South African police said rioters
were “out of control” as they tried to burn down officers’
houses, attacked cars and blocked roads with burning tires.  Policemen, including those brought in from three other
towns, tried to disperse the protesters in Sasolburg, about 70
kilometers (43 miles) south of Johannesburg, with rubber
bullets, water cannons and teargas, Lebohang Mareletse said by
phone today. The riot was triggered on Jan. 20 by plans to
redraw the area’s municipal boundaries that will result in its
merging with a neighboring council, she said.  “We are worried about our own houses,” Mareletse said.
“They are going to our houses, they are trying to burn our
houses. They’re out of control.”  The ruling  African National Congress  called for calm in
Zamdela township in Sasolburg, where three policemen were
injured yesterday in protests by as many as 5,000 residents.  “The ANC respects the rights of all residents to raise
their view on any matter that affects them,” the party said in
an e-mailed statement. “However, we are against any form of
violence, intimidation and destruction of public and private
property.”  South Africa  last year had a record 173 major protests over
poor delivery of municipal services, more than twice the number
a year earlier, according to Johannesburg-based research group
 Municipal IQ . In August, police opened fire on thousands of
striking mineworkers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine, killing 34
protesters in South Africa’s deadliest police action since the
end of apartheid.  A refinery operated by  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  in the town wasn’t
affected by the violence, Mareletse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  