-- Spain Sold 7 Billion Euros in 10-Year Bonds Via Banks
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   D a v i d   B a r t o l o m e m a r t i n e z
-- 2013-01-22T18:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spain-sold-7-billion-euros-in-10-year-bonds-via-banks.html
Spain  sold 7 billion euros ($9.3
billion) of 10-year bonds via banks, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the sale
generated record demand.  The security, which matures in Jan. 31, 2023, and has a 5.4
percent coupon, was sold by six banks at 365 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate. That amounts to about 5.4 percent.  De Guindos today told reporters in Brussels that investors
sought 24 billion euros of the bonds. “Never in the history of
Spain’s Treasury has there been such a volume of demand, whether
in an auction or a syndicated sale,” he said.  Spain is taking advantage of a rally in securities of so-
called peripheral countries this month to fast-track debt sales
as it faces a 24 percent increase in  net funding needs  this
year. The Treasuy last week said it had covered 9.4 percent of
its total planned issuance of medium- and long-term debt for the
year.  The yield on Spain’s two-year benchmark bond today fell as
low as 2.46 percent while it dropped to 5.002 percent for the
 10-year benchmark bond . That compares with a euro-era record of
7.75 percent on July 25, before European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  pledged to backstop the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy.  “It’s a very successful day for Spain, given the fact that
they’ve managed to issue this amount and not give up too much in
terms of pricing,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “We should see Spanish bonds perform well going
forward. That said, Spain still has a lot to issue.”  ‘Larger Chunk’  Syndications enable countries to place bigger amounts of
debt in one sale, Owen said. “It’s a slightly more expensive
way of doing it, but you usually get to issue a larger chunk.”  While the Treasury resorted to several private placements
in 2012, including 3.27 billion euros sold to Spain’s pension
reserve fund in November, its last syndicated sale was in
February, when it placed 4 billion euros of a note maturing in
Jan. 31, 2022. The same note was sold in its last 10-year bond
auction on Dec. 5, with a 5.290 percent average yield.  The new 10-year bond is “absolutely necessary to ensure
debt sustainability,” Norbert Aul, a rates strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in  London  said in a telephone interview. Spain
risks shortening the average duration of its debt if it
continues funding itself on the same pattern as last year, Aul
said.  Avoiding Bailout  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is counting on the Spanish
debt rally that followed Draghi’s pledge to avoid a rescue from
the euro-region’s bailout fund. The European Commission today
said the nation will probably miss its deficit target of 6.3
percent of output in 2012 even if the most recent budget cuts
produce their full impact in the last quarter.  Even so, de Guindos said the budget data will be positive.
“What will stand out in the end is the huge effort Spain has
made to reduce its public deficit in a very complicated
environment,” he said. Spain’s  planned austerity  measures
through 2014 will be sufficient, he said.  Today’s debt sales are “ a clear indication of the Spanish
economy’s credibility,” de Guindos said. Spain’s short-term
borrowing costs dropped at a sale of 2.8 billion euros of bills,
compared with a an upper goal of 2.5 billion euros. It sold
three-month bills at an average 0.441 percent, compared with
1.195 percent on Dec. 18, and six-month notes at 0.888 percent,
down from 1.609 percent.  Economists forecast Spain’s recession will deepen in 2013,
the fifth year of its economic slump. That will undermine
efforts to tackle the second-largest  budget deficit  in the euro
area, at 9.4 percent of output in 2011, they say.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
David Bartolomemartinez in London at 
 dbartolomema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  