-- Spain Seen Selling 7 Billion Euros in 10-Year Bonds
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   N i c h o l a s   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-01-22T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spain-seen-selling-7-billion-euros-in-10-year-bonds.html
Spain will sell 7 billion euros
($9.3 billion) of 10-year bonds via banks, said a person
familiar with the deal, after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said the sale generated record demand.  The debt will be priced to yield 365 basis points more than
the mid-swap rate, the person told Bloomberg today, declining to
be identified because the details of the transaction aren’t
public yet. That amounts to around 5.4 percent.  De Guindos said investors sought 24 billion euros of the
securities. “Never in the history of Spain’s Treasury has there
been such a volume of demand, whether in an auction or a
syndicated sale,” he told reporters in Brussels after a meeting
with European Union peers. “This is a clear indication of the
Spanish economy’s credibility.”  Spain is taking advantage of a rally in securities of so-
called peripheral countries this month to fast-track debt sales
as it faces a 24 percent increase in  net funding needs  this
year. In less than a month, Spain has already covered 9.4
percent of its total planned issuance of medium- and long-term
debt for the year.  “It’s a very successful day for Spain, given the fact that
they’ve managed to issue this amount and not give up too much in
terms of pricing,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Dublin. “We should see Spanish bonds perform well going
forward. That said, Spain still has a lot to issue.”  ‘Larger Chunk’  Syndications enable countries to place bigger amounts of
debt in one sale, Owen said. “It’s a slightly more expensive
way of doing it, but you usually get to issue a larger chunk.”  While the Treasury resorted to several private placements
in 2012, including 3.27 billion euros sold to Spain’s pension
reserve fund in November, its last syndicated sale was in
February, when it placed 4 billion euros of a note maturing in
Jan. 31, 2022. The same note was sold in its last 10-year bond
auction on Dec. 5, with a 5.290 percent average yield.  The yield on Spain’s two-year benchmark bond fell to a
session low of 2.46 percent at 3:16 p.m. in  Madrid  while it
dropped as low as 5.002 percent for the  10-year benchmark bond .
That compares with a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25,
before European Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged to
backstop the euro area’s fourth-largest economy.  Spain’s short-term borrowing costs dropped today at a sale
of 2.8 billion euros of bills, overshooting an upper goal of 2.5
billion euros. It sold three-month bills at an average 0.441
percent, compared with 1.195 percent on Dec. 18, and six-month
notes at 0.888 percent, down from 1.609 percent.  Avoiding Bailout  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is counting on the Spanish
debt rally that followed Draghi’s pledge to avoid a rescue from
the euro-region’s bailout fund. The European Commission today
said the nation will probably miss its deficit target of 6.3
percent of output in 2012 even if the most recent budget cuts
produce their full impact in the last quarter.  Even so, de Guindos said the budget data will be positive.
“What will stand out in the end is the huge effort Spain has
made to reduce its public deficit in a very complicated
environment,” he said. Spain’s  planned austerity  measures
through 2014 will be sufficient, he said.  Economists forecast Spain’s recession will deepen in 2013,
the fifth year of its economic slump. That will undermine
efforts to tackle the second-largest budget deficit in the euro
area, at 9.4 percent of output in 2011, they say.  The new 10-year bond is “absolutely necessary to ensure
debt sustainability,” Norbert Aul, a rates strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in London said in a telephone interview. Spain
risks shortening the average duration of its debt if it
continues funding itself on the same pattern as last year, Aul
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Reynolds in  London  at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  