-- Spain Said to Wring $200 Million From Gaming Sites on Tax Threat
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spain-said-to-wring-200-million-from-gaming-sites-on-tax-threat.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro squeezed about 150 million euros ($200 million) from
foreign-owned gambling companies by springing a tax probe on
them when they applied for online licenses, according to two
people involved in the process.  Companies including  Betfair Group Plc (BET)  and  William Hill Plc (WMH) ,
both based in the U.K., were told that they risked missing out
on permits to operate in Spain unless they paid disputed back
taxes, said the people, who asked not to be named out of concern
they may face retribution from government officials.  “It was a measure they pulled out of their sleeve at the
last moment,” Laura Guillot, a Barcelona-based lawyer and
independent consultant to the gaming industry, said in a Jan. 10
telephone interview. “It was not very elegant.”  Montoro’s gambit reflects the pressure on European
officials to squeeze revenue from slumping economies. A 75
percent surcharge on the wealthiest was struck down by French
judges; the Portuguese government scrapped an increase in
social-security contributions that split the ruling coalition;
in  Italy , Silvio Berlusconi has based his campaign on repealing
a property levy.  “A number of governments have already fallen across the
euro zone trying to implement austerity,”  Jonathan Loynes ,
chief European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “There are obvious political
costs.”  Market Access  Montoro, moving to regulate Internet-based gambling, got
the companies to pay taxes on bets that Spaniards made via
websites based outside the country between 2008 and 2011. The
companies, which argued that laws cited by the government dating
to 1966 and 1977 weren’t applicable to online operations, paid
to avoid exclusion from the 27 billion-euro gaming market, the
people said.  “The gaming companies voluntarily resolved their fiscal
situations with no direct instruction from the tax agency,”
Montoro’s director of communications, Julio Sanchez, said in an
e-mailed statement.  After the Treasury, the biggest potential beneficiary was
 Codere SA (CDR) , a Madrid-based gambling company and client of the
lobbying firm Equipo Economico SL. The firm lobbied lawmakers on
behalf of Codere while the gaming law was before parliament,
according to a person involved in the process.  The firm was then part-owned by Montoro’s brother, Ricardo,
who sold his stake in 2012. The levy drained the marketing
budgets of Codere’s rivals, leaving them more vulnerable to
competition from Codere’s network of 1,100 betting shops in
Spain.  Revenue Decline  Revenue at London-based  Sportingbet Plc (SBT)  fell by more then
50 percent in Spain last year after it cut advertising to
preserve cash and sold 15 million pounds ($24 million) of
convertible bonds to pay its tax bill, one of the people said.
Its Spanish website was also shut down temporarily by the courts
after it was sued for unfair competition by Codere, the person
said.  Betfair said in a May statement that it paid “not more
than” 10 million euros.  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  paid a sum that was “not
material,” according to spokesman Ciaran O’Brien.  Bwin.Party
Digital Entertainment PLC (BPTY)  said in an Aug. 31  statement  it paid
31.5 million euros. Bwin spokesman John Shepherd declined to
comment as did Simon Sporborg, an external spokesman for William
Hill.  After taking office in December 2011, Montoro suspended the
licensing process and installed a new gaming director to
determine who would be allowed to operate in Spain. Lobbyists
from Equipo Economico met with Budget Ministry officials during
January and February of last year about the licenses, according
to one of the people, who discussed the meetings with ministry
staff.  ‘Great Collaborator’  The firm’s chairman, Ricardo Martinez Rico, served as
deputy budget minister under Montoro in 2003 and 2004. The
minister described him in an August 2012 interview as a “great
collaborator.” Martinez Rico’s brother Felipe is Montoro’s
chief of staff.  “We categorically deny any hint of suspicion of possible
trafficking of influence,” said Sanchez, Montoro’s spokesman.
He declined to disclose records of visitors to the ministry
during this period. Codere and other companies met frequently
with officials with no need for an intermediary, he said.  In March, the online operators began to receive letters
from the tax-fraud office demanding information about revenue
from online gambling by Spanish residents going back to 2008.
Two months later, Enrique Alejo, the head of gaming regulation
appointed by Montoro, told the gaming executives they might be
refused licenses unless they paid, the people said.  The regulator’s Deputy Director of Institutional Relations
Jaime Lorenzo canceled an interview Alejo had planned with
Bloomberg and didn’t respond to an e-mail request to reschedule.  Payment Dispute  While the tax office requested only information in a letter
seen by Bloomberg to a gaming company, officials at the
regulator told executives the fraud investigators were demanding
payment, the people said.  Investigators “requested information but did not demand
any payment, nor did they link their requirements with the award
of licenses,” Montoro’s spokesman Sanchez said.  The dispute came to a head in May in a meeting at the
regulator’s former headquarters on Calle Capitan Haya in central
 Madrid .  Sitting around a conference table, executives and advisers
from companies including Betfair, BWIN, Pokerstars and William
Hill clashed with Alejo during the hour-and-a-half-long meeting,
which was conducted in Spanish, according to a record of the
gathering obtained by Bloomberg.  Licensing Process  Executives accused the officials of allowing the licensing
process to be hijacked by the interests of one company -- the
executives never mentioned Codere. One said his company was
considering abandoning the Spanish market while another told
Alejo and his deputy director for regulation, Carlos Hernandez,
their actions undermined the rule of law, the record shows.  “You have to address this with the tax-fraud office,”
Hernandez told executives, according to the record. “They are
absolutely convinced that you have to pay.”  The officials refused a request to disregard any report
from the fraud investigators when granting licenses. The
companies said that under Spanish law it’s illegal to make the
licensing process subject to a tax dispute that hasn’t been
resolved.  “Understand the position of the directorate,” Hernandez
said, according to the record. “In the part that I am involved
in, I promise you that the granting or denial of the licenses
will follow a strictly legal process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  