-- Spain Draws Record Demand in 10-Year Sale, Minister Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-01-22T14:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spain-draws-record-demand-in-10-year-sale-minister-says.html
Spain  had record demand in the
syndicated sale of a new 10-year bond, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said. The government will release results of the auction
later today.  “Never in the history of Spain’s Treasury has there been
such a volume of demand whether in an auction or a syndicated
sale,” de Guindos told reporters in Brussels following a
meeting with European Union peers. “Investors sought 24 billion
euros ($32 billion) of the 10-year bond; this is a clear
indication of the Spanish economy’s credibility.”  The bonds may be priced around 365 basis points more than
the mid swap rate, a person familiar with the deal told
Bloomberg today.  The new 10-year is “absolutely necessary to ensure debt
sustainability,” Norbert Aul, a rates strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in  London  said in a telephone interview. Spain risks
shortening the average duration of its debt if it continues
funding itself on the same pattern as last year, Aul said.  Spain is taking advantage of a rally in securities of so-
called peripheral countries this month to fast-track  debt sales
as it faces a 24 percent increase in net funding  needs this
year. In less than a month, Spain has already covered 9.4
percent of its total planned issuance of medium- and long-term
debt for the year.  Declining Yields  The yield on Spain’s two-year benchmark bond fell to a
session-low of 2.48 percent at 3:06 p.m. in  Madrid  while it
dropped as low as 5.04 percent for the  10-year benchmark bond .
That compares with a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25,
before European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
backstop the euro area’s fourth-largest economy.  Spain’s short-term borrowing costs dropped at a sale today
of 2.8 billion euros of bills, overshooting an upper goal of 2.5
billion euros. It sold three-month bills at an average 0.441
percent, compared with 1.195 percent on Dec. 18, and six-month
notes at 0.888 percent, down from 1.609 percent.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is counting on the Spanish
debt rally that followed Draghi’s pledge to avoid a rescue from
the euro-region’s bailout fund. The European Commission today
said the nation is likely to miss its deficit target of 6.3
percent of output in 2012 even if the most recent budget cuts
produce their full impact in the last quarter.  Even so, de Guindos said the budget data will be positive.
“What will stand out in the end is the huge effort Spain has
made to reduce its public deficit in a very complicated
environment,” he told reporters. Spain’s  planned austerity 
measures through 2014 will be enough, he said.  Economists forecast Spain’s recession will deepen in a
fifth year of economic slump this year, undermining efforts to
tackle the second-largest  budget deficit  in the euro area, at
9.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  