-- Spain Beats Bills Sale Target as Markets Await New 10-Year Bond
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-01-22T10:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spain-beats-bills-sale-target-as-markets-await-new-10-year-bond.html
Spain  sold 2.8 billion euros ($3.7
billion) of bills, overshooting the maximum target as the
Treasury tests demand before the possible sale of a new 10-year
bond.  The Treasury, which set an upper goal of 2.5 billion euros
for the auction, sold three-month bills at an average 0.441
percent today, compared with 1.195 percent on Dec. 18. It sold
six-month notes at 0.888 percent, down from 1.609 percent.  Demand for the three-month bills was 4.19 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.92 last month, and the ratio was 3.85
compared with 2.57 on the longer-dated securities, the Madrid-
based Bank of Spain said.  Spain is taking advantage of a rally in securities of so-
called peripheral countries this month to fast-track  debt sales
as it faces a 24 percent increase in net funding  needs this
year. In less than a month, Spain has already covered 9.4
percent of its total planned issuance of medium- and long-term
debt for the year as it ponders a syndicated sale of a new 10-
year benchmark.  Improving Environment  “The focus is on the syndicated bond as a new 10-year
benchmark has been long overdue,” Norbert Aul, a rates
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  London  said in a telephone
interview. “A successful deal with a large order book and sound
allocation would underline Spain’s ability to place longer-dated
maturities amid an improving market environment.”  Spain has hired a group of banks including Barclays Plc,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Banco Santander SA to carry out a
syndicated sale of a new 10-year benchmark, a person familiar
with the sale said yesterday. The bonds may be priced around 375
basis points more than the mid swap rate, a person familiar told
Bloomberg today.  The new 10-year is “absolutely necessary to ensure debt
sustainability” as Spain risks shortening the average duration
of its debt if it continues funding itself on the same pattern
as last year, Aul said.  Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  yield rose 1 basis after the
sale to 5.17 percent at 11:00 a.m. in  Madrid , leaving the spread
with similar German maturities at 3.57 percentage points. It
rose to a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25, before
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to backstop
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy.  Avoiding Bailout  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is counting on the Spanish
debt rally that followed Draghi’s pledge to allow him to avoid
seeking a rescue from the euro-region’s bailout fund. Economists
forecast Spain will miss targets set by the European Union to
shrink the second-largest  budget deficit  in the euro area amid a
deepening recession.  The Treasury plans to return to the markets Feb. 7 to sell
bonds followed by a bill auction on Feb. 12. The Treasury also
plans to sell a new, nine-month bill the following week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  