-- Spirit to Merge With Cole Credit to Expand Size of REIT
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-01-22T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/spirit-realty-to-merge-with-cole-credit-to-double-size-of-reit.html
Spirit Realty Capital Inc. (SRC)  rose the
most  since  its initial public offering after agreeing to merge
with Cole Credit Property Trust II Inc. in a deal that would
increase its properties, which are leased to individual tenants.  CCPT II, a non-traded public real estate investment trust,
will exchange 1.9 shares for each share of Spirit common stock,
the Arizona-based companies said in a statement today. Spirit
shareholders will own about 44 percent of the combined REIT with
the remainder held by CCPT II shareholders. Shares of the joint
company will be listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under
Spirit’s stock symbol, SRC.  Investor demand is growing for so-called triple-net-lease
companies, in which the tenant is responsible for paying all of
a property’s costs including maintenance, taxes and insurance,
minimizing expenses for the owner.  Realty Income Corp. (O) , an
Escondido, California-based landlord that rents to individual
tenants, completed its purchase of  American Realty Capital Trust
Inc. (ARCT)  today, Realty Income said in a statement.  The Spirit-Cole deal indicates that triple-net companies
are “a growing sector that’s using its cost of capital to buy
less-advantaged peers,” Joshua Barber, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, wrote in a note to clients. “We’d
expect continuing deal flow in the sector from additional
entrants and still-falling cost of capital for larger players.”  Spirit climbed 6.9 percent to $19.05 at the close of New
York trading, the most since its IPO in September.  Credit Quality  The transaction “effectively doubles the size of our
portfolio,” Thomas Nolan Jr., chairman and chief executive
officer of Scottsdale, Arizona-based Spirit, said in the
statement. “The merger further diversifies us both
geographically and by industry, reduces our tenant
concentration, improves the overall credit quality of our
portfolio and increases operating efficiency.”  The combined company will own or have a stake in 2,012
properties in 48 states after the deal’s completion, which is
expected in the third quarter, the companies said.  The deal with Phoenix-based Cole will create the second-
largest publicly traded triple-net-lease REIT in the U.S., with
a pro-forma enterprise value of about $7.1 billion, according to
the statement. The combined company will be led by Spirit’s
management and seven of the nine board members will be from
Spirit.  Realty Income, the largest triple-net-lease REIT, has a
market value of about $5.9 billion. It owned more than 3,500
properties before the deal with American Realty was completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  