-- Sports Betting Case in New Jersey Draws U.S. Intervention
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-22T23:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/sports-betting-case-in-new-jersey-draws-u-s-intervention.html
The U.S. government asked to take
part in a lawsuit over a  New Jersey  sports-betting law that
professional and collegiate leagues say would cast doubt on the
integrity of the games.  The U.S. filed a request today in federal court in Trenton,
New Jersey, to intervene in a lawsuit by the National Collegiate
Athletic Association and several professional sports
organizations to stop the law from taking effect. The U.S. is
seeking to defend the constitutionality of a 1992 federal law
restricting sports gambling, according to today’s filing.  The New Jersey law, signed by Republican Governor  Chris Christie  in January 2012, would permit wagering on professional
and college sports at racetracks and Atlantic City casinos.  By a conservative estimate, legalized sports gambling could
generate $1 billion in bets and as much as $100 million in new
revenue for the state in its first year, William J. Pascrell
III, a lead lobbyist for the measure, said in an interview.  Sports organizations including the  National Football League 
and  Major League Baseball  sued New Jersey’s government in August
to block betting in the state. The  National Hockey League ,
 National Basketball Association  and NCAA joined the complaint.  “The leagues’ challenge is the ultimate in hypocrisy,”
Pascrell, of the Princeton Public Affairs Group Inc., said in a
phone interview. They would be “major beneficiaries of
regulated, legalized sports betting,” he said.  Four States  The 1992 federal law bans sports betting in all but four
states: Nevada, Delaware, Montana and Oregon. New Jersey said in
a court filing that the law is unconstitutional. Arguments are
scheduled in the case on Feb. 14, according to today’s filing.  “We are pleased that the DOJ has intervened in this
lawsuit to ensure states are complying with federal law,”
Donald Remy, the NCAA’s general counsel, in an e-mailed
statement forwarded by a spokeswoman.  Representatives from Christie’s press office and Matt
Bourne of MLB didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment
on the U.S. intervention bid.  Brian McCarthy  of the NFL declined
to comment. Rick Pendrick of the NBA had no immediate comment.
Frank Brown of the NHL declined to comment and referred to the
league’s filings in the case.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v.
Christie, 12-4947, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  