-- Stanford’s Former Finance Chief Seeks 4-Year Prison Term
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/stanford-s-former-finance-chief-seeks-4-year-prison-term.html
Former Stanford Financial Group Co.
finance chief James M. Davis is seeking a prison sentence 26
years shorter than the potential 30-year term he agreed to after
pleading guilty to his role in a $7 billion investor fraud,
citing his cooperation with prosecutors.  Davis, 64, the second-highest ranking officer in the
financial services empire of  Texas  billionaire R. Allen Stanford, will ask for four years in prison today when he is
sentenced by U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston
federal court, according to a defense filing in the case.  Stanford, 62, is serving a 110-year prison term after being
convicted -- in part on testimony and evidence provided by Davis
-- in March of stealing more than $2 billion from investors for
personal use.  Davis agreed that he faced a maximum 30 years in prison and
forfeiture of  $1 billion when he pleaded guilty to three felony
counts over his role in the  Ponzi scheme  in August 2009, two
months after Stanford was indicted. In his plea deal, Davis said
he would seek a shorter sentence only based on his cooperation
and acceptance of responsibility for his crimes.  He “did not hedge his bets by waiting for a jury verdict
against the main conspirator” before agreeing to plead guilty,
David Finn, Davis’s lawyer, said in a sentencing memo that asks
for a four-year sentence. “To characterize Mr. Davis’s
cooperation efforts and assistance to the government as
‘extraordinary’ is an understatement.”  Bogus Certificates  Both Stanford and Davis were accused of swindling more than
20,000 investors through a scheme built on bogus certificates of
deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. Davis
began cooperating with the government about two months after the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission seized Stanford’s
businesses on suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  Davis testified for 10 days during Stanford’s 2012 trial
and for several additional days in the subsequent trial of the
two top-ranking accountants in Stanford’s organization, who were
also convicted. Stanford, who is in a Florida federal prison, is
appealing his conviction and sentence.  Davis told Stanford jurors that he manipulated financial
statements, falsified investment records and misled employees
and investors about the company’s true financial performance at
Stanford’s direction for more than 20 years. He testified that
he was in awe of Stanford and thought of him as a brother from
the time they met as college roommates in 1973.  Swiss Account  The former chief financial officer led prosecutors to a
secret Swiss bank account Stanford tapped for bribes for
auditors and Antiguan banking regulators and to siphon hundreds
of millions in investor deposits to bankroll an array of money-
losing private enterprises, according to evidence at Stanford’s
trial.  Davis also directed agents to a pond on his Mississippi
estate, where divers recovered computers and other evidence he
had tried to destroy before deciding to admit his role in the
fraud.  “Cooperation, especially to the extraordinary extent
undertaken by Mr. Davis in this case, needs to be encouraged,”
Finn said in the filing. “A sentence of even a decade of
imprisonment on a 64-year-old defendant will certainly
discourage similarly situated defendants from cooperating in the
future.”  Corporate Criminals  Finn asked Hittner to consider two other corporate
criminals who were shown leniency, based on their cooperation in
different multibillion-dollar fraud cases.  Andrew Fastow, the former CFO of Enron Corp., was sentenced
to six years in prison after agreeing to a 10-year term in his
deal to testify against Enron founder Kenneth Lay and Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling . Scott Sullivan, WorldCom
Inc.’s finance chief, got five years after testifying against
Bernard Ebbers, that company’s former chief executive officer.  The case is U.S. v. Davis, 09-cr-335, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC case is Securities
and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International Bank, 09-
cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  