-- Stock Markets Give Up on Idea of Safety for Investors
-- B y   A m y   B u t t e
-- 2013-01-22T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/stock-markets-give-up-on-idea-of-safety-for-investors.html
Imagine being on an airplane and the
pilot makes the following announcement: “Ladies and gentlemen,
due to increased competition, higher demands by our best
customers, and complicated regulations, we can’t guarantee your
safety. Thank you for choosing to fly with us!”  In the  airline industry , everyone expects 99.99 percent
reliability. They always have and always will. The securities
industry once expected the same, too. Today, however, it has
much lower expectations and accepts compromised performance.  Why the change? And why should the markets not be surprised
by the latest evidence of trading running amok, such as the
announcement earlier this month by BATS Global Markets Inc. that
it made repeated, though minor, money-losing errors executing
customer-trade orders? This isn’t all that shocking after  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s erroneous trades almost bankrupted the
company, and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s mishandling of Facebook
Inc.’s  initial public offering  undermined the trust that
investors have in the IPO process.  The equation is really quite simple. Increased complexity,
client concentration and demands for efficiency have led to
something less than near-perfect reliability. Unless the
industry is prepared to alter those inputs, we shouldn’t be
surprised to see glitches, violations and breakdowns soar in the
years ahead.  Feeding, Care  Increased complexity means that data systems aren’t just
harder to code, but also to maintain. Computer code needs
constant feeding and care. Think of your own personal computer.
Have you ever loaded a new program, only to realize that an old
one stops working as soon as the new one goes live? This isn’t
uncommon in big systems, either. I remember the first  software
company  I worked with. It had limited version control and just
kept adding modules and features without a stable code base. The
system, as it got bigger, eventually crashed.  Complexity also applies to oversight. Each new equity- order 
type requires new training of regulators and new systems to
monitor trading. The proliferation of order types, each designed
to fulfill unique investment strategies, introduces additional
rules and procedures.  One way to address this might be to require that before
regulators approve a new order type, they ensure that proper
tracking systems are in place. Then the exchange seeking
approval should have to pay for the added cost. The bottom line
needs to be clear: Every new order type has the potential to
degrade the integrity of our markets.  Client concentration -- the rising percentage of trading
revenue derived from a subset of customers -- is an important
driver of structural complexity. Because of consolidation, the
exchanges already violate the 80-20 rule, meaning 80 percent of
their business comes from 20 percent of their customers.  Many of the largest customers -- to a great extent,  high-
frequency traders  -- are the ones demanding new order types. It
is a standard quid pro quo: The traders send the exchanges large
volumes of orders and want something in return, such as rebates.
It also is understandable that the exchanges try to accommodate
their demands -- exchanges are a business, after all, and want
to make a profit. But it is wrong to think that giving priority
to big customers doesn’t affect the quality of the market.  Finally, the drive for efficiency has had the paradoxical
result of making markets less stable. As clients demand greater
speed and execution of more complicated orders, they also want
it to come at a lower price. Before technology changed the
nature of trading, cost-cutting initiatives at U.S. stock
exchanges were criticized for putting reliability at risk. That
argument no longer holds. There is less fat to cut today, and
newer systems are lean from the start. Lowering costs at this
point means compromising reliability.  Untenable Situation  So how does a business, with limited growth potential,
confronting increased competition, greater regulation and client
demand for lower costs, find the resources to invest more
capital in the enterprise? Most investment bankers would call
that an untenable situation and recommend strategic
alternatives.  Oddly enough, in all my discussions about market structure,
not once do I recall an investor, trading firm or other
participant demanding greater reliability. Dependability was
something that exchanges once made a priority and that investors
took for granted.  It isn’t clear that exchanges, traders or clients are ready
to change the conversation. Complexity comes at a price, and
reliability seems to be the cost that the market is being asked
to bear. So let’s not be surprised by the BATS news or the other
high-profile technology snafus. Rather, let’s only be surprised
if these types of announcements don’t occur more often and
become more costly.  (Amy Butte is the former chief financial officer of the  New
York  Stock Exchange. She is a former equity-research analyst
covering the financial-services industry. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amy Butte at  amy@amybutteliebowitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  