-- Sunac Drops on HK$2 Billion Share-Sale Plan: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-22T08:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/sunac-drops-on-hk-2-billion-share-sale-plan-hong-kong-mover.html
Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , the
developer part-owned by U.S. private-equity firm Bain Capital
LLC, fell by the most in more than 10 months in Hong Kong
trading after announcing plans to sell shares.  The shares declined 7.5 percent to HK$6.65 at the close of
trading, the biggest drop since March 1 last year.  Sunac China is seeking to place 300 million shares at
HK$6.7 each, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong stock
exchange today. The developer will use the HK$2 billion ($258
million) proceeds for development and working capital, according
to the statement.  “The placing price is set at the low end of the pricing
range, which may send a negative signal to the market and could
further test  market depth ,” Frank Miao a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at Haitong International Securities Co. wrote
in a note to clients today. He added that the share sale will
have a “positive impact” on the company in the long run.  Sunac joins Chinese developers including  Evergrande Real
Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  in raising funds as they seek financing for
more projects amid a recovery in the  property market . China’s
Ministry of Land and Resources said last week it expected the
country’s urban land prices to rise “moderately” this year.
Shanghai sold the year’s most expensive plot for 5.4 billion
yuan ($868 million) last month.  Evergrande plans to sell 1 billion shares at HK$4.35 each,
the company said in a statement to  Hong Kong  stock exchange on
Jan. 17. The developer will use the HK$4.35 billion raised to
repay debt and for working capital, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  