-- Sundance Scene: McConaughey, Robert Reich, Harry Potter
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/sundance-scene-mcconaughey-robert-reich-harry-potter.html
Matthew McConaughey, thin as the
Park City air, does, in fact, eat.  Popping jalapenos and chomping on asparagus stalks like Bugs
Bunny eating carrots, McConaughey co-hosted (with director Jeff
Nichols) a dinner for the cast and producers of his  Sundance
Film Festival  entry “ Mud .”  Unlike most Sundance movies, “Mud” arrived with a
distribution deal intact. Roadside Attractions is planning an
April release. Co-president Howard Cohen and senior vice-
president Gail Blumenthal were at the party, in the Grey Goose
vodka pop-up lounge at Park City’s Blue Door restaurant.  “Mud” was shot before the actor dropped 30 pounds for his
role as an AIDS patient in “ Dallas Buyer’s Club ,” coming later
this year.  “When I saw myself in the trailer [for `Mud’], I looked
huge,” McConaughey said, after finishing a plate of off-menu
salmon.  “Mud,” written and directed by Nichols (“ Take Shelter ”), is
a Mississippi tall tale about two 14-year-old boys (think Huck
and Tom) helping a charming, unwashed fugitive (named Mud and
played by, well, you know) dodge bounty hunters in a backwoods
Delta hideaway.  McConaughey shares most of his screen time with the two boys
-- Tye Sheridan (“ Tree of Life ”), who was at the dinner party,
and newcomer Jacob Lofland, who was not.  The star also has a couple of big moments with Sam Shepard,
the actor and writer who plays the wizened old river coot who
raised Mud.  The film lets them dive headlong into grizzled, deep-fried
Delta accents.  “He’s the first person I called when I saw the movie the
first time,” McConaughey says. “I said, man you’ve done a lot,
but I’m telling you, you are great in this one.”  Poetic Injustice  “Howl” author Allen Ginsberg and erstwhile wizard Harry
Potter have something in common: Daniel Radcliffe, star of “ Kill
Your Darlings ,” the buzzy Sundance feature about Beat poets and
gay panic murder.  Radcliffe huddled with co-stars Michael C. Hall (“ Dexter ”)
and Erin Darke (who may -- or may not -- be Radcliffe’s new
girlfriend) at the Blue Door after Friday’s “Darlings”
premiere. The film, directed by John Krokidas, recounts a 1944
murder near Columbia University that became a pivotal event in
the lives of Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac and William Burroughs.  The strong cast (and maybe the lure of Radcliffe’s first
big-film nude scene) is drawing lots of attention from
distributors here.  Robert Reich  Audience Q&As at Sundance are generally friendly, but the
give-and-take after “Inequality for All,” Jacob Kornbluth’s
documentary about wealth disparity in the U.S., had a flash of
Occupy pique.  The film focuses on economist Robert B. Reich, Bill Clinton’s labor secretary, current University of California at
Berkeley professor and good-natured, left-leaning pundit of
choice for Conan O’Brien and Jon Stewart.  An audience member kicked off the session by using an
expletive to describe the “false equivalency” he said the film
draws between the Occupy movement and the Tea Party.  “With all due respect,” Reich snapped, repeating the
epithet, “you’re full of bullshit.”  As Stewart might have said, go on...  “We need to understand the frustration and anger and
disillusionment and cynicism,” Reich said, “caused by a problem
we’ve seen growing for the last 30 years: Economic stagnation
and the undermining of our democracy.”  With that, Reich returned to lovable-prof mode.  “I don’t think you’re full of bullshit,” he said. “I just
think we need to see the connections.”  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 