-- Swedish Debt Agency Approves Riksbank Currency Reserve Boost
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-01-22T15:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/swedish-debt-agency-approves-riksbank-currency-reserve-boost.html
Sweden ’s debt office backed a
central bank proposal that it issue 100 billion kronor ($15
billion) in debt to boost currency reserves while faulting the
framework that allows for the jump in government debt.  The Riksbank last month requested that the agency borrow to
increase the reserve to improve the financial system’s
resistance to potential shocks from an “uncertain situation
abroad” and banks’ “extensive funding in foreign currencies.”
The central bank also cited Sweden’s rising commitments to the
 International Monetary Fund .  While backing the plan, “it’s wrong that a decision by a
public authority can increase the government debt by three digit
billion amounts without a clear framework,” the debt agency
said today in a statement. “This decision-making undermines the
parliament’s control over the government finances.”  The agency said that its “on-lending” to the Riksbank
will be 200 billion kronor, or 5 percent of gross domestic
product. The  budget deficit  for 2013 will rise to 156 billion
kronor from 56 billion kronor and reported debt will increase by
the same amount, the agency said.  “Current rules provide that the National Debt Office shall
approve requests by the Riksbank as long as new lending to the
Riksbank does not affect Sweden’s ability to finance other
central government expenditures,” the agency said. “Strong
government finances mean that no such conflict exists.”  Two Opposed  Two of the central banks’ six board members opposed the
plan, arguing that the debt office instead should restore
reserves only once funds are used, which would cut the costs for
taxpayers for banks’ “risky borrowing.”  “A regime where the National Debt Office borrows foreign
exchange only once the Riksbank has needed to use the foreign
exchange reserve is a more secure and cheaper solution to the
government on the whole, than one where funds are locked in the
foreign exchange reserve in advance,” the agency said. The
office “looks forward to the review of rules which a
government investigation will submit at the end of January,” it
said.  The agency said it will issue bonds and “short-term
securities” to raise the new amount for the central bank.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg , who is pushing
through stricter capital requirements for Sweden’s biggest banks
than those set elsewhere, said Nov. 27 the government may limit
bank borrowing in foreign currencies by possibly “introducing a
fee or levy to make it more costly for the banks to expose
Sweden to that kind of risk.” The threat followed warnings from
Sweden’s Financial Supervisory Authority that banks are overly
reliant on short-term funds in foreign currencies.  Sweden’s foreign currency reserve amounted to 270 billion
kronor at the end of July, of which about 90 billion kronor was
borrowed from the debt office. Including the gold reserve,
assets amounted to 314 billion kronor. Boosting reserves by 100
billion kronor would cost taxpayers about 200 million kronor per
year, the Riksbank estimated last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  