-- Riksbank Has Room for More Cuts as Krona Gains, Ekholm Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-01-23T16:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/sweden-has-room-for-more-rate-cuts-as-krona-gains-ekholm-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank has the
ammunition it needs to prevent krona gains from triggering a
deflationary trap, Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said.  “We have quite a bit of room for further cuts,” Ekholm,
48, said yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm . “The natural
thing to do if the  exchange rate  should change in a way that
risks deflation is to use the monetary policy rate to try to
lift inflation toward the target. A deflation scenario isn’t
something that anyone on the board would shrug off.”  The comments come amid concern over the currency’s strength
and its corrosive effects on economic growth as exporters are
already struggling to cope with slumping demand from Europe, the
nation’s largest export market. Sweden’s Finance Minister  Anders
Borg  said this week that the Riksbank’s policy is propping up
the krona and preventing the exchange rate from helping to
sustain an expansion.  The $500 billion economy is stalling as some of the biggest
companies, including  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , have cut jobs to adjust to a
plunge in demand from debt-stricken Europe. Sweden emerged as a
haven last year from the crisis, boosting the krona to a 12-year
high versus the common currency in August. Over the past 12
months, it’s up 0.9 percent against the euro and 3.2 percent
against the dollar.  The krone slid 0.3 percent against the euro to 8.6969 as of
5:34 p.m. in Stockholm. It declined 0.5 percent versus the
dollar to 6.5399.  ‘Central Component’  Sweden’s consumer prices fell annual an 0.1 percent in
December, declining for a second month, a report last month
showed. The Riksbank’s preferred measure, which factors out
mortgage costs, showed an annual inflation rate of 1 percent,
far below its 2 percent target.  While Ekholm for now said Sweden isn’t facing deflation,
the currency is a “central component” in its inflation view.  Ekholm, who argued for deeper rate cuts than most of her
fellow board members all of last year, last month joined the
majority in voting to lower rates for a fourth time in 12
months, reducing the benchmark to 1 percent. She went against
the mainstream in advocating one more cut this year as the
majority of the board signaled it won’t lower rates further.  Policy makers, including Governor Stefan Ingves, have
warned that rates can’t stay too low because domestic credit
growth poses a risk to the economy.  Household debt  rose to a
record 173 percent of disposable incomes last year from 90
percent in the mid-1990s to finance rising property prices.  Unity Emerging?  Still, last month’s meeting also showed that other board
members are opening up for larger cuts. Deputy governors Per
Jansson and Barbro Wickman-Parak “thought a great deal” about
lowering the repo rate by half of a point last month, according
the minutes released on Jan. 8  Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson, who like Ekholm called
for bigger rate cuts last year, said on Jan. 16 that the economy
“would manage better in this very difficult, weak economy with
a lower rate and a weaker krona.”  Ekholm said that she doesn’t see her fellow board members
as locked in their positions.  “Conditions are in place that we at some point will be
united in our view on how the path should look because it’s,
after all, the same kind of factors that we’re worried about
even though we’ve put very different emphasis on” household
debt, Ekholm said. “I have put zero emphasis at something
that’s been very important to others but things like that can
change a little over time depending on what happens.”  The deputy governor also said that for now it’s too soon to
call an all clear on  Europe ’s debt crisis amid signs investors
have become more optimistic that European policy makers have
managed to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “It’s good that things are looking more stable on the
financial markets, but given that the underlying problems remain
and a lot of adjustments remain in individual EU countries, it’s
nothing that makes me breathe a sigh of relief,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  