-- U.K.’s Clegg Backs Real-Life ‘Downton’ Inheritance Bid
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-22T16:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-k-s-clegg-backs-real-life-downton-inheritance-bid.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said he’s “sympathetic” to a bid by a baron’s daughter
to inherit her father’s stately home in a parallel with a
plotline in television drama “Downton Abbey.”  Robin Braybrooke, 80, who has eight daughters, faces
passing his baronetcy and 6,000-acre (2,400-hectare) estate to a
distant cousin, rather than his eldest daughter, Amanda, under
ancient laws because he has no sons. The case mirrors that of
the Earl of Grantham in “Downton,” whose estate would pass to
a cousin instead of his eldest daughter.  In the ITV Plc series, the dilemma is resolved when that
daughter, Mary, marries her cousin,  Matthew.  In real life, the
law would have to change to allow Braybooke’s eldest daughter to
inherit. Lawmakers are today debating the rights of royal male
heirs over their sisters as part of a measures designed to allow
a future first-born princess to inherit the throne.  “I’ve heard the suggestion that we use the bill to tackle
the gender bias in hereditary titles,” Clegg told lawmakers,
opening the debate on the Succession to the Crown bill in the
House of Commons in London. “Personally I’m very sympathetic to
that reform, and I can see why this seems like the natural time
to do it, but, for purely practical reasons, it cannot be done
in this bill. Nor can we use the bill to mop up any other
constitutional odds and ends.”  The Succession to the Crown bill is limited to five clauses
because it required the consent of the governments of all 15
other Commonwealth countries of which Queen Elizabeth II is
monarch. The opposition Labour Party said it supports the
government’s change to the law.  Jane Austen  Inheritance is a theme that resonates through classic
English literature. In Jane Austen’s 1813 novel “Pride and
Prejudice,” the five Bennet daughters face being evicted from
their home if their father dies before they are married. An
ancient legal “entail” means that his estate is due to pass to
his nearest male heir, preventing his daughters from inheriting.  Commonwealth governments are attempting to end royal gender
discrimination to let a first-born daughter of Prince William
and his wife Catherine succeed to the throne before any
brothers. The baby, due in July, will be third in line to the
throne, after Prince Charles and William.  The bill proposes amendments to current laws, including the
1700 Act of Settlement, which give male heirs precedence over
their older sisters. The act also excludes Roman Catholics or
anyone married to a Roman Catholic from becoming king or queen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  