-- U.K. May Fire 5,300 More Soldiers as Defense Spending Is Reduced
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-22T11:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-k-may-fire-5-300-more-soldiers-as-defense-spending-is-reduced.html
U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said as many as 5,300 soldiers will lose their jobs in
the latest round of cuts to spending on the armed forces.  Personnel affected will be notified on June 18, the defense
ministry said in an e-mailed  statement  today. Any soldiers
preparing for, serving on, or recovering from combat operations
on that date will not lose their jobs unless they have applied
to leave the army early.  “The army is actively managing recruitment to reach the
target numbers, but unfortunately redundancies are unavoidable
due to the size of the defense deficit that this government
inherited and the consequent scale of downsizing required in the
army,” Hammond said in a statement. “We will have smaller
armed forces but they will in future be properly equipped and
well funded, unlike before.”  The U.K. is shrinking its army to 82,000 personnel, around
half its size at the height of the  Cold War  in 1978, by 2020
from 102,000. The cuts form part of broader government spending
reductions, as well as being a response to gaps in the  defense
budget  that Hammond’s Conservative Party blames on the previous
Labour administration.  Hammond said the number of part-time reservists will be
doubled to 30,000 by 2020 to back up the regular army in the
biggest shakeup in 100 years.  Further job losses among Royal Navy and Royal Air Force
medical personnel and in the army are also “likely,” the
ministry said.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , said there is a logic to cutting the regular army,
though he’s concerned that Hammond is not filling the gap with
professional reservists.  “I think over time reducing the size of the armed forces,
as long as you put something in its place with a professional
reservist force, there is a logic to it,” Murphy told BBC Radio
5. “At the end of this process we will have a smaller full-time
army and we will be looking over the shoulder for the
professional reservists that we need, and they might not be
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  