-- U.K. Lawmakers Debate Right to Throne for Kate Daughter
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-k-lawmakers-debate-right-to-throne-for-kate-daughter.html
U.K. lawmakers will today debate a
move to let a first-born daughter of  Prince William  and his wife
Catherine succeed to the throne before any brothers, after a
parliamentary panel said the changes were being forced through
too quickly.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  has proposed amendments to
current laws, including the 1700 Act of Settlement, which give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Roman Catholic
from becoming king or queen. The plans have been agreed on with
the governments of all 15 other Commonwealth countries of which
 Queen Elizabeth II  is monarch.  “The current law also says that our monarch can’t be
married to a Catholic; this legal ban doesn’t apply to any other
faith -- not Muslims, Jews, Hindus, nor to atheists,” Clegg
will tell the House of Commons in London, according to remarks
released in advance by his office. “The reasons for this go
back 300 years, to the days when Britain was worried about the
threat from its Catholic neighbors, such as Louis XIV of
 France .”  The Constitution Committee in Parliament’s upper chamber,
the House of Lords, raised concerns yesterday over the “fast-
tracking” of the Succession to the Crown Bill, warning of
“unintended consequences.” Children of an heir to the throne
brought up in the Catholic faith would be unable to reconcile
that with a future role as head of the Church of England if they
become monarch, the lawmakers said.  ‘Canon Law’  “Catholics are normally obliged under canon law to bring
up as Catholics any children from an inter-faith marriage,” the
panel said in a report. “The proposal thus raises the prospect
of the children of a monarch being brought up in a faith which
would not allow them to be in communion with the Church of
 England . This would prevent them from acceding to the throne.”  Speaking to the Lords committee, Clegg dismissed the
argument, saying the Catholic Church “has not had a doctrine
for many years obliging people who are of a mixed religious
denomination to educate their children as Catholics.”  The panel said that the possible unintended consequences of
the legislation “demonstrate the need to provide the
opportunity for full debate in Parliament.” Clegg’s office said
the number of days the House of Commons would discuss the issue
had been doubled to two to increase scrutiny.  ‘Sea Change’  The Church of England sent a letter to lawmakers yesterday
welcoming the proposed changes. They are a “symbolic and
practical measure consistent with respect for the principle of
religious liberty,” the church wrote, according to a text
released on its  website.  “It reflects the sea change in
ecumenical relations over recent decades.”  William and Catherine’s first baby is due in July. The
child will be third in line to the throne, after Prince Charles
and William.  There have been 11 previous attempts to change the laws
governing the royal succession since 1981, all of them failing
through lack of government support.  The Commons Political and Constitutional Reform Committee
said last year that the plan raises questions about how other
hereditary noble titles are passed between the generations and
whether the monarch should continue to be the head of the Church
of England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  