-- U.K. January CBI Factory Index Falls as Export Demand Weakens
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-01-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-k-january-cbi-factory-index-falls-as-export-demand-weakens.html
A U.K. factory index unexpectedly
fell this month as export demand weakened, indicating continued
weakness in manufacturing at the start of 2013, according to the
 Confederation of British Industry .  A  gauge of orders  fell to minus 20 from minus 12 in
December, the London-based business lobby said in a report
published today. The median of 14 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of minus 11. Still, the report also
showed that manufacturers have become more confident, with a
quarterly optimism index rising to zero from minus 12 in
October.  Britain’s economy may grow 1.1 percent this year after
shrinking an estimated 0.1 percent in 2013, according to a
survey of economists published on Jan. 17. Confidence has been
partly boosted by an easing of tensions in the euro area,
Britain’s biggest export market, after a European Central Bank
bond-buying pledge.  “While domestic demand and business optimism have
steadied, export demand remains a concern for manufacturers with
orders continuing to fall, albeit at a slower rate,” Anna Leach, head of economic analysis at the CBI, said in a
statement. “There are encouraging signs of stability in overall
demand, however, with domestic orders, export orders and
production expected to rise in the quarter ahead.”  An index of export orders fell to minus 29 in January from
minus 11 in December, according to the monthly CBI data.
Expectations for output over the next three months rose to 8
from zero, while expectations for selling prices increased to 21
from 17.  Within the quarterly survey, a measure of factory output
rose to minus 2 in January from minus 3 in October. A new-orders
gauge advanced to minus 4 from minus 13. An index of output
expectations for the next three months was at 8.  The CBI conducted the survey of 389 manufacturers between
Dec. 15 and Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  