-- Osborne Warned U.K. Rating at Risk as Budget Gap Widens
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-01-22T14:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-k-budget-deficit-widens-as-weak-economy-weighs-on-profits.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne faced renewed warnings that Britain risks losing its top
credit rating after the  budget deficit  widened last month as a
struggling economic recovery weighed on company profits.  The shortfall excluding government support for banks was
15.4 billion pounds ($24.4 billion) compared with 14.8 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said
in London today. The  median of 23 estimates  in a Bloomberg News
 survey  was for a deficit of 15.2 billion pounds. Spending rose
5.4 percent and revenue climbed 3.6 percent.  Standard and Poor’s last month became the third ratings
company to warn that Britain could be stripped of its top-notch
ranking after Osborne conceded it is taking longer than planned
to repair the public finances. Investors often ignore such
actions, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the U.S.
lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  “The fiscal position is likely to drift further off course
as the U.K. veers towards a triple-dip recession,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London  and a former Bank
of England official. “There is only so long that the
chancellor’s combination of smoke and mirrors and optimistic
growth assumptions can disguise the problem.”  Investors are demanding more yield to hold U.K. government
debt, pushing borrowing costs to an eight-month high. Ten-year
 gilt yields  touched 2.14 percent on Jan. 4, the most since April
30. They were down 2 basis points at 2.04 percent at 2 p.m. in
London, paying 18 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. The rate was 17 basis points below Treasuries as
recently as August. The pound gained 0.2 percent against the
dollar to $1.5861.  S&P Warning  S&P said last month there is a one-in-three chance it will
cut its AAA rating in the next two years after joining Fitch
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service in downgrading Britain’s
outlook to negative.  Such a move would be embarrassing for Osborne and Prime
Minister David Cameron, who have made the top rating a badge of
creditworthiness that separates Britain from debt-strapped euro-
area nations such as Spain, although it may have little market
impact.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published on Dec. 17.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  ‘Mounting Expectations’  “Overall, the December public finance data do little to
dilute high and mounting expectations that at least one of the
credit rating agencies will strip the U.K. of its AAA rating
within the next few months,” said Howard Archer, an economist
at IHS Global Insight in London.  Corporation-tax receipts rose 0.2 percent in December from
a year earlier and were down 7.1 percent in the fiscal year to
date, reflecting the impact of weak growth on company profits
and shutdowns of North Sea oil and gas production.  Spending was boosted largely by a 6.5 percent increase in
departmental outlays last month. Welfare costs increased 3.3
percent. Net investment was little changed at 2.4 billion
pounds.  ‘Overly Aggressive’  The deficit climbed to 106.5 billion pounds in the first
nine months of the fiscal year from 99.3 billion pounds a year
earlier, despite downward revisions to borrowing between April
and November. The  figures  exclude a one-time boost from
the 28 billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension
assets to the public sector in April last year. The Treasury’s
fiscal watchdog, the  Office for Budget Responsibility , predicts
an underlying deficit of 120 billion pounds for the full fiscal
year.  The report sparked new accusations that Osborne is trying
to cut the deficit too quickly and stifling growth in the
process. The economy probably shrank 0.1 percent last year and
will grow just 1.1 percent this year, according to a
survey of economists published on Jan. 17.  Former Bank of England policy maker Adam Posen told
lawmakers in London today the government’s austerity program is
“overly aggressive.” Rachel Reeves, a Treasury spokeswoman for
the opposition Labour Party, said budget cuts are hurting, not
working.  Failing Test  Osborne and Cameron are “failing on the one test they set
themselves -- to get the deficit and debt down,” she said in an
e-mailed statement. “This is borrowing to pay for economic
failure as a flat-lining economy and rising long-term
unemployment have sent the welfare bill soaring and tax
revenues have been revised down.”  In his autumn statement, Osborne said austerity will
continue until 2018, three years later than planned when his
Conservative-led government took office in 2010 vowing to tackle
a budget deficit of more than 11 percent of gross domestic
product.  Detailed spending plans have been set out through March
2015 and Osborne told Cabinet colleagues today to begin the
process of finding savings for the following year, warning of
the need for difficult decisions. A new spending review covering
the period is due to be announced in the first half of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  