-- U.S. High School Graduation Rate at Highest Since 1970s
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-01-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-s-high-school-graduation-rate-at-highest-since-1970s.html
U.S. students graduated from public
high schools at the highest rate since the 1970s, with the
largest leap for Hispanic students, government data show.  In 2009-2010, 78.2 percent of students earned a diploma
after four years, compared with 75.5 percent the year before,
according to a  U.S. Education Department  report released today.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, many states and
education and business groups have been pushing to improve high-
school graduation rates, which stagnated in the 1970s, 1980s and
1990s and fell behind the nation’s economic rivals. While the
government said the reasons for the improvement aren’t clear,
researchers credited elementary school preparation and better
tracking of potential dropouts.  “It’s incredibly important,” Bob Wise, the former
governor of  West Virginia , said in a phone interview. “This is
hard work, and there’s some progress being made.”  Wise’s Alliance for Excellent Education, a  Washington  -
based advocacy group focused on improving graduation rates,
estimates that the 1.3 million high school dropouts from the
Class of 2010 cost the  U.S. economy  $337 billion in lost wages
over their lifetime.  To discourage dropouts, school districts have instituted
early-warning systems to track students, flagging absenteeism or
failing grades in English and math, said BethAnn Berliner, a
senior researcher with WestEd, a San Francisco-based research
organization that works with states and schools.  ‘Dropout Factories’  The Obama administration has pushed states to institute
student-tracking systems and improve graduation rates through
its $5 billion Race to the Top grants and other programs aimed
at turning around the worst-performing schools, often called
“dropout factories.”  Efforts to identify and improve those schools, which
educate a disproportionate share of immigrant and other minority
children, may be starting to pay off, according to Patricia
Gandara, an education professor who co-directs the Civil Rights
Project at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles .  The government rate estimates the percentage of high-school
students who graduate within four years of first starting ninth
grade. It includes only those who earn a standard diploma, not a
lesser certificate or equivalency degree.  In 1969-1970, the rate was 78.7 percent. It fell as low as
71 percent in the 1990s, before inching higher in the current
decade.  Ethnic Groups  In the most recent round, Asian-American students had the
best performance, at 93.5 percent, trailed by whites at 83
percent. The Hispanic graduation rate of 71.4 percent rose from
65.9 percent, the largest increase of any ethnic group. For
blacks, the percentage rose to 66.1 percent from 63.5 percent.  The new report doesn’t offer reasons for the improvement,
said Jack Buckley, commissioner of the National Center for
Education Statistics, which collects the data. It could result
from a weak economy, which makes it less likely for teenagers to
leave school for work, he said in a press briefing.  Steady, recent improvement undercuts that explanation, said
Richard Murnane, a Harvard University economist and education
professor who has studied graduation rates.  It’s more likely a result of significantly improved
achievement in elementary grades among the lowest-performing
students, Murnane said. National standardized math test scores
have been rising for those students over the last 10 or 15
years, he said in a phone interview. To a lesser extent, they
have risen in reading, as well.  “Kids are getting to high school a little more prepared to
do high-school work,” Murnane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  