-- U.S. Trade Chief Kirk to Quit Obama Administration
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-22T22:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-s-trade-chief-kirk-to-quit-obama-administration.html
U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk ,
who led negotiations to complete trade deals with South Korea,
Colombia and Panama, said he will leave President  Barack Obama ’s
administration in late February.  Kirk, the first black mayor of Dallas, disclosed his plans
today in an e-mailed statement in which he didn’t give a reason
for departing.  “We have made great strides to bring about the president’s
vision of a more robust, responsible and responsive trade
policy,” Kirk, 58, said. “Trade has been a major part of this
administration’s efforts to support American jobs right here at
home.”  Kirk leaves his successor a raft of initiatives such as
completing a Pacific-region trade deal, enforcing trade rules in
dealing with China and strengthening U.S. economic ties in a
pact with the European Union. While the White House hasn’t
identified a successor, Obama may name  Fred Hochberg ,
president of the U.S. Export-Import Bank, as a replacement,
according to person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. trade representative is a cabinet-level position
that requires Senate confirmation. Kirk and Environmental
Protection Agency chief  Lisa Jackson , a black woman, also are
departing, leaving Attorney General Eric Holder and U.N.
Ambassador Susan Rice as the remaining black aides among Obama’s
cabinet-level officeholders.  Make Money  While he didn’t give a reason for leaving in his statement,
Kirk has previously cited personal and professional goals.  “I miss my house, I miss my family, I want to drive my
car,” Kirk said after speaking at a conference in Washington on
Sept. 19. “And I’d like to go make a little money.”  During four years with Obama, Kirk oversaw re-negotiation
and congressional passage in October 2011 of free-trade
agreements first negotiated by President  George W. Bush ’s
administration. His office also took over another project begun
by his predecessor, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and turned it
into a major trade-policy goal of the Obama administration.  The regional trade pact, being forged by 11 nations
including Mexico and Canada, would give the U.S. and its
neighbors the opportunity to update the  North American Free
Trade Agreement , which took effect in 1994. Kirk’s successor
will have to deal with whether to include Japan in the
discussions, a move opposed by U.S. automakers including  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , which have said the Asian
country’s auto market should be more open to foreign
competition.  EU Talks  Kirk led U.S. talks with EU officials on the possibility of
a trade agreement with the 27-nation union.  The U.S. on Jan. 15 said it will begin negotiations with 20
trading partners to lower trade barriers in areas including
financial services and telecommunications, a step toward a deal
sought by companies including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   During Kirk’s tenure, the U.S. feuded with China over trade
in tires, chicken parts, automobiles, electronic payments, rare-
earth elements and clean-energy programs.  Kirk spent much of his time shoring up domestic support for
Obama’s trade policy, including a goal to double exports from
2009 levels by the end of 2014. For the year ended Sept. 30,
2011, Kirk took 23 business trips, 17 of which involved domestic
travel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s no question Ron delivered results for the
American people and for our economy,” Obama said in an e-mailed
statement. “As a former mayor, Ron was relentless in making the
case to the American public that a balanced, thoughtful trade
policy can contribute to a stronger economic future for
America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  