-- U.S. Losing Taste for Corn Sweetener as Dieters Shun Soda
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-01-22T21:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/u-s-losing-taste-for-corn-sweetener-as-dieters-shun-soda.html
Consumption of high-fructose corn
syrup, used to sweeten products from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to  HJ Heinz
Co. (HNZ)  ketchup and linked to obesity, is falling in the U.S. as
health-conscious consumers drink less soda.  The amount of corn devoted to the sweetener this year will
fall to its lowest level since 1997, according to a Jan. 15
projection by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “A lot of attention has been paid to obesity, and that’s
hurt high-fructose corn syrup,” said  Marion Nestle , a public-
health and nutrition expert at  New York  University. “Now, if
only people weren’t making up for it by eating more sugar.”  For decades, corn syrup benefited from the relatively low
cost of corn compared with sugar. A tripling of corn costs since
2004 has lessened that advantage, while consumer obesity
concerns and negative publicity have also eaten into demand,
said Lauren Bandy, an ingredients analyst with Euromonitor
International Plc in London.  Americans consumed an average of 131 calories of the corn
sweetener each day in 2011, down 16 percent since 2007,
according to the most recent USDA data. Meanwhile, consumption
of sugar, also blamed for weight gain, rose 8.8 percent to 185
calories daily, the  data  show.  1998 Peak  Even with the increase in sugar use, total U.S. sweetener
production remains down 14 percent from a 1999 peak, according
to the USDA.  “We’re seeing a real decline, and that people aren’t just
switching to sugar,” said  Michael Jacobson , executive director
of the Center for Science in the Public Interest in Washington.
“People consume way too much of both.”  He attributes the decline to public-health campaigns.  Concerns that obesity is rising have spurred anti-sweetener
measures, including proposals in 30 states to levy soda taxes on
the $74 billion U.S. soft-drink industry. Last September, New
York City’s Board of Health voted to restrict sales of sugary
soft drinks to no more than 16 ounces a cup in restaurants,
movie theaters and stadiums, acting on a proposal by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . He’s the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Soft drinks are the major driver of high-fructose corn
syrup use. Consumption, which peaked in 1998 at 54 gallons a
person, plummeted 21 percent by 2011, as Americans drank more
juice, tea and bottled water, according to Beverage Digest.  Rivaled Sugar  High-fructose corn syrup  was developed in the 1950s and,
for about a decade starting in the mid-1990s, rivaled refined
sugar as the top U.S. sweetener.  The liquid sweetener is often used in cereals, yogurts,
soups and other foods because it is easier to blend, transport
and preserve than sugar. About 4.5 percent of the U.S. corn
crop, or  485 million bushels , will be used to make the sweetener
in the year ending Aug. 31, according to the USDA.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and Cargill Inc. together run
 more than half  of the country’s plants where high-fructose corn-
syrup is refined from corn.  Export growth has more than made up for any decline in
domestic sales, said Jackie Anderson, an ADM spokeswoman, in an
e-mail. “Our corn mills are designed to be flexible so that we
can move production to different products,” she said.  Corn-based ethanol, which until 2000 used less of the grain
than the sweetener, will account for 4.5 billion bushels this
year, almost 10 times as much, USDA data show.  Obesity Fears  Ties to obesity are scaring some consumers away even as
trade groups for corn syrup and sugar battle each other in court
over allegedly false statements about one another’s products,
Nestle, the  New York University  nutritionist, said.  “It’s laughable, seeing them fighting one another when
they’re both awful,” Nestle said.  Concerns about sweeteners also resonate overseas, crimping
growth potential in some markets even as other countries, such
as  Mexico , consume more of the syrup, Bandy said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the maker of Lucozade Energy and Ribena
drinks, said today it will cut the calories and sugar in U.K.
beverages as part of a plan to fight obesity. Glaxo joins
companies including Coca-Cola,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  in
signing a British government pledge to reduce calories in their
products, the U.K. health department said.  Yale Study  Fructose may contribute to weight gain and obesity because
of the way it affects brain regions that control appetite, Yale
University researchers found in a study published in the  Journal
of the American Medical Association  this month.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has classified high-
fructose corn syrup, a blend of fructose and glucose, as safe.
It declined to call it “corn sugar,” as requested by the Corn
Refiners Association. An  article published  last September in the
International Journal of Obesity concluded that the substance
alone doesn’t cause obesity or other health problems.  “It’s important for brands to weigh sweetener decisions
carefully and base them on facts,” said Martin Concannon, a
consultant to the Corn Refiners Association, in an e-mail. “Far
more consumers are concerned about the amount of sweetener in a
product than even notice what type of sweetener is in it.”  The Washington-based association represents manufacturers
of high-fructose corn syrup in the U.S., including Cargill, ADM,
 Ingredion Inc. (INGR)  and Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas Inc.  Sugar remains about 25 percent more expensive than high-
fructose corn syrup,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said in a Jan. 17
report.  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , which makes Capri Sun, a
juice product, and  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , maker of Hunt’s ketchup,
have both returned to corn syrup after switching to sugar
because they didn’t gain market share from the change, Credit
Suisse said.  “It’s a declining industry, but it’s not a dying
industry,” Bandy said. “As long as the big brands keep using
it, they’ll have business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  