-- Unified 49ers Four-Point Picks to Beat Ravens in NFL Super Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-22T05:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/unified-49ers-four-point-picks-to-beat-ravens-in-nfl-super-bowl.html
The  San Francisco 49ers  are unified
behind coach  Jim Harbaugh , former quarterback Ron Jaworski says.
They take that solid approach into the Super Bowl as Las Vegas
oddsmakers’ four-point favorites to beat the  Baltimore Ravens .  It continued a trend. The 49ers were the oddsmakers’ pick
to win all five of their previous Super Bowl trips. They are
back in the National Football League championship game for the
first time in 18 years.  Led by a second-year quarterback and coach,  San Francisco 
is picked to beat the Ravens in the Feb. 3 contest in  New
Orleans , according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. It’s the
second time in 11 years that the National Football Conference
champion has been favored over the American Football Conference
entry in the title game.  “The 49ers have been one of the most heavily supported
teams all season,”  Jeff Sherman , the LVH Super Book assistant
manager, said by e-mail. “Even though the Ravens have been the
underdog darling as of late, the 49ers are still considered the
stronger side power-rating wise.”  The 49ers fought back from a 17-point deficit to beat the
Atlanta Falcons 28-24 two days ago, the biggest comeback in the
history of the NFC championship game, according to Elias Sports
Bureau. The old record was 13 points when Atlanta beat Minnesota
30-27 in overtime in the 1999 title game.  Though much has been made of the 49ers’ fleet-footed
quarterback Colin Kaepernick, Jaworski, an ESPN analyst and
former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback, said it is their coach
who has made the biggest difference in the organization.  Harbaugh Turnaround  The 49ers had gone eight straight years without a winning
record before Harbaugh arrived from  Stanford University  in 2011.
In his first year, he led the team to a 13-3 regular-season
record and the NFC championship game, where they lost to the
eventual Super Bowl-champion New York Giants, 20-17, in overtime.  “They are a unified team,” Jaworski said on the Walt
Disney Co. network yesterday. “There is one voice on that
football team and it’s his. Jim has come in there and wrapped
his arms around everyone and said, ‘This is what we are going to
do. I am in charge of this organization. Follow me.’ He never
gets rattled. He has shown incredible leadership for that
organization.”  The Las Vegas oddsmakers’ favored team has won 33 of the
previous 46  Super Bowls , with the Giants winning last year’s
title against the  New England  Patriots as three-point underdogs.
The  New Orleans Saints  won three years ago in the championship
game over the  Indianapolis Colts , who were 4 1/2-point picks.  Underdog Role  The Ravens are the first team since the playoffs expanded
in 1978 to win in the divisional round and conference
championship round as underdogs of more than a touchdown in both
games. The Ravens were nine-point underdogs when they pulled off
a 38-35 double-overtime win in Denver on Jan. 12, and they upset
the Patriots 28-13 on the road, with New England a 7 1/2-point
favorite.  “We knew what we were capable of,” Ravens linebacker
Terrell Suggs told reporters after the win in Foxborough,
 Massachusetts , two days ago. “Unfortunately the bandwagon is
full, and we want you all to come in two weeks and bet against
us again.”  Jaworski said odds can be thrown out when a talented team
such as the Ravens gets hot and becomes emotionally charged for
the big game.  In Baltimore, that lift may come from linebacker  Ray Lewis ,
who was named the Super Bowl Most Valuable Player when the
Ravens won following the 2000 season and has announced
retirement plans when this season is done.  ‘For Ray’  “‘Let’s win it for Ray,”’ Jaworski said the Ravens are
feeling. “‘Let’s send Ray out with the Vince Lombardi Trophy.’
Players rally around that kind of stuff.”  Over $10 billion was estimated to have been wagered
worldwide on last year’s Super Bowl, according to Las Vegas-
based handicapping information website Pregame.com, with less
than 1 percent of that bet legally at Nevada sports books.  The 49ers were tied as the third favorites to win the Super
Bowl at the start of the season, with 10-1 odds at the LVH Super
Book, meaning a winning $100 bet would yield a $1,000 profit.
The Ravens were the eighth favorites at 14-1.  San Francisco is the first NFC champion favored by more
than a field goal since the 2001  St. Louis Rams , who were 14-
point picks against the Patriots and lost 20-17 in the most
recent title game at the Louisiana Superdome.  The 49ers made five Super Bowls from 1982 through 1995.
They routed the San Diego Chargers 49-26 as record 18 1/2-point
favorites following the 1994 season.  Steelers’ Mark  San Francisco is seeking to join the Pittsburgh Steelers as
the only NFL franchises with six Super Bowl titles.  This year’s game is the first Super Bowl to have brothers
as opposing coaches, with San Francisco’s Jim Harbaugh facing
Baltimore’s  John Harbaugh .  Jim Harbaugh and Kaepernick also are the first coach-
quarterback tandem to reach the Super Bowl within their first
two NFL seasons, and Kaepernick’s nine career starts will be the
third fewest for any quarterback to start the championship game.  “He competes like a maniac all the time,” Jim Harbaugh
said of Kaepernick, who replaced  Alex Smith  as the starter
during the season. “In practice, in games, it stays the same.”  John Harbaugh and quarterback  Joe Flacco  are both in their
fifth season in Baltimore. Flacco has outplayed  Peyton Manning 
and Brady the past two weeks in getting the Ravens to the Super
Bowl for the second time. Baltimore beat the Giants 34-7 as
three-point favorites after the 2000 season.  Having been picked to lose is a role they’ve gotten
accustomed to this postseason.  “Being an underdog, they don’t expect you to do it and we
like to prove them wrong,” Ravens offensive tackle Bryant McKinnie said. “That’s just a challenge for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  