-- Turkish Central Bank Cuts Rates to Stem Lira’s Advance
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-22T13:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/turkish-central-bank-cuts-rates-to-stem-lira-s-advance.html
Turkey ’s central bank cut both ends
of its interest-rate corridor as it seeks to prevent the flow of
money into its surging stock and bond markets from pushing up
the lira.  The bank in Ankara reduced its overnight lending rate, the
top of the corridor, to 8.75 percent from 9 percent and the
overnight borrowing rate to 4.75 percent from 5 percent. It kept
the benchmark repo rate unchanged at 5.5 percent. Most
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had expected all three rates to
stay the same.  The central bank has kept  borrowing costs  near the lower
end of its rates corridor in recent months after growth in
Turkey’s $800 billion economy slowed. Today’s rate cut is
probably driven by concern the lira may become overvalued as the
surge in Turkey’s stock and bond markets draws in money. The
central bank took separate action to rein in a  pickup  in
borrowing, imposing higher  reserve requirements  on lenders.  “The bank has shifted focus towards the financial
stability risks posed by accelerating capital inflows,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a Jan. 18 report. It will use lower
rates to “lean against these inflows and their subsequent FX
appreciation pressures,” Goldman said.  The lira reversed earlier gains after the rate cut and fell
for a third day, losing 0.2 percent to 1.7671 per dollar at 2:30
p.m. Yields on benchmark two-year bonds fell 6 basis points to
5.87 percent, heading for the lowest in more than a month.  Weaken Lira  Before this week, Turkey’s currency had gained almost 2
percent in a month against the dollar. Central bank Governor
Erdem Basci says he’s monitoring an index of the currency’s real
exchange rate, weighted against Turkey’s trading partners, and
may act to weaken the lira if it appreciates.  As capital inflows accelerate, bank credit has started to
grow faster than expected, the central bank said today. It
stepped up its requirement for banks to keep reserves in order
to tighten credit growth. The measures will transfer as much as
$2.9 billion in foreign exchange and gold from lenders to the
central bank’s reserves, as well as withdrawing 300 million
liras from local-currency markets, it said.  Lending Cap  The central bank aims to keep loan growth within a 14
percent to 15 percent range, Deputy Governor Turalay Kenc said
last week. Credit was expanding at a 17 percent annual pace as
of Jan. 11.  Turkey’s economic growth slowed to about 3 percent last
year, less than half its 2011 pace. That helped bring inflation
down to 6.2 percent last month, the lowest for more than a year.
The bank said today it expects a limited increase in the
inflation rate in January.  Slowing inflation spurred a rally in the  bond market , while
expectations the economy will rebound this year have helped
drive Turkey’s  benchmark stock index  up more than 50 percent
since the end of May. Net foreign inflows to buy stocks and
bonds exceeded $22 billion in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  