-- Vingroup Resists Price Cuts Amid Property Slump: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-23T10:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/vingroup-resists-price-cuts-amid-property-slump-southeast-asia.html
Vingroup JSC (VIC) ,  Vietnam ’s largest
listed developer, will not follow competitors who may lower
prices by as much as half this year to sell homes amid an
oversupply, slowing economic growth and crimped bank lending.  The company’s pockets are deep enough to avoid discounts,
Chief Executive Officer Le Thi Thu Thuy said. The developer
stopped selling homes at two Hanoi projects after initial sales
and expects prices to rise when they are put back into the
market for immediate occupancy, she said.  “The value will still be there and we don’t want to sell
cheaply,” she said in an interview at the company’s Vincom
Village township in a northern Hanoi suburb on Jan. 21. “And we
want our buyers and investors to know we won’t trade down.”  The Hanoi-based developer is counting on a recovery in a
city where the number of apartments sold last year more than
halved compared with 2011, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) 
Developers may have to cut prices by as much as 50 percent of
their original values this year, the property broker predicts.  Vietnam’s economy grew at its slowest pace in 13 years in
2012, as rising bad debt in the banking system trimmed lending
and curbed domestic demand. Retail sales growth slowed to 16
percent year-on-year in December, the smallest expansion since
at least 2005, according to General Statistics Office data.  “They are powering through this down market that we’ve
been in for three years,” said David Lyons, managing director
at Jones Lang LaSalle’s Vietnam unit. “They seem to plan their
development, put in the infrastructure, put in what people need
and then go and market it aggressively.”  Hit Bottom  The Hanoi-based company has pre-sold about 2,600 of 4,500
apartments at its  Royal City  mixed-use development in the
capital at an average of about $2,200 per square meter (10.76
square feet), Thuy said, and will start handing the units to
buyers after the Lunar New Year holiday next month.  About 3,500 units of 13,000 apartments at  Times City , also
in Hanoi, have been pre-sold at an average of about $1,450 per
square meter. The company stopped selling units at both Hanoi
developments about a year ago.  “The residential market has already hit the bottom and we
think it can only go up from here,” said Thuy, a former Lehman
Brothers banker. “Whether it goes up fast or slow depends on a
lot of external factors. It’s not about people not having money,
it’s about the confidence.”  Economic Challenges  Vietnam will try to address  economic  challenges in 2013 as
inflation risks persist, bad loans weigh on banks and rising
inventories hurt businesses, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said
in a New Year’s Day message. The country must accept “low”
economic growth while it restructures its economy and should aim
for annual expansion of at least 5 percent, President Truong Tan Sang said in an interview with Vietnam News Agency on Jan. 21.  “Vingroup is adamant about not reducing prices because
they feel that essentially what will happen is that when the
projects are closer to completion, they can sell at much better
prices,” said Kah Ling Chan, a credit analyst at Standard &
Poor’s, which rates Vingroup at B, five levels below investment
grade. “That remains to be seen. We are a little worried about
the broader market, and that is why we will continue to monitor
their sales this year.”  The company abandoned a plan to sell as much as $300
million of five-year bonds last month, due to higher-than-
expected yields.  Deep Pockets  “They have very deep pockets, but they’re not endless,”
said Fiachra MacCana, managing director of  Ho Chi Minh City
Securities Corp. (HCM)  “At the end of the day, like most companies in
Vietnam, their ultimate fate is out of their own hands. A lot of
it depends on whether the real estate market comes back in 2013
or we see another year of declines.”  Vingroup’s  shares  have climbed 7.7 percent since the start
of the year, compared with the 7 percent gain in the  VN Index. (VNINDEX) 
In 2012, the stock added 2.5 percent, underperforming the
benchmark gauge’s 18 percent advance. Vingroup rose 0.8 percent
in Ho Chi Minh City.  Vingroup isn’t relying on the residential market. Its Royal
City and Times City “mega malls,” connected to the residential
buildings, will add 380,000 square meters of retail space in
Hanoi this year, more than doubling the current total supply,
according to data from CBRE. The brokerage forecasts rents in
the capital to fall this year.  Thuy said she remains upbeat about the retail market, where
rents have been rising with demand for shop space. The company’s
first mall, Hanoi’s Vincom Center, is fully leased with a
waiting list for new tenants, while the average vacancy rate at
its shopping centers in Ho Chi Minh City, including its new
 Vincom Center , is 4 percent to 5 percent, she said. A number of
contracts were signed with ascending rents, she added.  Strategic Investors  Vingroup is in talks with strategic investors to buy a
stake of as much as 10 percent, Thuy said. It’s also pushing
ahead with a planned listing in  Singapore  for later this year.  The developer has access to funding from other sources to
support ongoing construction, she said, including assets that
can be monetized, and “quite significant” recurring revenue.
Cash reserves have fluctuated between $220 million and $350
million since the end of September, she added.  “We don’t have to cut our prices to get funding,” she
said. “We have other business, other sources as well. We’re
bullish about the market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  