-- Wal-Mart Factory Rules Won’t Make Them Safer, Activists Say
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-22T21:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/wal-mart-supplier-rules-won-t-make-plants-safer-activists-say.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s new zero-
tolerance policy for suppliers that source garments from
unauthorized factories won’t make workers safer, a labor-rights
activist said.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, in an undated
letter to suppliers, said that starting March 1 it would
“terminate its relationship with any supplier engaging in
unauthorized subcontracting” when sourcing its merchandise. The
new policy will require suppliers to hire people to inspect
factories regularly and ensure they’re in compliance, the
company said in the letter, which it released today.  The rules follow a fire that killed more than 100 people
last year at a Bangladesh factory where Wal-Mart clothes were
being made. At the time, Wal-Mart said a supplier subcontracted
work to the “unauthorized” factory without the company’s
knowledge. It later fired New York-based Success Apparel in
connection with the unauthorized manufacturing, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Wal-Mart’s policy won’t make factories safer unless it
helps suppliers pay for improvements, said Scott Nova, who runs
the Washington-based Worker Rights Consortium.  “If Wal-Mart is not going to absorb the costs of
substantial factory repairs, improvements are not going to
happen,” Nova, executive director of the labor-rights
monitoring group, said in a telephone interview.  The zero-tolerance policy replaces a three-strikes rule,
which had been in effect since May 2011. Under the new rules,
suppliers must disclose names and locations of factories where
products are “manufactured, augmented or packaged.” The
company is vowing to sever ties to any supplier making
merchandise in factories unknown to Wal-Mart.  Hosting Suppliers  Wal-Mart began sending letters to its suppliers today,
Brooke Buchanan, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. The company is hosting U.S.-, Canada- and U.K-based
Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club garment suppliers at its Bentonville
headquarters Jan. 24 to discuss the changes, Buchanan said.  Wal-Mart is holding internal discussions about possibly
providing loans to suppliers to help cover the cost of safety
upgrades, she said.  The company plans to post the names of unauthorized
suppliers and factories on its website so suppliers “couldn’t
say ‘I didn’t know the factory I’m sourcing from is in red
status,’” Buchanan said. Red indicates unauthorized facilities.  “A lot of these steps continue to put the onus entirely on
the suppliers,” Scott Zdrazil, director of corporate governance
for New York-based Amalgamated Bank, said in an e-mail. “As
Wal-Mart investors, we need Wal-Mart to step up and ensure the
integrity of its supply chain and demonstrate a reliable
monitoring program.”  Amalgamated holds about 440,000 shares of Wal-Mart stock.  On Jan. 10, Zdrazil wrote to Wal-Mart Chairman Samuel
Robson “Rob” Walton asking the company to publicly report
known suppliers before the company’s 2012 annual meeting.  “Full disclosure of all of the company’s suppliers would
go a long way to demonstrate Wal-Mart’s intent to ensure full
supply chain compliance,” Zdrazil said.  Wal-Mart rose 0.5 percent to $69.58 at the close in New
York. The shares gained 14 percent last year, compared with a 13
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  