-- Wall Street Charges Main Street Least Since 2009: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-01-22T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/wall-street-charges-main-street-least-since-2009-muni-credit.html
Wall Street  is charging Main Street
the least since 2009 to sell its bonds, giving U.S. states and
cities an added boost as they borrow at the lowest yields in
more than four decades.  The average fee for municipalities to issue debt in
the $3.7 trillion local market fell last year to $5.84 per
$1,000 of bonds, from $6.82 in 2009 during the financial crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg for long-term, fixed-
rate sales. The debut of Build America Bonds that year also 
drove up underwriting costs.  The shrinking commissions reflect rising demand for munis
amid a  two-year rally , said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident
Municipal Research in  New York . The drop also signals the
increasing dominance of the largest banks wielding their balance
sheets to win business, he said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the two biggest U.S. banks by assets, led
underwriter rankings, Bloomberg data show.  “When that extra muscle is combined with a market where
it’s much easier to sell bonds, it’s very tempting to go after”
a higher ranking by lowering fees, said Mosley, a former head of
municipal arbitrage trading at  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Refunding Wave  Savings on bond sales are helping states and localities
that are still mending their finances after the 18-month
recession that ended in 2009. Last year, municipalities took
advantage of the lowest borrowing costs since 1965 to refinance
about $200 billion of higher-cost debt, more than half the $345
billion of long-term debt, fixed-rate issuance through competi-
tive and negotiated sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Refinancing will fuel bond sales again this year as
 interest rates  remain depressed and as public officials decline
to take on new debt, Michael Zezas, a muni strategist at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in New York, wrote in his 2013 outlook.  Municipalities disclose underwriting costs in the official
statements that outline details of their bond sales.  In September, the Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey 
paid $3.87 million to firms led by the  Royal Bank of Canada  to
manage a $2 billion bond sale, the largest in the agency’s 91-
year history. The fees amounted to about $2 per $1,000 of bonds.
A year earlier, the agency sold $1 billion of bonds for a fee of
$6.3 million, or $6.30 per $1,000.  Agency’s Boon  “The result with respect to the underwriting spread is
extraordinary,” Executive Director Pat Foye said at a meeting
last year where the agency unveiled expected fees on the deal.
“This result is significantly lower than the prior experience
with the  Port Authority  and also significantly lower than public
issuers around the country have achieved over the last 12
months.”  A push into the market by banks that traditionally haven’t
been major muni underwriters, such as RBC,  Canada ’s biggest
lender, has also helped lower fees, said Mosley.  RBC ranked fifth among underwriters of U.S. state and local
government debt last year, up from seventh in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The current industry cycle we are seeing is mainly due to
a robust fixed-income environment, and to a far lesser degree,
the enhanced competition,” Elisa Barsotti, a spokeswoman for
RBC Capital in New York, said in an e-mail.  In a departure from the previous three years, negotiated
sales, in which municipalities select a bank in advance to price
bonds, cost issuers less in fees than auctioning debt
competitively.  Negotiated Cheaper  The average cost of issuance for negotiated offerings in
2012 was $5.76 per $1,000 of debt, compared with $6.37 for
competitive offers, Bloomberg data show.  Negotiated deals tend to be bigger than competitive sales,
reducing the relative expense of fixed underwriting costs, said
 Michael Decker , co-head of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association’s municipal securities division.  There are also more firms chasing the business, allowing
issuers to squeeze pricing, said Decker, who’s based in
 Washington .  “It’s a very competitive environment in terms of
underwriting spreads, especially on negotiated deals,” he said.  After peaking in 2009, issuance costs fell to $6.40 per
$1,000 in 2010 and $6.08 in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The runup in costs during the financial crisis came after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy
in September 2008, leading banks to charge more to find buyers
for bonds, Mosley said.  New Market  Taxpayers also paid banks more to underwrite Build America
Bonds, which debuted in 2009 as part of President  Barack Obama ’s
economic stimulus. The program, which expired at the end of
2010, subsidized 35 percent of interest costs on taxable debt.  To sell the new bonds, governments and banks sought out
investors who typically held corporate debt, including pension
funds and international buyers. That boosted underwriting fees.  “Especially the early deals were fairly labor-intensive,”
Decker said. “You had to do a lot of investor education and a
lot of marketing transactions to customers that weren’t used to
the municipal market.”  In 2012,  Bank of America Corp . took the top spot for
arranging U.S. muni sales, unseating JPMorgan Chase & Co. Bank
of America, the second-largest U.S. bank, managed about $48.7
billion of issues at an average cost of $4.55 per $1,000 of
debt, Bloomberg data show.  Revenue Source  The company generated about $222 million in revenue from
those deals, based on the issuance figures. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank bought Merrill Lynch in 2009 after Merrill
suffered at least $50 billion in losses and writedowns from the
collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market.  New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, arranged
about $39.4 billion of muni issues in 2012 at an average cost of
$4.69 per $1,000 of bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment,
as did Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Bank of America.  In muni trading last week, yields on 10-year benchmarks
fell to a one-month low of 1.69 percent, Bloomberg Valuation
data show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY plans to issue as
much as $2.2 billion of school construction bonds and notes this
week, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Proceeds will go
toward refunding debt, which will reduce variable-rate
securities and terminate swap agreements. (Updated Jan. 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  