-- Western Digital Hits 15-Year Peak on Talk of Buyout
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-22T21:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/western-digital-hits-15-year-peak-on-talk-of-buyout.html
Western Digital  Corp., the maker of
hard drives and home-entertainment devices, reached its highest
in more than 15 years on speculation the company may go private
following the potential buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Western Digital, based in Irvine, California, advanced 5.7
percent to $47.36 at the close in New York, the biggest gain
since Dec. 5 and the highest closing price since September 1997.  Dell, the Round Rock, Texas-based personal computer maker,
is in talks to go private, Bloomberg News reported last week,
citing people with knowledge of the situation. Funding from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may help clinch the buyout by Silver Lake
Management LLC, people said today. If that deal moves forward,
Western Digital would also be a takeout candidate, said  Mark Miller , an analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets.  “Western Digital could follow,” Miller, a former research
manager at Western Digital, said in a telephone interview.  Steve Shattuck, a spokesman for Western Digital, declined
to comment.  As a private company, Western Digital wouldn’t have to
respond to public shareholder demands and could increase its
cash flow, Miller said.  “Its cash flows could be $4 billion to $5 billion a year
in a few years,” Miller said.  The company generated $3.65 billion in cash from operations
in the past four quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investor sentiment on Western Digital has also turned
positive after  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  recently raised its sales
forecast, Miller said. Seagate, based in Dublin, Ireland, rose
7.1 percent to $37.89, its highest close since December 2002.  “Things are not as bad as people thought,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in  New York  at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  