-- Will Israel’s Election Help the Peace Process?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-01-22T22:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/will-israel-s-election-help-the-peace-process-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Only in  Israel  can a politician lose
by winning. It seems, as I write this, that Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s ticket -- his Likud party, plus Avigdor Lieberman’s Yisrael Beitenu -- will have won about 31 Knesset
seats in today’s election, which would put it comfortably ahead
of its nearest competitor.  But the results, if early exit polls are to be believed,
mean that Netanyahu is no longer King of Israel. He lost votes
to his right, to the pro-settlement Jewish Home party of Naftali
Bennett, and he lost centrist voters (those who wish for, among
other things, a two-state solution with the Palestinians,
without quite believing it is possible) to the Yesh Atid party
of the former television broadcaster Yair Lapid, who is the real
story of this campaign.  Lapid is now a kingmaker. As Israel moves into the next,
excruciating period of the election -- the jockeying to
construct a governing coalition -- it is Lapid’s party, which
appears to have won about 19 seats, that will go a long way
toward deciding whether Netanyahu rules a far-right coalition
(made up of ultra-Orthodox parties and Jewish Home) or a broad
center-right one.  There is also a chance that the center-left could build its
own governing coalition. The  Labor Party , which was allegedly
dead and buried, seems to have resurrected itself. Tzipi Livni,
the left-leaning former foreign minister, appears to have taken
seven seats for the party known as the Movement, and the left-
wing party Meretz also seems to have done surprisingly well. The
Kadima Party, which won more votes than any other in the last
election, has disappeared entirely.  Key Players  As of this writing, it seems that Netanyahu will still be
prime minister. If I were betting, I’d say he’ll end up leading
a coalition that includes Bennett and Lapid. (Of course, it’s
foolish to bet on the outcomes of Israeli coalition-building.)  What does all this mean for Israel’s immediate future, and
the future of Middle East peacemaking? Perhaps not as much as
you’d expect. A look at the positions of the three key players
provides some clues.  Let’s start with Netanyahu, whose signature line in this
campaign was, simply, “The freezing of settlements has run its
course.” In the past week, especially, Netanyahu has been
running against President  Barack Obama . (Some observers -- not
me -- say that Netanyahu’s veiled attacks on Obama were
motivated by  this  column.) Netanyahu had been trying to convey
to the settlers and their supporters that he is the only one
strong enough to resist another U.S. pressure campaign to freeze
Israeli settlement-building.  A vote for Bennett’s Jewish Home, in other words, would
have been a vote wasted on a naif, albeit a colonialist naif.
Bennett expressed his view of Palestinian aspirations this way:
“I will do everything in my power to make sure they never get a
state.”  Bennett’s presence in the next coalition would
necessarily dash the hopes of any self-respecting peace-
processor.  Yair Lapid and his party -- a “center center” party, in
Israeli parlance -- might agitate for new negotiations with the
 Palestinian Authority . But Lapid has shifted his rhetoric since
moving from journalism into politics. Two years ago, he wrote
caustically about the settlers: “Four percent of the country’s
residents cannot decide that they are the only ones who know
what’s right.” In this campaign, though, Lapid spoke about the
importance of holding onto those large settlements closest to
the 1967 “Green Line,” and he spoke repeatedly about the
paramount importance of  Jerusalem , which he said is “the reason
we are here and if we have to fight for it we will fight for
it.”  Ultra-Orthodox  A Netanyahu-Bennett-Lapid coalition would be far more
likely to take bold action against another of Israel’s threats,
the rise of the ultra-Orthodox, than to take on the  peace
process . Thousands of ultra-Orthodox Haredi men don’t serve in
the army and are on the public dole so that they can pursue
full-time religious studies. And Haredi political parties are
becoming more radical (ayatollah-like, in some ways), demanding
sex segregation on public buses and generally trying to erase
the line dividing synagogue from state. Lapid’s popularity is
derived in large part from his stalwart stance against the
privileges accrued by the ultra-Orthodox.  Belief in the efficacy of the peace process has ebbed
dramatically, even among those Israelis who know that Bennett’s
vision of an Israel in permanent control of the Palestinians is
a formula for ruin. The weakness of the Palestinian Authority,
which rules the  West Bank ; the recalcitrance of Hamas, which
rules the  Gaza Strip ; and the Arab Spring uprisings, which have
left  Syria  in chaos and  Egypt  in the hands of the Muslim
Brotherhood, haven’t advanced the cause of a two-state solution.  One more quote to keep in mind, this from Egyptian
President Mohamed Morsi, who said three years ago (in a
statement just unearthed this month) that Muslims should “nurse
our children and our grandchildren on hatred for them: for
Zionists, for Jews.” Statements like this, which are also often
heard in Palestinian circles, give Israelis pause about pursuing
compromise.  The next coalition -- even if it is center-right, rather
than hard-right -- is going to have a hard time selling a
revitalized peace process.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 