-- Women Would Travel for Abortions If Roe Falls, Study Says
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-01-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/women-would-travel-for-abortions-if-roe-falls-study-says.html
Women will venture hundreds of miles
to obtain abortions even if the U.S. Supreme Court overturns Roe
v. Wade, its landmark decision that legalized the procedure in
every state 40 years ago today, a study showed.  As many as 31 states would outlaw abortion under that
scenario, increasing by 157 miles (253 kilometers) the average
distance residents would need to travel to reach the nearest
legal provider, according to a working paper from the  National
Bureau of Economic Research  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . That
would cause a 15 percent drop in abortions nationally and as
much as a 4.2 percent rise in the birth rate, the study showed.  “The vast majority of women in states without legal
abortion would access services in states where abortion remained
accessible,” wrote Theodore Joyce, the report’s lead author and
a New York-based research associate at the private, nonpartisan
group of academic economists.  The paper drew criticism from abortion opponents as a
political ploy.  David Grimes , a University of North Carolina
obstetrician and former U.S. Centers for Disease Control
official, said: “These statistical excercises must be viewed
with circumspection.” Still, he said its essential message rang
true: Without Roe, fewer women would have access to a procedure
now legal and safe.  Four-Decade War  With a Democratic president who favors abortion rights and
26 states with both legislative chambers controlled by
Republicans, many of whom oppose them, controversy over the
issue continues unabated. The court’s Roe decision changed a
secret and sometimes dangerous practice to a legal option. Yet
it also set off a 40-year political war.  Abortion-rights groups and providers planned to mark
today’s anniversary with events including a “Roe on the Rocks”
cocktail fundraiser in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , and a documentary
screening in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . Opponents said they would
picket in Jackson against  Mississippi ’s sole clinic, while the
annual March for Life on the National Mall in  Washington  was put
off to Jan. 25, after President  Barack Obama ’s inauguration.  “Roe v. Wade grows more vulnerable, year by year,” said
Clarke Forsythe, senior counsel at Americans United for Life, a
legal arm of the antiabortion movement.  The court ruled in 1973 that state laws criminalizing the
procedure violated a constitutional right to privacy. It isn’t
likely to be overturned soon, given the panel’s ideological
makeup, while Obama’s re-election all but ensures the
appointment of at least one abortion-rights supporter.  Tightening Up  Still, the decision is far from secure, Joyce said, and in
some states, its relevance is being tested as the number of
providers declines and restrictions increase.  Most, if not all, clinics in states including Michigan,
Virginia and  Pennsylvania  may shut because of laws that treat
them more like hospitals than doctors’ offices. A measure
mandating that physicians who do abortions must secure admitting
privileges at hospitals may force Mississippi’s last provider to
close its doors.  Deb Walsh, who ran the Volunteer Women’s Medical Clinic in
Knoxville, Tennessee, for 30 of its 38 years, blamed a similar
law when she shut it in August.  “I was unable to bridge the financial gap of paying the
monthly lease and operating expenses without knowing when we
could resume seeing patients,” Walsh wrote in a letter to
fellow independent providers at the time.  State Patchwork  Such  laws  may yield the same result as overturning Roe,
Joyce said in an interview. Should those states succeed, the map
of abortion availability would resemble the partisan breakdown
of recent presidential elections, with Democratic-leaning states
mostly on the East and West coasts that permit the practice and
Republican ones in the country’s middle and South that don’t.  The likelihood that a woman will get an abortion even if
she doesn’t live in an area where the service is available may
come down to personal economics, Joyce said. It may depend on
whether she can afford to travel, secure child care, and take
time off work, he said.  Soon after the 1973 ruling, providers appeared in all 50
states, with the number peaking at 2,908 in 1982, according to
the New York-based Guttmacher Institute, which compiles
reproductive health data. By 2008, the most recent figures
available, the number had fallen 38 percent to 1,793.  Demand also has declined. The abortion rate fell in 2005 to
its lowest level since 1974, according to Guttmacher data. At
the current pace, three out of 10 American women will have one
by the time she’s 45 years old.  Hypothetical Figures  To examine the link between provider availability and use,
Joyce and his team examined data on abortions before Roe in New
York state, one of just four where it was then legal. From 1971
to 1972, non-New York residents obtained more than 300,000
terminations in the state. In 1972, that included 15,522
from  Michigan  alone. Abortion rates fell 12 percent for every
100 miles a woman resided from New York, the study showed.  “Although distance matters, women were willing to travel
hundreds of miles to terminate an unwanted pregnancy,” the
researchers wrote.  Forsythe of Americans United for Life said the study was a
political document, not a scientific one.  “The Joyce paper is pretty worthless except for people who
want to scare people,” Forsythe said. It is, he said, “back-
of-the-envelope speculation.”  ‘Medical Odysseys’  Joyce is a leading scholar in the field, said Grimes, an
obstetrician who studied abortion for the U.S. government.
Still, it’s hard to predict what might happen if Roe were
overturned, he said. One scenario not considered in the study
was how accessible abortion drugs -- which chemically induce a
miscarriage -- may be on the black market, he said.  Yet, Grimes said there is little doubt that if Roe were
overturned, abortion access would be limited by income as well
as geography.  “Many desperate women would be put back on the road in
expensive medical odysseys,” he said by e-mail. “Some of my
abortion patients are so poor that they get ‘trapped’ in the
hospital parking garage. They put their last dollar in the gas
tank to get to the hospital, and they assumed we offered free
parking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  