-- Yen’s Rise Will Probably Be Temporary, Citigroup’s Anderson Says
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-01-22T20:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/yen-s-rise-will-probably-be-temporary-citigroup-s-anderson-says.html
The yen probably won’t gain more
than another percentage point or two versus the dollar before
reversing course as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  moves closer to open-ended
asset purchases, according to Citigroup Inc.’s  Greg Anderson .  The Japanese currency rose the most in eight months today
after the  central bank  said it will conduct open-ended asset
purchases starting in January 2014, disappointing investors who
expected bolder action sooner, and doubled its inflation target
to 2 percent. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office last
month, is pushing to boost the economy and has called for “bold
monetary policy” to defeat deflation and drive the yen lower.  “The Abe administration painted the Bank of  Japan  in a box
with the 2 percent inflation target,” Anderson, head of Group
10 currency strategy at Citigroup in New York, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Lunch Money” in an interview. “The BOJ’s way of
resisting was pushing asset purchases off until 2014.”  The yen has lost 12 percent against the greenback over the
past six months. It gained 1 percent to 88.74 per in  New York 
today and rallied as much as 1.4 percent, the most since May 17.  While the yen may strengthen to 87 per dollar over the next
two weeks, it will weaken to the mid-90s versus the dollar by
year-end, Anderson said.  “Once they actual begin expanding balance sheet, you will
see the yen weaken further,” he said.  The bank said today it will buy 13 trillion yen ($146.6
billion) in assets a month starting next year.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is scheduled to conclude a
five-year term in April, and the terms of his two deputies end
in March, giving Abe’s government a chance to chance to reshape
the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  