-- Zon, Optimus Merger May Save as Much as $533 Million
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-22T11:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-22/zon-optimus-merger-synergies-said-up-to-533-million.html
Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON)  and mobile-
phone unit Optimus SGPS agreed to a merger, paving the way for
as much as 400 million euros ($533 million) in savings as
economic recession in  Portugal  continues to weigh on revenue.  Zon is Portugal’s biggest cable-television provider while
Optimus, a unit of  Sonaecom SGPS SA (SNC) , is the country’s smallest
mobile-phone operator. The new company will compete against
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  for cable-
television, Internet, and telephone clients in Portugal.  “The board of directors of the participating companies
estimate that the created value shall range between 350 million
euros and 400 million euros,”  Zon said  yesterday in a
regulatory filing. The merger will also help counter “enormous
pressure on revenue” in the industry, it said.  Portugal’s economy is forecast to shrink 1.9 percent in
2013 after declining an estimated 3 percent in 2012, the Bank of
Portugal said on Jan. 15. Zon’s revenue increased 0.4 percent to
858.6 million euros in 2012 from the previous year, the company
said in a separate statement yesterday.  “In 2013 the domestic business will continue to feel some
pressure,” Jose Pedro Pereira da Costa, Zon’s chief financial
officer, said in an interview. “The international business will
expand in a positive way and compensate for the less positive
tendency in the domestic business.”  Zon Optimus  Zon  Optimus (MLOPT)  SGPS SA, as the new company will be named, is
expected to control about 26 percent of the Portuguese
telecommunications sector, Zon said. The deal values Zon at 1.5
times the value of Optimus, it said.  “Zon will increase its share capital and, as a consequence
thereof, issue and grant to the shareholders of Optimus new
shares representing 40 percent of the share capital of Zon,”
Zon said.  Zon shares were unchanged at 3.271 euros at 10:32 a.m. in
Lisbon while Sonaecom rose 0.5 percent to 1.534 euros.  Sonaecom said on Dec. 14 it had reached an agreement with
Angolan investor Isabel dos Santos to recommend a merger of
Optimus and Zon.  Dos Santos  is the biggest shareholder in Zon,
with a 28.8 percent stake in the company.  Angola Hypermarkets  Portuguese retailer  Sonae (SON)  SGPS SA, Sonaecom’s parent
company, last year formed a partnership with a dos Santos-
controlled company to open a chain of hypermarkets in  Angola .
Zon has a stake of 30 percent in Angolan cable-television
provider ZAP.  “A remarkable effect of the projected merger will come
from the creation of conditions for a significant improvement of
the internationalization commitment,” Zon said. The merger
still needs the approval of the competition authority in
Portugal, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  