-- 
Hakkasan to Open in Four U.S. Cities as Restaurant Goes Global

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/hakkasan-to-open-in-u-s-cities-as-michelin-starred-restaurant-goes-global.html
Hakkasan Ltd., the Chinese-
restaurant business that holds a Michelin star for each of its
London sites, plans to expand across the U.S. next year, with
venues in four cities.  Outlets are planned in four cities:  New York , on West 43rd
Street;  San Francisco , at  One Kearny ;  Los Angeles , on North
Beverly Drive; and in a hotel on the Strip in Las Vegas, Chief
Executive Niall Howard said in a telephone interview. Hakkasan
already has restaurants in Mumbai,  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai.  Hakkasan is known for stylish restaurants, with staff
members dressed in designer outfits serving mainly Asian-themed
cocktails and  Chinese dishes  with fine ingredients and high
price tags. It was founded by Alan Yau, who created  Wagamama ,
and purchased four years ago by Abu Dhabi-based Tasameem group.  “You wouldn’t know there was a slowdown,” Howard, 56,
said. “Our restaurants are sold out all the time. I think that
people might go out less, but when they do go, they want
something special. Yes, we have fewer corporate customers, and
they are more cautious, but we seem to have more international
guests.”  Hakkasan also owns Yauatcha, a midmarket Chinese restaurant
that Yau founded in  London , and Sake No Hana, a Japanese
establishment that he helped create. The company wants to add an
up-market Japanese brand -- with an outlet in London next year -
- and is in talks to build an Italian restaurant business,
Howard said, declining to name potential partners.  There are also plans for Hakkasans in Shanghai and Doha.  The aim is to create a global food-and-beverage business
with four regional hubs: the Far East, the  Middle East ,  Europe 
and the Americas. Hakkasan will have quality restaurants
catering for different sections of the market, Howard said.  “It’s like a BMW, with everything from the 7 Series down
to the 1 Series: From fine dining to midmarket and possibly to
fast food,” he said. The first overseas Yauatcha just opened in
 Mumbai . There is a U.S. Hakkasan in Fontainebleau, Miami Beach.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 