-- Allot’s Tel Aviv Discount Widens as Teva Gains: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2011-12-15T09:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/allot-premium-widens-to-tel-aviv-as-teva-gains-israel-overnight.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  fell,
creating the biggest  discount  to its Tel Aviv-traded stock since
September, on concern policy makers will fail to contain the
debt crisis in  Europe , the biggest market for the networking-
equipment maker.  Allot sank 7.2 percent to $16.77 in New York, the largest
drop since Sep. 30. The decline was the biggest among members of
the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the largest New York-traded
companies. The measure gained less than 0.1 percent to 84.51,
led by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Eighteen out of 25
companies in the gauge fell. Allot tumbled 6.5 percent to 65.21
shekels, or the equivalent of $17.16, at 10:30 a.m. in  Tel Aviv .  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said there’s no easy and
fast solution to the sovereign debt crisis in the euro-region,
where Allot gets more than 50 percent of its sales. Even after
yesterday’s drop, shares are headed for their biggest quarterly
gain in a year as the Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company
benefits from rising demand for systems that manage traffic on
data networks and consumers buy more tablets and smartphones.  “This is the day to freak out about Europe, and Allot has
the biggest exposure to the region among its group,” said
Daniel Cummins, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in New York, who
has a “buy” recommendation on the shares. “This is still a
terrific company. Managers make their adjustments to portfolios
on regional issues and sometimes you get a lot of pressure.”  Concern among investors that Europe’s debt crisis will curb
demand for Israeli exports has pushed the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25
Index   and the Israeli benchmark’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  down 19 percent
this year.  ‘Good Business’  Allot’s 72 percent advance this quarter, and 44 percent
gain this year, in New York, has boosted valuations to 38 times
estimated profit while stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
fetch an average 12.2 times earnings.  The company’s third-quarter profit rose to $2.1 million
from $800,000 a year earlier as revenue climbed 37 percent to
$20.1 million.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s sales of iPhones rose 87 percent in the first
nine months of the year and revenue from iPads jumped four-fold.
Increased use of smartphones and tablets is boosting network
traffic.  “I don’t know that there’s anything negative with the
company, people know it’s a good business,” said  Jay Srivatsa ,
an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York, who has a
“buy” rating on the  shares. (TEVA)  “It’s the end of the year and
part of it might be that investors closing the books.”  Allot’s gain this quarter hasn’t deterred analysts from
recommending the stock. Of 10 analysts covering the company
tracked by Bloomberg, all have either “buy” or “outperform”
ratings.  Apple R&D  Allot will probably report adjusted net income of $11.7
million this year, after reporting a net loss of $5.76 million
in 2010, according to the average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Israel , whose population of 7.7 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside  North America 
after  China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Apple, the world’s biggest technology company, will open a
research and development center in Israel, daily newspaper
Globes  reported  on its website, without saying how it obtained
the information.  Teva Gains  Aharon Aharon, who was vice president of operations at
Zoran Corp. and later founded high-tech venture Camero Tech
Ltd., will head Apple’s operation in Israel, Globes said.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors and speculation.  Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, rose to
the highest level in a month, adding 1.3 percent to $41.24. The
Tel Aviv shares fell 0.1 percent to 154.30 shekels, or the
equivalent of $40.49, yesterday. The New York shares are headed
for a 21 percent drop this year, the worst annual performance
since 2006. Teva shares rose 2 percent to 157.40 shekels, 
or $41.44, in Tel Aviv today.  Teva will host a conference next week to provide analysts
with its 2012 business outlook. Teva will probably report sales
of $21.9 billion next year, up 20 percent from this year,
according to the average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Teva will see “tailwinds” next year, Randall Stanicky, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity in New York, wrote in a report on
drugmakers last week. “We see most near-term upside in Teva.”  Ceragon Falls  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT)  fell 0.4 percent to $7.81 in New York
yesterday. The shares declined 0.7 percent to 30.19 shekels, or
the equivalent of $7.94, today.  Ceragon, the maker of wireless-networking systems, said in
a statement yesterday that a mobile operator in  Latin America 
selected the company to provide long-haul connectivity for new
third-generation sites and enterprise users.  Israel’s government is planning a dollar-denominated bond
sale in 2012, the first in three years, that may raise $1
billion to $1.5 billion, a Finance Ministry official said.  The timing of the  bond issue , which will probably carry a
10-year maturity, will depend on market conditions, Senior
Deputy Accountant General Eran Heimer said in an interview
yesterday. UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc
have been chosen as lead managers for the sale, he said.  Current Account Surplus  Israel, whose foreign-currency debt is rated A+ by  Standard
& Poor’s , the same grade as Chile and Slovakia, last sold $1.5
billion in dollar debt in March 2009 that yielded 5.19 percent.
The 10-year notes yielded 3.43 percent yesterday, or a spread of
153 basis points over U.S. Treasuries, compared with an average
gap of 160 basis points, or 1.6 percentage point, for Chilean
dollar-denominated securities, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Israel’s  current account  bounced back into surplus after
showing its first deficit since 2008, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The seasonally adjusted surplus was $586 million in the
three months through September, compared with a revised deficit
of $247 million in the previous quarter. The bureau had
previously reported a deficit of $560 million in the second
quarter.  The shekel rose for the first time in four days gaining 0.3
percent to 3.7994 a dollar. The currency has dropped 7.4 percent
this year and is headed for its worst performance since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  