-- Lam Research Agrees to Buy Novellus Systems for $3.3 Billion
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-12-15T21:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/lam-research-agrees-to-acquire-novellus-systems-in-3-3-billion-stock-deal.html
Lam Research Corp. (LRCX)  agreed to buy
 Novellus (NVLS)  Systems Inc. for about $3.3 billion in stock, combining
two of the chip-equipment industry’s biggest companies in a
challenge to market leader  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)   The transaction values Novellus at $44.42 a share,
Fremont, California-based Lam said yesterday in a statement.
That represents a 28 percent premium over Novellus’s closing
stock price before the deal was announced. Lam also said it will
buy back $1.6 billion in shares.  By teaming up, the companies aim to cut expenses and keep
pace with the latest innovations in chipmaking gear, which
creates semiconductors out of pieces of silicon. Their equipment
works at different stages of the manufacturing process, helping
make the products complementary, according to Edwin Mok, an
analyst at Needham & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Strategically, they’re definitely a fit,” Mok said. The
combination will let them take on  Santa Clara , California-based
Applied Materials, which sells a wide array of chip-production
equipment, he said.  When the deal is completed, Lam shareholders will own 59
percent of the new business, with Novellus investors holding the
rest, according to yesterday’s statement. The acquisition will
result in annual cost savings of about $100 million by the
fourth quarter of 2013, Lam said. The deal will begin adding to
earnings within 12 months of its completion, the company said.  Smaller Premium  By making the $1.6 billion stock repurchase, the combined
company will limit how much the deal dilutes the stock. The two
companies will have a combined $3.1 billion in  cash  and $1.7
billion in long-term debt after the transaction closes.  Equipment from Novellus, which is based in  San Jose ,
 California , deposits materials on silicon wafers in the process
of building up the layers that become electronic circuits on
computer chips. Lam’s machinery, meanwhile, removes materials
not needed in the final product.  Lam is paying a smaller premium than the average paid by
buyers of semiconductor-equipment makers in recent years. In
deals valued at more than $250 million during the past five
years, acquirers have paid an average premium of 56 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Novellus shares rose 16 percent, or $5.67, to $40.37 today
in New York trading. Lam declined 8.4 percent to $36.17. The
stock has fallen 30 percent this year.  ‘Very Good Deal’  Lam’s purchase is the largest in the industry since Applied
Materials announced plans in May to buy Varian Semiconductor
Equipment Associates Inc. for $4.9 billion in cash. In that
deal, Applied paid a 55 percent markup over Varian’s closing
price -- almost double the premium in the Novellus acquisition.  Lam investors are paying a fair price for Novellus, said
Patrick Ho, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  Dallas . The
transaction would make Lam the fourth-largest chip-equipment
maker, behind Applied, Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV.
Tokyo Electron may have been interested in purchasing Novellus
itself, he said.  “At first glance, it appears like a negative for Applied
and Tokyo Electron,” Ho said. “This is a very good deal from a
fundamentals standpoint.”  Lam is counting on the merger to stay abreast of new
technologies, such as 450-milimeter silicon wafers and chips
built with three-dimensional structures to boost performance.  CEO Change  While Lam has been more successful winning orders from
memory-chip makers like Samsung Electronics Co., Novellus has
done well with processor producers, such as  Intel Corp ., said
Martin Anstice, Lam’s president and chief operating officer. He
will become chief executive officer of the company on Jan. 1,
replacing Steve Newberry, a transition that was previously
announced.  Together, the two companies will have a presence at all of
the top 10 chipmakers, Anstice said. They will use their
combined sales force to win more orders, he said.  Timothy Archer, Novellus’s chief operating officer, will
take that same title at the combined company, and Lam’s finance
chief, Ernest Maddock, will retain that role after the merger.
The board, meanwhile, will add four new directors jointly
nominated by Lam and Novellus. The companies expect the deal to
close in the second quarter of next year.  Lam received financial advice from  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , and its legal adviser was  Jones Day .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
advised Novellus, while  Morrison & Foerster LLP  provided the
company’s legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  