-- 
Aristotle’s Ideal, Killed by Web (Part 3): Winifred Gallagher

-- B y   W i n i f r e d   G a l l a g h e r
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/aristotle-s-ideal-killed-by-web-part-3-commentary-by-winifred-gallagher.html
No matter what specific chores they
perform, all of our smart electronic tools produce novelty. From
its beginnings, the Information Age has been about better,
easier access to new data, more and more kinds all day long and
wherever we go.  According to the  University of California  at  San Diego ’s
appropriately named  How Much Information  project, we now consume
about 100,000 words each day from various media. That’s a
whopping 350 percent increase, measured in bytes, over what we
crunched back in 1980.  There’s a lot of griping about TMI and ADD, but
anthropologist Robert Kozinets suspects that most of it pertains
to the workplace, where a person might indeed feel overwhelmed
by unwelcome rings, pings and flashing lights.  “It’s almost as if we live in two worlds,” he says,
“because in our leisure time, we’re more and more focused.” His
favorite example is the expansion of fandom. These days, using
the Internet, sports and celebrity fanatics can revel in almost
instantaneous information.  Internet Expertise  Internet access , coupled with eminently portable laptops
and smartphones, also liberates us in certain ways from
traditional categories. The old boundaries between the home and
the workplace or school grow fuzzier by the day. Thanks to blogs
and websites like YouTube and Amazon, the lines between
“amateur” and “professional” have also blurred: Anyone can
consume culture and develop expertise, or hone their latent
talents. About 15 percent of Americans now engage in serious
photography, videography or filmmaking.  But now that the Internet provides so much art for free,
many creative people worry about survival, as do the flagging
industries that formerly supported them. Rather than seeing
artists as an endangered species, however, marketing guru Seth Godin says, “They’re the only people who are going to make money
10 years from now, because the way you make money is from your
ideas.”  Shepard Fairey  earns millions each year, even though his
art is free -- unless you want a signed, limited-edition piece
or an image to put on a corporate T-shirt. Those cost a lot,
says Godin, “but the only reason people pay is because his free
ideas are everywhere.” Similarly, although the music business is
ailing, there is more music than ever being made and listened
to. “The digital thing took away the requirement that you need
an orchestra to write a symphony,” Godin says.  Eric von Hippel, an innovation expert at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of Management , conducted
research in  England  showing that individual consumers, often
aided by the Internet, spent twice as much money over a three-
year period as U.K. companies did on inventing new products and
tweaking existing ones, particularly scientific tools and sports
equipment. In a creative response to their generation’s
disastrously high  unemployment rate , an eclectic group of
millionaires in their 20s who founded their own Internet
businesses recently formed the nonprofit Young Entrepreneur
Council, which advises others on how to start companies rather
than wait around for traditional jobs.  ‘Collective Intelligence’  That’s only the beginning.  Information technology  has given
us an immediate, you-are-there way to see everything from
revolutions to oil spills, and to react negatively or offer a
helping hand. Our smart tools also pull us together in new
communities oriented around important issues. The notion of
“collective intelligence” first surfaced in the early 20th
century, when American entomologist William Morton Wheeler
observed that a colony of ants could cooperatively act as a
“superorganism.” The term has gone through many iterations, but
now mostly refers to the cognitive surge that occurs when people
and their computers are connected to one another. Instead of
just thinking singly, we cogitate as a hive.  Neophiliacs  -- people who are strongly attracted to change
and anything new -- are particularly attuned to the sociological
transformations under way in the Information Age. One example is
the way we think about culture: In what some critics view as a
society ever more superficial, anthropologist Grant McCracken
sees a tumultuous, yet vibrant, work in progress in which the
old modifiers of “high” and “low” no longer apply. “These kids
are so good at media that they don’t have any of that hesitation
of ‘Oh, this isn’t something I can afford to take seriously --
it’s not high culture,’” McCracken says. “They gave up that
ambivalence and embrace pop culture as culture, which makes a
big difference in your life.”  A surprising number of works from this more expansive
culture not only entertain us but also offer the kind of
spiritual and philosophical uplift traditionally supplied by
high art and religion. Hugely successful films such as “Avatar,”
“Lord of the Rings” and the Harry Potter tales are full of bits
of ancient wisdom, psychology, sociology and theology. Their
fans are interested not only in sex and violence, but also in
existential and moral questions. Such entertainments have become
myths and sagas that, like the Bible and the Bhagavad Gita, help
people grapple with big issues, life’s meaning included. “From
one perspective, Cain and Abel is just a story, too,” Kozinets
says.  Some of our more fast-paced entertainments help us figure
out our more complicated lives by providing new information on
how other people cope. In the popular fascination with how the
rich and famous handle marriage and adultery, obesity and
anorexia, McCracken sees our desire to “audition the change”
instead of trying it at home.  ‘Experimental Creatures’  “By serving as vehicles of self-transformation,” he says,
“the stars allow us to watch others explore life’s options
almost like they were in a laboratory. They change themselves so
that we don’t have to.” The  Air Force  puts an X before the names
of its experimental aircraft, such as the  X-15  fighter jet, and
McCracken thinks that actress  Lindsay Lohan  deserves an X before
her name, too. “She’s an experimental creature who becomes a
kind of object lesson in transformational activity.”  Before the likes of “The Bachelor” and “Temptation Island,”
says media scholar  Robert Thompson  of  Syracuse University , our
insight into what actually went on when people were romantically
interested in each other was limited to personal experience and
the secondhand, furtive and limited information gained from
friends’ reports, overheard comments, steamy novels and scripted
movies. As much as he enjoyed “Sleepless in  Seattle ” and “You’ve
Got Mail,” he says, “those films are to real relationships what
a Greek temple is to a ranch house.”  Its many benefits aside, the new technology supplies
information, not knowledge or meaning. Aristotle said a society
should be judged on its capacity for contemplation as well as
productivity and pleasure. Facts alone are not enough to
establish real understanding, which requires context and
reflection.  As psychologist  Barry Schwartz  of Swarthmore College says,
“The experience that comes from thinking hard for a while about
a subject is no longer available to some people, because they
don’t stay on the task long enough to get to that point.
Commitment has become a kind of dirty word.” The Internet’s
capacity to generate superficial novelty is epitomized by the
meme: a cultural tidbit, from a catchy anecdote to a joke to an
image that spreads rapidly through society, now usually
electronically.  Some memes are amusing, creative or informative, like the
self-explanatory song called “ United Breaks Guitars ,” which
caused a brief, but precipitous, drop in the airline’s stock.
However, memes can also cause harm -- as racist and misogynistic
ones do -- spread falsehoods and waste time.  Political Memes  “One thought in the mimetic community is that ideas are
parasites that don’t care what they do to their host as long as
it helps them to spread,” Godin says. “The  Tea Party  -- or the
Communist Party -- is a political meme that doesn’t care if it
destroys the country, because its only job is to reproduce.”  Technology’s way of undermining deep thinking was the focus
of a much-remarked-upon front-page  story  in the New York Times
titled “We Have Met the Enemy and He Is PowerPoint.” The piece
examined the consequences of the military’s increasing
dependence on the Microsoft program, which magically reduces the
most complicated matters to wonderfully clear talking points and
charts. As Brigadier General H. R. McMaster, a veteran of the
war in  Iraq , put it, PowerPoint is “dangerous because it can
create the illusion of understanding and the illusion of
control. Some problems in the world are not bullet-izable.”  Even on campus, the hope that our society can satisfy
Aristotle’s criterion of contemplation seems endangered.
Original thinking arises from a foundation of serious learning,
but college professors complain that the concept of research has
contracted to the point that really good students go to the
fourth or fifth page of a  Google search , while most settle for
the first one or two.  Neuroscientist Jane Joseph of the University of  South
Carolina  is struck by the way in which some young people
casually resort to plagiarism without realizing that it’s a
problem: “They just paste in something they got online as an
answer on a test. Then they say, ‘What? That’s wrong?’”
Like the proverbial kids in the candy store, we neophiles need
to think about our consumption of data in much the same way we
think about food. A healthy information diet requires the self-
control to focus on the nutritious new things that have long-
term value and ignore the junk that compromises our mental and
emotional fitness.  (Winifred Gallagher is the author of “Rapt: Attention and
the Focused Life” and “House Thinking.” This is the last in a
three-part series of excerpts from her book “New: Understanding
Our Need for Novelty and Change,” to be published Jan. 2, 2012,
by Penguin Press. The opinions expressed are her own. Read  Part
1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
Winifred Gallagher at  winigallagher@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  