-- 
Arizona Can’t Argue Crime in Supreme Court Immigrant Fight: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/arizona-can-t-argue-crime-rise-in-its-supreme-court-immigration-case-view.html
Arizona will have its day in
court. The  Supreme Court  opted this week to review the
state’s crackdown on illegal immigration, which the
Barack Obama administration says usurps the federal
government’s enforcement role.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 9th Circuit in
 San Francisco  previously agreed with the
 administration , blocking implementation of four
provisions of the Arizona law, including its
requirement that state and local law enforcement
officers determine the status of individuals they stop
or detain if the officers think they may be in the
country illegally. This “papers, please” element of the
law has been widely criticized but also emulated, most
recently by  Alabama .  In its  court filing , the state said its 370-mile
border with  Mexico  is a gateway for half the illegal
immigrants to the U.S. This, the state said, imposes
unique burdens -- such as high crime rates and the cost
of providing health care and education to illegal
immigrants. “ Arizona  has repeatedly asked the federal
government for more vigorous enforcement of the
immigration laws, but to no avail,” the brief reads.  The argument is a curious one to make in 2011.
Since taking office in January 2009, the Obama
administration has deported more than 1 million people,
a number so high it has alarmed pro-immigrant groups
and vastly exceeded the record of any previous
administration.  The Customs and Border Patrol reported this week
that border apprehensions, a primary gauge of illegal
immigration, have dropped to one-fifth of their level
in 2000. Apprehensions declined by more than half from
2008 to 2011, in part because of the doubling of border
patrol agents since 2004. There are now more than
21,400 agents along the Southwestern border, aided by
night-vision goggles, thermal imaging technology and
drones.  Arizona’s border location surely increases its
sense of vulnerability. The state says the nation’s
broken immigration system has saddled it with an
estimated 400,000 illegal immigrants. Leaving aside the
benefits derived from increased economic activity and
the taxes paid by that population, there are costs
associated with them, as well.  Headless Bodies  Yet despite some hysteria from the office of
Governor Jan Brewer over nonexistent  headless bodies  in
the desert and the like, escalating crime does not
appear to be among them. According to the state’s own
statistics, crime has dropped significantly in recent
years. The Department of Public Safety’s “crime clock”
calculated that a major crime was committed in the
state every 1 minute and 32 seconds in 2002. By 2010,
the rate had fallen to every 2 minutes and 6 seconds.  One can acknowledge the “disproportionate” impact
Arizona experiences from illegal immigration and still
question why the state’s anti-immigrant wave surged
just as the tide of illegal border crossings was
receding and crime had declined. According to the
Public Policy Institute of  California , Los Angeles
County alone had 916,000 illegal immigrants in 2008 --
more than twice as many as the entire state of Arizona.
Yet Angelenos aren’t clamoring for new immigration
legislation.  What Arizona has, in addition to an immigration
problem, is a demagogy problem. Voters took a valuable
step toward rectifying that in November, when they
recalled Russell Pearce, the Republican state senator
who wrote the immigration law, and replaced him with a
moderate Republican. Perhaps months of negative
publicity and an economic boycott of the state have
taken a toll. Or perhaps the state’s residents are
simply reconsidering their views.  Either way, it’s quite possible that Arizona will
prevail in the Supreme Court. The Obama administration
argues that federal immigration authorities are acting
at Congress’s direction to “prioritize the
identification and removal of aliens convicted of crime
by the severity of that crime.” If Arizona is permitted
to pursue every potential illegal immigrant, willy-
nilly, the state risks clogging the system and
diverting resources away from the pursuit of dangerous
criminals.  The administration’s argument, along with claims
about federal prerogatives, may be insufficient to
convince the court’s conservative majority that Arizona
is legally in the wrong. We hope that by June, when the
justices are expected to rule on the case, reason will
have regained its footing in Arizona and elsewhere. For
the state and the country, the best possible outcome is
the re-emergence of a more conciliatory political
climate, followed by comprehensive immigration reform.
That might render moot any ruling from the court at
all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 