-- Best BRIC Bond Gain Spurred by Subbarao Rate-Halt Forecast: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-12-15T06:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/best-bric-bond-gain-spurred-by-subbarao-rate-halt-forecast-india-credit.html
Indian bonds are outperforming debt
of the largest  emerging markets , cutting yields from a three-
year high, as analysts predict the central bank will abandon
interest-rate increases in response to a manufacturing slump.  Rupee-denominated notes returned 1.59 percent this month,
JPMorgan & Chase Co. data show, as 10-year yields slid 26 basis
points to 8.48 percent. Local-currency securities lost 0.2
percent in  Brazil  while returning 0.9 percent in China and 0.1
percent in  Russia . All 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey
predict that the  Reserve Bank of India  will hold the repurchase
rate at a three-year high of 8.5 percent tomorrow.  Government bonds are poised for their best month since May
2010 even as the rupee slid to a record-low after factory output
fell 5.1 percent in October, the first contraction since June
2009. DSP Blackrock Investment Managers and Credit Suisse Group
AG predict that the Reserve Bank will cut rates in the first
half of 2012 as  inflation  slows, joining central banks from
Brazil to  China  in easing monetary policy.  “Given the significant risks to growth and early signs of
inflation moderating, we think the RBI is done with rate
tightening,” said Mahendra Jajoo, the Mumbai-based head of
fixed-income investments at Pramerica Asset Managers. “The
rally in bonds is expected to continue.”  Yield Estimates  Pramerica, a unit of  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., predicts that yields on 10-year government bonds
will drop to 8 percent by March, a level last seen in April this
year. DSP Blackrock, the Indian venture of the world’s largest
asset manager, and HSBC Holdings Plc see yields falling as low
as 8.25 percent in the same period. The yield has retreated 52
basis points, or 0.52 percentage point, from a three-year high
of 9 percent reached last month.  Annual gains in  India ’s wholesale-price index slowed to
9.11 percent in November from 9.73 percent in October, official
data yesterday showed.  Slower inflation is spurring foreigners to invest in
India’s bonds. Overseas funds boosted  holdings  of rupee-
denominated government and corporate debt by $7.4 billion this
year to a record $25 billion on Dec. 13, exchange data show.
Investors still demand  extra  yield of 662 basis points to hold
India’s 10-year notes instead of similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.  “Expectations for slower inflation and the RBI cutting
rates in the coming year are an indication of good news for the
 bond market ,” said Dhawal Dalal, the Mumbai-based head of fixed
income at DSP Blackrock Investment Managers that oversees $3.8
billion in assets, said in an interview on Dec. 13. “The market
has understood the RBI is likely to cut rates.”  Record Rate Increase  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised the repo
rate by 375 basis points since March 2010 to curb inflation, the
fastest round of rate increases on record in India. Subbarao
last lifted the repo rate by 25 basis points on Oct. 25 and is
the only policy maker in the biggest emerging markets to boost
benchmark borrowing costs this quarter.  Brazil’s central bank has cut the  Selic rate  by a total 150
basis points since August to 11 percent, while the People’s Bank
of China cut the reserve ratio for banks by 50 basis points from
Dec. 5, the first reduction since 2008. Russia has kept its
refinancing rate at 8.25 percent since May.  The probability of another increase in India’s repo rate at
a Reserve Bank meeting this week is “relatively low,” the
regulator said on Oct. 25, forecasting inflation will slow to 7
percent by March.  ‘Dovish Tone’  The fixed payment to lock in Indian borrowing costs for a
year using interest-rate swaps fell to 76 basis points  below  the
repo rate this week, the most since 2009, as traders boost bets
on rate cuts after the factory output report, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It would be a surprise not to see a markedly more dovish
tone emerge” in the RBI’s announcement tomorrow, Robert Prior- Wandesforde, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse, said
in an interview on Dec. 12.  Ten-year bond yields, which jumped eight basis points
yesterday, fell one basis point today. The rupee fell 1.1
percent to a record low of 54.305 per dollar in Mumbai. The
currency’s 17.6 percent tumble this year, the worst performance
among Asian currencies, is making imports costlier and
threatening to fuel inflation.  “Inflation and wage expectations remain high and are
likely to complicate any inclination the central bank may have
to support growth,” Taimur Baig and  Kaushik Das , Singapore- and
Mumbai-based economists at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a report
yesterday. “Unless growth and financial markets begin to
deteriorate in a disorderly manner, the RBI is still three to
four months away from taking major easing measures.”  ‘Eminently Bankable’  The slide in the rupee won’t diminish investor confidence
in India and the economy will return to a long-term growth pace
of 9 percent, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in an interview
in  New Delhi  yesterday.  Gross domestic product will expand 7.5 percent in the year
ending March 31, while inflation will subside to between 6
percent and 7 percent, he said. Singh said he expects to succeed
in his push to open the nation’s retail market to foreign
companies after the end of regional elections by March 2012.  “We will stay the course,” Singh said in his office in
Parliament House. “We will make India an eminently bankable and
creditworthy economy.”  Open-Market Auctions  Government bonds  are also rallying after the central bank
resumed open-market purchases of sovereign debt last month for
the first time since January to boost the amount of cash in the
banking system. The monetary authority has purchased 243 billion
rupees ($4.5 billion) of government debt in auctions over the
past month, central bank data show.  “The bond market is being driven by the RBI’s debt
purchases,” Manish Wadhawan, head of fixed-income trading in
Mumbai at HSBC, said in an interview yesterday. “It will be
clearer in the policy statement whether the RBI continues with
its bond buying plan.”  The cost of  protecting  the debt of  State Bank  of India
against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps
rose 35 basis points this month to 385 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. State Bank is viewed as a
proxy for India by investors.  Extend Gains  Sovereign bonds may extend gains after the pace of lending
growth at the nation’s banks slipped below that of deposit
increases for the first time in seven quarters, boosting spare
cash in the banking system.  Loans rose  17.6 percent in the year
through November, compared with an 18 percent increase in
savings, central bank data show.  “With credit growth slowing banks will have to deploy the
excess cash that they have elsewhere,” Diwakar Gupta, chief
financial officer at Mumbai-based State Bank, the nation’s
largest lender, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  