-- 
Biden Says U.S. to Remain Involved in Iraq After End of Conflict

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-14T01:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/biden-says-u-s-to-remain-involved-in-iraq-after-end-of-conflict.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said the
U.S. will remain “deeply involved” in Iraq after all U.S.
troops are pulled out this month as the almost nine-year
conflict comes to an end.  “We will be deeply involved within every aspect of their
government, from helping them improve their agriculture, to
train air traffic controllers, to train pilots for the F-16s
they’re buying,” Biden said in an interview on National Public
Radio’s “All Things Considered” that aired today.  In October, President  Barack Obama  announced that all U.S.
troops would be out of Iraq in time for the holidays. The war
began in March 2003 and enlisted more than 1 million Americans
who served in the country at some time. The war cost nearly
4,500 U.S. lives and left more than 32,000 wounded, Pentagon
figures show.  Biden said the U.S. is “not looking for an ally” in  Iraq 
and instead wants Iraq to be a “partner” with a “stable
democratic government that is not beholden to anyone in the
region and is able to be secure within its own borders.” To be
considered a U.S. ally, he said, there must be a formal military
agreement in place.  The interview was part of a week of events marking the end
of the conflict, including a meeting between Obama, Biden and
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki on Dec. 12.  Biden said in the interview that there will be trade
between Iraq and Iran, though he said the Iraqi government wants
to ensure that “there is no undue influence coming from  Iran  or
any other country in the region.”  Concern Over Militias  Biden said he is concerned about militias supported by Iran
crossing the border into Iraq and other areas in the region.  In an interview airing on MSNBC’s “The Rachel Maddow
show” today, Biden said one of the lessons from the war is that
the U.S. has “such an incredible military capability” that it
can try and impose democracy “but it’s going to take you a
trillion dollars and a decade, and you’re going to have to make
a judgment whether or not you had better spent your time and
effort doing something else to make the world safer than that.”  Earlier, Obama taped four television interviews with
stations that have a large military audience, including stations
in  Pensacola ,  Florida , and  Seattle .  In an interview with WVEC in Norfolk,  Virginia , Obama said
“we have an obligation here at home” to take care of returning
soldiers. He pointed to a provision in his jobs plan that
provides tax breaks to companies that hire soldiers.  Tomorrow, the president and first lady  Michelle Obama  will
travel to Fort Bragg,  North Carolina , home of the 82nd Airborne
Division and the Army Special Operations Command, where he will
delivers remarks to troops and their families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  