-- Big Brother Watches as Stores Seek More Data: Retail
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-12-15T20:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/big-brother-is-watching-you-as-stores-seek-better-data-retail.html
(Corrects number of stores in 10th paragraph of story
published Dec. 14.)  Retailers have a case of Web envy.  Brick-and-mortar stores have long wanted to track consumers
the way online merchants do and are starting to figure out how.
They’re using security cameras to monitor shopping behavior and
tracking mobile phones to divine which stores people visit.  The technologies mean retailers from discount chain  Family
Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  to luxury pen-maker Montblanc can make
changes on the fly -- such as deploying more salespeople in a
given department and moving high-margin merchandise to parts of
the store where shoppers are more likely to see it.  “It’s really a game-changing experience, and this is only
the beginning,” said Rodrigo Fajardo, a Montblanc brand
manager, who says a six-month-old tracking system prompted him
to move best-selling items to another part of his Miami store,
boosting sales 20 percent. “Before we were just working based
on know-how and intuition. This is designing a retail business
based on real statistics.”  As increasing numbers of shoppers migrate to the Web,
retailers are using the new technology to boost sales and keep
market share. This holiday season online sales may grow 15
percent to $37.6 billion, according to ComScore. That compares
with the 2.8 percent sales growth to $465.6 billion for brick
and mortar stores predicted by the  National Retail Federation .  Online stores have advantages, including the ability to
track how long shoppers linger and what they click on, said Lora
Cecere, an analyst at Altimeter Group in  San Mateo , California.
By contrast, brick-and-mortar merchants wait for sales numbers
to come in before taking action, she said.  Embracing Data  “Right now physical stores are only looking at dollars per
person, dollars per store, and ignoring big problems until the
numbers come in,” she said. “To compete they need to embrace
this data so they have the ability to innovate.”  For years retailers have deployed security cameras, largely
to deter and catch shoplifters. Now some are using the cameras
to watch how shoppers behave.  3VR Inc., a security firm that made its first product for
the Central Intelligence Agency, realized its cameras could be
used to gather consumer data two years ago when  T-Mobile USA 
Inc. asked if the firm could count people entering its stores,
3VR Chief Executive Officer Al Shipp said in an interview.  T-Mobile, based in Bellevue,  Washington , now uses 3VR
technology in some stores to track how people move around, how
long they stand in front of displays and which phones they pick
up and for how long, Shipp said.  T-Mobile USA, which is owned by  Deutsche Telekom AG ,
declined to comment.  Facial-Recognition  3VR, which is based in  San Francisco , is now testing
facial-recognition software internally that can identify
shoppers’ gender and approximate age. The software doesn’t
identify a person; it would give retailers a better handle on
customer demographics at specific stores and help them gear
promotions to age and gender, Shipp said.  This year, Family Dollar Stores began testing a monitoring
system using cameras in 20 stores. Designed by  San Jose ,
California-based RetailNext, which is also working with  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA’s (CFR)  Montblanc, the system watches how
customers interact with store displays. Then it correlates the
results with sales data to figure out the percentage of
customers who buy something, right down to individual products.  In many cases, the data refuted conventional wisdom,
according to RetailNext CEO Alexei Agratchev. Retailers often
put high-margin merchandise just inside the store entrance,
believing shoppers will stop and take a look. Turns out most
don’t, Agratchev said.  ‘Black Hole’  “The stores have been a black hole,” according to
Agratchev, who says 40 chains are using RetailNext’s technology.
“People were convinced something was true and spending tens of
millions based on that. Then it quickly became apparent it
wasn’t true.”  While retailers are starting to understand the potential of
security cameras as intelligence-gathering tools, it will take
time for the technology to become widespread because loss-
prevention managers rather than marketing types still have
authority over the cameras, Shipp, a former  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
executive, said.  Still, over the past year conversations with stores have
more quickly turned from security to analytics, he said.  “You’ll have the ability someday to measure every metric
imaginable,” Shipp said. “We’re scratching the surface.”  Monitoring foot traffic via shoppers’ mobile phones is
another emerging technique. Path Intelligence, a Portsmouth,
England-based company, sells a phone-tracking technology called
FootPath that follows shoppers around malls in  Europe .  FootPath consists of monitoring units that recognize
signals from shoppers’ mobile phones, CEO Sharon Biggar said in
a phone interview.  ‘Heat Map’  The data is presented in two ways: a “heat map” that
assigns colors to stores depending on traffic and an “affinity
map” that allows retailers to click on a store and determine
the probability of a shopper who went there visiting other
stores in the mall. Retailers use the data to figure out where
to place their stores, Biggar said.  Participating shopping centers post signs near entranceways
and mall maps informing shoppers that their mobile phones are
being tracked and that their personal information is not being
collected. Those who don’t want to be monitored are encouraged
to turn off their phones.  “We have designed this service so that it’s impossible to
detect any personal information or link the number to a
person,” Biggar said. The phone number that the FootPath tower
detects is changed twice before entering the database, she said.  U.S. Trial  Last month, the Short Pump Town Center in Richmond,
Virgina, and the Promenade Temecula mall in Temecula,
 California , began testing the technology, the first such trial
in the U.S. The test, which was to run all  holiday shopping
season , was temporarily suspended after one day, following
complaints from U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  that the technology
could compromise shoppers’ privacy.  Julia Yuryev, a spokeswoman for the malls’ owner,  Forest
City Enterprises Inc. , said the company might not continue with
the study after customers complained it was invasive.  The privacy issues are overblown, said Mark Rasch, director
of cybersecurity and privacy at CSC, a consulting firm in  Falls
Church , Virginia.  “It’s no different from following someone in the mall,
which retailers have been doing for years,” he said. “But most
people aren’t aware of what stores already do.”  Hidden Cameras  Since the 1970s, consumer behaviorists such as Paco Underhill have followed shoppers around stores and documented
their behavior. By the 1980s, Underhill’s firm Envirosell was
using hidden cameras to observe shopper habits. In the U.K.
another researcher named Philip Graves dressed up as a
construction worker and observed consumers for department and
electronics stores.  Tracking phones or using cameras to glean shopping habits
is not any “more intrusive than what online retailers do,”
according to Rasch.  Still, while consumers are willing to trade some privacy
for the convenience of shopping at a Web store, “people are
much more wary of an in-person monitoring device,” Cecere said.
“Expectations are much lower online.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  