-- BioSante’s Shares Plunge After Female Desire Gel Fails To Work in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-15T21:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/biosante-s-female-desire-drug-fails-to-boost-libido-in-late-stage-studies.html
BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BPAX)  fell
the most in a dozen years after its experimental gel intended to
boost women’s libido failed to work in two large studies.  BioSante dropped 77 percent to 48 cents at 4:09 p.m. New
York time, the biggest decline since September 1999.  Women treated with the product, LibiGel, didn’t have more
frequent sexual encounters or experience them more days of the
week than those on placebo in either study, the Lincolnshire,
Illinois-based company said yesterday in a statement. They also
didn’t have a significantly greater increase in sexual desire.
Testosterone levels were higher in women using LibiGel.  “The magnitude of the miss on the efficacy data is what is
surprising everybody,” said Graig Suvannavejh, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in  New York , by phone yesterday. “People had a
view the bigger concern might have been safety, and efficacy was
a layup of sorts. The big question isn’t what happens with
LibiGel going forward, but what’s next for the company.”  Women using LibiGel did have an increase in sexual desire
and satisfying sexual events, though the placebo group had a
similar, unexpected benefit, BioSante Chief Executive Officer
Stephen M. Simes said in a conference call after the results
were announced. The company will continue to analyze the studies
and look for other products to license and develop, he said.  “We are an operating pharmaceutical company with other
products in our pipeline,” Simes said. “We are in the enviable
position of having a strong cash balance at a time when there
are excellent products that might be available for development
that might lack appropriate funding.”  Trial Ongoing  BioSante previously planned to seek U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval of the treatment next year and hoped to
start sales in 2013, Simes said in a July interview.  BioSante has another trial involving 3,656 women still
under way. While it was designed primarily to ensure the drug
was safe for the heart and didn’t increase the risk of cancer,
BioSante could use interim results analyzed a year after the
last woman in the study started treatment as part of a U.S.
marketing application, the company said.  BioSante’s setback is the most recent failure among
drugmakers seeking to boost women’s sexual drive.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  abandoned development of its
female desire pill flibanserin last year after U.S. regulators
said it wasn’t proven safe and effective.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  stopped
testing Viagra, its blockbuster male impotence pill, for women
in 2004.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  failed to win marketing approval
of a testosterone patch the same year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  