-- 
Cameron Deficit Cuts Backed by Three Quarters of Voters in Poll

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-12-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/cameron-deficit-cuts-backed-by-majority-poll.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
austerity measures to narrow the U.K. budget deficit have the
backing of three quarters of voters, including a majority of
opposition supporters, an opinion poll found.  Seventy-four percent of respondents to a  ComRes Ltd.  poll
for today’s Independent newspaper agreed that Cameron’s
coalition government should not increase borrowing and should
pay off the deficit as soon as possible, while 18 percent
disagreed, ComRes said in an e-mailed statement. The approach
was also endorsed by 58 percent of supporters of the opposition
 Labour Party , which says the government is cutting the deficit
too far and too fast.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in his
year-end economic statement last month that Britain faces two
extra years of austerity, announcing 23 billion pounds ($36
billion) of new spending reductions after the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  slashed its forecasts for economic growth. The
fiscal watchdog predicted Osborne will need to borrow an extra
112 billion pounds by 2016 and said more than 700,000 public-
sector workers will lose their jobs over the next six years.  The ComRes survey also showed a rise in support for
Cameron’s Conservatives after the prime minister refused to join
26 other nations in backing a European Union-wide treaty to
rescue the euro at last week’s EU summit in Brussels. It showed
Labour and the Conservatives neck-and-neck at 38 percent, with
the Liberal Democrats of Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  at 12
percent. That compared with a ComRes poll before the summit
showing Labour at 40 percent, the Tories at 36 percent and the
 Liberal Democrats  at 10 percent.  ComRes interviewed 1,002 voters by telephone from Dec. 9 to
Dec. 11 for its poll. It gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  