-- 
China Southern Expects Overseas A380 Flights in ‘Few Months’

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-12-14T04:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/china-southern-expects-overseas-a380-flights-in-few-months-.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , Asia’s
largest carrier by passenger numbers, expects to win approval to
fly  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380s on overseas routes by early next year as it
challenges Air China Ltd. for international travelers.  “It will happen within the next few months,” Chief
Financial Officer Xu Jiebo said today by phone from Guangzhou.
The carrier is talking to the Civil Aviation Administration of
China about routes for the superjumbos, he said, without
identifying possible destinations.  The airline, which received its first A380 in October, has
so far only used the plane on domestic routes as it seeks
authorization to begin international services. Airbus is due to
hand over a second A380 to the  Guangzhou , China-based carrier on
Dec. 17.  China Southern, the nation’s biggest domestic airline, has
ordered five A380s as it expands overseas because of
international  travel demand  and rising competition at home from
high-speed trains. The carrier aims to more than double the
percentage of capacity deployed on overseas routes to 35 percent
by 2015.  The company will also begin a service from Guangzhou to
London’s Heathrow Airport starting June 6, Xu said. It will be
China Southern’s third European route from its main hub after
Paris and Amsterdam, he said.  Air China and China Eastern Airlines Corp. are also
expanding their fleets and boosting overseas capacity as
economic growth spurs travel. The number of Chinese travelers
flying abroad this year may rise 13 percent to 65 million,
according to the state-run China National Tourism Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  