-- Sinopec Says ‘Not the Time’ to Discuss Higher China Gas Bid
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2011-12-15T09:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/china-gas-says-sinopec-enn-energy-2-billion-takeover-bid-opportunistic-.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, said it’s “not the time” to talk about
raising its joint HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion) bid with  ENN
Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)   “We hope their board of directors can consider seriously”
the HK$3.50 a share offer for the Hong Kong-based company that
supplies gas to the mainland, Fu Chengyu, chairman of the state-
owned company known as Sinopec, said in Beijing. China Gas,
which yesterday rebuffed the Dec. 13 bid, closed at HK$3.38, 25
percent below the offer.  The rejection may open the way for a rival suitor seeking
access to rising demand from China Gas’s 6.6 million residential
customers and 41,981 industrial and commercial users in the
world’s biggest energy user. The bid was made at a 25 percent
premium to China Gas’s previous close.  “Sinopec and ENN will certainly consider raising the
offered price if a bidding rival emerges in coming days, but the
room for raising the price is limited,” said Shi Yan, a
Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. The bidders may not
want to go beyond HK$4.60 a share, two times the price to book
ratio, she said.  ENN fell 2.3 percent to HK$23.85, taking its decline since
making the bid to 12 percent. Sinopec dropped 1.3 percent to
HK$7.90. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 1.8 percent.  “Now is not the time to talk about this matter,” Fu said
when asked if Sinopec and ENN will raise the bid.  Direct Competition  Buying China Gas would put Sinopec in more direct
competition with PetroChina Co. in the natural gas market, Wu Fei, an analyst at Bocom International said in a report this
week. PetroChina “monopolized” that market through its own
production and its listed Kunlun Energy Co. unit, Wu said.  Sinopec’s 4.8 percent holding in China Gas “in some ways
is a deterrent for other bidders, potentially PetroChina,”
 Michael Parker , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
by phone from Hong Kong.  It’s “highly unlikely” state-owned companies would bid
against each other given they are all controlled by the same
state assets regulator, said  Neil Beveridge , an energy analyst
at Bernstein. Likely rivals are the non state-owned companies,
he said.  “Once an offer is announced, it’s rare for other state-
owned companies to be after the same assets,” Beveridge said.
“Eventually they have to ask for approval from the same
regulator.”  Stock Slump  Sinopec and ENN made the offer after China Gas’s stock
slumped following the arrest of two senior executives for
embezzlement in February. The target traded at a discount to its
earnings forecasts relative to its peers because of the charges,
Bocom’s Wu said.  The bid was priced at 11.29 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with 10.95 times in
10 comparable deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price was inline with Nomura Holdings Inc.’s target of
HK$3.30 a share. The Japanese broker said in a Dec. 14 report
that said there was a “possibility” that the target would seek
a higher price.  China ’s natural-gas consumption is forecast to increase as
the government boosts the fuel’s share to 10 percent of total
energy demand by 2020 from 4 percent in 2010.  Deal Funding  China Gas formed an independent board committee to examine
the offer as well as appointing Macquarie Group Ltd. to advise
on its defense. Citigroup Inc. was named adviser to the bidders,
according to the statement. The bank is providing a so-called
bridge loan to ENN.  ENN, the fourth-largest Hong Kong-listed gas supplier, will
fund 55 percent of the deal, while Sinopec will cover the rest
of the financing.  Two China Gas officials were detained by Shenzhen police
last December for suspected embezzlement of assets. China Gas
removed the men from its board and dismissed one of them.  On Nov. 11, Apple Daily said the former executives were out
on bail. China Gas said Nov. 14 it had received no confirmation
on the reported release from mainland judicial authorities, and
had instructed its lawyers to gather more information on the
matter.  The company’s net income increased to HK$374 million in the
six months ended Sept. 30, from HK$93 million a year earlier, as
demand from residential and industrial users rose, China Gas
said Nov. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  