-- China Property Executives Buy Stock After Curbs Damp Values
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-15T08:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/china-property-executives-buy-stock-after-curbs-damp-valuations.html
Executives of Chinese developers
including  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  and  Glorious Property
Holdings Ltd. (845)  are buying the most stock in their companies since
at least 2008, betting the government will ease curbs on the
 property market  that had depressed the shares.  Shimao’s billionaire Chairman Hui Wingmau bought 11 million
shares in November, bringing the total this year to 82 million,
the most since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Glorious Chairman Zhang Zhirong, with a $5.4 billion net worth
according to Forbes, purchased a record 119 million shares
through 11 transactions, mostly in September, the data show.  Glorious, Shimao and  KWG Property Holdings Ltd. (1813) , whose
executives also have been buying stock, lost half their values
in 2011 as the government tightened mortgage requirements and
introduced limits on properties owned to prevent an asset bubble.
 China  this month cut the amount of cash banks must set aside as
reserves for the first time in three years to prevent a bubble.  “These share purchases are sending a signal to the market
that the government may gradually loosen its policies, whether
or not those executives have inside information,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst of CIMB-GK Securities
Research. “The lower reserve ratio, while not directly intended
for the property sector, will actually indirectly benefit the
real estate market.”  ‘Prudent’ Policy  Shimao climbed 4.4 percent at the close in  Hong Kong , the
best performer on the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  tracking Chinese
companies traded on the city’s exchange. Glorious fell 1.8
percent while KWG lost 2.6 percent.  Glorious shares climbed 0.9 percent as of 11:18 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading, the first gain in six days, Shimao was
unchanged while KWG fell 0.8 percent.  China will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported Dec. 10, citing a meeting of the Communist
Party’s Politburo chaired by President  Hu Jintao . Data on Dec. 9
showed industrial-production growth weakening and inflation
moderating.  The Hang Seng Composite Property & Construction Index, (HSCIPC) 
which includes Shimao and Glorious, trades at less than 0.8
times book value, compared with a multiple of as high as 1.4 in
the fourth quarter last year, according to Bloomberg data.  The 13.4 million shares Shimao’s Hui purchased on Sept. 2
was the biggest amount in at least two years, the data show. The
Shanghai-based developer of mostly high-end homes, and hotels
traded at a record low 0.54 times book value on Oct. 3, almost a
third of its valuation at the start of the year, according to
the data.  ‘Very Confident’  “Mr. Hui is always very confident in his company and the
main reason for the recent share buyback is the price is at a
low and attractive level,” said Tammy Tam, a Shimao spokeswoman.  Hui spent HK$689 million ($89 million) on his company’s
stock this year, while Zhang from Glorious paid HK$154 million,
based on the closing prices on the purchase date of the shares.  Top executives at Guangzhou-based luxury home developer KWG,
commercial real estate builder  Powerlong Real Estate Holdings
Ltd. (1238)  and  CC Land Holdings Ltd. (1224) , whose properties are mainly in
western China, also increased share purchases this year,
according to data on Hong Kong-traded Chinese developers.  “The company is operating well, but share prices were just
too low,” said Eva Chan, a spokeswoman at CC Land, whose Deputy
Chairman Peter Lam made his first stock purchase in the company
in at least two years. “When Mr. Lam bought the shares, he was
actually buying at a 70 percent discount to book value. It was a
great deal.”  Four Stock Purchases  Lam paid HK$477,050 through four stock purchases in
September, based on CC Land’s closing prices on the date the
shares were bought.  The five mid-sized Chinese developers whose executives were
most active in buying stocks have a combined market value of
HK$47 billion, less than half of the HK$111 billion value for
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese
property company listed in Hong Kong.  The central bank raised  interest rates  three times and the
 reserve ratio  six times this year before the reduction came into
effect on Dec. 5.  Some foreign investors remain bullish on China property.
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) 
and  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer said
last month they are planning more investments in the country.  CBRE Global Investors, manager of $94.8 billion of real
estate assets, is mulling its first investment in the nation’s
housing market in four years in anticipation the government will
start easing its property curbs, Richard van den Berg, Greater
China country manager, said on Nov. 14.  ‘Slow Sharply’  The government stepped up curbs this year with limits on
mortgages and restrictions on home purchases in about 40 cities,
as well as aiming to build 10 million affordable housing units
to boost supply. Prices fell in October from the previous month
in 33 of 70 cities, the worst performance since the government
started releasing data on individual cities in January.  “The economy will slow sharply in coming months due to a
weak property market and exports,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., who in
a Nov. 21 report wrote that the real estate sector has probably
reached “a tipping point.” He said in the report he expects
the government to maintain its housing measures and loosen
monetary policy “gradually.”  China will “unswerving” maintain its property measures
next year, Xinhua said yesterday, citing a government statement.  Not Intervening  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  is among developers whose
executives are not buying shares. They are not “intervening too
much,” preferring to focus on the day-to-day running of the
company, said Xia Haijun, chief executive officer of China’s
second-biggest developer by sales. Xia said he didn’t buy the
stock after it fell as much as 43 percent this year.  For those who have bought stock, the purchases might be
paying off. Shimao has climbed 22 percent from this year’s low
in October, while Glorious, a Hong Kong-based developer with
residential, office and retail projects in 12 Chinese cities, is
up 12 percent. KWG shares have risen 12 percent from 2011’s
trough in November.  Top executives at developers that “usually have long-term
views of their own companies think they can take profits from
share buybacks in the long run,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-
based property analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Allen Wan in  Shanghai .
Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua
 