-- Companies Invest ‘Trapped’ Untaxed Foreign Profits in U.S.
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-12-15T15:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/companies-hold-46-of-untaxed-foreign-profits-in-u-s-assets-1-.html
Twenty-seven U.S. companies that
report holding $538 billion in untaxed profits outside the
country have invested 46 percent of that total in U.S. banks or
assets, according to a report by Senator  Carl Levin .  Levin, a Michigan Democrat who opposes a tax break on
repatriating offshore profits, released  the report  yesterday to
counter companies’ claims that their earnings are “trapped”
outside the country by the tax system, he said.  The companies surveyed, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , have been lobbying Congress for a
reduced tax rate on bringing back profits to the U.S., and they
maintain that such a tax holiday would spur economic growth.  “They want to avoid paying taxes,” Levin told reporters
in  Washington . “It’s just pretty obvious what they want to
do.”  Levin’s staff compiled the report based on surveys they
sent to the companies earlier this year. The companies gave
Levin data that they don’t publicly disclose in securities
filings about how they invest their overseas assets.  Under U.S. law, multinational companies with operations
overseas don’t have to pay U.S.  corporate income  taxes of as
much as 35 percent on that income until they bring the money
home. They can receive credits for taxes paid to other
governments.  U.S. Tax Rules  The tax code lets companies invest those tax-deferred
earnings -- estimated at more than $1 trillion for all of the
companies -- in U.S. assets such as Treasury bonds, bank
accounts and stocks of other companies. Levin has previously
proposed preventing companies from investing offshore funds in
the U.S. without paying the residual tax.  Levin’s report found that nine of the companies in the
study, including  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Johnson & Johnson and  EMC Corp. ,
have more than 75 percent of their untaxed overseas earnings in
U.S. assets. The report doesn’t include data for each company.  “Almost half of the so-called offshore funds were really
onshore,” Levin said.  According to the report, companies said in the surveys that
they invest in U.S. assets because of the dollar’s stability,
potential accounting issues related to currency fluctuations and
suppliers’ requests to be paid in U.S. dollars.  Safety and Liquidity  “We follow the strategy of investing in U.S. securities
with our overseas cash because we want to maximize the safety
and liquidity of our investments,” said Al Wasilewski, a
spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ) 
The maker of Listerine and Tylenol had $37 billion permanently
invested outside the U.S. as of Jan. 2, 2011, according to its
financial statement.  Levin said the companies are taking advantage of the U.S.
financial system without contributing enough to it.  The report didn’t include  General Electric Co. (GE) , which leads
U.S.-based companies with $94 billion in profits outside the
country. It also didn’t include banks such as Bank of America
Corp. with accumulated foreign profits.  Many companies report total untaxed overseas earnings in
their annual reports. The totals include items other than cash,
such as the value of factories and other permanent investments
that companies have made outside the U.S. Levin’s report didn’t
break out the portion of earnings that are liquid assets.  Earnings ‘Trapped’ Abroad  U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, who has sponsored
legislation that would establish a temporary 5.25 percent  tax
rate  for repatriated profits, said in a statement today that the
report missed the point of the potential economic benefits of
the repatriation proposal.  “The bottom line is that these earnings are trapped in the
foreign subsidiaries of American international companies and
effectively blocked from being invested in America’s struggling
economy,” said Brady, a Texas Republican. “It makes no sense,
especially with 25 million American workers who can’t find a
full-time job.”  Brady’s proposal hasn’t advanced in Congress this year.  Opponents of a repatriation tax holiday contend that the
tax break -- estimated by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on
Taxation to cost the government $78.7 billion over 10 years --
would benefit shareholders and executives and do little to help
the broader economy.  Those lobbying for the tax break say the companies should
be given more freedom to decide how to deploy their profits.  “Even these U.S. deposits will eventually be spent
overseas without a change in our tax laws,” said a statement
released yesterday by the WIN America Campaign, the lobbying
coalition created by Cisco, Qualcomm and more than a dozen other
companies. “Senator Levin’s one-sided, partisan report does
nothing but attempt to score rhetorical points while U.S.
profits continue to be invested around the world instead of here
at home due to a seriously flawed  tax code .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  