-- CVC Capital, Johor Make $1.6 Billion Buyout Offer for Malaysia’s KFC, QSR
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2011-12-15T09:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/cvc-johor-make-1-6-billion-buyout-bid-for-malaysia-s-kfc-qsr.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. teamed up
with  Johor Corp.  to bid at least $1.6 billion for  KFC Holdings
(Malaysia) Bhd. (KFC)  and parent  QSR Brands Bhd. (QSR) , to gain control of
more than 900 fast-food outlets including KFC and Pizza Hut in
Southeast Asia and  India .  The offer values KFC  Malaysia ’s assets and liabilities at 4
ringgit per share, 17 percent more than its last traded price
before the shares were halted yesterday. CVC and Johor bid 6.80
ringgit per share for QSR, 13 percent more than its last traded
price before suspension, according to exchange filings late
yesterday by the restaurant operators.  “For CVC, this is a chance to be in a fast-growing
consumer market,” said Pankaj Kumar, who oversees $560 million
as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. in
 Petaling Jaya , near Kuala Lumpur. “For Johor Corp., it’s an
opportunity to take private two strong cash-flow companies.”  KFC Malaysia operates more than 620 fried-chicken outlets
in Malaysia,  Singapore , Brunei, Cambodia and India, according to
its  website . The company also has 29 RasaMas restaurants and 55
chicken stores, as well as farming and food manufacturing
operations, it said. QSR operates about 260 Pizza Hut
restaurants in Malaysia and Singapore, according to its  website .  Kulim Malaysia  Johor Corp. is the biggest shareholder of palm-oil producer
 Kulim Malaysia Bhd. (KUL) , which already owns 54 percent of QSR,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The state investment
company issued a statement last year saying it had no plans to
sell stakes in the food companies after Kulim rejected two 6.70
ringgit-per-share takeover bids for QSR, including one from
Washington-based Carlyle Group.  KFC surged 11.4 percent to close at 3.80 ringgit in  Kuala
Lumpur  trading today, its biggest gain since November 2007. QSR
advanced 7.3 percent to 6.44 ringgit, its largest gain since
November 2010, while Kulim rose 7.6 percent to 3.97 ringgit.  The transactions would cost more than 5.24 billion ringgit
($1.6 billion) excluding warrants, according to Bloomberg News
calculations.  Buyout firm CVC owns 49 percent of the takeover vehicle and
Johor Corp. holds the rest, yesterday’s exchange filings show.
They bid 1 ringgit for each outstanding KFC warrant, and 3.79
ringgit for those of QSR, the statements said.  ‘Decent Offer’  “Given the current outlook and volatility of the equity
markets, both the KFC and QSR offer prices are considered
attractive,” Johor Corp. said in a separate e-mailed statement
late yesterday.  Their offer equates to a price-earnings ratio of 20 times
for KFC and 17 times for QSR based on 2010 profits, according to
Bloomberg News calculations. That compares with the average
earnings multiple of 21 times for nine similar restaurants
chains including Jollibee Foods Corp. and Papa John’s
International Inc., Bloomberg data show.  “The valuations are about in line with consumer peers,”
Malayan Banking Bhd. analyst Kang Chun Ee wrote in a report
today, upgrading KFC’s price target to the 4 ringgit offer price
from 3.12 ringgit. “This is a decent offer.”  KFC Malaysia and QSR’s boards “will appoint relevant
advisers and deliberate on the terms of the offer and decide on
the next course of action,” the companies said in separate
statements.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , based in Louisville,  Kentucky , owns the
KFC and  Pizza Hut  brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  