-- Senate Democrats Backing Away From Insistence on Millionaire Tax
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/democrats-move-away-from-millionaire-tax-to-cover-cost-of-payroll-tax-cut.html
Democrats in the  U.S. Senate  are
open to dropping a demand for a surtax on income exceeding $1
million if Republicans abandon efforts to expedite approval of a
Canadian oil pipeline, according to a Senate Democratic
leadership aide.  The negotiations are part of an effort to extend a  payroll
tax  cut for workers before it expires on Dec. 31. Democrats have
proposed covering the cost of an extension by imposing a surtax
on high earners, which Republicans oppose. Republicans are
pushing for the pipeline as well as relaxed rules on industrial
boilers, priorities that most Democrats don’t favor.  As the tax cut’s expiration nears, Senate leaders face
increasing pressure to offer an extension plan that can win
passage there. Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , who helped
organize the Democratic message in support of a millionaire’s
tax, said yesterday he wouldn’t “draw any lines in the sand.”  “We want to get a bill and we want to pass a payroll
tax,” he told reporters. “We believe a millionaire’s tax is
the best way to do it. We’re open to other suggestions.”  Senate Democrats haven’t offered a formal proposal to
Republicans without a millionaire’s surtax. The two sides also
haven’t reached agreement on how or whether to cover the cost of
a tax cut extension.  Democratic leaders in the Senate, including Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of Nevada, Majority Whip  Richard Durbin  of Illinois,
 Patty Murray  of Washington and Schumer, met with President
Barack Obama at the White House yesterday to discuss issues
including the  payroll tax  cut.  No Agreement  A House-passed measure that would extend the payroll tax
cut for one-year languished in the Senate yesterday because Reid
and the Republican leader,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, couldn’t
agree on how to bring the bill to the floor. McConnell wants the
Senate to first act on a spending measure that would keep the
government operating after tomorrow.  Unless Reid and McConnell are able to reach a deal, the
Senate might not begin considering the payroll tax bill until
Dec. 17.  Other Democratic lawmakers, including  Dianne Feinstein  of
California and  Bob Casey  of Pennsylvania, said yesterday that
the priority for lawmakers should be an extension of the payroll
tax cut even if that means abandoning the surtax. Casey, who
sponsored legislation that included the millionaire’s surtax and
was blocked in the Senate, said he doubts Republicans would ever
support raising taxes for high earners.  “It seems that if we went to 0.1 percent, Republicans
would reject that, too,” he said in an interview. “The most
important thing that we’ve got to get done is extending the
payroll tax cut.”  ‘Overcoming’ Objections  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican and senior
member of the Finance Committee, has supported measures to
extend the payroll tax cut without paying for it with the
surtax. Eliminating the levy would be seen as “overcoming the
number one objection that Republicans have had.”  Still, he said Republicans can’t back down from their
demand that the legislation also speed approval of the Keystone
pipeline that would flow from the oil sands of  Canada  to
refineries in Texas. Republicans view the provision as a tool to
create jobs while Democrats have raised concerns about the
pipeline’s environmental effects.  “We can’t give up Keystone,” Grassley said. “We’re in
the business of creating jobs while Democrats are in the
business of killing jobs.”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, said scrapping the millionaire surtax isn’t a
significant concession from Democrats because the Senate would
never approve such a measure.  “They’re never going to get a millionaire surtax,” he
said. “They don’t even have their own team on board on that.
It’s just a big political thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  