-- Egypt’s Islamist Parties Fight for Seats During Second Round of Elections
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2011-12-15T16:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/egypt-s-islamists-fight-for-seats-during-second-round-of-vote.html
The two Islamist blocs that led the
initial round of elections for Egypt’s first parliament since
the removal of former President  Hosni Mubarak  are competing to
consolidate their gains in the latest round of the vote.  Voting ended today for the second phase of the contest,
which covers Aswan, Menoufiya and seven other provinces. As the
election moves away from the capital and into the countryside,
which has traditionally shown strong support for Islamist
groups, the newly formed Salafi Nour party will be tested
against the older and less conservative Muslim Brotherhood. The
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice party won the first round,
followed by Nour and the secular Egyptian Bloc.  The stronger-than-expected support for Nour “threatens to
drag the political discourse to the right and into debates over
identity and religion rather than political structures and
economic reforms, which is what the Brotherhood would prefer,”
said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha
Center in Qatar.  The emergence of an Islamist-dominated parliament may also
give the country’s ruling generals new arguments for resisting
pressure to hand over power. After the initial ballot, a member
of the army council said the parliament alone may not be
representative enough to be entrusted with drafting a new
constitution. The council says it will stay at the helm until a
president is elected next year.  Weakening Pound  Lack of clarity and wrangling over the details of the
handover to civilian rule have helped push bond yields to record
highs and the currency to a seven-year low. The  economy has been
growing  at the slowest pace in a decade and faces risks
including  currency devaluation  and surging debt costs.  The pound has weakened almost 4 percent this year, to 6.02
per dollar, even as the central bank spent almost half its
foreign exchange reserves. The government pays more than 15
percent to borrow in pounds over nine months, while yields on
dollar bonds due in 2020 surged to 8 percent today and have
jumped by 91 basis points, or 0.91 of a percentage point, in the
past week. Tourism and foreign investment have slumped since the
uprising that ousted Mubarak in February.  The government raised its forecast for the  budget deficit 
this fiscal year through June to 160 billion pounds ($27
billion), or 10 percent of gross domestic product, from 134
billion pounds, Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga told reporters
today in Cairo.  Religion and Politics  Almost 19 million voters are eligible to cast ballots in
this round, to decide 180 seats in parliament’s lower house,
which has 498 elected members. The results of the elections
won’t be clear until mid-January, after a third and final phase
of voting.  In Menoufiya, an exchange between two women before voting
stations opened yesterday highlighted the debate among many
Egyptians about the role of religion in the country’s future.  “Religion and politics shouldn’t mix because politics
could tarnish religion,” said 24-year-old Rania Abdel Wahed.
“You cannot separate religion from the state,” replied Hasnaa
Belal, 36. “The problem is that people strayed away from
religion.”  Secular parties are fighting a rearguard action after their
first-round defeat by Islamists.  ‘We, the Revolutionaries’  “Although I know this parliament won’t get us anywhere, we
still have to prove that we, the revolutionaries, exist,”
Bassem Diab, a 27-year-old art director, said outside a polling
station in Giza today. He said he voted for the Revolution
Continues alliance, made up of groups that led the uprising
against Mubarak.  The Brotherhood’s history and experience give it an
advantage over such political newcomers, said Abdel Hakim Adel,
a 23-year-old tour guide also voting in Giza. “The Freedom and
Justice Party didn’t just appear after the revolution, they have
been fighting for power for decades,” he said. “I felt they
are good people.”  The head of military police, Hamdy Badeen, said the army
“stands at an equal distance” from all the political groups
contesting the elections,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News
Agency reported. “The army has no interest to be served by
siding with liberals or the Brotherhood or leftists or others,”
MENA cited him as saying.  The Brotherhood’s party gave an early indication that it’s
ready to challenge the army after winning a mandate from voters.
After General Mouktar el-Moula questioned the parliament’s
representative status in a briefing to foreign journalists, the
Brotherhood’s party refused to take part in an army-appointed
civilian advisory body. Mamdouh Shahine, another general, said
later that the military would respect the election results and
wouldn’t seek to shape the constitution-drafting body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 