-- Telefonica Dividend Losing ‘Magic Touch’ Signals Profit Pressure
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-15T12:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/telefonica-says-it-plans-to-reduce-2012-dividend-to-1-50-euros-from-1-60.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s first dividend cut
in a decade highlighted the extent to which  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis has hit  Spain ’s largest telecommunications company
and may signal further disappointment for investors.  Spain’s former telephone monopoly reduced its 2012 dividend
forecast yesterday by 14 percent, abandoning a policy set up two
years ago, citing “significantly” changed market conditions.
The Madrid-based company may next give up its profit forecasts
as a slide in sales in Spain continues and growth in Latin
America slows, analysts say.  As rising unemployment and a weakening economy in Spain
spur customers to cancel phone subscriptions or switch to
cheaper offers, Telefonica missed earnings estimates in eight of
the past nine quarters and is struggling to reduce its own debt.
With net borrowings at more than 55 billion euros ($71 billion),
the operator is still “highly leveraged,” said Giovanni Montalti, an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.  The dividend cut “is a step in the right direction, but it
won’t be enough,” said London-based Montalti, who advises
investors sell Telefonica shares. “The next thing we may hear
from the company is a profit warning next year because the
earnings guidance is too high.”  Telefonica may lower its forecasts when it announces
earnings Feb. 24, and a further dividend reduction may follow
late, Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at
 Societe Generale  in London, wrote in a note.  Further Cuts?  The shares fell as much as 1.9 percent and traded 1 percent
lower as of 1:52 p.m. in Madrid, the worst performer in Spain’s
benchmark IBEX 35 Index. The stock is down 23 percent this year,
cutting its market value to 60 billion euros.  Telefonica has forecast annual revenue growth of 1 percent
to 4 percent through 2013. Next year, sales may increase 0.6
percent, accelerating to 1.6 percent in 2013, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The operator is sticking to its 2011 financial targets,
Finance Chief Angel Vila said yesterday. The dividend decision,
taken unanimously by the company’s board, “wasn’t driven by
liquidity problems,” Vila said on a conference call.  The average dividend yield of European telecommunications
companies is 7.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Telefonica’s yield of 12.1 percent is the third-
highest after  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  and  Portugal 
Telecom SGPS.  Portugal Telecom, Belgacom  Portugal Telecom,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Belgacom SA (BELG)  are
most likely to take note of Telefonica’s cut because of their
“uncomfortably high” payout ratios, said James Britton, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “We just had no other option but to cut it as the market
didn’t recognize our high dividend yield,” Jose Maria Alvarez- Pallete, head of the company’s European unit, said in an
interview in Barcelona today. “I’m confident this step will
boost the stock because we went through this already in 1999. If
you add up pretty much all other dividends from other operators
you may find ours still higher.”  In the late 1990s, Telefonica replaced its dividend with
bonus shares to conserve cash for its expansion in  Latin America 
and a payout was suspended briefly in 2001, Bloomberg data
showed.  Standard & Poor’s cut Telefonica’s debt rating in August by
one level to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, citing
lower expectations for  cash flow  and debt reduction and calling
the company’s dividend policy “aggressive.”  Share Buybacks  The 2012 dividend will amount to 1.50 euros a share,
including 1.30 euros in cash and the rest via buybacks. That
compared with a previous forecast for at least 1.75 euros.
Telefonica still plans a 2011 dividend of 1.60 euros.  “This turnaround in shareholder remuneration policy shows
how Telefonica is losing its magic touch of dividends,” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores in  Madrid .
“Investors also value the company’s growth outlook in different
markets and its different profile compared to other European
peers.”  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is increasingly
relying on economic growth in Latin America, which accounted for
47 percent of Telefonica’s third-quarter revenue. He is also
slashing the Spanish workforce, has halted major mergers and
acquisitions and this year folded the shrinking Spanish unit
into a European division.  The company’s broadband market share dropped below 50
percent in October for the first time since the phone market
opened to competition in 1996, Spain’s CMT regulator said today
in a monthly report.  ‘Myopic Focus’  The dividend cut “suggests that management is now looking
at a longer time horizon versus what looked like an increasingly
myopic focus,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst
at Sanford C Bernstein. “For the last two years there has been
an increasing whiff of ‘eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we
die’ to Telefonica’s dividend promise.”  Spanish Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  has pledged
“important decisions” when his Cabinet meets for the first
time on Dec. 23 as the economy will need structural changes as
well as austerity moves to exit a three-year slump.  Rajoy is seeking to prevent Spain from following Greece,
Ireland and Portugal in seeking a bailout amid surging borrowing
costs and an economy poised for contraction with unemployment at
23 percent, the highest rate in the European Union.  “Markets haven’t clearly recognized our shareholders’
remuneration efforts and we realized we need more flexibility,”
Vila said yesterday.  The dividend cut doesn’t affect Telefonica’s intention to
sell some assets, Vila said. Telefonica shelved an initial
public offering for its call-center unit Atento in June because
of insufficient investor demand.  “Cutting the dividend is an action that’s in their control
whereas asset disposals is not,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at
Macquarie Securities in  London . “It was inevitable that at some
stage they would have to cut it. It’s the timing that is a
surprise rather than the event itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  