-- Merkel Buffeted by Domestic Disputes That May Sidetrack Her Crisis Efforts
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2011-12-15T15:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/merkel-buffeted-by-domestic-political-woes-that-may-deflect-crisis-effort.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
being buffeted by domestic political turbulence, threatening to
distract her efforts to follow through on a European summit
agreement last week to tackle the euro debt crisis.  Christian Lindner, the general secretary of Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner, unexpectedly quit yesterday amid a
party tussle over bailouts. Separately, Merkel’s spokesman said
the chancellor had full confidence in  Christian Wulff ,  Germany ’s
president, after a Bild report that he misled lawmakers over a
500,000 euro ($650,000) home loan.  The political turmoil engulfed Merkel’s administration five
days after she secured what she called a “breakthrough”
European deal to enforce stricter budget rules and to stem the
financial contagion now in its third year. That uncertainty may
disrupt her efforts to restore market confidence by pushing the
steps agreed on in Brussels through parliament in Berlin.  “The FDP and Wulff are a distraction in many ways,” Joerg Forbrig, an analyst at  German Marshall Fund  of the  United
States , said by phone. “The FDP is basically in the process of
dismantling itself as a party while serving in government.”
It’s “the last thing Merkel needs right now.”  Lindner, 32, resigned two years after taking the job as
party members squabbled over an internal ballot coordinated by
lawmaker  Frank Schaeffler  that seeks to build support among
fellow bailout skeptics to reject the permanent rescue fund, the
European Stability Mechanism.  Ballot Tally  Of the 21,500 votes required to trigger a change of party
policy against bailouts, 19,000 were in place as of three days
ago, Schaeffler’s office said today. The official result of the
ballot is due tomorrow.  Merkel’s government would risk collapse if the referendum
showed majority support among the junior coalition party for
rejecting the rescue fund, said Peter Matuschek, an analyst at
Forsa polling group. Even without such a scenario, “it will
become tense over the next few weeks,” he said by phone.  Peter Altmaier , the chief whip for Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , rejected any suggestion that Lindner’s resignation
weakens the coalition and undermines Philipp Roesler, the
economy minister and vice chancellor, who took over the helm as
Free Democratic leader in April amid slumping support. Polls
show voter backing for the FDP has failed to recover.  ‘Broad Majority’  Coalition policy on the rescue fund will remain unchanged,
Altmaier said in an interview today with broadcaster N24. The
government already “has the backing of a majority in parliament
and will continue to do so,” he said. “I’m convinced that we
will have a broad majority” for measures to shore up the euro.  The political diversions came as Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, Merkel’s former economic adviser, hinted the central
bank may not provide its share of loans to the  International
Monetary Fund  that was part of last week’s summit agreement.  “The Bundesbank has stated its readiness to provide up to
45 billion euros as long as there is a fair distribution of the
burden amongst the IMF members,” Weidmann said in comments
released yesterday. “If these conditions are not fulfilled,
then we can’t agree to a loan to the IMF.”  Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, was forced to
respond to questions about both Lindner and Wulff’s loan from
the wife of a businessman friend at a regular government press
conference in Berlin, eclipsing queries on the coalition’s
approach to combating the debt crisis.  Merkel “trusts him, his person and his conduct in
office,” Seibert said.  Merkel Call  Merkel, in a phone call to the president yesterday,
criticized his handling of questions surrounding the home loan
and urged him to speak out publicly, Bild reported, without
saying how it got the information.  Wulff issued a statement today saying that the loan he
accepted when premier of Lower Saxony state may have created the
“wrong impression” and he has “nothing to hide.” He said he is
offering public disclosure of the documents surrounding the
loan, which he took up in 2008 to buy a house with his wife.  Merkel fielded a question on Lindner’s resignation during a
media briefing with Tajikistan’s President Emomali Rahmon
yesterday, and dismissed the impact on her government.  “I believe that we can work together in the government
completely unaffected,” Merkel said of the coalition allies,
noting Roesler’s intention to quickly name a replacement. He
later proposed the FDP treasurer, Patrick Doering, for the post.  Roesler stirred internal party anger by saying in a weekend
interview that the members’ ballot had not drawn enough
participants to establish a quorum. Lindner refused to answer
questions yesterday as he quit, citing only the need “to make
way to enable a new dynamic.”  The upshot for Merkel is “a dead-duck coalition partner
whose actions may now become unpredictable,” Nils Diederich, a
politics professor at Berlin’s Free University, said by phone.
“That’s a risk for Merkel as she tries to navigate parliament
through giving up some sovereignty in the name of fiscal union
as well as increase taxpayers’ input into rescuing the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  