-- 
EU Pact Could Make Germany’s Nightmare Come True: Clive Crook

-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/eu-fiscal-pact-could-make-germany-s-real-nightmare-come-true-clive-crook.html
The remedy for the European Union’s
financial crisis, EU leaders have decided, is “fiscal union.”
But if the agreement they reached last week ultimately leads, in
the fullness of time, to a real fiscal union, the country most
likely to be unhappy is  Germany , its original leading proponent.  Truly, understanding the workings of the EU mind is not
always easy.  Jens Weidmann, president of the Bundesbank and a council
member of the  European Central Bank ,  made the point  about fiscal
union and “fiscal union” last week. This is not a union but a
“pact,” he said. Sovereign rights would be preserved, and the EU
would have no power to intervene directly in a country’s
finances. Euro-area countries are promising to obey stronger
fiscal rules of the sort they already have in the Stability and
Growth Pact, with new automatic penalties (yet to be spelled
out) if they fail.  Weidmann is right. Stronger fiscal rules do not make a
fiscal union. A real fiscal union looks like the  United States  -
- with federal spending, federal revenue and federal debt.  The salient characteristic of such a system is cross-border
fiscal transfers. When an economic shock strikes one part of
U.S. with particular force, fiscal resources flow in its
direction automatically. If California slumps, its contribution
to federal revenue falls and federally supported spending in the
state goes up. In this way, taxpayers in the rest of the U.S.
help cushion the blow.  Transfer Union  A fiscal union in the proper sense of the term is a
transfer union. Yet Germany’s government, which has pressed so
hard for what it calls fiscal union these past few weeks, is
implacably opposed to a transfer union. Shielding German
taxpayers from the cost of supporting Greek, Irish or Italian
taxpayers as this crisis has unfolded is the organizing
principle of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s entire policy.  Is her position hopelessly illogical? I wouldn’t go that
far. Germany’s leaders calculate, I imagine, that a strong
fiscal pact will make a transfer union less likely. In this
belief, they are not being illogical, merely delusional.  The fiscal pact’s main innovation is a so-called  golden
rule , which leaders have said they will write into their
countries’ basic laws, restricting structural budget deficits to
0.5 percent of gross domestic product. Critics are right, of
course, that this rule contributes nothing to solving Europe’s
immediate problem. It barely even pretends to. Nonetheless it is
a momentous step. Eventually, after the immediate crisis has
been resolved, the golden rule will impose tighter fiscal
restraint across the euro area.  Merkel doubtless reckons that tighter fiscal restraint will
mean less public debt over the long term, less chance of a
future sovereign-debt crisis, and less danger that citizens in
well-run countries (Germany) might be asked to bail out citizens
in badly run countries (all the others). The trouble is that
fiscal irresponsibility is only one way to get a financial
crisis started. If one starts for some other reason -- say, a
credit boom -- flexibility in fiscal policy may be vital to
contain the damage.  The current emergency demonstrates, in the clearest
possible way, just how laughable Germany’s position is. Fiscal
profligacy brought  Greece  to disaster, true enough, but the
slump in the euro area’s other distressed economies was caused
by reckless expansion of private credit. Taking the euro area as
a whole, budget  deficits  were less than 3 percent of GDP in the
five years leading up to 2008. Ireland, one of the most severely
hit economies during the crisis, had a budget  surplus  for years
before the crisis struck.  Needed: More Flexibility  For many countries, fiscal expansion was the right response
to the emergency. And in Germany’s case, it still is: The
problem there has been too little stimulus, not too much. The
golden rule would restrict this vital flexibility.  Admittedly, one can imagine worse rules. A ceiling of 0.5
percent for structural deficits does allow so-called automatic
stabilizers to work. In a recession, actual deficits would be
allowed to rise under the pressure of a shrinking tax base and
higher transfers to the unemployed, for instance. However,
except for countries that had previously been running big
surpluses, the golden rule would forbid a change in policy in
response to an economic slump: a  tax cut , say, or an increase in
infrastructure spending, or extended  unemployment benefits .  Germany’s structural budget deficit was 3.3 percent of GDP
last year. Even allowing for what the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development calls “one-offs” -- nonrecurring
extraordinary items -- it was 2.3 percent. Under the
circumstances, Germany’s fiscal policy has been extraordinarily
tight, yet it stands in violation of the new rule. This is
absurd.  A better fiscal rule would take a different form: “balance
the budget over the course of the cycle,” or “keep public debt
below 60 percent of GDP except in extraordinary circumstances.”
Both of those allow more wiggle room, so Teutonic fiscal
disciplinarians will recoil, but greater flexibility is the
point. In severe recessions, discretionary stimulus -- a more-
than-automatic fiscal response to the downturn -- is needed. And
as the case of Germany itself proves, it may sometimes be
unavoidable.  With the golden rule in place, the EU’s next economic
crisis will be an interesting moment. The best and (let’s hope)
likeliest course for the EU would be to suspend the rule or
abandon it outright. That, presumably, is something Germany
would resist. Why propose this rule in the first place if you
are going to have to abandon it as soon as it starts to pinch?
The alternative would be to let the pact stifle recovery and
drive up unemployment -- much as the EU’s dithering has done in
the present emergency, only more so.  Let’s suppose that  Europe  muddles through this time. Next
time, with zero fiscal flexibility, persistent underperformance
in many parts of the EU, and an ever-widening gap between
incomes in Europe’s core and its periphery, a stark choice will
present itself. Let the euro area and the single European market
dissolve, which would be a disaster for Germany as for everyone
else. Or form a transfer union that puts German taxpayers
permanently on the hook for the EU’s backward regions, which is
the very outcome that Merkel dreads most.  How do you say “pretzel logic” in German?  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 