-- Euro Area May Fall Back Into Recession as Breakup Risk Remains, E&Y Says
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2011-12-15T10:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/euro-area-will-fall-back-into-recession-as-breakup-risk-remains-e-y-says.html
The euro-area economy is likely to
slip back into a recession and its leaders’ new plan to end the
debt crisis hasn’t completely eliminated the risk of a breakup
of the currency region, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  The economy of the 17 nations using the euro will probably
shrink in the current and next quarters, the group said in a
report published in  London  today. The economy will barely grow
in 2012, with E&Y forecasting expansion of just 0.1 percent.  European Union leaders agreed at a Dec. 8-9 summit in
Brussels to tighter control of tax and spending by governments
that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product. They also pledged a faster start to a 500
billion-euro ($659 billion) rescue fund.  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service are reviewing the agreement and its
implications for credit ratings on euro countries.  “The latest developments in  Greece ,  Italy  and  Spain  and
the European agreement lower the risk of a breakup of the  euro
zone ,” said Marie Diron, an economist at Oxford Economics and
adviser on the report. “This risk remains, however, especially
since in 2012 very large amounts of sovereign debt require
refinancing which could cause tensions.”  The euro snapped a three-day decline against the dollar to
trade at $1.2993, after yesterday falling to its lowest since
January.  Struggling Recovery  Industrial production  declined 0.1 percent in October after
a 2 percent drop the previous month, data released yesterday
showed. Manufacturing and services shrank for a fourth month in
December, London-based Markit Economics said today. Its
 composite index  of both industries rose to 47.9 from 47 in
November, where a reading below 50 indicates contraction.  A separate report showed that  employment  fell 0.1 percent
in the third quarter, the first decline in almost two years.  E&Y sees euro-region expansion accelerating at the end of
2012 and forecasts growth of between 1.5 percent and 2 percent
from 2013. Still, that won’t be enough to reduce unemployment to
below 10 percent until 2015, it said.  European leaders have set a deadline of March to flesh out
their new fiscal rules aimed at strengthening the euro area. E&Y
said that “ongoing doubts” about the ability of some countries
to implement reforms will mean that the  European Central Bank 
will need to keep buying  government bonds .  “With bond markets very volatile, weak growth prospects
and high borrowing requirements in 2012, the ECB is likely to
have to consider acting as a lender of last resort if even
deeper problems -- perhaps even a split in the euro zone -- are
to be avoided,” Diron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  