-- Europe’s Clogged Arteries Drive Up Transport Costs and Uncover Old Bombs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2011-12-15T08:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/europe-s-clogged-arteries-drive-up-costs-and-uncover-old-bombs.html
Germany’s driest November has shrunk
 Europe ’s rivers, creating monthlong delays for oil- and ore-
carrying barges while uncovering the continent’s deadly past.  The city of Koblenz evacuated 45,000 residents on Nov. 28
after the Rhine River’s retreat to a 20-year low exposed an
unexploded 1.8-ton World War II  bomb  in 40 centimeters (16
inches) of water. Falling water levels on the Rhine and the
Danube are pushing up shipping costs at companies including
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, and chemical
company  BASF SE  as they turn to road transport or make more
barge trips with smaller loads.  “It’s getting worse and worse,” said Milorad Cubrilovic,
whose Belgrade, Serbia-based OSA Chartering transports 250,000
metric tons of commodities a year. “This is the lowest Danube
in living memory.”  Germany , home to the Danube River’s watershed, had its
 driest month  since recordkeeping began in 1881. The lack of
rainfall has pushed the waterway’s level to a 42-year low in
 Serbia . Record temperatures and depleted water tables along the
Danube basin also contributed to the low levels, according the
Drought Management Center for Southeastern Europe.  Low water levels on rivers running between  Romania ’s  Black
Sea  ports and the  North Sea  of Germany have wreaked havoc on
Europe’s freight transport. The droughts, which German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research  scientists project  will
worsen in the future because of global warming, helped push up
costs of refined fuel products and delayed grain shipments.  Other Paths  OMV AG (OMV) , central Europe’s biggest oil company, had to find
alternatives to river transport, spokesman Sven Pusswald in an
e-mail.  “As a result of extremely weak November rainfall and the
very low water levels, we had to partially use other transport
paths,” he said. The Vienna-based company had to ship oil
products from its Schwechat, Austria-based refinery, destined
for  Hungary  downriver, via road.  Transport costs may be boosting prices. Austrian diesel
prices are 8 percent lower than in Hungary while gasoline prices
are 2 percent below those of their down-river neighbor,
according to the Austrian Auto Association and Hungary’s state
news agency, MTI.  The shift has “practically wiped out” fuel-merchant
margins downriver, said Nebojsa Atanackovic, owner and director
of  Nafta AD (NFTA) , a Serbian oil-products trader. “Fuel imports to
Serbia, including diesel, gasoline and heating oil, are now
coming by road and rail, which increases the costs for
everyone,” he said.  River to Rail  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical company, has had to
switch river-bound freight to rail because of the drought,
resulting in higher costs, according to spokesman Hans-Joachim
Perrey. “Additional costs have been within a manageable
framework,” he said.  Ten European countries share the 2,872-kilometer (1,785-
mile) Danube waterway, making it the most  international river  in
the world. The river basin, fed by around 60 other navigable
waterways throughout central and southeastern Europe, is home to
about 220 million people who rely on it for drinking water, crop
irrigation and hydro power.  The European Union has pledged 100 billion euros ($130
billion) toward improving the Danube’s freight infrastructure
and helping the region cope with future droughts.  Iron ore  and
steel companies such as  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO)  and  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , along
with grain distributors Cargill Inc. and  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM) , have expanded riverway warehousing and shipments.  ‘Irreplaceable’ Barges  “Barge trips on the Danube are very important for
Voestalpine and are irreplaceable” in the Linz, Austria-based
company’s logistics strategy, spokeswoman Monika Primenz said.
This year’s low water levels show EU investment is needed to
boost transport reliability, she said.  Unlike the Rhine, which plays a central role for German
exporters, the Danube “does not fulfill even a fraction of its
potential,” said Edgar Martin, central and eastern European
director at  Infospectrum Ltd ., a London-based risk adviser. A
barge convoy can carry the equivalent of 400 fully loaded trucks,
he said.  At a cost of 10 euros to 15 euros per metric ton, freight
shipments by barge are 50 percent cheaper than those sent by
rail. Road transport is more than double the price, at 28 euros
to 35 euros a metric ton, the U.S.’s  Foreign Agricultural
Service  in Bucharest said in a Dec. 8  note .  Cargo Collapse  Even before the drought, the Danube, which is connected to
Germany’s Main and Rhine rivers by canal, was carrying only
about 10 percent of its capacity, according to EU estimates.
Transport on the river is still recovering from the wars that
followed the 1991 breakup of  Yugoslavia . Cargo crashed to 20
million tons in 1997 after peaking at about 100 million tons a
decade earlier, according to the  Danube Commission  in Budapest.  “The strategy of the Danube region is to significantly
increase volumes and to establish guaranteed draft levels all
year round,” said Ferrexpo spokeswoman Ingrid McMahon. “With
the exception of periods of exceptionally low water, barging
remains well placed from a competitive point of view.”  In addition to importing Ukrainian iron ore into Europe,
Ferrexpo operates the Danube’s oldest and biggest barge fleet
via its Helogistics subsidiary.  Low river levels forced  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s Romanian unit to
reduce barge loads and find alternate transport routes,
according to an e-mailed statement from the company.  Danube Depots  Historically low Danube waters are also affecting grain
exports in Hungary, Romania and Serbia, where as much as 70
percent of this year’s corn crop has yet to be shipped,
according to the foreign agricultural service report.  Archer Daniels Midland, the world’s biggest grain processor,
is expanding its Danube network of storage depots, it said in
August. Cargill, the biggest closely held company in the U.S.,
acquired a 44,000-metric-ton Romanian grain silo in September.  “In the past month we have loaded one or two ships as
opposed to the normal average of 100-120 ships per month,” said
Jozsef Vass, the main dispatcher of the Budapest Danube Port.
“Ships simply can’t reach us, which is very bad news seeing how
this is the main season for shipping agricultural products
following the autumn harvest.”  Whether investment in Europe’s rivers pays off may hinge on
the world’s ability to arrest  climate change , according to the
 International Association of Danube Research . Projections show
“a reduction of the water availability in the range of 5
percent to 35 percent,” in the next half century, the
association said in May, citing a University of Munich Danube-
climate model. “Navigation will be limited during low flow
situations.”  Black Sea  The number of barges passing through the Romanian port of
Constanta, connecting Europe’s river networks to the Black Sea,
dropped 6 percent from a year earlier in November, according to
the port operator. Traffic plunged by one-fourth when the
effects of the drought began emerging four months ago.  In neighboring  Bulgaria , 60 ships were stranded and 10 ran
aground during September, said Georgi Georgiev, executive
director of the Executive Agency for Exploration and Maintenance
of the Danube.  Global warming will “definitely” spark similar crises in
the future, said Milivoj Milenkovic, director of the river port
in Novi Sad, Serbia’s second-biggest city. In November, the
volume of freight that went through the Novi Sad Port was halved
to 52,000 tons “and December is going to be worse,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  