-- Euro Nears 11-Month Low Before German PMI
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2011-12-15T06:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/euro-trades-near-11-month-low-before-spain-bond-sale-german-manufacturing.html
The euro traded 0.4 percent from the
weakest level in 11 months against the dollar amid concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will drive up borrowing costs for
Spain at a bond auction today.  The 17-nation euro was near the lowest level in 10 weeks
against the yen before a report forecast to show  Germany ’s
manufacturing industry contracted for a third-straight month,
adding to signs Europe’s fiscal woes are damping growth in the
region’s biggest economy. The dollar climbed to two-week highs
versus its Australian and  New Zealand  counterparts as a drop in
Asian stocks bolstered demand for the world’s reserve currency.  “We’ve got a very negative view on growth for Europe next
year,” said  Robert Rennie , Sydney-based chief currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest
lender. Fiscal austerity and tightening financial conditions
“will develop into a fully blown recession,” he said.  The euro traded at $1.2993 as of 6:51 a.m. in  London  from
$1.2983 in New York yesterday, when it dipped below $1.30 for
the first time since January and touched $1.2946, the lowest
since Jan. 11. The shared currency fetched 101.42 yen from
101.36, after dropping as low as 101.10 yesterday, the weakest
since Oct. 4. The dollar was little changed at 78.06 yen.  The greenback gained 0.3 percent to 98.83 U.S. cents per
Australian dollar and touched 98.62, the most since Nov. 28. It
rose 0.4 percent to 74.73 U.S. cents against New Zealand’s
dollar, after earlier reaching 74.62, the strongest since Nov.
28.  Stock Losses  The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.9 percent as a
survey indicated  China ’s manufacturing may contract for a second
month in December.  Spain aims to sell as much as 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion) of debt maturing in 2016, 2020 and 2021 today. Italy
yesterday had to pay the most in 14 years to sell five-year
notes as its Parliament rushes to pass a 30 billion-euro budget
plan that Prime Minister  Mario Monti  says will bring down
borrowing costs.  European Central Bank policy makers are becoming more
skeptical about the efficacy of the bank’s bond-purchase
program, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said at an event in
 Frankfurt  on Dec. 13.  “I am not a fan of the SMP,” said Weidmann, who is also a
member of the ECB’s governing council, referring to the central
bank’s Securities Markets Program. “The fans of the SMP are
becoming increasingly skeptical.”  ECB Bond Purchases  With Italy and  Spain  needing to sell a combined 20 billion
euros of debt in January, according to Citigroup Inc., the ECB
has come under pressure to step up bond purchases to contain the
crisis while politicians seek a longer-term solution.  ECB policy makers including President  Mario Draghi  have
emphasized the  bond buying  is “limited” and can’t return
confidence to the market in the absence of government reforms.
Draghi is scheduled to speak in Berlin today.  A purchasing managers index for German manufacturing
probably slid to 47.5 in December, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
report from London-based Markit Economics. That would be the
weakest reading since July 2009 and would indicate a third-
consecutive month of contraction.  “The situation in Europe is a worry on the financial side
as well as the economic side,” said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-
based director at Rochford Capital, a currency-risk management
firm. “The  U.S. dollar  is still the currency to go to as far as
a safe haven.”  Relative Strength Index  The dollar has appreciated 3.2 percent in the past month,
the best performance among 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has fallen 1.4 percent
and the yen has advanced 1.7 percent.  The euro halted three days of losses as a technical
indicator signaled its recent decline was overdone.  The currency’s 14-day relative strength index against the
greenback was 29, below the 30-level that some traders see as a
sign that an asset may be about to reverse direction. The RSI
for the euro-yen rate was at 30.  Sentiment among  Japan ’s largest manufacturers deteriorated
more than economists had expected, a quarterly central bank
survey showed. The Tankan large manufacturer index fell to minus
4 from 2, the  Bank of Japan  said today in  Tokyo . The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a reading
of minus 2.  The manufacturers forecast that the yen will average 79.02
per dollar in the year through March 2012, compared with 81.15
in the previous poll.  U.S. Economy  Demand for the dollar was supported amid signs that the
world’s largest economy is recovering, reducing the need for
further easing measures from the  Federal Reserve .  Industrial production increased 0.1 percent last month,
following a 0.7 percent gain in October, a poll of economists
showed before today’s data. Gauges of manufacturing from the Fed
Banks of Philadelphia and  New York  may also point to expansion
in those regions.  “This improved data momentum really has been a key driver
behind the improved tone for the U.S. dollar,” said Westpac’s
Rennie.  The Fed’s policy-setting panel said Dec. 13 the economy
“has been expanding moderately,” compared with the Nov. 2
assessment that growth “strengthened somewhat.”  -- With assistance from Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo. Editors: Rocky
Swift, Jonathan Annells  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 