-- Ex-Cuomo Aide Said to Be Among Possible Foreclosure Monitors
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2011-12-15T18:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/ex-cuomo-aide-said-to-be-among-4-foreclosure-monitor-candidates.html
A former aide to New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo is among candidates being considered to ensure that
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
comply with any settlement of a nationwide foreclosure probe, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Steven M. Cohen, who was the governor’s secretary, is one
potential foreclosure monitor, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are secret.
That person said North Carolina Commissioner of Banks Joseph A. Smith Jr. is also a candidate, as did a second person who asked
not to be identified.  Selection of a monitor is one of the final issues to be
worked out between the banks and state and federal officials,
said the people. Selection of the monitor is a key issue for the
regulators because success of the agreement will largely depend
on his or her work, one of the people said.  Another candidate is Nicolas P. Retsinas, a former
assistant secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, one of the people said.  All 50 states last year said they were investigating bank
foreclosure practices following disclosures that the companies
were using faulty documents in seizing homes. State and federal
officials leading the talks are seeking an agreement that
provides mortgage relief to homeowners and sets standards for
foreclosure practices.  Ensure Compliance  The monitor would ensure compliance with any agreement with
mortgage servicers, according to a settlement proposal offered
to the banks in March. In addition to JPMorgan and Bank of
America,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Ally Financial Inc.  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  are participating in the negotiations.  The job will come with the authority to review records and
audit a servicer’s performance, according to the proposal. Banks
would be subject to penalties for failing to meet performance
measures and timelines.  Before becoming the governor’s secretary, Cohen was Cuomo’s
counselor and chief of staff when he was New York attorney
general. Cohen is now a partner at law firm  Zuckerman Spaeder
LLP  in New York. He was also chief of the violent-gangs unit as
a federal prosecutor in  Manhattan .  Cohen declined to comment on whether he was a candidate for
the monitor post.  Bank Commissioner  As North Carolina bank commissioner, Smith, 62, supervises
mortgage companies, banks and lenders in the state. In 2010,
President  Barack Obama  nominated Smith to oversee mortgage-
finance companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  His nomination to
lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency won support from banks
and consumer groups. Smith failed to win confirmation after
objections from Senate Republicans.  Smith declined to comment on any nomination to monitor the
foreclosure agreement.  Retsinas, 65, now a lecturer at Harvard Business School, is
on the board of  Freddie Mac  and a former director of Harvard
University’s Joint Center for Housing. He was an assistant
secretary of HUD under President  Bill Clinton . He didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the monitor
position.  One of the people familiar with the matter said  Sheila Bair , the former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. chairman, had
been approached about the job. Bair, 57, denied reports that she
was a candidate for the post.  Release From Claims  As part of the settlement, banks will be released from
certain claims by state and federal officials. One issue still
to be worked out is the scope of the liability release agreed to
between banks and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one
of the people said.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , declined to comment on who is being considered for the
monitor position. Miller is leading the talks for the states.  Both sides in the settlement negotiations have agreed to
the framework of a deal, according to the two people familiar
with the talks. The accord with the five largest mortgage
servicers could amount to $25 billion with banks agreeing to
fund refinancings and writedowns of loan principal balances,
among other steps, the people said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
negotiations.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based
Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, and
Vickee Adams of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo declined to
comment.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail.  Deal Value  The value of a deal would be less if California Attorney
General Kamala Harris doesn’t sign on, the people said. She
announced in September that she was breaking away from the talks
to conduct her own investigation. The agreement would increase
if more servicers are included, the people said.  U.S. foreclosure filings fell last month as delinquent
homeowners got a holiday break, RealtyTrac Inc. reported. A
total of 224,394 properties received notices of default, auction
or repossession, down 14 percent from a year earlier, the
Irvine, California-based data seller said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York ,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net 
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 