-- 
MF Global Said to be Probed for Using Client Funds to Make Margin Payments

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/mf-global-probe-said-to-weigh-illegal-use-of-funds-to-make-margin-payments.html
U.S. authorities are investigating
whether  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  intentionally tapped customer
funds to cover the bankrupt firm’s margin payments on European
government bond trades while lawmakers press top company
officials on the possible misuse of as much as $1.2 billion.  Investigators including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Justice Department, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the  bankruptcy (LEHMQ)  trustee are reviewing the
brokerage’s accounts seeking proof of fraud, which would allow
them to recover some of the lost $1.2 billion, said people with
knowledge of the probe who declined to be identified because the
investigation is ongoing.  Unless authorities find illegal activity, margin payments
on repurchase trades can’t be returned under bankruptcy law,
said Lauren Teigland-Hunt, a lawyer who has represented money
managers in the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy.  “It has to be actual intent to defraud, and that’s a high
bar,” said Teigland-Hunt, managing partner at Teigland-Hunt LLP
in  New York . “The whole goal is to try to ensure that if you’re
a participant in the market and receive payment of margin, that
won’t be reversed on you if a customer goes down.”  MF Global’s failure and the customer-funds deficit were the
focus of a hearing at which former chief executive officer Jon S. Corzine told lawmakers he “never gave any instructions to
misuse customer funds” and didn’t give orders that could be
misconstrued.  Second Appearance  Corzine, 64, made the comments yesterday before the Senate
Agriculture Committee in  Washington , the second of three
congressional hearings being held to probe the collapse of the
firm and the disappearance of customer funds. Corzine resigned
from MF Global his position Nov. 4.  Corzine’s statement appeared to revise his testimony at a
hearing last week when he left open the possibility that
transfers of funds from client accounts might have been a
misinterpretation of his intent by company officials.  The agriculture committees in the House and Senate preside
over the CFTC, which oversaw MF Global’s commodities and
derivatives arm.  Two other top executives of MF Global Holdings Ltd. also
told the Senate panel that they didn’t know what happened to the
client funds that went missing in the days before the New York-
based brokerage filed for bankruptcy.  Henri Steenkamp, chief financial officer of MF Global, and
 Bradley Abelow , the firm’s president and chief operating
officer, said during the hearing that they still don’t know the
location of the funds. Both Steenkamp and Abelow still work at
the bankrupt firm.  Collateral Question  One working theory for the missing money is that it was
taken from customer accounts and not replaced with equal
collateral, as mandated by law, according to the people familiar
with the investigation. Then, they said, after the funds were
moved to the broker-dealer unit of MF Global, the funds may have
been used to pay margin on the  repurchase agreements .  Under U.S. law, futures brokers are required to keep
customer money segregated from their own accounts so that if a
firm fails its clients can quickly move positions and cash to a
new company. MF Global’s bankruptcy is “unprecedented” in that
for the first time, customer funds have gone missing, said
 Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange and auditor of MF
Global.  $175 Million Loan  Corzine knew of $175 million in loans involving customer
segregated funds at the bankrupt broker, said Terrence Duffy,
executive chairman at CME Group Inc. Auditors at CME, which had
authority to oversee MF Global, learned from an employee of the
brokerage that Corzine knew about the loans involving a European
affiliate, Duffy told committee members.  Duffy did not say whether Corzine learned of the loans in
advance of the funds being moved. He also did not say whether
the loans were a legitimate use of customer accounts.  For their part, Corzine and Abelow said that officials
below them in MF Global’s hierarchy might know more than they do
about the missing funds.  Corzine suggested that investigators should look at the
company’s treasury office, which was in charge of ensuring that
customer funds were used in accordance with federal regulations.  “The people who headed that are probably closest to the
scene of the action,” he said.  Corzine named Christine Serwinski, the company’s chief
financial officer for  North America , as someone in charge of
that department although he said she had been on vacation during
the final days of MF Global. Roberts identified Christy Vavra as
the head of treasury operations at the firm. Abelow said the
head of treasury operations ultimately reported to him.  Vavra and Serwinski did not respond to messages left at
their home telephone numbers.  Recovering Funds  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy,
said he was attempting to recover all money that MF Global was
owed by its counterparties in order to help make customers
whole.  “We’re looking at all the transfers for months out of the
firm,” he told the Senate panel. “And if there is a legal
basis for recovering that, we’ll make a demand and will also
engage in litigation if we have a sound basis.”  Meanwhile, Giddens also said in a court filing yesterday
that he was likely to investigate certain actions of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , a lender to MF Global. Giddens said he would review
whether the bank received preferential payments before the
brokerage went into liquidation.  David Skeel, a  University of Pennsylvania  law professor who
studies bankruptcy and corporate law, said any transfers out of
customer accounts might be fraudulent.  Frauduent Intent  Unless fraudulent intent or another overriding legal
principle can be found that trumps the protection of margin
payments under the  liquidation laws , any MF Global customer
funds used for the repo trades would be lost, two of the people
familiar with the probe said.  If the money were recovered, customers may not have top
priority in being repaid, Skeel said.  “I don’t think they would have any special claim,” he
said. “They would just be treated like general creditors with
respect to funds retrieved, and would have to share with other
general creditors.”  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman at the SEC,  Steve Adamske 
of the CFTC,  Laura Sweeney  of the  Justice Department  and Diana DeSocio of MF Global all declined to comment on the ongoing
investigation.  The Senate panel is the second of three congressional
committees to hold hearings this month to probe the collapse of
MF Global. Corzine is scheduled to appear under subpoena from
the House Financial Services oversight and investigations
subcommittee on Thursday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  