-- 
MF Global Trustee Says Highridge’s $50 Million Is ‘Located’

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-14T02:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/mf-global-trustee-says-highridge-s-50-million-is-located-1-.html
Highridge Futures Fund LP’s $50
million account with defunct  MF Global Inc.  has been located and
a portion of the balance could take several weeks to transfer,
the trustee liquidating the brokerage said in a court filing
today.  Trustee James Giddens said $30 million from one of
Highridge’s two cash accounts is part of a third transfer of
funds back to customers that was authorized yesterday. The
transfer “is logistically complicated” and some transfers
could take several weeks to occur, lawyers for Gidden said in a
court filing today.  Other Highridge funds are under the control of MF Global’s
foreign former affiliates and “the trustee is not in the
position to make any meaningful distribution of those funds at
this time,” the lawyers said.  Giddens urged a bankruptcy judge to reject Highridge’s
request to immediately transfer the funds, saying demands for
individualized treatment is unfair to other account holders.  Highridge had said in a court filing that the money was
missing and Giddens had failed to provide information about the
whereabouts of the funds. Highridge described itself in the
filing as a registered commodity pool incorporated in  Delaware ,
with a general partner that is an Illinois company. Its account
contains mostly cash and also unsettled commodity positions.  Giddens has transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to
other firms, and said he plans to sell 330 securities accounts.
Three transfers of collateral made and pending will give
commodity customers about $4 billion of their assets, according
to court filings.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
istrict of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case is
MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  