-- First Solar Abandons ‘Holy Grail’ Technology That Sank Solyndra
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-15T10:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/first-solar-abandons-holy-grail-technology-that-sank-solyndra.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  is closing a
research project aimed at developing the same solar-panel
material that doomed Solyndra LLC after a global supply glut
drove down prices.  First Solar plans to fire about 100 employees, including 60
at a  Santa Clara , California, research center, the Tempe,
Arizona-based company said in a filing. The job cuts are part of
a reorganization plan to narrow its focus to large utility-scale
 power plants  and away from smaller, rooftop installations. It
also slashed its profit and sales forecast.  Solyndra declared bankruptcy Sept. 6 saying it couldn’t
compete after prices for polysilicon, the raw material in
traditional solar cells,  fell  64 percent this year. Global panel
production has “effectively tripled” in the last three years,
led by  China , and demand is slowing in  Europe  and other regions
where subsidies have been cut, said First Solar’s Chairman and
Interim Chief Executive Officer Michael Ahearn.  “We’re dedicating all of our resources” to making
utility-scale projects more cost-effective, Ahearn said on a
conference call yesterday. Other initiatives “will be on the
back burner.”  First Solar’s Santa Clara team was developing copper-
indium-gallium-selenide, or CIGS, technology, said  Mark Bachman ,
an analyst at Avian Securities LLC.  Solyndra  received $535 million in U.S. government loan
guarantees to build a CIGS panel factory, which it shut in
August. First Solar received loan guarantees through the same
U.S. Energy Department program to build large-scale projects
that it later sold to power producers.  ‘Holy Grail’ Research  First Solar has concluded that CIGS wasn’t going to compete
on cost against polysilicon, Bachman said.  “They were going heavy into CIGS research as sort of a
‘holy grail’ effort that they’ve now abandoned,” he said in an
interview. Instead, the company will “double-down” on its
existing thin-film technology, he said.  First Solar became the world’s largest maker of thin-film
panels, which require half the energy to manufacture of those
made from silicon, using an automated process to apply cadmium-
telluride to glass.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and closely held Abound
Solar Inc. are also betting that the technology will make solar
power cheaper than electricity from fossil-fuel plants.  Allocating Resources  “They’ve shifted the allocation of resources from CIGS to
what is more important in the near term for them, which is to
realize cost reductions from their existing technology,” said
Shyam Mehta, senior analyst for Boston-based GTM Research. “The
price drops we’ve seen for polysilicon have eroded the value
properties of all alternative technologies, including cadmium-
telluride.”  First Solar is “refocusing its research and development
center in Santa Clara” to improve its cadmium-telluride
technologies, according to the filing yesterday. Ted Meyer, a
company spokesman, wouldn’t discuss the goals of the center.  The company this year received $3.43 million in sales tax
breaks from  California  to purchase $37.7 million in solar
manufacturing equipment for the Santa Clara center, according to
state filings. Meyer said the company is “in discussions” with
state officials regarding the facility. “We believe that we
have met all of the requirements for the sales tax credit,” he
said.  The California State Treasurer’s Office is reviewing First
Solar’s tax breaks, though not necessarily with the expectation
of recovering the money, said Joe DeAnda, a spokesman for the
office.  State Tax Incentives  Besides the U.S. government loan guarantees, Solyndra
received $25.1 million in state sales-tax breaks under the same
program. The company developed solar panels using glass tubes
lined with CIGS. Solyndra was the only CIGS manufacturer to win
U.S.  loan guarantees .  First Solar received more than $3 billion in U.S. loan
guarantees for three projects it’s developing in the Southwest,
with total capacity of 1,070 megawatts, comparable to one
nuclear reactor, making it the largest single recipient of
backing under the U.S. Energy Department program.  Those projects already have buyers for the electricity they
will produce and carry less risk than guarantees offered for
manufacturing plants.  First Solar and Solyndra are among a group of Western panel
makers that have been undercut by cheaper competition from
Chinese manufacturers such as Suntech Power Holdings Co., the
world’s largest. Factory expansion, led by Chinese companies,
has triggered a 43 percent plunge in panel prices this year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Focusing on large projects may be a good strategy for First
Solar, said Jenny Chase, senior solar analyst at New Energy
Finance in Zurich.  “The companies that survive this slash-and-burn market are
going to have to be the best at what they do,” she said in an
interview. “The utility scale market is First Solar’s sweet-
spot and they are the best in the arena.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  