-- 
Four Ways to End the Euro’s Crisis of Confidence: Peter Kurer

-- B y   P e t e r   K u r e r
-- 
2011-12-14T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/four-ways-to-end-the-euro-s-crisis-of-confidence-peter-kurer.html
Travel agents started to buy tourist
services in potential replacement currencies such as the drachma
or lira. Central banks took precautions and one of them was said
to have shopped around for  banknote printing  capacity. Traders
even asked whether the euro would survive until Christmas.  So what has last week’s summit of European leaders offered
to save the merriment of the holiday season? Some respite, but
not much beyond it. Most stock markets have already resumed
their declines.  To solve the current crisis, four things are needed: a
deleveraging of governments; a return of growth; confidence in
financial and capital markets; and an institutional framework
that backs policies to achieve all of this.  There are two schools of thought on how to get there. The
U.S. approach relies on monetary easing: bringing liquidity back
into the markets to make them operate properly and to support
growth. By contrast, the German (and now European) way calls for
institutional austerity in a bid to create sound public finances
as a basis for economic expansion. Each approach has its
advantages and drawbacks. Ultimately, however, adherence to one
school or the other has much more to do with a nation’s
historical experience and political interests.  German Belt Tightening  Over the past 20 years, the Germans have tightened their
belts and made their economy dynamic again. At the same time,
Americans experienced bubbles that were financed by external
money. Politically, President  Barack Obama  now needs instant
economic growth to be re-elected next year. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , by contrast, looks quite safe in her position and
can afford a more long-term view.  The summit delivered a lot in terms of institutional
austerity, but it offered little to ease market tensions and
boost growth. In essence, the heads of state agreed to enforce
limits on budget deficits and government debt. In case these
covenants are breached, automatic sanctions will take effect.
Provided these proposals are embodied in a formal treaty next
spring, and if the new rules are followed, this will bring
widespread austerity to  Europe .  In the short term, growth will be meager, living standards
will drop and unemployment will be high. In the long run,
however, we may see another German “Wirtschaftswunder,” or
economic miracle.  To be fair, the summit also addressed market issues. It
expanded and accelerated the European Stability Mechanism and
earmarked more money for the  International Monetary Fund . But
this is little compared with what European leaders (in theory,
not legally) could have done in terms of stimulating liquidity
and confidence in markets. The real breakthrough would have been
the issuance of euro bonds. It is remarkable that the summit
pronounced the idea of euro bonds dead, at least for now.  So, the outcome of the summit was mixed. On the one hand,
it addressed the underlying evil: the lack of fiscal discipline
and too much leverage in public finances. On the other hand, it
didn’t come up with an immediate solution to the growth and
liquidity issues. But it made a big political statement:
Europe’s governments will integrate much more with a view to
saving the euro.  Before the summit, there were three scenarios: an immediate
collapse of the euro; the creation of a fully fledged fiscal
union with euro bonds; or more muddling through. The first and
the second haven’t happened. The third option prevailed, but the
summit has given it a peculiar twist: The euro will be saved by
well-managed and institutionalized muddling.  Robbed of Control  There are a lot of provisos attached. The summit
resolutions have to be enshrined in a legally binding contract.
This is a big challenge. Not all heads of state will be able to
get parliamentary approval. Fiscal stabilization also comes at a
high political cost, especially for healthier and smaller
nations. Being robbed of budgetary control by Merkel and
bureaucrats in  Brussels  doesn’t please smaller democracies and
governments that want to retain flexibility over their own
fiscal matters. The U.K. has already walked away. Others will do
the same.  The trigger for the crisis,  Greece , will soon return to
center stage. So while the euro might have been saved from
immediate collapse, it is likely that the common currency and
the European Union might disintegrate at the fringes.  Where does this leave company managers and investors? They
should assume the euro will survive for a while, but there will
be no immediate return to economic health. The European economy
will suffer from low growth and even deflation for a long time.
Many aspects of government services will be substantially
reduced. There will be widespread social unrest. Some countries
might leave the euro. Equity markets will remain sluggish and
many companies and governments will find it hard to refinance
through markets.  In managing the downside, companies should develop
financial and contractual arrangements to protect against a
partial abandonment of the euro and also consider what the
impact of social unrest will be on their brands, operations and
sales. They should also assume that there will be fewer mergers,
acquisitions and initial public offerings for some time. The
growth opportunities will be found within the companies
themselves and managers should focus on reducing debt,  cash flow 
and high dividend yields. Investors should be diversified and
focus on capital preservation. Those with an appetite for risk
should stick to high-yielding equities or well-managed real
estate.  The resolve of European heads of state has saved us from a
spoiled Christmas. They have yet to find a perfect solution, but
companies and investors now have time to regroup.  (Peter Kurer was chairman of UBS AG from 2008 to 2009 and
is now an independent strategy adviser. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Kurer at  peter@kurer.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Henry at   djhenry2@bloomberg.net  