-- Voices of Gingrich Critics Grow Along With His Standing in Polls
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-15T12:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/gingrich-s-republican-critics-get-more-vocal-as-candidacy-rises-in-polls.html
The higher Newt Gingrich’s
presidential candidacy rises, the more vocal and numerous his
Republican critics become.  “I’m not sure he’s as conservative as some people think he
is,” said U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican.
While adding that Gingrich “is conservative,” Boehner ducked a
question at a Washington forum yesterday about whether his
former House colleague would make a good president.  Former Senator  Alan Simpson  took a shot at Gingrich in a
Dec. 13 interview with Bloomberg News. “He is for himself
before he is for anybody,” the Wyoming Republican said of
Gingrich, a former House speaker.  Simpson recounted how Gingrich, then House minority whip,
broke ranks at the last minute with his party’s leadership to
oppose the 1990 budget agreement between Republican President
George H.W. Bush and a Democratic-controlled Congress. “It was
the most hurtful and duplicitous thing I have ever seen,”
Simpson said.  In an  editorial  published today, the editors of the
National Review warned Republicans against nominating Gingrich.
“The White House seems winnable next year, and with it a
majority in both houses of Congress,” they wrote. “We fear
that to nominate former Speaker Newt Gingrich, the front-runner
in the polls, would be to blow this opportunity.”  The intra-party debate over Gingrich has intensified as
campaign ads attacking him have begun to flood Iowa markets
including  Des Moines  and  Cedar Rapids .  In the past several days, allies of rival  Mitt Romney  have
spent $164,500 on an ad attacking Gingrich’s conservative
credentials on issues such as ethical values to health care,
according to data collected by CMAG/Kantar Media, a  New York- 
based company that tracks political advertising.  ‘Ton of Baggage’  Gingrich has “a ton of baggage,” the commercial sponsored
by Romney’s allies intones, citing a $300,000 payment imposed on
him by the House after an ethics  investigation  and money he has
received from health-care industry groups.  An NBC/Wall Street Journal national  poll  released Dec. 13
showing Gingrich leading the race with 40 percent support among
likely Republican voters compared with 23 percent for Romney
offered evidence of the divisions within the party.  Half of all Republican voters surveyed said they won’t vote
for Gingrich in the general election, and he trailed President
 Barack Obama  by 11 points in a hypothetical contest.  Gingrich’s perceived weakness in a general election match-
up is the catalyst for criticism of his candidacy. Among the
concerns raised by his detractors is his history of delivering
off-the-cuff remarks that make headlines while creating
political headaches for other Republicans. He’s also embraced
policies, such as a form of an individual mandate to purchase
health insurance, that some Republicans say could be exploited
by Democrats.  Gingrich Affair  Meanwhile, his extramarital affair with his current wife,
Callista, could suppress support from such core party activists
as evangelical Christians.  Richard Land, president of the Southern Baptist
Convention’s Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, said while
evangelical voters are gravitating toward Gingrich’s candidacy,
he remains the “most flawed” for the party’s social
conservative base because of his two divorces and the
acknowledgment of an affair.  “In normal times,  Newt Gingrich  would not have a prayer,”
Land said in an interview. “The fact that he does shows the
extent to which people are very concerned about the survival of
the  United States  they know.”  Gingrich, 68, was asked by one man in an audience at the
University of Iowa yesterday about the money he made on book
publishing. Then the questioner accused the candidate of earning
a “Ph.D. on cheating on your wife.”  “How would you know anything about how I published and
sold books?” Gingrich responded. “The fact that I happened to
write books people like may bother you, but it doesn’t mean that
the books were wrong.”  Gingrich Prediction  Taking questions from reporters, Gingrich said his standing
as a general election candidate would improve should he win the
nomination contest.  Citing the 1980 race between President Jimmy Carter and
Republican nominee  Ronald Reagan , Gingrich said, “Reagan does
not catch up with Carter until September 1980.”  “I kind of like about where we are now,” said Gingrich.
“I’d like to have a few more votes, a little bit of a bigger
margin.”  Gingrich’s feisty spirit -- and the criticism from some
well-known party figures -- is appealing to some voters who see
a candidate who isn’t controlled by political insiders and is
willing to challenge Obama in debates and on the campaign trail.  Iowa  Protesters  Campaigning in Iowa City yesterday, Gingrich was
interrupted by protesters as he was about to speak to a
standing-room-only audience of more than 300 in a university
lecture hall.  “I’m going to go ahead and try to talk over them,”
Gingrich said, after standing silently at the front of the
auditorium for about three minutes amid chants of protest
against him. “I’m not going to be drowned out by the 1 percent
who try to impose their will by making noise.”  At a focus group of Iowa evangelical Christians convened
last week by Bloomberg News, most participants -- six out of
nine -- didn’t support Gingrich. Of those who did, they cited
his electability in a general election as a top reason.  “There’s a lot of negative things about him, but I think
he understands our Constitution,” said participant Gina McNair,
52, a small business owner. “He understands how this government
runs. I think he’s highly intelligent.”  ‘Big Thinker’  Boenher, in his comments yesterday, said, “I’ve never seen
a guy who could think outside the box a well as” Gingrich.
Boehner then added a caveat: “He is a big thinker but, you
know, like all big thinkers they’ve got some great ideas, they
may have some other ideas.”  Gingrich’s rise could end as abruptly as it began. He’s the
fourth Republican candidate in this election cycle to surge in
polls; the first three -- U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of  Minnesota , Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and businessman  Herman Cain  -- saw their support rapidly fall to single digits.  After facing a defection by his top advisers in June,
Gingrich fell behind Romney and Perry in fundraising and hiring
experienced political aides in early voting states.  A survey of television advertising spending over the past
two weeks highlights the financial disparity between Gingrich
and his rivals.  Gingrich has spent $78,990, with all of his spots running
in Iowa, while Romney and his political action committee,
Restore Our Future, have invested $550,580 in ads airing in  New
Hampshire , Iowa and neighboring television markets such as
Rochester, Minnesota. Perry dwarfs them in spending, with a
total of $880,220 in expenditures from his campaign and his
aligned PAC, Make Us Great Again PAC.  Iowa’s Vote  With less than three weeks to go before nomination voting
begins with the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, Gingrich’s rivals realize
they are running out of time to slow his momentum.  Romney has abandoned his above-the-fray running style to
take on Gingrich directly in interviews and campaign
appearances.  “Zany is not what we need in a president,” he told the
New York Times yesterday.  When asked about that remark, Gingrich declined to shoot
back. “My campaign is going to focus on positive ideas and
positive solutions,” he said.  Romney, a multimillionaire, tried to paint Gingrich as out-
of-touch with middle-class voters in an interview with CBS News
yesterday. “He’s a very wealthy man, a very wealthy man,”
Romney said. “If you have a half-a-million dollar purchase from
Tiffany’s, you’re not a middle class American.”  He was referring to a credit line of up $500,000 Gingrich
and his wife had with the jeweler Tiffany & Co.  Paul Ad  In addition to Romney, Republican presidential contender
 Ron Paul , a Texas congressman, has been running an ad attacking
the front-runner.  The ad, which accuses Gingrich of “serial hypocrisy,”
features news clips highlighting his support for individual
health-care mandates, the bailout of major banks and his work
for  Freddie Mac , a government-backed mortgage lending company
that lost millions in the collapse of the housing market.  Even Democrats, who have seen Romney as their likely
opponent, are shifting their aim. The  Democratic National
Committee  this week began circulating a web video painting
Gingrich as a captive of his party’s conservative base, terming
him an “original Tea Partier.”  Gingrich has yet to be affected by the full impact of those
attacks, says Dianne Bystrom, a political science professor who
specializes in political advertising at  Iowa State University .  “I don’t know we’ve seen the effects in the polls yet,”
she said. “They’ve just ratcheted up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Iowa City, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  