-- 
Gingrich No Loon to Preach Moon in Hard Times: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/gingrich-no-loon-to-talk-up-trip-to-moon-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Tuning in to the Republican debate
last weekend in Iowa, the first since  Newt Gingrich  became the
 front-runner , was like watching a 3-year-old at a birthday
party. I kept wondering whether Gingrich would hold it together
through the slicing of the cake or collapse in a heap before
another sugar infusion sent him reeling.  Surely a 35-point surge in the polls would go to the man-
child’s head and spin it round until it exploded. We’ve seen it
before -- when Gingrich sulked at the back of Air Force One
because he didn’t like his seat, or closed down the federal
government just because.  What a surprise. Although former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney tried to provoke Gingrich’s inner child, the 68-
year-old former House speaker sailed through the debate
unscathed, looking for all the world like an adult. It’s telling
that Romney, when encouraged by the debate moderators to
criticize Gingrich, refrained from discussing the ethics
violations, adulteries and such that form the molten core of
Gingrich’s negatives. Instead, Romney went for Gingrich’s boyish
fascination with the heavens.  “We could start with his idea to have a lunar colony that
would mine minerals from the moon,” Romney said dismissively.  You can see the appeal, to a determined pragmatist like
Romney, of attacking Gingrich’s lunar colony; “loony” is right
there in the headline. Yet Gingrich didn’t flinch. Instead, he
took the opportunity to champion his idea of sending a pick-and-
shovel brigade to dig iron ore way up in the sky. “I’m happy to
defend the idea that America should be in space,” he said, “and
should be there in an aggressive, entrepreneurial way.”  Apocalyptic or Optimistic  Gingrich isn’t retreating from his wild ideas and wacky
programs. He recognizes that there’s something unique about this
election that’s put him back in contention. Gingrich balances
apocalyptic visions -- electromagnetic-pulse catastrophes in the
upper atmosphere wreaking devastation below -- with wild-eyed
optimism. Build hundreds of thousands of mirrors to warm the
Earth’s climate sufficiently to grow crops year round? Check.
Repeal child-labor laws? Check. Gingrich treats his idea of
students scrubbing their own toilets as if he’s suggested an
after-school enrichment program. As a self-anointed World
Historical Figure, he’s not backing down. He’s going with it.  Gingrich’s casual preaching of revolution is an affront to
the uptight Romney, who is cautious in debate as in everything
else. Romney’s unmussed hair and cool demeanor are symptoms of
one of his biggest problems: He just can’t fake being as freaked
out as the Tea Party demands, what with America going to hell in
a handbasket. Who are they going to vote for? Romney, who tosses
off a $10,000 bet as if it were 10 bucks? Or the high-strung
alarmist who warns that Islamic Shariah law is a “mortal threat
to the survival of freedom in the  United States  and the world as
we know it.” Romney, the measured professional, can’t seem to
break 25 percent in the polls. Gingrich is now leading in three
of the first four voting states -- Iowa,  South Carolina  and
 Florida  -- and is creeping up on Romney in  New Hampshire .  You know the bomb thrower has serious traction over the
 management consultant  when evangelicals overlook Gingrich’s
multiple marriages punctuated by serial adultery. At the debate,
Gingrich publicly repented, saying “I’ve made mistakes at times.
I’ve had to go to God for forgiveness. I’ve had to seek
reconciliation.” He then implied that he was too old to be the
randy deceiver of yore. “But I’m also a 68-year-old
grandfather,” he said. “I think people have to measure who I am
now and whether I’m a person they can trust.”  Family Values Deficit  Gingrich’s response tracks the reasoning of two major
leaders of Christian conservatives in  Iowa , both of whom are
itching to support the candidate who suits their purposes
despite his family values deficit. Gingrich only recently signed
the marriage pledge of Bob Van der Plaats, head of Iowa’s Family
Leader, who says that Iowa pastors are ready to support
Gingrich. Steve Scheffler, head of the other influential
Christian group, the Faith and Freedom Forum, recalls how
Gingrich got an ovation before 2,000 members this spring, and he
resents that Romney, a Mormon who has been married for 42 years,
has not appeared. Gingrich, Scheffler said, is a saint “compared
to Democrats like Barney Frank and Clinton, ‘who allegedly raped
a woman.’”  The road traveled from the divorced  Ronald Reagan  to the
adulterous Gingrich has been rutted and winding. But thanks to
opportunistic leaders like former Christian Coalition Executive
Director Ralph Reed, it’s been ages since a hard line on divorce
and its kissing cousin, adultery, trumped ideology among the
Christian Right.  In St. Newt, Republicans have perhaps found the un-Romney
they have been seeking. Gingrich once delivered them to the
promised land, taking control of the  House of Representatives 
and impeaching a Democratic president. Unlike Romney, he’s not
offering a Band-Aid for these end times. Gingrich believes only
in major surgery -- even if it kills the patient and ruins the
surgeon. He’s the savior hiding in plain sight. Now that they’ve
found him, they may not let go.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 