-- Glam Media Said to Plan IPO Filing by End of Second Quarter, Weigh Banks
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/glam-media-is-said-to-plan-to-file-for-ipo-by-end-of-second-quarter-2012.html
Glam Media Inc., a startup that
helps advertisers target women online, may join the parade of
Internet companies pursuing an initial public offering as the
market rebounds from a lull earlier this year.  The Brisbane, California-based company plans to file for an
IPO by the end of the second quarter, three people with
knowledge of the matter said this week. Glam is considering
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. or Morgan Stanley to lead the offering,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private.  Glam, founded in 2004, has benefited from advertisers’
willingness to pay higher rates to reach specific audiences,
including female shoppers.  The company’s clients  include Nike
Inc., Walt Disney Co.’s ABC network and Limited Brands Inc.’s
Victoria’s Secret. Glam is affiliated with more than 2,500 Web
publishers, which run the ads.  “There’s a lot of pressure on advertisers to improve their
return on advertising spending,” said Karsten Weide, an analyst
at IDC in  San Mateo ,  California . The easy way to do that is to
find an ad network with a preselected audience, he said.
“Instead of going on a general network, you can go into Glam
and target women,” Weide said.  The company has already completed a “bake-off” with IPO
bankers, where the firms compete for the deal, according to the
people familiar with the matter. Glam is now close to hiring the
underwriters, which may include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , they
said. Paul Loeffler, a spokesman for Glam, declined to comment,
as did representatives from Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and
Bank of America.  Paying for Content  Glam places ads on the websites of its partners and shares
half the resulting revenue. The service helps independent
publishers pay for the cost of producing content, said Vikrant
Mathur, co-founder of the culinary website  Ifood.tv  in  Menlo
Park , California.  “Glam has helped us ramp up on our revenue model,” Mathur
said. His company shows free content, such as videos of recipe
preparations and cooking tips, and supports it with ads.  Though Mathur tried other ad services, including Google
Inc.’s AdSense, Glam brought his site big-name advertisers such
as  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and Kraft Foods Inc. They tend to pay higher
prices, he said.  “One of the most important things for us is the ability to
be able to command higher premiums,” Mathur said.  IPO Resurgence  The market for IPOs has shaken off a slump, which was
triggered by stock-market volatility and the European credit
crisis. About 10 companies, including social-game developer
Zynga Inc. and clothing company Michael Kors Holdings Inc., are
holding U.S. IPOs this week alone.  In September, Glam named Jeanne Seeley as its chief
financial officer, adding an executive with experience at
publicly traded companies, including Apple Inc. She also oversaw
a preliminary IPO filing at Snap Appliance Inc.  That same month, Glam announced plans to acquire social-
networking site Ning Inc. and added Ning co-founder  Marc Andreessen  to its board. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News, is an investor in Andreessen’s venture capital
firm, Andreessen Horowitz.  Glam bought Ning for about $150 million, two people
familiar with the matter said when the purchase was announced.
The company is boosting the size of the deals it considers, and
acquisitions will be as big a part of Glam’s expansion as
internal growth, Chief Executive Officer  Samir Arora  said in
September.  An IPO will provide Glam more capital to compete in online
ads, a field that may require the company to invest in video, ad
exchanges and real-time bidding, said IDC’s Weide.  “Partaking in all of these hot trends means partaking in
software development, and software development is expensive,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  