-- Coffee Market Braces for Record Espresso-Bean Jolt: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-15T16:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/global-coffee-market-prepares-for-record-espresso-bean-jolt-commodities.html
Record robusta harvests in Vietnam
and  Brazil  and potentially the biggest jump in Indonesian output
in 16 years are boosting supplies of the coffee used in instant
drinks and espressos as slowing economic growth threatens
demand.  Production may climb for a fourth year, gaining 2.3 percent
to 55.98 million bags (3.36 million metric tons) in 2011-2012,
Rabobank International predicts. More supply will create the
biggest glut in at least four years, according to Macquarie
Group Ltd. Prices that already fell 9.9 percent this year will
drop another 7.4 percent to $1,750 a ton by June 30, the
lowest level since October 2010, the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 13 traders showed.  Robusta surged 62 percent in London trading in 2010 as
record demand created the first shortages in at least three
years, according to Macquarie. Supply is now expanding amid
mounting concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the
global economy. Coffee sales fell for the first time in seven
years in 2009 as nations contended with recessions, according to
Euromonitor International Ltd., a London-based research group.  “We have record world production and I’m not optimistic on
demand,” said Judith Ganes-Chase, a former Merrill Lynch & Co.
analyst who is now the president of Katonah, New York-based J.
Ganes Consulting LLC. “We’ll probably need to say goodbye to
the  bull market  for a while.”  Annual Decline  Robusta is on track for its first annual decline since 2009
on NYSE Liffe in London and last traded at $1,890. Arabica fell
9.6 percent to $2.174 a pound this year on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials
fell 1.7 percent as the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
dropped 12 percent. Treasuries returned 9.7 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Vietnam, the biggest robusta grower, will reap 21.25
million bags this season, 9 percent more than a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 traders, growers and
exporters. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds). The
Indonesian crop may expand 33 percent to 8.3 million bags in the
harvest from April, the biggest gain since 1996-1997, a separate
survey of eight traders, roasters and exporters showed.  Farmers in Brazil, the second-largest grower after  Vietnam ,
may gather 15 million bags or more from the harvest in 2012,
according to Guilherme Braga, the head of the Cecafe Brazil
Coffee Exporters Council. The nation produced 14.5 million bags
from the last crop, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates.  Debt Crisis Widens  Global robusta output will exceed demand by 2.5 million
bags this season, compared with a 700,000-bag shortage last
year, Macquarie estimates.  Expanding robusta harvests contrast with an anticipated
shortage in the arabica variety favored by Seattle-based
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , after the heaviest rains in two decades damaged
Central American plantations. Arabica demand will exceed supply
by 7 million bags this season, equal to a year of Japanese
consumption, according to Volcafe, a unit of ED&F Man Holdings
Ltd. That spurred 13 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
last month to predict a 24 percent jump in prices by March.  The euro region is probably already in recession, Larry Kantor, the head of research at  Barclays Capital  in New York,
told  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
on Dec. 9. European Union nations consumed 40.74 million bags of
coffee last year, accounting for 56 percent of demand from
importing members of the  International Coffee Organization , data
from the London-based group show.  Retail Sales  Global retail coffee sales fell 1.8 percent in 2009 amid
the worst recession since World War II, according to Euromonitor
International. Sales will increase 5.6 percent to $61.5 billion
this year, the research group estimates.  Nestle SA (NESN) , based in
Vevey,  Switzerland , had the biggest market share last year at 22
percent, the data show.  Arabica now costs $1.32 a pound more than robusta, compared
with an average of 86 cents over the past four years,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. That may encourage roasters to use
more robusta in instant drinks to curb costs, said Keith Flury,
an analyst at Rabobank in  London .  Consumer confidence  in the U.S., the biggest coffee-
drinking nation, held at a level typically reached during past
recessions in the week ended Dec. 4, the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort  Index  showed Dec. 8. Consumer confidence in Brazil, the
second-largest coffee market, strengthened for three consecutive
months, the National Industry Confederation estimates. Its gauge
is still 5 percent lower than a year ago.  ‘One Cup’  “In an environment where the economy is weak, people might
forego that one cup of coffee a day,” said  Abah Ofon , an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore  whose second-
quarter robusta forecast was within $1 of the actual price.  Hedge funds  and other money managers are betting on further
declines in robusta. They held a net-short position of 6,263
contracts in the week ended Dec. 6, and have been bearish since
the end of October, data from NYSE Liffe show. Speculators in
arabica had a net-long position of 14,157 futures and options in
the week ended Dec. 6, and have been bullish since August,  data 
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Lower robusta prices may help contain costs for Nestle, the
maker of Nescafe and Nespresso, which told investors Oct. 20
that its raw-material costs would jump as much as 3 billion
Swiss francs ($3.2 billion) this year.  Million Bags  Production of robusta is likely to keep expanding. Output
in Vietnam could reach 28.3 million bags by 2020, Jonathan
Clark, the general director of Dakman Coffee Exporters, told a
conference in  Ho Chi Minh City  on Dec. 9. The  Buon Ma Thuot ,
Vietnam-based company is a venture between ED&F Man and state-
owned Simexco Daklak.  Brazil’s harvest may advance about 50 percent in the next
decade, said Braga of the Cecafe Brazil Coffee Exporters
Council.  “On the robusta side, it’s very likely that we will see
record production in Vietnam and this may weigh on prices,”
said Lysu Paez, the Paris-based analyst at Natixis SA who
correctly forecast a surge in robusta prices at the start of
August, when they jumped 12 percent. “Fundamentals of arabica
are going to be pretty tight on the supply side.”  --Luzi Ann Javier, Nick Heath, Isis Almeida, Yoga Rusmana. With
assistance from Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi, Eko Listiyorini in
Jakarta, Pratik Parija in  India  and Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo .
Editor: James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath at   nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  