-- Goldman Financial Sponsors Head Berlinski Leaving After 25 Years With Bank
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2011-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/goldman-sachs-s-berlinski-to-leave-bank.html
Milton Berlinski,  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc.’s top adviser to private-equity firms, is leaving
after 25 years with the bank to pursue new opportunities.  Berlinski, who joined New York-based Goldman Sachs in 1986
from Merrill Lynch & Co., will step down as global head of the
financial sponsors business by the end of the year, he said in
an interview yesterday. The 55-year-old banker declined to
elaborate on his plans.  Under Berlinski, Goldman Sachs built out the business in
part by helping clients complete deals with backing from its own
private-equity funds. Goldman Sachs collected more than $700
million in fees from private-equity deals in the nine months
through Sept. 30, making the firm second only to JPMorgan Chase
& Co., according to research firm Freeman & Co.  “Goldman Sachs started by playing catch-up covering
private-equity firms,” said Apollo Global Management LLC co-
founder Josh Harris, who got advice from Berlinski this year on
his firm’s initial public offering. “Milton found ways to
deliver the bank’s strengths to Apollo.”  The firm’s ties to the world’s largest companies have also
helped lure buyout firms, allowing them to find opportunities
faster, he said.  Goldman Sachs shares have sunk 45 percent this year, with
revenue falling for six straight quarters. At least 37 partners
have left this year as banks face new regulations and  capital
requirements  that may crimp profit.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Berlinski’s History  Berlinski began at the bank by advising asset managers in
the financial institutions group. In that role, he led Franklin
Resources Inc.’s purchase of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger
Ltd. in 1992, creating the largest publicly traded, independent
mutual-fund company in the U.S. at the time.  “There wasn’t much M&A in our business those days,” said
 Charles Johnson , who led strategy at Franklin at the time of the
deal and whose grandfather founded the firm in the 1940s. “He
was instrumental in formulating a competitive bid.”  Berlinski’s other notable deals include the sale of Alltel
Corp. to  Verizon Wireless  in 2009, a $5.9 billion transaction
that turned the buyer into the largest mobile-phone company in
the U.S. Clients this year included Cerberus Capital Management
LP, TPG Capital and  Thomas H. Lee Partners .  Goldman Sachs’s Ranking  While Goldman Sachs has slipped from its top spot in fees
from buyout firms last year, the bank’s share worldwide has
increased to 9.5 percent from 8.4 percent for all of 2010,
according to data from Freeman. The fees apply to debt and
equity offerings as well as takeover advice.  Berlinski has gained a reputation for doggedness by seizing
chances to interact with clients, according to private-equity
executives. After procuring an invite to a Colorado trip led by
Harris, Berlinski found himself among advanced skiers. Rather
than part from the  Apollo  co-founder, he joined them in an off-
piste excursion, shuffling to the rear of the group. He was the
last to finish, arriving at the bottom of trail some time later,
according to Harris.  “It was a great display of determination,” he said.  Berlinski may apply that enterprise to current business
interests as he departs Goldman Sachs. The Aruba native is a
majority shareholder in synthetic fabric maker Uretek and owns
stakes in three restaurants in his home country. He also plans
to open two more in New York.  “His experience running companies gives him discipline,
which is unique for a coverage banker because they don’t have to
live with the deal,” said Lenard Tessler, managing director at
New York-based Cerberus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  