-- Green Mountain Drops as Stifel Says Demand Weakening
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2011-12-15T15:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/green-mountain-drops-as-stifel-says-brewer-demand-weakening-1-.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) 
fell after Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said demand is weakening for
the company’s Keurig single-serve coffee machines.  Green Mountain declined 4.5 percent to $47.72 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 45 percent this year.  Brewer sales are weakening, which is “inconsistent” with
comments from Green Mountain that demand remains strong, Mark Astrachan, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus in New York, said
today in a note. Shipments of Keurig brewers from  China  declined
5 percent in October and 28 percent in November, compared with
last year, Astrachan said.  “Shipments of Keurig brewers will continue decelerating,”
said Astrachan, who advises selling the shares. In turn,
“slowing household penetration of brewers will increasingly
pressure K-Cup shipments,” he said.  Beginning in October, “we requested that  U.S. Customs  and
 Border Protection  suppress public availability of data regarding
our imports,” Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman,
said in an interview. She declined to comment on the Stifel note
or confirm any import figures.  “We’d prefer the data not be available publicly,” she
said.  Next year, Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain will
lose the main patents on K-Cups, allowing competitors to make
less-expensive versions. The company has sought to boost sales
and discourage competition by partnering with brands such as
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc.   Data Changes  The declines in Keurig shipments aren’t comparable to
earlier months because of changes in how the data is traced,
Akshay Jagdale, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.,
wrote in a note today. He advises buying the shares.  Astrachan didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Jagdale declined to be interviewed about Green
Mountain.  Green Mountain didn’t import any single-cup brewers in
November, according to  Zepol Corp. , a trade data company based
in Edina,  Minnesota . Other vendors may have imported Keurig
brewers to sell, Zepol said. Total U.S. imports of all single-
serve brewers fell 5 percent in November compared to the year
prior, the data show.  Astrachan said Green Mountain’s inventory has been
increasing faster than sales and is more than double that of
last year.  “The amount of brewers and K-Cups could be substantial,”
he said.  Green Mountain had $672.2 million in inventory as of Sept.
24, compared with $262.5 million a year earlier, according to a
company filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  