-- Greek Creditor Group Said Near Hiring Blackstone, Law Firms
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2011-12-15T12:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/greek-creditor-committee-is-said-to-work-with-blackstone-group-law-firms.html
A steering committee representing
global banks and insurers is close to hiring  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and two law firms to advise it on debt-swap talks with Greece,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  A formal engagement with Blackstone, White & Case LLP and
Allen & Overy LLP may be completed as early as this week, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private. The  steering committee  was formed last month
by a private creditor-investor group and is conducting
negotiations on the voluntary debt swap with Greek and European
authorities.  Creditors are working with the advisers to limit their
losses in a debt restructuring after already agreeing to accept
a 50 percent writedown on the face value of their Greek
sovereign holdings. The steering committee, which includes
representatives from  Axa SA (CS) , Commerzbank AG, ING Groep NV and
National Bank of Greece SA, is seeking to reach an agreement on
the details of a swap in early January, one person said.  “It presumably suggests that they are not accepting a fait
accompli,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based banking analyst at
Helvea. “You wouldn’t hire these guys if you weren’t trying to
reduce your losses.”  Debt Swap  The steering committee is co-chaired by  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the Institute of International Finance
industry group, and Jean Lemierre, a senior adviser to the
chairman at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, according to a Nov. 28 statement
from the IIF.  Frank Vogl, an IIF spokesman, declined to comment.  The IIF, representing more than 450 financial firms, agreed
in October in Brussels with European leaders to accept the
writedown on their Greek holdings to help the country recover.
The swap deal, part of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) second
bailout agreement for  Greece , is supposed to help the nation
reduce its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020.  The steering committee aims for “significantly more
progress” in talks on a Greek debt swap scheduled for this week
in Paris, the IIF said in a separate e-mailed statement
yesterday. The group met with Greek, European and International
Monetary Fund officials in Athens on Dec. 12 and Dec. 13, it
said.  New Proposals  Greece made new proposals on the structure of a debt swap
agreement with private creditors, while disagreement remains on
key issues, a person on the lenders’ negotiating committee said
this week. Under one plan, Greece would give 15 cents in cash
and 35 cents in new bonds for every euro of existing debt that
will be swapped, said the person.  Talks are progressing, and the creditors and government
authorities are seeking to find non-cash ways to enhance the
value of the new Greek debt, another person said. The
negotiations will address terms such as the collateral
accompanying the new bonds.  Most holders of Greek  government bonds  will participate
voluntarily in a writedown of the debt, Alexandros Manos,
managing director of  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , said at a conference in
Athens today.  “Most banks, insurance companies and  hedge funds  will
behave in a sensible way because if private-sector involvement
is not successful, their other assets will be at risk,” Manos
said. “I believe we will come close to the haircut target.”  In July, Greece said it hired three banks -- BNP Paribas,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and HSBC Holdings Plc -- to oversee its
voluntary bond exchange and debt buyback plan. The government
also retained  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  as its
international legal adviser and Lazard Ltd. as a financial
adviser, according to a statement at the time.  European stocks  rose after falling the most in three weeks
yesterday and Spanish bonds advanced as the nation raised almost
double its target at a debt sale. The euro was little changed at
$1.3003 after falling to $1.2946 yesterday, its lowest level
since Jan. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in  New York  at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  