-- 
Beware AIDS-Fighting Methods Built on Human Discipline: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/in-combatting-aids-beware-methods-that-depend-on-human-discipline-view.html
Anyone trying to follow developments
in HIV science has reason to feel bewildered of late. The news
from HIV-prevention research has been fast-paced and confusing.
What worked in one trial seems to fail in the next.  At the same time, the mixed results give policy makers
clues about how to prioritize efforts to prevent AIDS. By
highlighting the limitations of approaches that require human
discipline, the findings show the value of methods that don’t.  On Nov. 25,  researchers announced  that they had
discontinued a portion of a trial testing the ability of a
vaginal gel to prevent HIV infection. Preliminary data showed
that the gel, containing the AIDS treatment drug tenofovir, was
ineffective.  In a separate trial  that concluded last year, the
same gel had reduced the risk of HIV infection in female
participants by 39 percent.  How could trials of the same product get conflicting
results? A likely reason is that the two groups of women tested
were given different instructions. In the first trial, the
subjects were told to apply the gel before and after sex, and in
the second they were told to apply it every day. Daily use may
have proved too inconvenient, unpleasant or hard to remember. So
the gel may work, as suggested by the first study, but may have
been used too inconsistently to show an effect in the second
one.  The adherence factor also may explain differing outcomes of
studies that tested whether oral HIV treatments could prevent
infection.  A trial of established couples  in which one partner
was HIV-positive showed that the other partner’s risk of
infection declined if he or she took a daily oral dose of
tenofovir or tenofovir combined with emtricitabine.  Subsequent
studies  of women at risk of HIV infection  found no such benefit 
from either regimen.  Those women, however, weren’t necessarily in  stable
relationships . Arguably, the women with steady partners in the
first trial led more predictable lives and may have taken their
prescribed pills more regularly.  With any drug, adherence to a dosing regimen makes a
difference in effectiveness. With chronic diseases, people on
average take their prescribed medicine only about  half the time .
In the first study testing HIV pills as prevention, among
homosexual men,  blood tests indicated  that only about half of
participants actually took the drugs. Deploying these medicines
for HIV prevention may be similar to deploying condoms: They’re
effective, but not when people don’t use them.  What this tells us about combating HIV is that the less
prevention methods rely on compliance, the better. New
infections could be significantly reduced if efforts were
focused on strategies that require minimal human adherence.  Two existing methods are of particular value. The first is
male circumcision. About a million men have been circumcised for
purposes of HIV prevention since 2007, after  studies showed  that
the procedure reduced a man’s risk of HIV infection by a female
partner by about 60 percent. To achieve 80 percent coverage in
the 14 African countries with the highest HIV incidence would
mean  circumcising 20 million more men  by 2015. The procedure, of
course, requires the participant’s compliance, but once the cut
has healed, male circumcision affords a lifelong benefit without
further action.  The second strategy is preventing HIV transmission from a
mother to her child in the womb or during delivery. Today, of
the 2.6 million new HIV infections each year,  1 in 7  occurs this
way. Yet this method of transmission is  preventable  by
administering HIV drugs to the mother and newborn. The most
effective regimens involve multiple doses, but even a single
dose of nevirapine given to the mother at the onset of labor and
to the baby after delivery can halve the risk of transmission.  Maximizing circumcision and mother-and-child programs would
save lives. Sadly, neither of these strategies directly protects
women, who  account for 60 percent  of HIV infections in sub-
Saharan  Africa . If a  third study  of tenofovir gel, applied
vaginally before and after sex, shows efficacy in 2014, the
product probably will be licensed, though it may have limited
impact on the pandemic.  Given concerns about adherence, prevention methods for
women that minimize the need for constant dosing are all the
more necessary. Two promising strategies in development are a
 vaginal ring  that would slowly release an HIV-killing drug and
 AIDS vaccines .  HIV is almost entirely preventable. That it continues to
infect millions of people yearly speaks to its nature: It is
spread mainly through sex, a basic, human act that tends to
leave discipline behind. To defeat HIV, we need methods that
don’t depend on our weak points.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 