-- India Plans to Use Facebook, Twitter to Counter Internet-Savvy Opponents
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2011-12-15T12:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/india-presses-facebook-google-on-content-control-official-says.html
India ’s government plans to use
social-media sites such as those run by Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. to counter opposition from Internet-savvy, anti-
corruption groups.  “We should be able to use this space,” Minister of
Communications and Information Technology Kapil Sibal said
today. “This is about how social media can empower the
government.”  India held a meeting today with representatives from
Facebook,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , lawyers and legal experts to discuss ways
to increase the government’s presence on the Internet, said
Pavan Duggal, a Supreme Court lawyer who attended the meeting.
Some of India’s 38 million Facebook users have used the site to
support an anti-corruption movement, led by  Anna Hazare .  “We saw how fast governments unraveled as messages of
malcontent were amplified on these social-networking sites in
the Middle East,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. in  New Delhi .
“The situation is not as dire here, but the government is
certainly taking precautions with the Anna Hazare movement.”  The government will issue guidelines within a month on how
its officials can use social media, said R. Chandrasekhar,
secretary at the Department of  Information Technology .  Policy Drift  Singh’s government has been assailed by allegations of
graft and policy drift for more than a year after former Cabinet
minister  Andimuthu Raja , a lawmaker and company executives were
charged with conspiring in 2008 to sell permits to run mobile-
phone services at below-market rates. Sibal succeeded Raja.  The last four sessions of parliament have been disrupted by
opposition parties criticizing the administration for corruption
and inflation above 9 percent. Hazare, 73, is leading the
campaign against corruption and has demanded the government
enact a law to form a graft-fighting agency called Lokpal.  India fell four places in a global ranking of corruption
perception to a position below Liberia and  Colombia . The world’s
second-most populous nation was 95th of 183 countries in the
2011 Corruption Perceptions Index published this month by
Berlin-based Transparency International. The lower the ranking,
the more corrupt a nation is perceived to be.  India had about 89 million people using the Web at the end
of last year, compared with more than 450 million in  China , the
world’s largest Internet market, according to the  International
Telecommunication Union in  Geneva.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  