-- Japan Traders Eye $200 Billion Power Market Post-Fukushima
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2011-12-15T07:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/japan-s-big-old-businesses-eye-200-billion-power-market-post-fukushima.html
Japan ’s trading companies own enough
electricity capacity to supply more than 40 percent of the
country’s homes. Problem is, their generators aren’t in Japan.  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , the second-largest trading house, says that
may change as the Fukushima nuclear disaster forces a review of
electricity monopolies set up after World War II. It’s an
opportunity rivals  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  are also
looking at, along with  Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)   Japan’s 10 regional utilities dominate production,
transmission and distribution of power throughout the country,
generating combined annual revenue of 15.7 trillion yen ($200
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
government review of the industry includes plant sales and law
changes to spin off transmission businesses from power plants.  “It’s an investment opportunity for these guys and they
are all interested,” Penn Bowers, an analyst covering Japanese
 trading (8058)  houses and utilities with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
 Tokyo , said in an interview. “Trading companies are big, old
businesses. They see deregulation and they can throw a lot of
capital on it.”  Japan’s five biggest trading houses, with operations from
energy and mining to computers and cars, have about 4.54
trillion yen in cash and control more than 26,000 megawatts of
capacity around the world. The companies said they plan to add
at least 12,400 megawatts in  North America ,  Southeast Asia ,
 Europe  and  Africa  within four years. One megawatt powers about
800 U.S. households.  Easier in  China ?  In Japan, they together own 300 megawatts of capacity. When
Mitsui researched markets 10 years ago it was easier to enter
the power business in China than in Japan, Yasutaka Fukumori,
deputy head of strategy at Mitsui’s  infrastructure unit , said in
an interview in Tokyo in October.  “In Japan, it’s a question of whether power transmission
will be unbundled and the government and the public have to sign
off on that,” Fukumori said. “If a market for independent
power producers were to develop, we’d like to be actively
involved.”  Marubeni has been the most aggressive of the five companies
in accumulating power capacity. It owns 8,700 megawatts of
generation and is targeting 11,000 megawatts by March, half the
capacity of  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) , Japan’s fifth-largest
utility.  Marubeni Power  “Originally we exported generators and equipment from
Japan and then started to get engineering, procurement and
construction contracts,” Marubeni said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “In the 1990s, we started to join independent
power producer projects.”  Marubeni expanded into gas and coal-fired generation in
 Indonesia , the  United Arab Emirates  and  Vietnam  while building a
450-megawatt renewable energy portfolio, including a stake in
the world’s biggest offshore wind farm in the U.K. Marubeni
started power transmission and distribution businesses in 2010.  The company in June entered a joint venture to build a 220-
megawatt geothermal plant in Sumatra, Indonesia. Two days ago it
announced an order with Toshiba Corp. to build a 55-megawatt
geothermal plant in the same country.  Geothermal plants tap underground deposits of hot water and
steam, pumping it through pipes to turn turbines and generate
electricity. Indonesia has the world’s largest untapped store of
such volcanic energy.  Japan has nearly a tenth of the world’s active volcanoes
yet Marubeni has just 80 megawatts of capacity, all in
hydropower, in its home market because the country’s utilities
dominate supply. Other trading houses tell a similar story.  Nuclear Disadvantage  “It’s not so easy to identify suitable sites and compete
against vertically integrated power utilities, which have power
generation assets that include nuclear,” said Takahiko Ishiga,
a spokesman for  Itochu Corp. (8001)  The bulk of Itochu’s 2,734
megawatts of power assets are in the U.S. In Japan, it has a 21-
megawatt wind farm.  Difficulty in entering Japan’s electricity market is not
limited to domestic companies. Merrill Lynch & Co., now part of
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , quit electricity trading in Japan in
January 2009, less than two years after entering because it
failed to meet targets. In 2000, U.S.-based Enron Corp., which
collapsed the following year, scrapped plans to build a 2,000-
megawatt station in Aomori, northern Japan.  Owning atomic plants is not the advantage it once was as
public opposition to nuclear power grows in Japan following the
meltdown of three reactors at  Tokyo Electric (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi station after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  While atomic power provided about 30 percent of Japan’s
energy before the crisis, more than 80 percent of the country’s
reactors are now idled for repairs and safety checks. As more go
offline for scheduled maintenance, Japan will have no nuclear
reactors running by April unless the government authorizes
restarts.  In its annual review of  energy policy  in October, the first
since Fukushima, the government approved a white paper calling
for reduced reliance on nuclear power.  Forefront Investors  Less nuclear output would diminish the cost advantage
utilities have, providing openings for new entrants, according
to CLSA’s Bowers. Trading houses will probably be at the
forefront of any new investment, he said.  Opportunities in Japan’s power business will hinge on what
the government does with  Tokyo Electric , once the country’s
biggest utility and now surviving on bailouts to stay in
business and pay compensation claims.  The company said last month it plans to sell some thermal
power plants to raise cash for compensation payments related to
the Fukushima disaster. More than 160,000 people were evacuated
because of radiation and compensation claims may run to 4.5
trillion yen, according to government estimates.  Tepco may ask the government for a capital injection to
avoid collapse under the weight of compensation claims,
President Toshio Nishizawa said on Dec. 13.  Owning a stake in Tepco may allow the government to
separate the utility’s generation plants from transmission and
distribution, the Mainichi newspaper said on Dec. 8.  Tariff Attraction  While Tepco considers power plant sales potential buyers
are starting to line up. Tokyo Gas president Tsuyoshi Okamoto
said on Nov. 15 the company would consider buying Tepco’s
generation assets.  Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trading house by market
value, hasn’t detailed its strategy for energy investment in
Japan, though plans to almost double power generation capacity
to 6,000 megawatts by 2015. The company had an application to
build its first domestic power plant rejected in 2009.  “We see a future in both fossil fuels and renewable
energy,” spokesman Takashi Shiwaku said.  One advantage for new entrants is feed-in tariffs
introduced in August to promote renewable energy. The tariffs
require utilities to pay a higher price for electricity produced
from renewable energy.  ‘Guaranteed Business’  “If you have a feed-in tariff and the power companies have
to buy it, it’s a guaranteed business,” CLSA’s Bowers said.  Osaka Gas Co. (9532) , which has expanded into wind generation in
Japan, is “monitoring the situation with great interest,” said
Tatsuki Nakaniwa, a manager for its affiliated business.  The government plans to fix the tariff from July 1, which
will indicate the profitability of running solar, wind or
biomass plants. Japan’s richest man and Softbank Corp. mobile
network founder Masayoshi Son has said he’d invest as much as 20
billion yen with partners in clean-energy as long as the
government guarantee access to the grid.  The tariffs will be the trigger for Sumitomo’s power
expansion, Hidenori Kunioka, chief executive of the trading
house’s Summit Energy Corp., said in an interview.  Sumitomo owns two wind and three thermal projects in Japan,
selling electricity to supermarkets and other businesses as part
of a limited deregulation introduced in the 1990s.  Real Deregulation  In theory, those changes allow commercial users accounting
for about 60 percent of demand to choose their suppliers, from
the regional utilities and the roughly 30 power companies that
entered the market since 2000.  In practice, only 2.8 percent of the market has shifted to
the new entrants, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
while the government hasn’t extended the options to residential
users that make up the remaining 40 percent of consumption.  “Before the earthquake, we didn’t have any customers who
said they didn’t like nuclear power, or who didn’t want to buy
power from utilities that operated nuclear reactors,” Summit
Energy’s Kunioka said. “Now electricity is scarce, so we expect
that there will be more business opportunities.”  With the nuclear power plants offline, power shortages next
summer may be more severe than this year, when the government
asked users to reduce consumption by 15 percent.  Until the government fixes the feed-in tariff and picks a
new energy policy the role of the utilities and nuclear power
remain unclear.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said that some idled
reactors will need to restart to keep the economy going. The
government has also said it won’t allow Tepco to go bankrupt,
while there’s no time set for a decision on breaking up the
electricity monopolies.  “There’s indecisiveness, meaning our investment decisions
will also be delayed,” Summit Energy’s Kunioka said. “I would
like to tell the government: Hurry up and make up your mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  