-- Kingfisher May Get Banks’ Support for Turnaround, Singh Says
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-15T11:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/kingfisher-air-may-get-banks-support-singh.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that sought government assistance after losses widened,
may find support from banks in its turnaround efforts, said
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.  “If they take corrective measures, I am sure, things
should work out,” Singh said in an interview in his office in
Parliament House in New Delhi yesterday. “The Indian banking
system has a stake in their well-being. With a government nod,
things will turn around.”  Kingfisher, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, has
begun talks with banks as it seeks funds and cuts flights
following 16 straight quarterly losses. The airline has pledged
its brand, office furniture and other assets against a debt of
about $1.2 billion, as it struggles with fuel costs, a price war
and a slumping rupee.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest bank, and other
lenders earlier this year converted 13 billion rupees ($241
million) of existing Kingfisher debt into preferred shares. They
also granted as much as 12.1 billion rupees of new loans to the
Bangalore-based carrier.  The airline fell 2.8 percent to 22.8 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai today.  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s
biggest airline, declined 4.3 percent, while  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) ,
India’s only listed budget carrier, dropped 5.8 percent. All
three stocks have fallen at least 65 percent this year.  Kingfisher and Jet have lost a combined 63 billion rupees
in three years as they failed to turn surging travel demand into
profit. State-owned  Air India  has received 32 billion rupees in
government bailouts since April 2009 because of losses.  $2.5 Billion Loss  Carriers in India are expected to lose about $2.5 billion
in the year ending in March, according to CAPA Centre for
Aviation, an industry consultant.  Kingfisher plans to raise about 10 billion rupees in new
loans,  Ravi Nedungadi , chief financial officer at parent UB
Group, said Nov. 15. The company may also sell shares in a
rights offer before the end of March and sell property in Mumbai
for funds.  The airline has a debt-to-asset ratio of 82 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jet Airways’ ratio is
67 percent, while SpiceJet is at 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  