-- Kluger Admits Stealing Law-Firm M&A Secrets in Trading Scheme
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-12-15T05:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/kluger-to-plead-guilty-in-law-firm-insider-trading-scheme-1-.html
Attorney  Matthew Kluger , admitting
to helping fuel an insider-trading scheme that prosecutors said
generated $37 million in illegal profits, pleaded guilty to
stealing corporate merger tips from four law firms.  Kluger, was the third defendant to plead guilty, admitting
in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, that he stole nonpublic
data on about 30 corporate transactions over 17 years. He said
he passed tips to middleman Kenneth Robinson, who gave them to
trader Garrett Bauer to buy shares. When the deals went public,
Bauer sold shares and gave cash to his partners.  Kluger, 50, “did it for selfish reasons that he recognizes
and feels terrible about,” his attorney, Alan Zegas, said in an
interview after yesterday’s court hearing. Kluger passed along
tips gained from his work at four law firms including  Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP  and  Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich &
Rosati PC .  Prosecutors said the scheme involved companies such as Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  They said Bauer,
who pleaded guilty Dec. 8, made more than $30 million in profit,
while Robinson and Kluger each made less than $1 million.
Robinson pleaded guilty April 11 after secretly recording the
other two men for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Kluger only learned after his arrest on April 6 that Bauer
was trading “far in excess of what he said he was doing” and
wasn’t splitting the profits equally, as the men agreed, Zegas
said after the hearing. “He would not have agreed if he knew
what Mr. Bauer was trading.”  ‘Did Not Know’  Outside the courtroom, Kluger said: “I did not know
Bauer.”  Zegas disputed the government’s claim that it was a
$37 million scheme. He said the length of Kluger’s sentence will
depend on the amount of profit he could have “reasonably
foreseen” he would make.  Like Bauer, Kluger pleaded guilty to  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
 money laundering  and obstruction of justice. He also agreed to
forfeit $415,000 in cash.  “Not only did Matthew Kluger defraud the investing public,
he betrayed the colleagues and clients who depended on his
confidentiality in some of the biggest deals of the last
decade,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  He faces as many as 20 years in prison on all but the
conspiracy to commit securities fraud count, which carries a
five-year term. Kluger, who is free on $1 million bail, is
scheduled to be sentenced April 9 by U.S. District Judge
Katharine Hayden.  Searched Computers  In his plea, Kluger said the scheme started in 1994, when
he first worked as an associate for New York-based firm  Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP . Kluger at first passed tips only on those
deals on which he worked. As the scheme developed, Kluger stole
information about deals on which he didn’t work, and he learned
about by searching the firm’s computers.  The scheme continued when Kluger worked from 1998 to 2001
at  Skadden Arps , another New York-based firm, and when he worked
from 2001 to 2002 at  Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP ,
Kluger admitted. It began again in December 2005 and ran until
March 2011, when Kluger worked in the Washington office of
 Wilson Sonsini .  Kluger said the men used prepaid cellular phones and pay
phones to discuss the deals and elude detection. After learning
in March of the probe by the FBI and  Internal Revenue Service ,
Kluger destroyed a cellular phone, a computer and an iPhone he
used to look up stock quotes, he said.  Robinson, 45, of  Long Beach ,  New York , was a mortgage
broker who secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer, a New York man.  “I really would like to see this phone go bye-bye ASAP,
like maybe tonight if you can,” Kluger told Robinson, according
to court papers. “Do you want this to be our undoing?”  Bauer forfeited about $20 million in bank accounts and
trading accounts, as well as a $6.65 million condominium on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan and an $875,000 home in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida . Prosecutors said the properties had liens on them.  Kluger lives in Oakton,  Virginia , and has twin boys who
will soon turn 10 and an 11-year-old son.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-03536, U.S. District
Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  