-- NFL Signs Nine-Year Extensions of Television Contracts With CBS, FOX, NBC
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-12-15T05:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/nfl-renews-television-contracts-with-cbs-fox-nbc-networks-through-2022.html
The  National Football League , the
U.S.’s most-watched sport, will generate about 60 percent more
revenue through 2022 from nine-year contract extensions with  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox unit and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC.  Rights fees for all three networks will increase by about 6
percent or 7 percent a year, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks who were granted anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to disclose the terms. The NFL currently
receives about $4 billion a year in television rights fees from
companies including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  DirecTV. (DTV)   “It’s an exceptional deal under any economic
circumstances, let alone the current climate,” Marc Ganis,
president of Chicago-based industry consultant Sportscorp Ltd.,
said in an interview yesterday at an NFL owners meeting in
Irving,  Texas . “It demonstrates the extraordinary power of the
NFL and it doesn’t even look like it’s peaked yet.”  The Super Bowl championship game between the Pittsburgh
Steelers and the  Green Bay Packers  in February was the most-
watched program in U.S. television history.  “From the beginning of September through the second week
in February, it’s dominant television programming,” Sean McManus, president of CBS Sports, said in a telephone interview.
“The ratings are consistently remarkable and once you get into
the postseason, they get even better.”  ESPN said Sept. 8 it extended its agreement with the NFL
for eight years, giving the Disney unit “Monday Night
Football” through the 2021 season. The deal was valued at $1.9
billion a year, or about 73 percent more than the Bristol,
Connecticut-based network has been paying, the New York Times
reported.  Labor Peace  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  -- who along with the three
broadcast networks declined to reveal financial terms -- said
the 32-team league’s new decade-long labor agreement signed
after a four-month offseason lockout helped it to negotiate the
longest television deals in league history.  “That kind of stability gave us the ability to get these
contract extensions,” Goodell told reporters yesterday. “The
players deserve great credit.”  Under the terms of the new collective bargaining agreement,
the players’ share of broadcast revenue climbs to about 55
percent from around 50-51 percent under the prior deal, Ganis
said. The NFL has annual revenue in excess of $9 billion.  “Whether they did that intentionally or not, the players
have been very smart,” Ganis said. “The TV deal is phenomenal
for them.”  Super Bowls  CBS will continue to broadcast American Football Conference
games, with Fox airing the  National Football Conference  and NBC
showing a Sunday night prime-time matchup. Each network will
show three Super Bowls during the span of the contract
extensions, which McManus said was important to CBS.  “It’s a product you want to watch live,” McManus said.
“When they began to talk about eight years or longer, we said
that, within reason, the longer the deal the better for CBS,
because the value is only going to increase in future years.”  The agreements continue the sport’s flexible-scheduling
system to allow games between playoff contenders to be shown
late in the season, while the league-owned NFL Network will be
able to expand its existing slate of eight Thursday night games.
The league’s broadcast committee will decide whether the NFL
Network retains exclusive rights to Thursday night games,
Goodell said.  NBC will continue showing the league’s opening Thursday
night game and will add a night game during the U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in  Dallas  at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  