-- Obama Nominates Two to Fill Vacancies on Labor Board
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2011-12-15T20:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/obama-names-two-new-members-to-labor-relations-board.html
President  Barack Obama  is nominating
two members to the  National Labor Relations Board  as the U.S.
agency is in the middle of a partisan fight over the role of
government in regulating business.  The nominations of U.S. Labor Department official Sharon
Block and union counsel Richard Griffin were announced
yesterday, a week after the NLRB withdrew its case against
 Boeing Co. (BA)  over building an airplane factory in South Carolina.  Block, 46, is the Labor Department’s deputy assistant
secretary for congressional affairs. From 2006 to 2009, she was
senior counsel for the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee under the late Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy of  Massachusetts . Griffin, 55, is general counsel for
the International Union of Operating Engineers and was on the
board of the Lawyers Coordinating Committee at the AFL-CIO since
1994.  Fred Wszolek, a spokesman for the Workforce Fairness
Institute, which oppose unions, said Obama isn’t likely to win
Senate confirmation of Block and Griffin.  “President Obama’s nominees to the NLRB represent a
holiday gift to big labor, except this time around there is
little to no chance the package will make it under the tree as
Congress appears unlikely to support the nominations or allow
any recess appointments,” Wszolek said.  Democrats control 53 votes in the Senate, where agreement
by 60 senators is needed to move ahead on any legislation or
nomination.  ‘Pointless Exercise’  “This appears to be a pointless exercise as the past
actions by the board have so poisoned the well that it is highly
unlikely these nominations will go anywhere,” Randel Johnson,
who manages labor policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the
nation’s largest business lobbying group, said in an e-mail.  Obama’s nominations may be an effort to show labor unions -
- whose support he needs in his re-election campaign -- that he
understands and cares about their issues, said  Gary Chaison , a
labor professor at  Clark University  in Worcester, Massachusetts.  “It shows he intends on making the NLRB the true protector
of workers’ rights if only he is elected, so he needs their
campaign support,” he said. “Even if the nominees never make
it through, the mere fact of the nomination shows that the White
House cares for workers and unions.”  Republican Effort  Republicans in Congress have sought to curb the NLRB’s
powers after the Boeing case, which was raised as an issue by
Republicans running to oppose Obama in November. An earlier
board nomination by Obama has stalled in the Senate.  The five-member board has two vacancies and the term of
Democrat  Craig Becker , a former lawyer for the AFL-CIO and the
 Service Employees International Union , will expire tomorrow,
leaving two members and not enough for a quorum. Obama formally
withdrew today Becker’s nomination for a full term.  Obama’s nomination in January of Terence Flynn, a
Republican labor lawyer, hasn’t been taken up by the Senate. The
board has three members of the president’s party and two from
the opposition party.  The  U.S. Supreme Court  has ruled the NLRB can’t make
decisions with just two members.  The board spurred Republican ire after the complaint filed
in April by its acting general counsel said Boeing violated laws
protecting striking workers when it decided in 2009 to build a
factory in South Carolina for the 787 Dreamliner plane.  South
Carolina  is among 22 states with so-called right-to-work laws,
letting employees opt out of joining a union.  Boeing Factory  Executives with the Chicago-based company said when they
announced the plan that they were seeking production stability
in South Carolina and that the decision was made for financial
reasons, not retaliation. Boeing’s workers in the Seattle area
went on strike five times since 1977, the NLRB said.  The complaint was withdrawn on Dec. 9 after Boeing and its
Machinists union reached agreement on a contract. Even with the
resolution, some Republicans said they would investigate and try
to rein in the board through legislation.  A Republican-backed measure to restrict the NLRB’s
authority passed the House on Nov. 30. Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and chairman of the House
Education and Workforce Committee, said last week after the
Boeing complaint was dropped that congressional action on the
NLRB “has never been more urgent.”  Republican presidential candidates, led by former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, have targeted the labor
board in debates and campaign rallies as an example of job-
killing regulation by the federal government.  Block and Griffin were praised by  Richard Trumka , president
of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union federation.  “Both have long and deep labor law experience and
understanding of workers’ issues,” Trumka said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  