-- Olympus’s Takayama Says He Wants to Avoid Battle With Predecessor Woodford
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2011-12-15T05:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/olympus-meets-earnings-deadline-to-avoid-automatic-delisting-shares-drop.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  President Shuichi Takayama said he wants to avoid a battle for control of the
company with predecessor  Michael Woodford , whose ouster sparked
a fraud scandal that may cost the camera maker its listing.  Olympus has been reeling since Woodford questioned inflated
fees and takeover costs after he was fired Oct. 14. The company,
having admitted to a 13-year scheme to hide losses and having
purged senior executives, still faces criminal probes, a battle
for management control and a TSE review that may yet see it
ejected from the world’s second-biggest bourse.  Takayama said while he was willing to work with Woodford,
they won’t meet him until after a panel to advise on changes in
management reports. The 51-year-old Briton and Takayama are
vying for shareholder backing for their plans to revamp the
company and restore investor confidence. The shares plunged as
much as 20 percent today after Olympus restated earnings and
took a $1.3 billion reduction in net assets.  “Even if we can assume they’ve put their problems behind
them and will stay listed, the instability will likely continue
amid questions about who runs the company, whether new
management can pull things together, and its finances,” said
Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo.
“They avoided insolvency but their capital ratio fell as low as
5 percent, which is a weak financial base.”  Takayama said he will consider all options to restore
capital, including a tie-up with other companies. Tokyo Stock
Exchange rules permit companies to issue new shares to a third
party with a dilutive effect of as much as 25 percent without
seeking shareholder approval.  Shareholder Vote  The stock dropped 19 percent to 1,065 yen as of 2:21 p.m.
on Tokyo’s stock exchange.  Shareholders will vote on new management in March or April,
Olympus said today. Takayama said the replacement of the entire
board may not be necessary.  “We’ll review our management structure, corporate
governance and our business plans as we prepare for the
shareholder meeting,” Takayama told reporters in  Tokyo . “We’ll
be reborn as new Olympus so that we can provide value to all our
stakeholders including shareholders, customers, banks and our
employees.”  Board Failed  Shareholders including Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
the biggest overseas stockholder, have joined Woodford in
insisting that the entire board should go. An independent panel
set up to investigate the fraud found a culture of “yes men”
and a board that failed in its duty to stop a “rotten” core of
executives from duping auditors, regulators and investors.  The board unanimously voted to fire Woodford when he
challenged the accounting practices. Some board members and
senior executives, including the head of the treasury department
Shigemi Sugimoto, signed off on documents that formed part of
the fraud and were at today’s press briefing.  Repeated attempts to reach Olympus executives accused of
being involved in the schemes have failed.  Woodford yesterday appeared before lawmakers considering
changes to the country’s corporate governance laws. The 51-year-
old Briton has said he plans to propose a new slate of directors
and that he would like to be reinstated. He said Takayama must
step down, though he is willing to work with him to form a new
board.  Net Assets  While the company needs a capital injection, it should
avoid an alliance and remain independent, Woodford said.  The world’s biggest manufacturer of endoscopes yesterday
filed corrected financial statements for more than five years to
avoid the immediate threat of delisting.  Net assets fell to 46 billion yen ($590 million) as of
Sept. 30 from 151 billion yen reported in the previous quarter.
That took the ratio to total assets to 4.8 percent, compared
with the 44 percent average of 15 global peers in the precision-
engineering sector, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Equity capital has eroded more than expected,” Tokyo-
based Rating & Investment Information Inc. said in a statement
announcing its decision to cut Olympus two levels to BBB-, with
a view to a further downgrade. The rating is one above non-
investment, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The
possibility of additional losses from a lawsuit and other
factors also cannot be ruled out.”  R&I is the only company with a  credit rating  on Olympus,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Delisting Threat  The TSE removed the company from its watch list for
automatic delisting after it began filing with the Financial
Services Agency. It remains on a separate list for delisting
pending a review of the fraud by the exchange.  Olympus stock plunged as much as 81 percent, wiping $7.1
billion off the company’s market value, after Woodford’s Oct. 14
dismissal. The shares had recouped about half that loss as of
yesterday as investors bet the fallout from the scandal would be
contained and delisting avoided.  Law enforcement agencies in  Japan , the U.K. and the U.S.
are probing the company after it admitted filing false accounts
and hiring a network of advisers, who set up offshore vehicles
to route false takeover costs and advisory fees back to Olympus.
These were used to cancel out investment losses dating to the
1990s.  Olympus inflated fees and overpaid for companies it bought
with the intention of increasing goodwill, according to the Dec.
6 findings of an independent panel investigating the fraud.
Hisashi Mori, fired as executive vice president, and Hideo Yamada, a former company auditor, planned to write down the
goodwill over years to cancel out the hidden losses.  Goodwill Hunting  Goodwill was 121.7 billion yen as of Sept. 30, from the
previously reported 168 billion yen at June 30.  Olympus, which restated earnings since 2007, consolidated
13 investment funds used in its cover-up. That led the company
to cut the value of its earned surplus as of April 2006 by 117.3
billion yen, it said.  Olympus had a net loss of 32 billion yen for the fiscal
first-half ended Sept. 30, compared with a revised net income of
3.8 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue was 414.5 billion yen
for the six months, from 417.3 billion yen a year earlier.  The company withdrew its earnings forecasts for this fiscal
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  