-- 
Hong Kong Home Prices May Drop by 10% Before Recovering, StanChart Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-14T01:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/hong-kong-home-prices-may-drop-by-10-before-recovering-stanchart-says.html
Hong Kong   home prices , which rose
the most globally in the past year, may need to fall as much as
10 percent in 2012 before buyers are lured back, according to
 Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   “Most people are on the sideline,” Benjamin Hung, chief
executive officer of the bank’s local unit, said in an interview
yesterday. “They are watching. They are waiting. In order for
activities to go up, prices may have to come down to drive a
little bit more interest.”  Hong Kong home prices slid to a six-month low in early
November while the number of  housing transactions  the previous
month fell to nearly a three-year low, after the government
increased minimum down-payment requirements and increased land
sales to curb a housing bubble. Prices may fall as much as 30
percent by 2013 on rising  mortgage rates , according to  Andrew Lawrence , head of property sector research at Barclays Capital
Asia Ltd.  Standard Chartered , the city’s fourth-biggest mortgage
lender, accounted for 7.3 percent of new mortgage deals in Hong
Kong from January to November, behind BOC Hong Kong Holdings
Ltd.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  Hang Seng Bank Ltd., (11)  according to
mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services.  The government’s property curbs came after  prices  soared
more than 70 percent since early 2009, fueled by record-low
mortgage rates, a shortage of new housing supply and an influx
of buyers from other parts of  China . Hong Kong home prices were
the best performer globally over the past 12 months, according
to Knight Frank LLP.  ‘Good Cushion’  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de-facto
central bank, has asked lenders to keep more reserves as part of
their counter-cyclical measures, Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
told reporters in Beijing on Nov. 23, adding that loan growth
may slow next year on lower mortgage lending.  The loan-to-value ratio in Standard Chartered’s mortgage
portfolio in Hong Kong was about 50 percent at the end of
November, Hung said.  “We do have a good cushion in terms of the loan-to-
value,” he said. “If we combined that with a good culture of
meeting debt obligation, I’m less worried about the performance
from the credit standpoint.”  Prices have fallen as much as 4 percent from their peak in
June, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held realtor. The
number of home deals in November fell 64 percent from a year
earlier, according to Land Registry figures.  Home prices  will probably fall 10 percent next year before
transactions return to “a normal level of around 8,000 to
10,000 deals a month,” said Yu Kam-hung, a Hong Kong-based
senior managing director at CBRE Group Inc., the world’s biggest
commercial property brokerage. The number of home sales has
dropped to below 5,500 a month from July to November, according
to Land Registry figures.  “Lower transactions combined with a not significant
adjustment in the property price suggest that people are
watching,” Hung said. “I don’t think there’re a lot of
desperate sales.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  