-- 
Ouattara’s Party Widens Lead in Ivory Coast Parliament Vote

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-12-14T04:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/ouattara-s-party-widens-lead-in-ivory-coast-parliament-vote-1-.html
Ivory Coast  President  Alassane
Ouattara ’s party increased its lead in the first legislative
elections the world’s biggest cocoa producer has held in a
decade, a contest the United Nations called a positive step
toward national reconciliation.  Ouattara’s Rassemblement des Republicains had 46 seats,
while the Parti Democratique de la Cote d’Ivoire, which
supported the leader in the November 2010 presidential poll and
is now part of a governing coalition, had 29 seats, according to
the country’s electoral commission. Independent candidates had
17 seats. As many as 1,160 candidates were vying for 255 seats
in the Dec. 11 election.  The party of former leader  Laurent Gbagbo , who faces
charges of crimes against humanity at the  International Criminal
Court , boycotted the National Assembly vote. Gbagbo’s refusal to
accept defeat in last year’s vote sparked five months of
violence that killed as many as 3,000 people.  “This election is an important step towards the full
restoration of constitutional order in Cote d’Ivoire and should
contribute to national reconciliation,” United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement published on
the UN’s website dated Dec. 12. Candidates should “preserve the
peaceful atmosphere” as ballots are counted, he said.  Ouattara, 69, wants to guarantee farmers as much as 60
percent of the international cocoa price to spur investment and
output of the chocolate ingredient. Those plans are part of
wider measures in the industry, including dissolving regulatory
bodies, required by the  International Monetary Fund  before it
considers debt relief for the West African nation.  Eurobonds  Ivory Coast’s economy is recovering from a civil war
sparked by the post-election crisis that stalled output in the
first quarter. The Finance Ministry projects economic expansion
of 8.5 percent in 2012 from a 5.8 percent contraction this year.
Better management of the economy may help the government resume
interest payments on defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobonds in June,
Norbert Kobenan, an aide to the finance minister, said Nov. 21.  The yield on the bonds, which the country defaulted on in
January, fell 25 basis points to 14.052 late yesterday in
 London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On Dec. 9, the
price fell to the lowest since March, closing at 48.375 cents on
the dollar.  Gbagbo, 66, was charged at the ICC in The Hague last week
after being captured in Abidjan in April when Ouattara’s forces,
with support from  United Nations  and French troops, took over
the city. Several members of Gbagbo’s Front Populaire Ivorien
party, which had ruled for a decade, were arrested or left the
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  