-- 
Philippines Plans Spending Jump to Counter Europe, Abad Says

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-12-14T04:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/philippines-plans-spending-jump-to-counter-europe-abad-says.html
The Philippines is preparing a surge
in state spending in coming months that will widen its  budget
deficit  in 2012 as the government seeks to shield the economy
from the European crisis, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said.  The 2011  shortfall  will be 150 billion pesos ($3.4 billion)
to 180 billion pesos, Abad, 57, said in an interview late
yesterday in Manila. The estimate is more than double the 74.3
billion-peso  deficit  in the ten months through October, and
compares with a previous forecast of 260.6 billion pesos.
The gap may reach 286 billion pesos next year, or 2.6 percent of
gross domestic product, he said, reiterating an earlier estimate.  “This time, our problem will be different; how to keep
within the ceiling,” Abad said. “Demand from the outside is
going to be weak and we will have to depend on consumption or
demand from within. This is our participation, making sure we
are cranking the government machinery to create that demand.”  President  Benigno Aquino  has won credit-rating upgrades
from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service this year after
taking steps to narrow the budget gap from a record 314 billion
pesos in 2010. As  Europe ’s deepening sovereign-debt crisis
threatened to push the world into another recession, the
Philippines unveiled a 72 billion-peso  fiscal stimulus  package
in October to bolster growth.  “Given the external environment, the domestic economy could
do with a little more fiscal support,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The higher
 government spending  should be good. You can’t count on exports
to be supporting growth.”  The peso fell to a ten-month low today, declining along
with most Asian currencies after the U.S. Federal Reserve
offered no new measures to spur economic growth and as European
leaders’ plans to stem their debt crisis failed to assure
investors. Philippine exports dropped for a sixth month, a
report showed yesterday. The peso fell 0.6 percent to 44.155 a
dollar as of 11:58 a.m. in  Manila . Benchmark 11-year bonds due
January 2022 dropped for a second day.  Growth Falters  The economy expanded 3.2 percent in the third quarter,
holding near the 3.1 percent pace the previous three months that
was the slowest since 2009. Without the decline in construction
caused by slow spending on public works, growth would have
reached 3.8 percent, the government said. Meeting this year’s
4.5 percent-to-5.5 percent growth forecast is going to be a
challenge, Abad said.  “If we are to continue to be shielded, government needs to
spend more on employment-generating projects and the large-value
infrastructure that are needed as base for sustainable long-term
growth,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said on Dec. 11.  The Department of Budget and Management will authorize
spending for 170 billion pesos worth of infrastructure projects
at the start of the year as part of the 1.8 trillion-peso budget
that Aquino will sign tomorrow, Abad said. By spending a bigger
part of the budget in the first half before typhoons start, the
 Philippines  has a better chance of meeting the forecast 5
percent to 6 percent GDP growth in 2012, Abad said.  “It’s going to be much better than our performance in the
whole of 2011,” he said.  Projects Offered  On top of public works, the government has started to offer
projects for private investment. Ayala Corp. and a unit of San
Miguel Corp. submitted bids for a 2 billion-peso road project,
Public Works Director Rebecca Garsuta said this week.  Spending fell 5.4 percent in the first 10 months of 2011 as
projects inherited from the administration of  Gloria Arroyo  were
scrutinized in line with Aquino’s anti-corruption campaign, the
budget secretary said.  “Some of the under-spending is due to the fact that we ran
the finances of the government much better,” Abad said. The
government will use the funds to give cash to the poor, relocate
the homeless and provide electricity and health care, he said,
estimating that about 45 billion pesos to 100 billion pesos of
the budget unspent this year will be carried over to 2012.  A wider deficit in 2012 is something that credit rating
companies and investors shouldn’t worry about, Abad said. The
Philippines will stick to a plan of narrowing the deficit to 2
percent of GDP by 2013, the budget chief said.  Debt Buybacks  Bond exchanges and a debt buyback completed this year will
yield about 37 billion pesos in savings while an improved
inventory of state workers that will eliminate ”ghost” police
and soldiers is expected to cut costs by 20 billion pesos, he
said.  Next year, the government wants Congress to pass laws that
will adjust excise taxes on beer and tobacco based on inflation
to generate 60 billion pesos in additional income,
”rationalize” tax incentives and provide a revenue measure for
every spending item, Abad said.  “Initially, we were constrained by the president’s promise
that we will not impose new tax measures,” Abad said. “There
was a debate that these are not new tax measures and are
administrative reform measures. The president said: ‘Okay let’s
push that.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  