-- Putin Opposition to Keep Up Protests as Russian Presidential Vote Nears
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2011-12-15T11:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/putin-opposition-to-keep-up-protests-as-presidential-vote-nears.html
Russian middle-class protests will
continue against Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  as he tries to
shore up his support less than three months before a
presidential election.  Opposition leaders got permission yesterday to follow up
Moscow’s biggest ever anti-Putin demonstration on Dec. 10 with a
rally of as many as 50,000 people on Dec. 24. That would be
double the size of the crowd police estimated last week. Putin
in a televised call-in show today denied fraud in this month’s
parliamentary vote and warned his opponents against
destabilizing the country.  Growing discontent handed the ruling United Russia party
its worst electoral setback in the Dec. 4 parliamentary vote and
is threatening to force Putin into a runoff for the first time
in his bid to return to the presidency. Protests over election
fraud, led by urban professionals who benefited from  Russia ’s
prosperous decade, have pushed equity prices lower and helped
send the ruble on its longest losing streak since January 2009.  “I don’t think cold weather and snow are going to be
enough to put this middle-class genie back in the bottle,”
 Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Moscow-based Verno
Capital, which manages $175 million, said yesterday by e-mail.
“I think there are enough politicized people to keep up the
pressure until March.”  The dollar-denominated  RTS stock index  has lost more than
13 percent of its value since markets reopened after the
parliamentary elections, in which United Russia won just below
50 percent of votes amid accusations of ballot-stuffing. The
ruble has declined for 10 straight sessions against the dollar.  ‘Very Volatile Market’  “It’s a very volatile market at the moment,” Javier Garcia, a portfolio manager at Swiss & Global Asset Management
Ltd. in Zurich who manages the $30 million Julius Baer Russia
Fund, said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “The
new government now has a big chance to listen to this new force
and to implement reforms and to bring Russia into the next
growth level.”  United Russia ’s majority in the State Duma slumped to 238
of the legislature’s 450 seats from 315 in 2007 as stalling wage
growth and the government’s shortcomings in curbing corruption
repelled voters. U.S. and European observers said the vote was
neither free nor fair.  The party won more than 46 percent of the vote in Moscow,
 Europe ’s largest city with 11.5 million people and the epicenter
of the protests to date, according to official results. That
compared with 27.5 percent support in an exit poll by the Public
Opinion Foundation.  ‘No One-Time Phenomenon’  The momentum for protests will grow as demonstrators plan
more rallies across the country, according to Vladimir Ryzhkov,
a leader of Solidarity, an umbrella group that unites several
opposition movements.  “The authorities need to understand that this isn’t just a
one-time phenomenon but a constant campaign of civil protests
like in Syria, Libya, Georgia or  Yugoslavia , until the people
achieve their goals,” Ryzhkov said in a Dec. 12 interview.
“The thousands that came to protest Dec. 10 are just the tip of
the iceberg.”  Elena Ivanovskaya, 33, a mother-of-three who works in
publishing in Moscow, was among the protesters who braved snow
and near-freezing temperatures on Dec. 10 on an island south of
the Kremlin and plans to protest again on Dec. 24.  “We want change,” said Ivanovskaya, who worked as a
volunteer election-commission member for the pro-democracy
Yabloko party during the parliamentary poll and is going to file
a court complaint on vote falsification at her station. “If the
authorities continue to behave in the same way, pressuring
people, they will provoke even the most loyal citizens to
protest.”  Presidential Vote  Putin, 59, said in September he plans to return to the
presidency, pushing aside  Dmitry Medvedev , who replaced him in
2008 after his predecessor completed the constitutional maximum
two consecutive terms.  He needs to win more than 50 percent backing in the March 4
election to avoid a runoff and may face billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  and  Gennady Zyuganov , leader of the Communist Party,
which came second in the Duma vote.  Putin is “determined to win in the first round,” which
can only be achieved by mass fraud, according to Stanislav Belkovsky, a former Kremlin adviser who heads the Institute for
National Strategy in Moscow.  If this happens, “hundreds of thousands of people will
take to the streets, not tens of thousands as before,” he said
by phone Dec. 13.  ‘Election Abuse’  There may be greater fraud in the presidential elections
because there will be fewer players involved and therefore less
monitoring, according to Golos, a vote-monitoring group.  “This offers a greater possibility for election abuse,”
Alexander Kynev, head of Moscow-based Golos’s analytical
department, said yesterday by e-mail. “If the list of
candidates holds no intrigue and is of no interest, turnout will
be low. That will hugely increase the temptation to inflate it
through fraud.”  Putin would risk unleashing a “destructive force” by
rigging parliamentary and presidential elections, the Center for
Strategic Studies, a Moscow-based research group that advises
the government, warned in a March report.  Economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during Putin’s
2000-2008 tenure and he remains Russia’s most popular
politician.  His approval rating is 46 percent, according to a Nov.
26-27 poll of 3,000 people by the  Public Opinion  Foundation. No
margin of error was given. The state-run All-Russian Center for
the Study of Public Opinion, or VTsIOM, gives Putin 41 percent
approval in a poll conducted among 1,600 people on Nov. 26-27
with a 3.4 percentage-point margin of error.  Dealing With Dissent  The Dec. 10 rally, which passed without violence or
detentions, shows that Russian authorities are becoming better
at dealing with dissent, said Joerg Forbrig, senior program
officer for Central and Eastern Europe at the  German Marshall
Fund  of the  United States  in Berlin.  Putin has been “on a learning curve for the past 20 years
and now better knows how to handle protests and win back popular
support,” he said. “It’s very smart of Putin to let it go and
give free space to protesters and let them be covered in the
media. The Christmas holiday is coming and it may peter out.”  To address voter concerns, Putin “should focus on reforms,
push them through, bring down corruption and bureaucracy and
make Russia an attractive place to invest in,” Swiss & Global’s
Garcia said.  Middle Class  It’s the successful, urban professionals that have featured
prominently at rallies so far who Putin must please, according
to Andrei Nechayev, a former economy minister and president of
the Russian Finance Corporation.  “This means the middle-class is fed up, this is an
entirely new development,” said Nechayev, who attended the Dec.
10 rally.  While the emergence of a politically active middle class
may prove a thorn in Putin’s side as he gears up for a return to
the Kremlin, it’s positive for Russia’s development, according
to Verno’s Nash.  “In the past, about the only force able to discipline
Russia’s leaders has been the oil price,” he said. “A
politically active middle class has to be a better way of
delivering that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  