-- Record Big Ship Deliveries to Hit Asia Lines as Europeans Team Up: Freight
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2011-12-15T10:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/record-big-ship-deliveries-to-hit-asia-lines-as-europeans-team-up-freight.html
Container lines are losing money on
Asia- Europe  routes after slashing rates more than 50 percent
this year because of a price war and excess capacity. In 2012,
42 of the biggest ships ever built will join the competition.  The record number of ships able to hold more than 13,000
containers entering service will be almost double this year’s
tally of 22, according to Alphaliner and Clarkson Plc data. They
will boost the total fleet to about 100. Ships this big are only
used on Asia-Europe routes as they are too large for U.S. ports.  Mediterranean Shipping Co. and its new partner, Marseilles-
based CMA CGM SA, will lead the surge, receiving 21 ships and
boosting their combined fleet to 49. Asian lines will have 26
such-sized vessels by the end of next year, leaving them reliant
on smaller, less fuel-efficient ships to compete with the
alliance and Copenhagen-based  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S , which
together account for about half of Asia-North Europe capacity.  “It’s getting really tough for Asian lines on a trade that
is pretty much dominated by the Europeans,” said Jee Heon Seok,
a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.
“There’s not much choice at the moment other than reducing
capacity to give them a better chance of raising rates.”  Spot prices for hauling a 20-foot cargo box from  Asia  to
Europe have dropped to $490, the lowest since the  Shanghai
Shipping Exchange  started tracking data, as a flood of new ships
outpaces demand for Asian-made goods. The breakeven point on the
route is at least $700, according to Morgan Stanley.  Europe Shipments  Shipments to Europe rose 4.5 percent in the first 10 months
of this year, trailing an 8 percent increase in capacity,
according to Container Trade Statistics. Volumes next year may
rise 3.1 percent while capacity may increase as much as 10
percent, according to Alphaliner. Routes from Asia to Europe and
the Middle East account for 29 percent of global container
volumes, compared with 14 percent on trans-Pacific services,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Mediterranean Shipping and CMA CGM, the world’s second and
third-largest container lines, agreed this month to cooperate on
Asia-Europe routes, as part of a wider  partnership  designed to
pare overcapacity and improve service levels. The two lines
account for 22 percent of capacity on Asia-North Europe routes,
compared with Maersk’s 26 percent share, according to
 Alphaliner . The rest of the market is divided between 14 lines
operating in four groups.  ‘Huge Disadvantage’  The new partnership may help Mediterranean Shipping and CMA
CGM, which are both closely held, win customers from smaller
rivals as they will have more capacity, more services and the
biggest fleet of large fuel-efficient vessels, said Um Kyung A,
a Seoul-based analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.  “The alliance is going to put a lot of the Asian players
at a huge disadvantage,” Um said. “There is no way they will
be able to match it.”  Maersk has taken advantage of the 23 13,000-plus ships it
operates to help set up a daily service on Asia-Europe routes,
which offers the industry’s only guaranteed shipping times. The
company, which expects a loss at its container unit this year,
will also begin adding 20 18,000 vessels in 2013. These ships,
the  world’s biggest , will have a 26 percent per-box cost
advantage over the largest vessels currently used on Europe
lanes, Maersk has said.  Shares Slump  The  shipping line  has slumped about 31 percent in
Copenhagen trading this year.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and China
Shipping Container Lines Co., the nation’s two largest cargo-box
carriers, have dropped 56 percent and 53 percent respectively in
 Hong Kong . Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., the largest container line
in  Southeast Asia , has plunged by 47 percent in  Singapore .  China Cosco dropped 6 percent, the biggest decline in more
than a month, to close at HK$3.62 while China Shipping fell 1.8
percent to HK$1.60 in Hong Kong. Neptune Orient slipped 0.9
percent to S$1.145 in Singapore.  Among Asian lines, only China Cosco and China Shipping
currently operate ships with capacities bigger than 13,000
boxes. This reflects a greater focus on trans-Pacific routes by
carriers in the region.  More Mega-Ships  More Asian lines are set to begin operating mega-ships next
year.  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930) , a partner of Cosco, will get five
vessels bigger than 13,000 containers, according to Clarkson
data. Cosco will double its fleet of that size to eight. The two
lines also work on Asia-Europe routes with United Arab Shipping,
which will boost its mega-ship tally to nine from one by the end
of next year.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. will also add its first five
mega-ships next year. Its partner APL, a  Neptune Orient  unit,
will get its first ship of that size in 2013. The Singapore-
based carrier has begun receiving ten 10,000-unit vessels. The
shipping lines’ other partner Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. won’t get
its first mega-ship until 2013 at the earliest.  In the Grand Alliance grouping,  Orient Overseas
International Ltd. (316)  and Nippon Yusen K.K. will receive their
first mega-ships in 2013, according to Clarkson. Partner Hapag-
Lloyd AG, based in Hamburg, will get its first four 13,000-plus
ships next year.  In the smallest group by capacity on Asia-North Europe
routes, China Shipping will increase its fleet of mega-vessels
to eight from five by the end of next year. Partners  Evergreen
Group (2603)  and Zim Integrated Shipping Services Ltd. have yet to
order any vessels of that size, according to Clarkson, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Capacity Cuts  Shipping lines have cut capacity on Asia-Europe routes in a
bid to revive rates after industrywide losses, with carriers
including Hapag-Lloyd, Maersk and MSC announcing plans to add
levies of as much as $250 per box beginning as early as Dec. 16.  The cuts may not significantly boost rates, as industrywide
capacity on Asia-Europe routes has fallen by less than 10
percent, according to  Johnson Leung , head of regional transport
for Jefferies Group Inc. in Hong Kong. By contrast, more than 15
percent of capacity has been cut on trans-Pacific services.  Shipping lines are less able to pare capacity on Asia-
Europe routes because vessels are generally too big to be used
elsewhere, said NH Investment’s Jee. Deploying a smaller ship on
the lane would also be uncompetitive because of fuel economy and
fixed cost, he said.  “Shipping lines have taken steps to reduce capacity, but
it is not enough,” Shinyoung’s Um said. “They need to make
drastic cuts or it’s only going to get worse with all those new
ships coming next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  