-- 
China Slowdown Risk Rising: Conference Board

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-14T02:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/risk-rising-of-deeper-china-slowdown-as-index-slips-conference-board-says.html
A  Chinese  leading indicator fell,
fueling concern that the world’s second-biggest economy faces a
deeper slowdown as  Europe ’s debt crisis hits exports and home
sales slide.  The index declined 0.1 percent to 160.1 in October, The
Conference Board said in a statement today, citing a preliminary
reading. The gauge captures prospects for the next six months,
the New York-based research organization says. In September, it
rose 0.4 percent.  China’s top officials have been meeting in Beijing this
week to map out economic priorities for next year. The Politburo
pledged last week to fine-tune policies as needed and seek
stable and “relatively fast” growth. The central bank has
already cut banks’ reserve ratios for the first time since 2008
to spur lending as growth in industrial output weakens.  “The risk of a more substantive slowdown in  China ’s
economic growth than anticipated so far is rising,” Andrew Polk, an economist at The Conference Board, said in the
statement. “Targeted loosening of credit markets” should give
some help to companies “but the pass through from previous
policy tightening measures will continue to act as a brake on
the economy,” he said.  China’s expansion slowed to 9.1 percent in the third
quarter, the least in two years, after the government raised
 interest rates , tightened credit and expanded property-market
curbs. Housing transactions declined in 27 out of 35 cities
during the week of Dec. 5-11, according to Soufun Holdings Ltd.,
the operator of the nation’s biggest real-estate website.  The leading index’s components include loans, raw-material
supplies, export orders, consumer expectations, and floor space
started, from data released by the central bank and the
statistics bureau. First published in May 2010, the gauge has
successfully signaled turning points in China’s economic cycle
if plotted back to 1986, The Conference Board says.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  