-- Saudi Lending Rates Climb as King Appoints New Economy Team: Arab Credit
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-12-15T07:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/saudi-bank-lending-rates-rise-after-cabinet-changes-arab-credit.html
Saudi Arabia ’s  three-month interbank
interest rate  climbed to the highest level in seven months after
King Abdullah appointed a new team to manage the Arab world’s
biggest economy.  The rate climbed to 0.745 percent yesterday, the highest
since May, according to Bloomberg data, as the cost of credit-
default swaps linked to Saudi Arabia rose to the highest this
month. The derivatives are used as a measure of confidence
although they reference no debt.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter of oil, replaced
its central bank head and economy minister as it presses forward
with a record spending plan aimed at reducing unemployment of 10
percent and reliance on crude exports. Fahad al-Mubarak was
appointed governor of the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency ,
replacing Muhammad al-Jasser, who was named economy and planning
minister, state-run al-Ikhbariya said on Dec. 13.  “Maybe some people are nervous, probably unnecessarily,
that al-Jasser’s move from SAMA will mean a change in  monetary
policy  and possibly greater pressure on banks to lend,” said
 Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at  National Commercial Bank .
“It is probably just a short-term market reaction to perceived
uncertainty.”  Monetary Policy  Saudi Arabia, which boosted production to more than 10
million barrels a day in November, won over fellow OPEC members
yesterday to agree to raise the ceiling to 30 million barrels a
day, bringing the target nearer to current output. The move
comes amid concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis is driving the world
toward a recession, and would thus give OPEC a base-line from
which to cut output if the economy further deteriorates.  Under al-Jasser, Saudi Arabia has maintained a monetary
policy that aimed to meet “domestic demand for credit” and
enable local banks “to play their financing role in the
development process of the kingdom,” the central bank said in
an  annual report  published Dec. 12 on its website.  This isn’t likely to change under al-Mubarak, said Murad Ansari, an analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in
Riyadh. “I don’t think there should be too much nervousness
about the appointment because the monetary policy of the bank
will be more or less similar.”  Bank Lending  Al-Mubarak worked as managing director of Morgan Stanley
Saudi Arabia before his appointment. He was also chairman of the
Saudi Stock Exchange. He declined to comment on central-bank
policies when contacted this week.  The Saudi riyal is pegged to the dollar and central bank
policy often tracks the U.S. Federal Reserve. In 2009, the bank
cut the repurchase rate to 2 percent, the lowest since 2004, and
the reverse repurchase rate to 0.25 percent.  Bank lending to the private sector rose to a record of
810.2 billion riyals ($216 billion) in October, an increase of
10 percent from the same period last year, according to data on
the  central bank’s  website.  Al-Jasser said in an interview in October that lending
through the remainder of the year would continue at about 9
percent. “The pace is reasonable at this point,” he said. The
same month, he said Saudi Arabia has no reason to change its
policy of pegging the riyal to the dollar.  The outlook for the Saudi Arabian banking system “remains
stable” based on the expected decline in problem-loan levels
and Saudi banks’ supportive capital, profitability and liquidity
attributes, Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 5. “These
positive factors are counterbalanced by structural weaknesses
that include high loan and deposit concentrations, the opacity
of family conglomerates and a vulnerability to a sustained drop
in  oil prices .”  Lending Criteria  The kingdom’s banks tightened lending criteria after two
businesses owned by prominent Saudi families defaulted on at
least $15.7 billion of loans in 2009 and the global credit
crisis hurt the economy. Growth slowed to 0.1 percent in 2009
from 4.2 percent the previous year, International Monetary Fund
data show. Bank lending to the private sector fell 0.3 in 2009
to 702 billion riyals from a year ago, central bank data show.  Saudi Arabia’s spending to create jobs and diversify its
economy comes amid a wave of popular uprisings in the  Middle
East , triggered in part by unemployment.  King Abdullah  announced
a $130 billion spending plan in the first quarter and in August
2010 unveiled a $384 billion plan to develop transportation,
housing and education.  Corporate Borrowing  Saudi Arabia’s real gross domestic product will expand 5.1
percent this year, according to the central bank’s annual
report. The non-oil sector will expand 5.4 percent, while the
oil industry will grow 4.9 percent, the bank said.  Companies are benefitting from government expenditure,
James Reeve, a senior economist at  Samba Financial Group  in
 London , said in response to e-mailed questions.  “The economy is still fundamentally driven by  government
spending ,” Reeve said. “Large numbers of private sector
sectors benefit directly or indirectly from government
spending.”  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN) , the state-controlled company
known as Ma’aden, said on Dec. 5 that one of its units obtained
a 1.35 billion-riyal loan. Ma’aden Petrochemicals Co. and Sahara
Petrochemicals Co. signed the one-year bridge loan with Saudi
British Bank and  Banque Saudi Fransi. (BSFR)   Jabal Omar Development Co., a Saudi property company,
signed an agreement this month with the  finance ministry  for a 3
billion-riyal commercial loan, according to a statement to the
Saudi bourse on Dec. 13. Both Saudi Aramco Total Refining &
Petrochemical Co., a joint venture between Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
and Total SA, and Saudi International Petrochemical Co. sold
debt this year.  Credit-Default Swaps  While the cost to insure Saudi debt rose to 128 basis
points yesterday, it is less than half the Middle East sovereign
average, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent, should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The country needs the non-oil economy to expand at an
average 7.5 percent in the next five years to lower joblessness
by half, the IMF  said . Non-oil output growth will slow to 5
percent in 2012 from 5.4 percent this year, while the expansion
in oil GDP will grind to a halt next year, IMF data project.  The latest Cabinet changes, along with King Abdullah’s
appointment earlier this year of a successor to the late Prince
Sultan as defense minister, are the first since 2009. That year,
Abdullah appointed al-Jasser as the central bank governor and
named new ministers of information and education.  The king appointed Prince Nayef, 78, as crown prince on
Oct. 28 and later named Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz as defense
minister. The appointments followed the Oct. 22 death of Prince
Sultan, formerly crown prince.  Al-Jasser, who had been a deputy governor of the Saudi
Arabian Monetary Agency since 1995, replaced Hamad Saud al- Sayari in 2009. Al-Sayari had served as the central bank’s
governor since 1983.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  