-- 
Save Europe by Saying No to Bank Borrowing: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-12-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/save-europe-by-saying-no-to-bank-borrowing-laurence-kotlikoff.html
The euro crisis threatening the
global economy is not about countries going broke. It’s not even
about saving the euro. It’s about saving the banks, for the
second time in three years.  The banks need saving not because they bought toxic assets
such as subprime mortgages or the government debts of  Greece ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  or  Spain , and not because they are too
large, overrated or under-regulated. They are in trouble because
they bought risky securities with other people’s money, and they
have to pay it back. They borrowed to gamble, lost yet another
fortune and are facing a massive run.  A run in, say, Italy would force the Italian government to
bail out banks. The country can’t print euros, so it would have
to go back to its own money to do so -- that is, abandon the
common currency.  Why not let the banks fail? Because they control the
financial highways that connect borrowers and lenders, savers
and investors. Consider the analogy of actual highways: If gas
stations had to close down because of gambling losses, the
economy would shut down, too.  The right solution is for the government to prohibit
gambling by systemically important facilitators of trade,
whether they are gas stations or banks.  But how? Simple: Tell banks they can no longer borrow to
invest in risky assets while promising creditors full -- and
often immediate -- repayment. Nor can they borrow to invest in
“safe” assets, such as  government bonds . In fact, they can’t
borrow in any way, shape or form. Instead, limit them to their
sole legitimate purpose: intermediation.  Mutual Funds  Bankers might wonder how that would work. Banks have always
borrowed and gambled, they might say. Not so. The U.S. has
roughly 8,000 bank-like institutions called mutual funds, none
of which borrow. Such unleveraged mutual funds, which handle
about 25 percent of all traffic on our financial highways, came
through the crisis with no problem.  True, some mutual funds do borrow. They are mostly money-
market funds, which duplicitously guarantee investors a share
price of at least one dollar. Not surprisingly, these leveraged
money-market mutual funds were the ones that ran into trouble in
2008.  Imagine  Europe  today if its banks had no leverage, but
instead operated solely as mutual funds -- what I call limited-
purpose banks -- whose investors shared in all gains and losses.
There would be no crisis. The funds’ shareholders would already
have suffered capital losses on government bonds, cursed the
gods, yelled at their spouses and gone about their business. No
mutual fund would have gone broke. The financial highways would
be wide open with no threat of closure.  Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy  would not be constantly
trying to prop up the value of government bonds in order to save
the banks and, thereby, rescue the euro. With limited-purpose
banking, the banks (now  mutual funds ) would never need to be
saved, and the euro would be secure.  Instead, Merkel and Sarkozy are working on the wrong side
of the balance sheet. They are trying to fix the banks’ assets
when they need to restructure the liabilities. As I recently
 discussed , transforming the banks into mutual funds whose only
liability is owners’ equity is a lot easier than managing fiscal
behavior across 17 countries.  Last week’s agreement to limit the deficits of euro member
nations is unlikely to achieve real fiscal discipline. With a
bit of manipulative semantics, governments can meet or beat
their deficit targets without changing their underlying
policies, as I  noted  in a recent article.  Governments are adept at choosing words to hide their true
liabilities. The U.S. has excelled at this game, racking up
colossal implicit and unofficial debts. Its fiscal gap -- the
present value difference between everything the government has
promised to pay and all the revenue it’s likely to collect -- is
22 times its official debt.  Phony Books  Pledging to balance phony books is far different from, for
example, giving Italian bondholders first claim on government
revenue -- an idea my  Boston University  colleague Cristophe
Chamley proposes. Sovereigns’ failure to do so makes plain that
their unofficial debts are as real as the official ones.  Mario Monti , Italy’s new prime minister, would do well to
lobby for fiscal-gap accounting and targeting. On such a basis,
Italy may be in better fiscal shape than  France  and is far
better off than the U.S., thanks largely to its past and recent
pension reforms.  Getting Europe to change its fiscal accounting and policy,
though, could take decades and won’t reduce the danger of a bank
run. The only way to avoid such a disaster, with horrendous
global economic costs, is to recognize that leveraged financial
intermediation is unsafe at any speed, shut it down immediately
and replace it with limited-purpose banking.  (Laurence Kotlikoff, a professor of economics at Boston
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  