-- 
Securitas Chief Bets on Tech Jostle With G4S

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/securitas-chief-bets-on-tech-jostle-with-g4s.html
Securitas AB (SECUB)  Chief Executive Officer
Alf Goeransson said he will focus the Swedish company on
electronic systems rather than branch out into new services as
it battles  G4S Plc (GFS)  for the top spot in the security industry.  The provider of guards to clients such as retailer Marks &
Spencer Group Plc is hiring engineers to boost its technical
competence and looking to buy a “handful” of companies that
offer the latest in electronic cameras and entrance systems, the
CEO said in a Dec. 12 interview.  Goeransson’s strategy contrasts with that of larger rival
G4S, which was thwarted by its shareholders in an attempt to
diversify into cleaning by acquiring ISS A/S for $2.4 billion.
Securitas aims to raise margins with value-added services like
monitoring. It lost out to  Stanley Black & Decker (SWK)  in an auction
of Swedish technical security provider Niscayah AB in September.
With 285,000 guards globally, Securitas is currently the No. 2
security company.  “If Securitas doesn’t want to go the way of G4S with
multiple integrated facility services, they have to
differentiate themselves in security in another way,” said
Soeren Lontoft Hansen, an analyst at Sydbank A/S. “Technical
security solutions are crucial to Securitas’ future.”  Securitas has plunged 23 percent this year, compared with a
0.9 percent decline for London-based G4S.  Customers want more packaged solutions, and Securitas needs
to be better at providing detectors, fire alarms, monitors and
entrance systems, said Hansen, who has an “underweight” rating
on the company’s shares.  Hunting Targets  Securitas has bought three technology-based security
companies since September, in  Turkey ,  Argentina  and  Thailand .
It’s now mostly looking at companies in  Europe  and  North America 
with revenue of 50 million kronor ($7.3 million) to 300 million
kronor, the CEO said.  “You can either diversify or specialize, and Securitas has
chosen to specialize,” Goeransson, 54, said at the company’s
Stockholm headquarters. “We’re doing great on providing
guarding but we can be better on the technical side. Then we can
raise the value of the services we provide.”  Securitas will shun big-ticket acquisitions in 2012 and
will likely buy fewer companies next year than in 2011 as it has
less need to add pure guarding services, Goeransson said.  Securitas is renegotiating two of its biggest contracts
that expire soon, Goeransson said. A contract with Arlanda
airport outside Stockholm, the company’s most valuable deal in
the Nordic region, ends in February, and Securitas’s five-year
contract with  General Motors Co. (GM)  in the U.S. expires at the end
of the year, he said.  The company is seeking to push through higher prices to
customers to combat wage inflation in countries such as  France .
Securitas’s margin narrowed to 5.7 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 6.5 percent a year earlier.  “If we lose the GM contract it will have a very low impact
on earnings since the margin there is very low,” Goeransson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  