-- Hungary’s Orban May Demote Simor With ‘Total Takeover’ of Central Bank
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2011-12-15T12:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/hungarian-government-seeks-to-expand-monetary-council-correct-.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is aiming for a “total takeover” of the central bank
through proposals that would infringe on its independence,
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said.  The  European Central Bank  said it’s concerned about a bill
to change the composition of the central bank’s decision-making
bodies. A second proposal to merge it with the nation’s
financial regulator is “only an option” and approval at a vote
in Parliament tomorrow wouldn’t automatically create the
combination, Orban said today in Budapest.  The premier has been curbing the power of independent
institutions and asserting his influence since winning a two-
thirds parliamentary majority last year. Simor said in March he
rejected what he called “bullying” by a government official to
quit before his mandate expires in 2013.  “This is undermining someone who had strong credibility
among investors,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of
emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA, said yesterday
in a phone interview. “Demoting Simor would be a major blow to
investor confidence. This is a major development.”  The forint appreciated 0.6 percent to 302.86 per euro by
11:45 a.m. in Budapest. It has lost 12 percent against the
common currency since July, the third-worst performer among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Almost Total Takeover’  The proposals, announced yesterday, break European Union
rules and harm the central bank’s independence, Simor told the
news portal Index today in an interview, according to a
transcript posted on the website.  “This is the latest and almost total takeover of the
central bank,” Simor said. The bill “creates the possibility
for eliminating the last independent institution overseeing
Hungary’s economy.”  Under the merger  plan , submitted by Parliament’s
Constitutional Committee, Pal Schmitt, Hungary’s president,
would name the head of the new institution, with Simor and
Karoly Szasz, the head of the financial regulator, becoming the
two deputies.  Parliament approved an overhaul of the judiciary on Dec. 13
that led to the ouster of Supreme Court Chief Justice Andras Baka after the creation of a new institution and the renaming of
the Court.  Ruling-Party Appointees  Orban’s lawmakers have narrowed the jurisdiction of the
 Constitutional Court , written a new constitution, replaced an
independent Fiscal Council with one dominated by the premier’s
allies, created a media regulator led by ruling-party appointees
and chosen a party member to lead the State Audit Office.  The bill would expand the central bank’s rate-setting
Monetary Council to as many as nine members from seven and force
its head to cede powers, including naming vice presidents, to
the prime minister and the president.  It would also allow the number of central bank vice
presidents to be expanded to three from two. The Monetary
Council would decide on their responsibilities at the central
bank chief’s recommendation.  The proposal “gives rise to concerns whether this could be
used to influence the decision-making process to the detriment
of central bank independence,” the ECB said in a legal opinion
on the draft legislation. “The ECB would appreciate the
Ministry for the National Economy giving due consideration to
honoring its obligation to consult the ECB in the future.”  Hungary  will consider the ECB’s opinion “with due
seriousness,” Orban said today.  IMF Aid  Reshaping the central bank may “complicate” Hungary’s
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  on an aid package,
according to Anne.  Orban reversed a policy of shunning international aid after
the forint fell to its weakest on record against the euro last
month and the government struggled to raise planned amounts at
debt auctions. The country lost its investment grade at Moody’s
Investors Service in November after 15 years.  Policy makers last month raised the  benchmark two-week
deposit rate  to 6.5 percent, the EU’s highest, from 6 percent to
protect the forint after Moody’s decision.  The credit-rating company cited concern about the
sustainability of the government’s debt-reduction plan, which
relied on one-off measures such as the effective nationalization
of $13 billion in mandatory private pension funds and special
industry taxes.  Economic-Policy Cooperation  The central bank, and “to a lesser extent” the
government, need to make “gestures” and cooperate on economic
policy to boost growth,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff,
told the news website Origo on Dec. 13. Hungary may seek to
obtain an IMF safety net of as much as 20 billion euros ($26
billion), Varga said. Preliminary talks started this week and
the Cabinet aims to finish negotiations by early next year.  The proposal to “oust” Simor may be resisted by the
European Commission and the IMF as an attempt to rein in the
independence of the central bank, said Timothy Ash, a London-
based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  “Just when I was beginning to think that maybe there was
light at the end of the tunnel for Hungary,” based on greater
cooperation with the IMF, “out of the blue comes this
proposal,” Ash said late yesterday by e-mail.  ‘Shift in Emphasis’  The bill to expand the Monetary Council “represents a
shift in emphasis in the sense that the decision and execution
powers concentrated in the hands of the central bank president
will now be divided between the Monetary Council and a newly
created board,” the  Economy Ministry  said.  The plan to create a stricter and “much more efficient”
regulatory system “isn’t from the devil,” Varga told Budapest-
based TV2 in an interview today in response to criticism of the
proposal.  Simor was this year stripped of his right to nominate two
of the four outside members in the Monetary Council. The
parliamentary majority cut his salary by 75 percent, defying
criticism from the European Commission and the ECB.  Hungary has a history of meddling with the central bank’s
independence. In 2005, Premier Ferenc Gyurcsany enlarged the
Monetary Council and ended the central bank’s monopoly on the
nomination of new policy makers. Zsigmond Jarai, the bank’s
president at the time, was last year named to head the central
bank’s supervisory board.  Two central bank chiefs were forced out before their term
expired since the end of communism more than two decades ago.
Gyorgy Suranyi lost his job after a year in 1991, when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
served a full term from 1995 to 2001.  Peter Akos Bod, central bank head between 1991 and 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
had ousted the administration which installed him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  