-- 
Vietnam’s FPT to Miss Profit Target, Aims to Boost M&A Activity

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-14T01:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/vietnam-s-fpt-to-miss-profit-target-aims-to-boost-m-a-activity.html
FPT Corp. (FPT) , Vietnam’s biggest
publicly traded telecommunications and software company, will
miss this year’s profit target after the nation’s high inflation
hurt demand, Chief Executive Officer Truong Dinh Anh said.  Pretax profit is estimated at 2.57 trillion dong ($122.3
million) this year, less than the company’s revised target of
2.62 trillion dong announced in July, Anh said in an interview
in Hanoi yesterday. Revenue may be 26 trillion dong, compared
with the target of 26.8 trillion dong, he said.  “High inflation plus the economic slowdown have affected
the consumption power of citizens and companies,” Anh said.
“Some units have missed their targets.”  Asia ’s fastest inflation prompted the government to tighten
credit this year and crimped demand.  Vietnam ’s trade deficit,
slowing economic growth and risks in the banking sector have
also damped businesses and the government last week said gross
domestic product may climb about 6 percent this year, slower
than the 6.78 percent pace in 2010.  Still, the economic environment presents FPT with
opportunities to increase mergers and acquisitions, Anh said.  “The unfavorable economic situation is not good for
business expansion but it is extremely good for M&A activity --
we can buy companies which we never thought we’d be able to,”
he said.  The Hanoi-based carrier will use part of its “free cash”
of about 3 trillion dong for acquisitions next year, Anh said.  “The current situation, when many companies are facing
difficulties, is a good chance for us to take over companies
either in the same industry or in other fields,” he said.  Shares of FPT have declined 23 percent on the Ho Chi Minh
City Stock Exchange this year, in line with the drop in the
benchmark  VN Index. (VNINDEX)   FPT Telecom Stake  FPT, which announced a cloud-computing alliance with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in May last year, is in talks with the Ministry
of Finance and the State Capital Investment Corp. to increase
its stake in  FPT Telecom Co.  to 100 percent from the current 43
percent, Anh said. The deal is likely to be completed as early
as the first quarter, and FPT may issue shares for a swap as
part of the transaction and pay the rest by cash, he said.  FPT has also been in discussion with two local companies
that publish weekly magazines, Anh said, without providing
details. Companies operating in the digital content and
education businesses are also likely targets, he said.  Mergers and acquisitions in industries ranging from coffee
to medical services have increased in Vietnam this year as
investors sought to profit from the country’s growing middle
class, even as inflation and borrowing costs increased.  2012 Targets  Masan Consumer Corp. (MSN) , a unit of Masan Group, agreed in
April to sell a 10 percent stake to KKR & Co., the investment
firm managed by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , for $159
million, Vietnam’s largest private-equity investment.  Vinacafe Bien Hoa Joint-Stock Co. , a unit of Vietnam’s
second-biggest coffee exporter, said Sept. 23 it accepted a
takeover offer from Masan Consumer.  FPT aims to boost both pretax profit and revenue about 25
percent next year as “we forecast that the macro economy will
still be volatile,” Anh said. He said the final numbers have
not been decided yet.  “The target is quite conservative compared with our
previous forecast,” the executive said. “We will consider
adjusting the earnings target if need be, based on the real
economic picture” after the first quarter, he said.  FPT will retain its focus on the “core”
telecommunications and software businesses in 2012, Anh said.
Revenue from telecommunications may rise 31 percent, he said.  The company has a “commitment” to boost revenue by up to
25-fold by 2020, former CEO Nguyen Thanh Nam said last year. The
company has consolidated units including FPT Information System,
FPT Software and FPT Trading Group as it seeks to restore annual
earnings growth of more than 30 percent. Anh said in October
that pretax profit may rise as much as 35 percent next year.  Retail Plans  FPT, whose customers include Microsoft, Panasonic Corp. and
Hitachi Ltd., will spend $15 million to $20 million to open
retail stores, Anh said. The company plans to increase the
number of stores nationwide to 150 by 2014, from the current 15.  The company also plans to boost its operations in  Laos  and
 Cambodia  and expand to Nigerian and Myanmar, Anh said. FPT has
“almost” completed a transaction to buy a Cambodian
telecommunications company, he said, without elaborating.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  