-- 
Battellino Says Lower Currency to Help Australia in EU Slump

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-14T01:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-14/weaker-currency-may-help-australia-battellino.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Deputy
Governor  Ric Battellino  said a likely fall in the local dollar
will help insulate the nation from an economic slump in Europe,
where a “disruptive event” can’t be ruled out.  “It would be prudent to assume that, if the European
economy were to slow markedly over the next year or so,
Australia would be affected,” Battellino said in prepared
remarks for a speech today in Sydney. “It is also likely,
however, that if that were to eventuate, the exchange rate of
the Australian dollar would fall, as it has when global growth
has weakened in the past, providing some cushion.”  Demand for Australian resources from emerging nations such
as  India  and  China  helped boost the Australian dollar to a
record in July. The currency declined after Battellino’s
comments, with the so-called Aussie having depreciated 2.9
percent this month as the RBA made its second straight rate cut
in response to increased risks to global growth and rising
unemployment.  “While the direct exposure of Australia to a slowing in
European demand is low, the indirect exposure, through the
effect on some of our important trading partners, could be
significant,” the RBA’s No. 2 official told the 24th
Australasian Finance & Banking Conference. “China and India,
for example, both ship a substantial share of their exports to
the euro area and these could be expected to decline.”  Weaker Currency  The Australian dollar decreased 0.3 percent to 99.88 U.S.
cents at 12:40 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday in  New York .  Resource projects in Australia valued at A$456 billion
($457 billion), driven by companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
have cushioned a slump in manufacturing and services hit by a
record currency and subdued  consumer spending . The currency
reached a record $1.1081 on July 27.  Battellino, who didn’t directly address monetary policy in
today’s speech, is stepping down as deputy governor Feb. 14
after 39 years at the central bank, succeeded by Assistant
Governor Philip Lowe.  In his prepared comments, Battellino, 60, said Australia is
“fortunate to be subject, simultaneously, to a resources boom
that is resulting in unprecedented investment and therefore
helping to sustain economic activity.”  Mining Boom  China, Australia’s biggest trade partner, is buying up  iron
ore , coal and natural gas as millions of people in the world’s
most populous nation move to urban centers.  Europe’s fiscal turmoil is cutting demand in China’s
biggest export market, and a Chinese government campaign to rein
in property prices is threatening home sales and construction.
Economic growth cooled to 9.1 percent last quarter, the least in
more than two years, and an increase in exports in November was
the weakest since 2009 excluding seasonal distortions.  Battellino said it is possible that a combination of
credible fiscal commitments by European governments and short-
term support from the  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  will provide a solution that is relatively benign
for the European and world economies.  “However, other outcomes, including deflation caused by
prolonged fiscal austerity, inflation caused by large-scale debt
monetization, or some disruptive event such as a change in the
composition of the euro area, cannot be ruled out,” he said.  Bank Exposure  Battellino said Australian banks’ direct exposure to  Europe 
remains low, with claims on euro-area countries amounting to
A$87 billion, or 2.7 percent of total assets. Eighty percent of
that exposure is to  Germany ,  France  and the Netherlands, he
said, adding that the euro area accounts for only about 4
percent of Australia’s merchandise exports.  Battellino noted that, in Australia, business confidence is
a little below average at present, though it has improved in
recent months. “The gradual spread of the benefits of the
resource boom is helping to sustain business confidence in the
face of the worsening European situation,” he said.  In contrast,  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the
Australian Industry Group who will join the board of the RBA on
Feb. 14, said yesterday that the gap between resource-related
industries and other companies remains wide.  Two-Speed Economy  “Twenty percent of this economy is growing by 15 percent,
and 80 per cent is growing by 1 percent,” she told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio in an interview. “The high dollar, the
weakness in the housing industry, the consumer caution, the
structural changes happening not just in manufacturing and
tourism, but also in say retailing, in online purchasing and
changing consumer taste, all these issues have distorted the”
distribution of the benefits of growth, she said.  The RBA lowered the overnight cash rate target to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, after cutting it to 4.5
percent from 4.75 percent on Nov. 1. Traders are betting it will
cut borrowing costs again at the central bank’s next meeting in
February, interbank cash-rate futures show.  A private survey today showed Australian  consumer
confidence  dropped in December to a four-month low as concern
mounted about rising unemployment and the fallout from Europe.  “I remain confident that  Australia , with its strong
government finances, resilient banking system, relatively low
exposures to the troubled countries and strong links to the
dynamic Asian region, is well placed to deal with events that
may unfold,” Battellino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  