-- ‘Era of Direct Payments’ Over for Farmers, Stabenow Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 2012-03-15T17:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/-era-of-direct-payments-for-u-s-farmers-over-stabenow-says.html
Senate Agriculture Committee 
Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow  said the “era of direct payments”
for U.S. farmers is over, signaling the end to a certain type of
crop subsidy in the next farm bill.  Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said at a committee hearing
today that farm policy should focus on crop insurance and tools
that “help producers who have suffered a loss on the crops they
actually grow.” Direct payments are a form of subsidy that
farmers collect based on historical production, regardless of
commodity prices.  Today’s hearing in  Washington  was called to examine risk-
management tools available to farmers as lawmakers prepare to
draft a new farm bill, which will authorize U.S. Department of
Agriculture programs, including crop subsidies and nutrition
initiatives, for the next five years. The current law expires
Sept. 30.  Stabenow said strengthening and expanding crop-insurance
programs will be one of her priorities in the new legislation.
Last year, federal programs paid out over $10 billion in claims
for lost revenue and production because of natural disasters,
Michael Scuse, the USDA’s acting undersecretary for farm and
foreign agricultural services, told the committee.  Obama’s Proposed Savings  President  Barack Obama  has proposed changes to crop-
insurance programs that would account for more than $7.6 billion
in savings in the next decade, Scuse said. Eliminating direct
payments, as Obama proposed in his fiscal year 2013 budget,
would save $31.1 billion over the decade, he said.  Republican Senator  Pat Roberts  of Kansas, the committee’s
ranking member, said that while two-thirds of U.S. cropland --
more than 250 million acres -- is protected by government
insurance program, some farmers remain vulnerable to disasters
because they can’t afford coverage.  “The more producers under that crop-insurance tent and
protected from disaster, the more stable our  food supply  and
rural economies will be,” Roberts said.  Crop subsidies encourage production, which can reduce costs
for grain brokers such as  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , corn-based
ethanol makers like Poet LLC, and livestock producers including
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , which buy grain for feed.  To contact the reporter on this story: Daniel Enoch in
Washington at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan  at 
 Jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  