-- Accel Seeking Next Walmart.com in Brick-and-Mortar World
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/accel-seeking-next-walmart-com-in-brick-and-mortar-world.html
Accel Partners , the venture firm
that  backed  Facebook Inc. and Groupon Inc., isn’t just looking
for the next great Internet startup. It’s looking for the next
Walmart.com.  Twelve years after convincing Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to spin
off its online store into a separate entity, Accel wants to find
another old-line corporation willing to create an Internet
offshoot. The firm is actively considering three to five similar
partnerships with large global companies that need an injection
of technology innovation, said  Jim Breyer , a partner at Accel.  As venture investors jockey to finance the hottest young
companies, Accel sees an opportunity for established brands to
attract dot-com talent. As with Walmart.com, Accel would help
the corporations create a separate Internet business and then
use 10 percent to 20 percent of the newly created equity to
offer  stock options  to executives and engineers.  “We take what we believe is a superb physical world
company, which for a lot of reasons can’t recruit this next
generation of best and brightest Internet entrepreneur,”
Breyer, 50, said this month in an interview. “Our idea is in
our own way to help unleash some of the opportunity by taking
what can be best about the great traditional company but be able
to recruit people, give them equity and treat it much more like
a venture business.”  Quick Payback  In January 2000,  Palo Alto , California-based Accel bought a
minority stake in Wal-Mart’s online store and spun it out, with
the parent company owning a majority stake. Less than two years
later, Wal-Mart bought back the site. That provided Accel with a
quick payback on its investment, and led to Breyer taking a
board seat at the retailer.  The spinout strategy is one area where the 29-year-old firm
sees less competition from venture rivals, Breyer said. While he
wouldn’t name any companies they’re in talks with, he said they
are mostly large media and entertainment providers in Beijing,
 New York  and “other important centers.”  Venture firms are fighting over the same social-networking
startups, raising the incentive to look elsewhere, said Mark
Cannice, a  professor  of entrepreneurship and venture capital at
the University of San Francisco School of Management.  “There’s a lot of competition for the social plays at the
seed and early-stage level,” he said. “It makes great sense to
lever their reputation to go after a new market that’s not
really tapped and establish themselves early on as a first
mover.”  Calling the Shots  These sorts of deals wouldn’t be like typical private-
equity investments, because Accel is not aiming to take a
majority stake and wants to work closely with the parent
company’s management, Breyer said.  The ideal corporation has a single leader or family that
owns a large part of the company and can “call the shot,” he
said. In  Wal-Mart’s (WMT)  case, it was the Walton family, which still
owns 47 percent of world’s biggest retailer.  While the strategy was successful for Accel, Wal-Mart has
had a mixed record online since buying back its Internet unit.
The company lags behind Amazon.com Inc. in e-commerce sales, and
the parent company’s stock has trailed the broader market over
the past decade. Since resuming full ownership of Walmart.com in
July 2001, shares of Wal-Mart have climbed 15 percent. That
compares with a 27 percent gain for the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  over that stretch, and an 11-fold increase for Amazon’s
stock.  Record Return  The challenge now for Accel is to find growth after
Facebook, which is poised to generate record returns for
investors after its initial public offering. Accel, which
invested $12.2 million in Facebook in 2005, owns 11.5 percent of
the  Menlo Park , California-based company’s Class B shares. That
stake will probably be worth about $8.5 billion after dilution,
assuming Facebook goes public at a $100 billion valuation.  Breyer declined to talk about Facebook, citing restrictions
surrounding the company’s pre-IPO quiet period.  In addition to the U.S., Accel has funds that operate out
of the U.K.,  China  and  India , and is making investments in other
countries, including  Brazil ,  Australia  and  Russia . While the
firm continues to invest in Web, mobile and social startups in
the U.S., those markets have become more competitive following
the success of Facebook,  Groupon (GRPN) , Twitter Inc. and Zynga Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  