-- Afghan Taliban Halts U.S. Talks Over ‘Unacceptable’ Terms
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-15T20:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/afghan-taliban-halts-talks-with-u-s-over-unacceptable-terms.html
Afghanistan ’s Taliban guerrillas
have suspended talks with U.S. officials that aimed at opening
formal peace negotiations, the movement said in a statement.  The insurgent group, which is fighting U.S. forces and the
American-backed government of President  Hamid Karzai , has halted
its plans to open an office in the Arab state of Qatar, where
peace talks with the Americans were envisioned, the group said
in a statement e-mailed by Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed .
A U.S. negotiator had in a recent meeting presented conditions
for talks that “were not only unacceptable but also in
contradiction with the earlier agreed-upon points,” it said.  “The Islamic Emirate has decided to suspend all talks with
Americans taking place in Qatar from today onwards until the
Americans clarify their stance,” the Taliban said in the
statement, without specifying the point at issue.  State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said the U.S.
would wait to see how the situation plays out. “We have to see
where this goes now,” Nuland said today to reporters in
 Washington . Referring to the Taliban statements, she said it
isn’t clear “whether they’re representative of the entire
group, whether after feelings calm there is a way to get back to
it, we’ll just have to see.”  Afghan to Afghan  The U.S. goal has been to facilitate Afghan-to-Afghan
discussions by getting the government and the Taliban to the
same table, Nuland said. “We still feel that if there is a
process that can be supported, that we ought to do that,” she
said. “We remain prepared to continue these discussions.”  Obama administration officials have said in the past year
they were holding meetings with the Taliban as the U.S. draws
down its forces in Afghanistan and hands security duties to
Afghan army and police forces. The guerrilla movement said in
January it reached an initial agreement with  Qatar  to open an
office in the Gulf state to facilitate negotiations.  The U.S. is considering the transfer of five Taliban
prisoners to Qatar from its Guantanamo Bay military prison to
encourage those talks, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said in Washington Feb. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  