-- Airbus Said to Lose 10 More Orders From China on Carbon Curb
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-15T15:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/airbus-said-to-lose-10-more-orders-from-china-on-carbon-curb-1-.html
Airbus SAS has had another 10
aircraft orders from  China  suspended because of the nation’s
opposition to  Europe ’s curb on aviation emissions, three people
with knowledge of the situation said.  China has now suspended a total of 55 plane orders, said
the people, who declined to be identified because details of the
contracts are private. China is among 27 nations that have said
they will consider retaliatory steps following the EU’s cap on
carbon dioxide pollution.  Agence France-Presse   reported the
suspension earlier.  China is holding hostage orders for 35 widebody A330s and
10 double-decker A380 jets as it seeks to overturn the European
Union’s inclusion of airlines globally into its emissions
trading system, Louis Gallois, chief executive officer of Airbus
parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., said last week.
Some 25 of the A330s are already in the early stages of
construction, Toulouse-based Airbus told reporters last week.  “There is clear evidence for a developing trade conflict
that should drive government to take action,” Airbus spokesman
Rainer Ohler said today. “Aircraft have long lives and when a
campaign goes to the competition, recovery can take many, many
years. A suspension today can turn into orders lost and jobs
lost for years and years.”  Ohler declined to comment on whether 10 additional planes
are also threatened.  China hasn’t forbidden the nation’s airlines from buying
Airbus planes, and won’t dictate their purchasing strategy,  Li Jiaxiang , director of the Civil Aviation Administration of
China, said in a March 10 interview in Beijing. Airlines are
encouraged to buy planes based on cost savings and increasing
reliability and safety, he said.  An official at Shanghai-based  China Eastern (670)  said today that
the airline hasn’t cancelled or changed order plans.
Spokespeople at  China Southern (1055) , Asia’s biggest carrier by
passengers, weren’t immediately available out of hours. They
declined to comment on the issue when contacted earlier.  Air
China (753) , the world’s biggest carrier by market value, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  