-- Taiwan to Consider Premier Wen’s Wish to Visit After Retirement
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-03-15T08:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/taiwan-to-consider-premier-wen-s-wish-to-visit-after-retirement.html
Taiwan (TWCPIYOY) ’s government will weigh
political factors before permitting a visit by Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  to the island after he retires as cross-strait
relations are at their warmest in over six decades.  “We welcome all Chinese visitors as long as they meet
regulations,” Liu Te-shun, deputy minister at the Taipei-based
Mainland Affairs Council said today in an e-mail. “For
individuals with special status, the government will take into
consideration overall cross-strait relations and the political
situation.”  Wen yesterday told reporters in Beijing at the close of the
annual meeting of the nation’s legislature he is willing to
visit Taiwan as a tourist after his retirement next year. Wen’s
remarks echoed comments made in 2009 when he said, “Even if I
can no longer walk, I will crawl to get to  Taiwan .”  Cross-strait ties improved after President Ma Ying-jeou
took office in May 2008 and focused on economic links,
abandoning his predecessor’s pro-independence stance. The two
sides have signed 16 trade and economic agreement since then.  China  and Taiwan have been ruled separately since Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after
being defeated by Mao Zedong’s Communists in 1949.  Taiwan last June allowed individual travelers from the
mainland for the first time in more than six decades. As many as
500 tourists from China can visit each day, pushing arrivals
from the mainland to 1.78 million last year from 1.63 million in
2010. That same year China overtook  Japan  as the island’s
largest source of tourists.  Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  Tourist Index, which tracks businesses
including  Formosa International Hotels Corp. (2707) , has advanced 17
percent this year, while the benchmark Taiex index has added 15
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  