-- Aldar Falls on Bets Merger-Driven Rise Overdone: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-15T10:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/aldar-falls-on-bets-merger-driven-rise-overdone-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh
Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  fell the most in more than a week on speculation
gains driven by merger talks between the  Abu Dhabi  real-estate
developers were overdone.  Aldar, the biggest property developer in the United Arab
Emirates capital, fell 3.5 percent, its biggest drop since March
7, at the 2:00 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi. Sorouh lost 4.1 percent,
also the largest decline in more than a week. The drops trimmed
gains in Aldar this week to 24 percent and in Sorouh to 23
percent. The benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.2 percent to
2,625.85, paring its climb this week to 2.5 percent.  Aldar and Sorouh, which fell 60 percent and 48 percent,
respectively, in 2011, said in a joint statement on March 11
they set up a team to study a possible merger with the
“blessing” of the Abu Dhabi government. The two companies are
are involved in the emirate’s drive to transform itself into a
tourism and business hub as it strives to diversify its economy
away from relying on oil.  “It’s profit taking before the weekend,”said Musa Haddad,
head trader at the  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) ’s asset-
management group.  Government-owned Mubadala Development Co. holds 49 percent
of Aldar, while the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, a sovereign
wealth fund, has a 7 percent stake in Sorouh. The team studying
the merger will present a plan in the next three months, the
companies said this week.  Whether a rally in the shares will resume “depends on how
this merger takes place and who is going to benefit the most of
it,” Haddad said. “But in general it is good for both because
at least we wouldn’t have two companies competing for the same
projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  