-- Alstom Won’t Harm Shareholders With Risky Deals, CEO Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-03-15T13:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/alstom-won-t-harm-shareholders-with-risky-deals-ceo-kron-says.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Kron discredited reports about acquisition plans to bulk
up in wind power, describing recent newspaper articles as
speculation and saying he won’t sell shares in “unfavorable
conditions” to fund a deal.  “I have repeatedly stated that I will not harm our
shareholders through adventurous deals which would imply raising
equity in unfavorable conditions,” Kron said at an analyst
meeting near Paris today.  At the gathering, Kron opened his remarks by downplaying a
Financial Times Deutschland report that Alstom, which lags the
top 10 global suppliers of  wind turbines , may weigh an offer for
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s German wind power unit. The newspaper said
March 13 that Suzlon may be willing to sell its Repower Systems
SE division for 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion).  “Suzlon denied, qualifying the press report as
speculation,” Kron said. “That closes the issue.”  The French maker of power equipment and trains may also be
interested in  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and Gamesa Corp.
Tecnologica SA,  Les Echos  reported today.  “There is nothing more to report on Repower than on
Vestas, Gamesa, Nordex and a number of others,” according to
Kron. “We will look at opportunities in wind, in renewables in
general, in signaling, in smart grid, etc.”  Wind-Farm Boom  The “rumors” on Gamesa and Repower were kindled by
“agitations by banks,” Kron said. “I’m expecting some more on
other companies in the future,” he told reporters and analysts.  The company aims to develop its product range and
geographical reach in wind power, he said.  “Any acquisition of Repower’s size would likely require a
rights issue, equivalent to 10 percent to 15 percent of Alstom’s
market capitalization,” Gael de Bray, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in Paris, said in a research note today.  A half-decade boom in wind-farm installations in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia  fueled competition among turbine makers, forcing
them to cut prices when the machines flooded the market. Vestas,
the Danish company that ranks as the world’s biggest producer,
and Suzlon reported wider-than-expected losses last month.  “The wind industry today is characterized by excess
capacity, pricing pressure and the emergence of new low-cost
competitors, so we fear that such a deal could eventually
further add to Alstom’s existing issues,” De Bray wrote.  Kron said in January that he wants the company, 31 percent-
owned by Bouygues SA, to be “cash neutral” at the top of the
industry’s cycle. Alstom’s net debt climbed to 2.75 billion
euros at the end of September, up from 1.47 billion euros a year
earlier, as sales fell and spending increased to start new
plants and partnerships in Russia and  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  