-- Manchester City Follows Rival United Out of Europa League Soccer
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-16T00:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/manchester-city-united-knocked-out-of-soccer-s-europa-league.html
Manchester City  followed Manchester
United out of soccer’s Europa League as Sporting Lisbon held off
a late comeback to reach the quarterfinals, where it will be
joined by three Spanish teams.  Sporting advanced on away goals after a 3-2 loss at
tournament favorite City last night left the teams tied 3-3 over
two games. Athletic Bilbao defeated United 2-1 in  Spain  to
complete a 5-3 victory and reach its first European quarterfinal
for 35 years.  “It’s disappointing,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
Channel 5. “We haven’t progressed in the Champions League and
now we’re out of the Europa League. The best team went through.
I don’t think we can complain.”  Former champions  Atletico Madrid , Schalke and Valencia also
moved into the final eight of  Europe ’s second-tier club
competition, along with Hanover, Metalist Kharkiv and AZ Alkmaar.
The quarterfinal draw will be held today.  Manchester City rallied from three goals down on aggregate
to pull even, then came within inches of a winning goal in
stoppage time as Sporting goalkeeper Rui Patricio made a
fingertip save off a header from opposite number Joe Hart.  “I thought it was in,” Hart told ESPN. “Hopefully we can
take some positives out of the second half and move on for the
rest of the season.”  Goals from Matias Fernandez and Ricky van Wolfswinkel gave
Sporting a 2-0 lead in the game after 40 minutes. Needing four
goals to advance, City began its comeback in the 60th minute
when  Sergio Aguero  scored.  Late Goals  Mario Balotelli  converted a penalty kick in the 75th minute
and Aguero added his second goal seven minutes later. Hart then
ran into the Sporting area for a corner kick in the last of five
added minutes and was denied by Patricio just before the final
whistle was blown.  “We didn’t play as a team in the first half,” City
manager  Roberto Mancini  said. “The second half was fantastic,
but in the end I’m disappointed to go out like this.”  Manchester United ’s campaign ended in Spain after a third
straight defeat in Europe. The Red Devils won three of their 10
matches in the Champions League and Europa League and won’t
contest a cup final for the first time since the 2001-02 season.  Bilbao took the lead in the 12th minute as  Fernando
Llorente  volleyed Fernando Amorebieta’s long ball into the area
past goalkeeper David de Gea. Oscar de Marcos extended the
Spanish club’s advantage in the 65th minute before United’s
Wayne Rooney scored with 10 minutes left.  Looking Forward  The Manchester rivals, who are separated by a point atop
England’s Premier League, had dropped into the competition after
finishing third in their  Champions League  groups. Their losses
leave Chelsea as England’s lone representative in the last eight
of either competition.  “Now we just need to think about the future,” City
captain Kolo Toure said. “The past is the past.”  Atletico Madrid beat Besiktas 6-1 on aggregate following
its 3-0 win in Turkey, while Klaas-Jan Huntelaar’s hat trick led
Schalke to a 4-1 home win over FC Twente that wiped out a 2-0
deficit after the Dutch team took the lead last night. Huntelaar
leads the competition with nine goals.  Valencia’s 1-1 tie at PSV Eindhoven sent it through by a 5-
3 score. AZ Alkmaar withstood the third-minute sending off of
Nick Viergever to progress 3-2 over Udinese following a 2-1 loss.
Erik Falkenburg’s goal in the 31st minute secured the Dutch
league leader’s place in the quarterfinals after Udinese took a
2-0 lead.  Hannover routed Standard Liege 4-0 to advance to its first
European quarterfinal 6-2 on aggregate. Metalist Kharkiv scored
twice in the final nine minutes to win 2-1 at Olympiacos and
advance on away goals after a 2-2 aggregate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 