-- Manitoba Telecom Climbs on Ownership Rule Change: Toronto
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-15T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/manitoba-telecom-climbs-on-ownership-rule-change-toronto.html
Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT) 
climbed to its highest since May as the phone company, cited by
analysts as a possible takeover target, said a loosening of
foreign ownership rules announced yesterday by the Canadian
government opens up “valuable new opportunities.”  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Blouin said the government’s
move is particularly welcome for its Allstream unit, which
caters to businesses including BMO Financial Group and has
65,000 customers across Canada.  “For MTS Allstream this announcement means greater access
to capital and the potential to open up valuable new
opportunities, particularly for Allstream,” Blouin said today
in a statement.  Manitoba Telecom rose 2.3 percent to C$34.26 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, the highest close since May 31. The Winnipeg, Manitoba-
based company, which has a market value of C$2.3 billion
($2.3 billion), has climbed 15 percent this year.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis yesterday said foreign
companies can now buy operators with less than 10 percent of
 Canada ’s market share by revenue. The move, which applies to new
entrants such as Public Mobile Inc. and Mobilicity as well as
smaller existing providers like Manitoba Telecom, will “remove
a barrier to investment for companies that need it most,”
Paradis said.  Manitoba Telecom has been cited as a possible takeover
target by analysts including Drew McReynolds at  RBC Capital
Markets , who said the new rules give the company “strategic
flexibility.”  Prime Wireless Spectrum  Paradis also said yesterday the government will reserve
wireless spectrum for small phone companies at an auction next
year and cap at 75 percent the amount of what it calls “prime”
700-megahertz frequency spectrum that the country’s three big
phone companies --  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and
 Telus Corp. (T)  -- will be allowed to buy.  Wind Mobile, the largest of four new entrants that have
started service during the past two years, criticized the
government for not setting aside at least 10 megahertz for each
new entrant. Wind Mobile said that much is needed to build a
network that can compete with the big three.  “Without the ability to acquire 10 megahertz, no new
entrant can build out LTE, which means no new entrant can viably
compete in the long term,” Wind Mobile CEO Anthony Lacavera
said in a statement today. The big three are spending billions
of dollars to build faster LTE, or long-term evolution, networks
that can handle data-hungry devices like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
iPad which are surging in popularity.  Helping Wind Mobile  The foreign ownership changes do resolve one headache for
Wind Mobile. Its parent company Globalive Communications Corp.
has fought a battle over its right to operate in Canada ever
since 2008, when it bought spectrum with a $700 million loan
from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s  Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE. (ORTE)   Globalive won a court appeal in June that secured its right
to continue selling phones in Canada, reversing an earlier
decision that Globalive did not meet the country’s foreign-
ownership rules.  Lacavera has said consolidation among new entrants is
needed to create a viable long-term competitor to Bell, Telus
and Rogers. Globalive was in talks to buy Toronto-based
Mobilicity, a person familiar with the discussions said in
December.  RBC’s McReynolds said the rule changes should accelerate
that consolidation.  “With the clarity now on both foreign ownership and the
wireless auction rules, we would expect some form of new
wireless entrant consolidation to occur over the next 12
months,” he said.  ‘Credit Negative’  The rule changes are “credit negative” for the big three
because the revisions are designed to foster competition even if
they won’t alter the playing field much, Moody’s Investors
Service said today in a statement.  “While the announced policy initiatives are credit
negative for the three national incumbents, we do not think that
the government’s proposal will dramatically alter the
competitive landscape,” the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  