-- Apollo Bid for Great Wolf Resorts Challenged by Shareholders
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-16T01:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/apollo-bid-for-great-wolf-resorts-challenged-by-shareholders-1-.html
Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF) , the water-
park operator, was sued by investors who said a proposed $703
million sale to private-equity firm  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
undervalues the company.  The deal, which would pay shareholders $5 a share in cash
and assume outstanding debt, is inadequate, given that the
company’s own financial adviser, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
valued the company as high as $7.98 a share, David Raul,
custodian for Pinchus E. RaulS Utma, said in a complaint filed
yesterday in  Delaware Chancery Court (1400L) .  The proposed transaction “was the result of an unfair and
flawed sales process in which Apollo was favored over other
interested parties,” Raul said in the complaint.  Great Wolf, which runs 11 family entertainment parks
throughout  North America , said March 13 that the sale would
maximize  shareholder  value and help refine and promote the
brand. The deal represented a 19.3 percent premium over Madison,
Wisconsin-based Great Wolf’s closing stock price on March 12,
the company said in a statement.  In a separate lawsuit, shareholder Scott Ferguson accused
directors of breaching their fiduciary duty by enacting a
shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, to make it more
difficult for an acquirer other than New York-based Apollo to
buy Great Wolf.  Termination Fee  The proposed deal includes a no-solicitation provision and
a $5.3 million termination fee, Ferguson said in his complaint,
filed today in the chancery court. Both Ferguson and Raul seek
to represent all Great Wolf shareholders in an effort to get the
court to bar the deal.  “We believe these lawsuits are baseless and without
merit,” Great Wolf said in a statement.  The Apollo deal was announced after a comprehensive review
of alternatives conducted over a period of more than nine months
by a special committee of independent directors, according to
the statement. Eleven companies signed confidentiality
agreements and three, including Apollo, presented final
proposals, Great Wolf said.  “Apollo’s final offer represented the highest fully
financed bid,” the company said.  Great Wolf had indications of interest from two other
bidders of $5 and $5.05 a share as of Dec. 20, Raul said in his
complaint.  “It is likely that these indications of interest could
have, with due diligence, resulted in a higher offer price than
that currently being offered by Apollo,” Raul said in the
complaint.  Neuberger Berman Group LLC, Great Wolf’s fifth-biggest
shareholder, said March 13 that the company may be worth $8 to
$9 a share.  Net Operating Losses  Great Wolf is worth more than  Deutsche Bank (DBK) ’s valuation if
the company’s net operating  losses  are taken into account, said
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc.  The company has about $7 a share in net operating losses
that an acquirer could use as a future tax benefit, Shah said
today in a phone interview.  “The hidden gem is in these NOLs,” Shah said. “Any
acquirer will be able to use some of them. The valuation is a
little more compelling than $5.”  Great Wolf rose 15 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $5.44 in
 trading  in  New York . The shares had gained 82 percent this year
before today.  The cases are Ferguson v. Great Wolf Resorts Inc., CA7329;
Raul v. Schaefer, CA7328, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  