-- Apple Starts Selling Third IPad to Widen Lead Over Google
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a ,   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   E d m o n d   L o c o c o
-- 2012-03-16T09:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/apple-s-new-ipad-makes-sydney-debut-to-widen-google-lead.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  started selling its new
iPad today, betting on a sharper screen and faster chip to
extend its lead over Google Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in the
growing market for tablet computers.  At Apple’s glass-walled store in Sydney’s George Street,
employees in blue T-shirts cheered and counted down the seconds
until doors opened at 8 a.m., as a line of at least 200 people
snaked around the city block. Two hours later, the iPad went on
sale at  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s Ginza store in Tokyo.  “There seems to be a lot of improvement in the new iPad,”
said Takaya Ito, 37, an associate professor at Tokyo’s Aoyama
Gakuin University who was upgrading from his iPad 2. “I read a
lot of theses on the iPad, but since the display isn’t so good
in the iPad 2, my eyes get tired. I’m hoping the new model will
solve that.”  The 9.7-inch device, unveiled by Chief Executive Officer
Tim Cook on March 7, is the biggest upgrade yet to Apple’s
tablet before  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  introduces new software for
competing devices. Generating demand with the model is important
for Apple to fend off competition from devices using Google’s
Android operating system and the $199 Kindle Fire from Amazon
that’s popular among cost-conscious buyers.  “It leaves everyone else behind again,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI  Asia  in  Hong Kong .  ‘Beautifully Integrated’  The new iPad, with a price tag of $499 to $829 in the U.S.,
includes a chip that enables better graphics, Apple said. It
also boasts a screen with more pixels than traditional high-
definition TVs and runs on long-term evolution, or LTE, wireless
networks that deliver data faster.  Apple will sell a $499 base model that has 16 gigabytes of
memory and works only on Wi-Fi networks. An $829 model has 64
gigabytes of memory and works on both Wi-Fi and LTE networks.  After debuting today in  Australia ,  Japan , Hong Kong and
Singapore, the device is scheduled to go on sale in France,
 Germany , the U.K., Canada and the U.S.  “I’ve got all their stuff,” said Jonathan Hakim, 22, a
doctoral student and wedding photographer in Sydney who started
lining up for the iPad yesterday afternoon. “Everything works
together. It’s so beautifully integrated, it’s so streamlined.”  Early Opening  Kento Inoue, a 20-year-old university student who was first
in line outside the Apple Store in  Tokyo , said he showed up at 7
p.m. on March 14.  “I wanted to be the first person in Japan to get the new
iPad,” said Inoue, who already owns the previous two models.
“I’m proud of it.”  About 70 people lined up at Softbank’s store, compared with
about 250 who waited for the iPad 2 last year, said Arata Kurihara, a spokesman for Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone
carrier. The decrease is probably because customers have
realized they can reserve the model without waiting in line, he
said. Some versions of the new iPad were almost out of stock,
Kurihara said.  In Hong Kong, buyers had to register online yesterday to be
able to get a new iPad today. The city’s sole Apple Store opened
an hour earlier at 8 a.m. to allow those who’d registered to
collect their tablets.  About 50 customers with advance reservations waited outside
when the shop opened. Ronald Ng, a 22-year-old university
student, wasn’t able to reserve a device yet his girlfriend
succeeded.  “I was so upset,” Ng said. “I want to buy two.”  Telstra, Optus  His girlfriend, 22-year-old Jennifer Chung, said the 64-
gigabyte iPad she bought for HK$5,888 ($759) will be even more
portable than the MacBook Air she already owns.  “I’m going to use it to surf the Internet and watch
movies,” Chung said. “I’ll also take it to school.”  In Australia,  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , the nation’s biggest phone
company, and the second-ranked Optus unit of  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)   began sales  of the new iPad. Even though
the product doesn’t work on Telstra’s new fourth-generation
network, it will be compatible with existing third-generation
services.  Stephen Parkes, 37, lined up four days ago and was the
first customer into the Sydney store. He said he was paid A$950
($1,000) by freelance employment website  Airtasker.com  to wait.  “I’ve just had some changes of clothes, some shorts, a
warm jacket,” the former truck driver said. “The Apple guys
have been pretty good, letting me use their bathroom.”  Speeds Don’t Matter  Outside Apple’s London store on Regent Street, employees
started cheering at 1 minute to 8 a.m. to a crowd of several
hundred people that had been waiting for more than 12 hours.
Hassan Ali, 20, was near the back of the line even he had joined
the queue around midnight. “The camera and the games will be
better than the laptop,” he said.  Europeans buyers of the new iPad won’t be going after
speeds because faster LTE networks are available only in a few
countries such as Sweden and parts of Germany and are still
being planned in others including France and the U.K.  Anton Makhlov and Roman Okhotnitskiy, two Russian students
who flew to Germany for an iPad, were first in line outside the
shop in  Frankfurt ’s business district. Spending the night in a
sleeping bag was worth it because of the retina display and the
new camera, they said.  Having Fun  “It’s like a special challenge for us just to come to
Germany to have some fun, to meet people, to communicate, to get
the iPad,” said Okhotnitskiy, who studies political science in
Moscow. “We are not geeks.”  In downtown Zurich, outside the Swiss flagship store on
Bahnhofstrasse, onlookers snapped photos of the crowd with
iPhones and customers in the line listened with headphones to
music on their iPods. One Japanese tourist stopped a security
guard to ask if there had been an accident.  “I am not the total fashion victim and I don’t always buy
the latest model,” said Mike Krause, 26, who works at a bank.
“However, for a while I wanted to have an iPad.”  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple rose past $600
in New York yesterday for the first time, before closing down
0.7 percent at $585.56. The stock has climbed 45 percent this
year. Apple gets about 20 percent of its  sales  from the iPad
while the company’s biggest  product by revenue  is the iPhone.  Shares Surge  The stock’s climb is spurring unprecedented volume in
options markets, where speculation that the new iPad is another
hit pushed the price of bullish contracts to the highest ever.  Calls to buy the world’s most valuable company cost 1.11
times more than puts to sell, and the premium reached an all-
time high of 1.13 on March 14, according to 30-day implied
volatility data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market research firm Gartner Inc. said 103.5 million
tablets will be sold in 2012, with Apple accounting for two-
thirds of those.  Total sales will increase to 326.3 million in 2015, with
Apple’s share dropping to 46 percent as Google and Microsoft
gain customers, according to Gartner.  Tablets by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  haven’t gained much interest.  Amazon shipped 4.7 million Kindle Fires in the fourth
quarter, giving it almost 17 percent of the market and putting
it at No. 2, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based
research company IDC. Amazon’s website gives it a sales channel
on par with Apple’s retail stores, said Sarah Rotman Epps, an
analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   Carolyn Wu, an Apple spokeswoman in Beijing, said no date 
was set for sales of the new iPad at the company’s five stores 
in the capital city and  Shanghai . She declined to comment on 
whether a lawsuit concerning rights to the iPad trademark in 
 China  would affect sales there.  Apple has said it bought the rights to the iPad trademark
in China in 2009 from the Taiwan unit of  Proview International
Holdings Ltd. (334)  A Shenzhen court ruled last year that the contract
wasn’t valid because the local unit that owned the China
trademark hadn’t been represented in the sales talks.  Apple appealed that decision Feb. 29, and a ruling is set
to be made within three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  