-- Hard Hits and Bounties in Football and Politics
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/hard-hits-and-bounties-in-football-and-politics.html
Even if you’re not a sports fan,
chances are you have heard about the controversy surrounding
 Gregg Williams , who recently coached the defense of the  New
Orleans Saints  and several other professional football teams.  Williams supposedly offered cash bounties to his players
for knocking opposing teams’ stars out of the game.
Sportswriters are  appropriately outraged , but if you follow the
comment threads, you will find a lot of anonymous fans who
insist that this is just hard-hitting football.  Most of Williams’s defenders, I suspect, are fans of teams
he has coached. Meanwhile, fans of teams whose players might
have been injured by Williams’s schemes are screaming for his
head. In sports, we have come to expect such double standards.
The trouble is, they have spilled over into every area of life,
including politics.  Unless you have been vacationing in a Trappist monastery,
you no doubt have followed, perhaps unwillingly, the contretemps
surrounding Rush Limbaugh’s nasty comments about a Georgetown
University law student who testified in favor of the Obama
administration’s new contraceptive policy. The fascinating part
of the controversy isn’t the universal condemnation of
Limbaugh’s remarks, but the second-order debate over whether
liberals are being hypocritical for coming down so hard on him
while swiftly forgiving sometimes cruder comments from left-
leaning pundits about conservative women.  Common Goal  Many observers are left uneasy by the  double standard . On
the other hand, Stanley Fish, writing in the New York Times, has
argued instead that one can consistently be harsher on one’s
opponents than on one’s allies for the same offense, because of
the importance of the  common goal  being pursued. Seen this way,
the seeming double standard becomes a mark of integrity. Fish,
in turn, has been subjected to withering attacks -- and so the
merry-go-round continues.  There is a partisanship that involves rooting for my side,
and there is a partisanship that involves insisting that my side
can do no wrong, that all the bad guys are on the other side. In
politics nowadays, all across the spectrum, we see fewer and
fewer partisans of the first type, more and more of the second.
The growing disparity threatens to transform democracy into just
another spectator sport -- and, as in other sports, potential
followers might be driven away by the behavior of boorish fans.  To understand the problem, it is useful to consider two
very different meanings of the word “fan.” The Webster’s
Unabridged Dictionary above my writing desk states with quiet
confidence that “fan” represents a shortening of “fanatic,”
and I suspect that most of those who think about the derivation
assume the same thing.  But the issue is not quite so clear. The authoritative
Dictionary of American Slang classifies the origin of the word
as “uncertain,” adding that the term might indeed stem from
“fanatic,” but might also come from “the fancy,” meaning
“sports followers or fanciers.” The  Online Etymology
Dictionary  mentions, but does not provide, a use from 1682.
Evidently the term “fancy” for followers of a sport dates at
least from 1735 -- a contraction, it seems, of “fantasy.”  Perhaps both accounts are useful. There is a kind of fan
who is indeed a fanatic, for whom every call against his team
represents an occasion to doubt the competence or impartiality
of the officials. Then there is the kind of fan who is a
fancier, who may root for a team but whose real passion is for
the sport itself. The fanatic is the one who screams at the
referee that the receiver was pushed out of bounds by the
defender, and so the catch should count. The fancier is the one
who calmly points out that the rule was changed a few years ago,
so if the receiver is forced out, there is no catch.  Us and Them  The continuing political debate between those who demand an
even-handed approach and those who think you should reserve your
attacks for your enemies tracks precisely this distinction
between fanatics and fanciers. Probably we should be
unsurprised. Evolutionary psychologists insist that the dividing
of the world into “us” and “them” is natural to us, a
genetic holdover from our hunter-gatherer days, when we shared
with our fellows and fought off attacks from strangers. We are
psychologically comfortable, the theory runs, only when we know
who is on our side and who isn’t, and can draw clean dividing
lines between the two. So strong is this habit,  researchers say ,
that we tend to discount suffering among members of the “out”
group while highlighting it among members of the “in” group.  Instinct, then, makes us fanatics rather than fanciers.
Fair enough. But the force of civilization is supposed to be
away from instinct in the direction of reason. There was a time
in living memory when both parties included respected senior
members whose esteem for institutions and processes led them to
become voices of moderation.  I remember an occasion during the  Reagan administration 
when a relatively minor breach of Senate tradition (not even a
written rule) would have allowed the Democrats to defeat the
nomination of Daniel Manion, whom they bitterly opposed, for a
federal appellate judgeship. A junior Democratic member tried to
go against the tradition, but was immediately restrained by his
more senior colleagues, for whom the prerogatives of the
institution were more important than prevailing in the battle.
It is difficult to imagine such a thing happening today.  Stanley Fish asserts that when great moral issues are at
stake, the correct governing principle is not the Golden Rule
but “be sure to do it to them first and more effectively.” I
think he may be right -- as long as we are thinking only of the
truly great moral divides, such as the fight over slavery in the
19th century. The trouble with contemporary politics is that
partisan fanatics make every issue the occasion for a double
standard; and we have all too few fanciers to correct them.  Words as Instrument  The philosopher Daniel N. Robinson, in his 2002 book
“Praise and Blame,” points out that praise and blame are
“records” but also “instruments” -- they both make moral
statements and shape the moral world. In sports, we often take
partisan sides on an empirical issue: Either the player was out
of bounds or he wasn’t. When we do so, we are using our words as
an instrument, trying to shape the game so that our side is more
likely to win.  But let us at least be clear about our motive. We are not
interested in the rules. We are not even interested in the game,
except as a tool for victory. In democratic politics, we need
our share of strong advocates, for whom winning is, in  Vince Lombardi ’s hoary exhortation, the only thing. But we need our
referees even more. We require a critical mass of people -- in
particular, people of influence -- for whom the rules are all
but sacrosanct, and the game is more important than the outcome.
We need people, in short, whose passion for the process itself
is greater than their passion for the outcome. When that group
vanishes, real democracy goes with it.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 