-- Harry Potter Licensee Boshiwa Plunges as Auditor Quits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/harry-potter-licensee-boshiwa-plunges-as-auditor-quits-correct-.html
Boshiwa International Holding Ltd. (1698) ,
the Chinese maker of children’s apparel that has a license for
the Harry Potter brand, said  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  resigned
as its auditor because of a lack of financial information. The
shares  plunged  by a record.  Some information requested by Deloitte is “outstanding or
explanations provided by the company’s management are not to
their satisfaction,” Boshiwa said, citing the auditor. Boshiwa
said it will delay publishing its annual results, according to a
statement to  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange today.  The auditor resignation drove down Boshiwa’s stock by a
record 42 percent. Investor scrutiny of Chinese companies’
accounting standards intensified last June when short-seller
Carson Block alleged Sino-Forest Ltd. overstated its assets and
cash balances.  “It’s another example of questionable corporate governance
because we don’t know exactly why their auditor resigned,” said
 Andrew Sullivan , principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, who doesn’t hold any stake in
Boshiwa. “The trouble is once you have one of these cases where
auditors resign, bad news comes out afterwards.”  Boshiwa shares  plunged  as much as 42 percent to HK$1.50 in
Hong Kong today, the most since it started trading in September
2010, before being suspended in afternoon trading. The  Hang Seng
Index  gained 0.2 percent at the 4 p.m. closing.  Prepayment Concern  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu was concerned about prepayments,
including 392 million yuan ($62 million) to a supplier, and
transactions between the company and some distributors and
suppliers, according to a second statement from Boshiwa to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today. Boshiwa cited a letter from the
auditor.  Wilfred Lee, Hong Kong-based spokesman for Deloitte,
declined to comment beyond Boshiwa’s statement due to a
confidentiality agreement with the company.  Shanghai-based Boshiwa, which designs, develops and markets
children’s clothing, footwear and accessories, has licenses for
Bob the Builder, NBA,  Harry Potter ,  Manchester United , Barcelona
and Juventus, according to its annual report. The company said
2010 profit doubled to 251 million yuan on sales of 1.41 billion
yuan.  Boshiwa said today it is “disappointed” with Deloitte’s
decision to resign. The company said it’s identifying a suitable
replacement and is considering setting up a special committee to
investigate the matter. Deloitte quit on March 13.  The company said it needs additional time to gather
information to complete auditing of the annual results and it
won’t be able to publish them by March 31.  Accounting Irregularities  Vegetable producer Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd.
and software maker Longtop Financial Technologies are among
companies halted from trading after fraud allegations were made
against them.  Citing valuation concerns, KPMG LLC resigned in January as
an auditor for China Forestry Holdings Co., the Chinese timber
company whose shares have been suspended since January last year
because of accounting irregularities.  Sino-Forest (TRE) , which counts  Richard Chandler  Corp. as its
largest shareholder, dropped 74 percent on the Toronto stock
exchange after Block’s research firm Muddy Waters LLC issued a
report against the company. Sino-Forest denies the allegations.  Its shares have been suspended since August as it delayed
reporting earnings and defaulted on two sets of bond payments in
December. Richard Chandler is a billionaire investor whose
investment company owns about 19 percent of Sino-Forest,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  