-- Fed’s Stress-Test Champion Reshapes Regulation of Biggest Banks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/tarullo-s-revolution-reprograms-fed-s-regulation-of-u-s-banks.html
Not long after President Barack Obama picked  Daniel Tarullo  for a seat on the Federal Reserve
Board, he sat down for the standard briefing with the staff and
promptly turned the tables on them.  Tarullo told them they had made mistakes in supervision,
and he wouldn’t defend their past actions. Later, he told
 Richard Shelby , the leading Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee, he endorsed Shelby’s view that regulators had fallen
down. He said it was time to “reshape” regulation.  In the past three years, no one has done more to strengthen
government’s grip on the financial system. A former law
professor and aide to President  Bill Clinton , Tarullo, 59, has
piloted implementation of the  Dodd-Frank Act , the most sweeping
overhaul of financial regulation since the 1930s. He has a
larger say in banks’ day-to-day decisions on compensation,
dividends, stock buybacks, mergers and risk-taking. And he has
buried former Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s light-touch regulation
that kept the Fed from doing more about risky mortgage practices
in the last decade.  “Dan is tough and independent; his sole priorities are
financial stability and the public interest,” said  Sheila Bair ,
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from 2006 to
2011 and now a senior adviser at the Pew Charitable Trusts.
“That said, he has his hands full trying to change the
regulatory culture at the Fed and dealing with the sometimes
competing views” of its 12 district banks.  Rigorous Stress Tests  Tarullo and the Fed staff’s rigorous stress-testing of bank
portfolios against dire economic scenarios has strengthened the
banking system. In the third round of tests since Tarullo took
office in January 2009, 15 of the 19 largest banks would
maintain sufficient capital even during a deep recession with 13
percent unemployment and a 50 percent drop in stock prices, the
Fed said March 13.  Tarullo, Obama’s first Fed appointee, says he sees no need
to apologize for an aggressive new approach.  “It is hardly illegitimate for the Fed or the Congress or
the country as a whole to be concerned about the liquidity and
capital practices of large financial institutions,” the Fed
governor said in an interview. “If bankers look at the
relatively recent history of their firms, some would see that
senior management didn’t do a great job managing risk.”  Investors staged a punishing retreat from financial stocks
in 2011, concerned about banks’ ability to make money amid
higher regulatory costs and risks from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  -- which tracks shares of 24 U.S.
companies, including  Bank of America Corp . and  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  -- fell  25 percent  in 2011, when the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index was  unchanged .  Improving Economic Forecasts  As forecasts for economic growth have improved, the KBW
index has recovered: up  22 percent  so far this year versus  11
percent (SPX)  for the  S&P 500 .  “There is no question that there is a view at the Fed that
they are going to be both more rigorous and more intrusive,”
said H. Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP, a New York law firm whose clients include  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other of the world’s largest
banks. “They are telling boards what they have to do.” The
changes represent “a true revolution in regulation, and
Governor Tarullo is the Fed point person on this.”  Executives face dozens of changes to fundamental business
decisions, including a ban on proprietary trading under the so-
called Volcker Rule, which becomes effective July 21 and could
take five years to implement fully.  Additional Capital Buffer  International regulators, including Tarullo, also agreed
last year to require  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and the other 26 largest global banks to hold an additional
capital buffer equal to as much as 2.5 percent of risk-weighted
assets because of the potential threat they pose to the world
financial system.  The new regulations are “not great for the recovery of the
global market,” JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon said when asked by an analyst in a January
conference call if capital rules were becoming clearer after
U.S. regulators announced how international standards would mesh
with Dodd-Frank. “They’re clearer bad.”  Greenspan also has weighed in. Dodd-Frank may “create the
largest regulatory-induced market distortion since America’s
ill-fated imposition of wage and price controls in 1971,” he
wrote in a Financial Times column last year. He hasn’t changed
his views, according to spokeswoman Katie Broom.  Stifle Innovation  Bankers say the Fed’s new approach is intrusive and
threatens to stifle innovation and the flow of credit at a time
when the U.S. needs faster expansion to create more jobs.
Research by Standard & Poor’s shows that loan growth in the 30
months following the recession’s end in June 2009 was the
slowest of any recovery since World War II.  “If you take a major segment of your economy, and all it
is trying to do is preserve itself, then that slows economic
growth, it slows employment creation and it probably, over time,
drives big chunks of that business to someplace else,” said
John Allison, a  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  director and former chairman and CEO
of the Winston-Salem, North Carolina banking group. The Fed’s
incursion into bank boardroom decision-making is “dramatically
more than it has ever been.”  When challenged on the costs of regulation, Tarullo points
to the costs of the previous decade’s light-touch regulation.
The last recession was the deepest since the Great Depression,
lasting 18 months and costing 8.8 million Americans their jobs.
Unemployment has remained  above 8 percent  since February 2009,
even though the expansion will be three years old in June.  ‘Poor Risk Management’  “It is very important not to lose sight of what
happened,” Tarullo told the American Bar Association’s Banking
Law Committee on Nov. 4 in  Washington . Before the crisis,
financial institutions had “substantially inadequate capital,
poor liquidity management and, in a lot of cases, poor risk
management as well.”  A Boston native, Tarullo can easily slip into his hometown
accent and hangs a picture of the Red Sox’s Fenway Park on his
wall. He is also a basketball fan and has held season tickets
for the Hoyas at  Georgetown University  in Washington, where he
received a bachelor’s degree and worked on the law faculty
before starting his job at the Fed.  Unlike Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who have doctorates in economics, or Governor  Elizabeth Duke , a former banker, Tarullo is an expert on financial
regulation, with a book on the topic, “Banking on Basel,”
published in 2008. He has taken a sprawling bureaucracy with
powerful regional centers of expertise, such as the  New York 
Fed, and focused it on an overarching mission: preventing the
next financial catastrophe.  ‘Dictated Policy’  “Dan is the first governor that I can recall in recent
memory that has taken on an issue, run the staff and dictated
policy,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, who has watched financial
policy for 27 years as head of Federal Financial Analytics in
Washington. “Supervision and regulation has been an
afterthought for most governors.”  When Tarullo joined the Fed eight days after Obama’s
inauguration on Jan. 20, 2009, Bernanke already had begun to
look at developing an internal assessment of financial
stability, and the staff was trying to measure the maximum
potential losses faced by the biggest banks. That analysis
evolved into the  first stress test  in 2009.  The Fed combined some of its 275 Ph.D. economists from
board staff with district supervisors to test the capital of 19
banks against an adverse forecast of 10.3 percent unemployment
and 0.5 percent growth in 2010.  New Approach  Tarullo said that test, with its focus on how the banks
would fare individually and as a group, helped him design a new
approach to systemic-risk oversight.  “I thought then, and continue to think now, that for the
very largest institutions, this is the only way in which
supervision is going to be effective from both a macro- and
micro-prudential perspective,” he said in the interview.  Tarullo also has been an aggressive advocate of making the
stress tests public, which raised concerns for some Fed staff.  “I can remember saying a little prayer,” said Coryann
Stefansson, who co-lead the first test and is now a director in
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s Financial Services Regulatory
Practice. “Please dear God, don’t let what I am doing end up
being the cause of the demise of the U.S. financial system.”  So-called horizontal reviews are now the Fed standard for
large bank supervision. Stress tests have expanded to include an
emphasis on capital planning, giving the central bank influence
over decisions on dividends and stock buybacks.  Interacting Staffs  The  stress-test  discipline also pulled analysis of the
biggest banks back to Washington from the Fed branches, which
historically defended their expertise in markets and specific
institutions. Now, multiple big banks are analyzed at once, with
board and regional staffs interacting.  For all the focus on centralized risk detection, Tarullo
still must count on thousands of individual examiners spread
around the country. He has tried to elevate their status and
invited some teams to Washington to speak with him personally.  When he arrived, their work was “often regarded as mid-
level supervisory tasks, and I said to myself, ‘Gee, these are
our people on the ground. Shouldn’t they be regarded as
supervisory stars?’” Tarullo said.  The number of these employees at Fed branches is budgeted
to jump to 3,688 this year from 2,657 in 2007 and to 383 from
258 for supervision and regulation staff in Washington.  High-Level Managers  Tarullo still counts on high-level managers such as Sarah Dahlgren and Jennifer Burns, heads of supervision at the New
York and Richmond district banks.  Dahlgren, in New York, has replaced most of the senior
supervisors in charge of her largest banks, which include
Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, and has doubled her on-site teams
to about 35 people. She has redefined their mission as one of
business-line analysis, management communication and risk
detection instead of back-office compliance. Serious risks often
are viewed in the context of practices at other banks and may be
brought to the attention of a group of economists and
supervisors in Washington.  Burns has more than 30 of the Richmond examiners assigned
to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the nation’s
second-largest bank after JPMorgan by assets. She has teams
charged with monitoring credit, market, operational and
compliance risk, as well as teams focused on capital and
liquidity.  ‘Complete Paradigm Shift’  For all the sheer force aimed at the banks, Shaw Petrou
says she wonders if they are being redefined into financial
utilities. That business model “isn’t coherent” for
institutions that have invested millions in making markets and
finding innovative ways to channel credit, she said. “It is a
complete paradigm shift.”  Tarullo said he understands the fine balance the Fed must
achieve.  “There is a necessary level of judgment to make in setting
prudential standards,” he said. “With sufficiently stringent
regulation, you could have an incredibly stable banking system,
but it wouldn’t be lending to too many people.”  Banks should be in the business of providing credit and
taking well-managed risks, he said. This time the Fed will be
watching for excesses and bubbles, “because what happened in
the 2000s was a rapid build-up of certain kinds of lending
without the recognition that it was built on a house of cards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  