-- Harvard Tops MIT for a Second Year in University Rankings
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/harvard-tops-mit-for-a-second-year-in-university-rankings.html
Harvard University  again topped a
list of universities in terms of global prestige, while the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and the University of
Cambridge held onto the second and third place.  Stanford University  leapfrogged the  University of
California , Berkeley to take fourth place while the latter
dropped to fifth on the list of 2012 World Reputation Rankings,
published by the London-based  Times Higher Education  magazine.
Oxford University again came in sixth.  In its second year, the magazine’s ranking gauged the
world’s universities on academic reputation only, based on about
17,554 responses spanning 137 countries. Most of those surveyed
were academics themselves, who were asked to rank the quality of
teaching and the global impact of research. Among the findings
was the widening gap between the top six “global super elite”
and all the others, according to Phil Baty, editor of the
rankings.  “It seems as if the entire world sees these six
institutions as head and shoulders above everyone else, and that
is strange,” Baty said in an interview. “There’s something
about their brands that is extremely powerful on a global level.
Reputation is an extremely nebulous concept but also a powerful
one in terms of winning respect in the real world.”  Institutions from  China ,  Taiwan  and  Singapore  moved up,
signaling the start of a power shift from West to East. China’s
 Tsinghua University (TSHUNZ)  rose five spots to 30th place while  Peking
University  climbed to 38th from 43rd. The University of  Hong
Kong  moved up three places to 39th and the  National University 
of Singapore climbed to 23rd from 27th. National Taiwan
University jumped to the 61-70 band from the 81-90 band.  “We have seen a noticeable trend that every leading Asian
institution has risen,” Baty said. “There’s a significant
trend of decline in bits of the West and exciting improvement in
key parts of  Asia .”  The rankings are based on an opinion poll carried out by
Ipsos for Times Higher Education’s rankings data supplier,
 Thomson Reuters .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  