-- Harvest Talks to Sell Venezuela’s Petrodelta in Early Stages
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-03-15T20:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/harvest-talks-to-sell-venezuela-s-petrodelta-in-early-stages-1-.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR)  is
in “early” stages of talks to sell its stake in the Petrodelta
joint venture in  Venezuela , Chief Executive Officer James Edmiston said.  Any decision to sell its 32 percent stake in the joint
venture with  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will be economic and
strategic, Edmiston said on a conference call today. The company
can’t provide more information about the potential buyer or time
frame due to a confidentiality agreement, he said.  “There will be no fire sale,” said Edmiston. “Current
negotiations are at an early stage.”  Harvest climbed the most in four years on March 6 after
announcing it was in talks to sell the Venezuelan assets. The
company has had trouble getting regular payments from PDVSA, as
its Caracas-based venture partner is known, and its assets in
the South American country are undervalued because of political
risk,  John Malone , a senior analyst at Global Hunter Securities
LLC in New York, said on March 6.  “The  bond market  seem to have a fairly bullish view of the
Venezuelan environment given the recent run they’ve had, there
seems to be a bit of disconnect there to me,” said Edmiston.  Venezuelan bonds have rallied this year with increasing
investor appetite for high-yield assets and higher probability
of political change before October presidential elections.
President  Hugo Chavez  faces a unified opposition candidate as he
battles cancer.  PDVSA has a 60 percent stake in Petrodelta and Vinccler CA
is the other owner. The venture produced 32,548 barrels a day in
the fourth quarter of 2011, a 24 percent increase from a year
earlier, Edmiston said.  “Currently Petrodelta is producing about 33,000 barrels of
oil per day or about 6 percent above the 2011 average,” he
said.  Harvest rose 3.1 percent to $7.99 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 8.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  