-- Asian Currencies Decline as Odds of U.S. Monetary Easing Recede
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-15T08:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/asia-currencies-fall-as-odds-of-u-s-monetary-easing-recede.html
Asian currencies fell as signs the
U.S. recovery is gathering pace damped speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will do more monetary easing, a move that may increase
the amount of cash available to be invested in emerging-markets.  India ’s rupee led declines as the central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged at a review today, citing inflation
risks. A government report today may show the number of
Americans applying for jobless benefits fell by 5,000 to 357,000
in the week ended March 10, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. In  Asia , Thailand reported
worse-than-expected export numbers for January, while data this
week showed Malaysia’s industrial  production  rose the least
since July.  “Good data out of the U.S. supports the view that they may
not need to introduce quantitative easing,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “The dollar got a boost across the board.”  The rupee slumped 0.7 percent to 50.2356 per dollar as of
2:13 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Philippine peso dropped 0.3 percent to 43.00, Malaysia’s
ringgit declined 0.2 percent to 3.0583 and South Korea’s won
fell 0.1 percent to 1,127.85.  The Fed said this week it expects “moderate economic
growth” and predicted the U.S. unemployment rate “will decline
gradually.”  Volatility Rebounding  The 60-day historical volatility for the Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen, stood at 3.42 percent, rebounding
from 3.3 percent reached on March 12 and March 13 that was the
lowest measure of price swings since August.  The rupee dropped to a one-week low after government data
showed yesterday that the pace of wholesale-price increases
quickened for the first time in five months to 6.95 percent in
February.  “In the short term, the  Reserve Bank  of India’s decision
will negatively impact expectations for equity inflows and the
rupee,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at Credit Suisse AG.  The won touched a one-month low before trimming losses amid
speculation the central bank will intervene to reduce volatility.  “With dollar strengthening, we’re seeing Asian currencies
slide,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Samsung Futures Inc. “Won losses may be limited as exporters
sell the dollar to convert income, and as investors are aware
that the government may intervene to curb steep currency
declines.”  Malaysia’s Output  Malaysia’s ringgit reached a seven-week low on concern
growth in Southeast Asia’s third-biggest economy is slowing.  Industrial output rose 0.2 percent in January from a year
earlier after increasing 2.9 percent in December, official data
showed this week. Consumer prices advanced 2.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, the slowest pace since December
2010, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before figures due March 21.  “There will be an economic slowdown given the global
environment,” said Hasdi Mamat, a foreign-exchange trader at
Bank Muamalat  Malaysia  Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “It’s a question
of how sharp the slowdown will be to justify a rate cut.
Fundamentally, this will weigh on the  currency market .”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah, Taiwan’s dollar and  China ’s
yuan were little changed against the greenback at 9,184,
NT$29.57 and 6.3300, respectively. The  Thai baht  held at 30.77
and Vietnam’s dong was unchanged at 20,830.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 