-- Latvia Should Consider VAT Cut on Inflation Risk, Rimsevics Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-03-15T15:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/latvia-should-consider-vat-cut-on-inflation-risk-rimsevics-says.html
Latvia should consider lowering its
value-added  tax rate  in the second half of the year to keep
inflation within the range needed to adopt the euro, said
central bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics.  “The government would need to consider the possibility to
not raise VAT, but the opposite, to lower VAT” if rising
consumer prices threaten the country’s euro-adoption goal and
receipts are adequate, Rimsevics told reporters in Riga today.
“The second half of the year would be the latest that it could
be done.”  The Baltic country, which completed a 7.5 billion euro
($9.8 billion) loan program from a group led by the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in December, plans to
adopt the euro in 2014. Inflation will have to below the average
of the three lowest rates in the European Union plus 1.5
percentage points to qualify for the currency.  The central bank forecasts inflation of 2.4 percent this
year; the rate last month was 3.4 percent, the lowest since
December 2010. The VAT rate on most items is 22 percent.  “This will definitely stop growth in prices, of course the
government would have to follow whether businesses and traders
wouldn’t use the lower VAT for their own interests,” said
Rimsevics today.  Latvia  wouldn’t be the first country to use  tax policy  to
adopt the euro, said Guntram Wolff, deputy director of Bruegel,
the Brussels-based research institute, by telephone.  “I think this has been done in a number of countries
before the euro was launched,” he said.  Lithuania’s application to adopt the euro in 2007 was
rejected by the European Commission after the country missed the
inflation target by 0.1 percentage point.  “The current inflation criteria are completely
nonsensical” since we could end up with an inflation reference
rate close to zero due recessions in some countries, Wolff said.
“It’s going to be a very tough criteria to meet” for Latvia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  