-- Avaya Agrees to Acquire RadVision for About $230 Million
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-03-15T15:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/avaya-agrees-to-acquire-radvision-for-about-230-million-1-.html
Avaya Inc. (AV-W) , the communications-
equipment maker owned by private-equity firms Silver Lake and
TPG Capital, agreed to acquire  RadVision Ltd. (RVSN) , an Israeli maker
of video-conferencing systems, for about $230 million.  The cash transaction at $11.85 a share represents a premium
of about 57 percent over RadVision’s average closing share price
during the 90 trading days ended yesterday, Tel-Aviv based
RadVision said in a statement today. RadVision shares jumped 12
percent to 44.05 shekels, or the equivalent of $11.67, at the
4:30 p.m. close of trading in Tel Aviv, the highest level since
December 2007.  “Despite the global slowdown, Israeli companies continue
to attract top dollar from international investors and
companies,” said Zach Herzog, an equity sales trader at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “It is certainly likely more
Israeli companies will be sold in the years ahead.”  Israel ’s largest companies may be forced to sell some of
their subsidiaries after a government committee on economic
concentration recommended in February that holding companies
simplify their corporate structures to no more than three public
layers within four years.  “The strategic merger will now combine two industry
leaders with a shared passion and vision for creating high-
performance unified communications solutions,” RadVision Chief
Executive Officer Boaz Raviv said in the statement.  NDS Deal  The stock has risen 42 percent this year, giving RadVision
a market value of 812 million shekels, compared with a 2.2
percent advance for the benchmark TA-25 index.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest maker of equipment
for  computer networks , agreed to buy NDS Group Ltd. in a deal
valued at about $5 billion to add software used in next-
generation video services, it announced today.  NDS, which makes software for pay-television channels has
operations in Israel and is co-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News
Corp. and London hedge fund Permira Advisers LLP.  Avgol Industries 1953 Ltd. (AVGL) , an Israeli manufacturer of
nonwoven fabrics, said this month that private-equity firm
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  was in preliminary talks about a possible
acquisition. In January,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it acquired Israeli
flash-memory producer Anobit Technologies Ltd.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after China.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  opened a research and development center in
Israel in April 2006, according to the Redmond, Washington-based
software maker’s website.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which began operations in
Israel in 1974 with five employees, has 6,600 workers in the
country, according to the chip manufacturer’s website.  The RadVision transaction is subject to the approval of
shareholders, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  