-- Bank Bonds Need More Than Fed Test: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-15T15:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bank-bonds-need-more-than-fed-test-credit-markets.html
The biggest U.S. banks will need
more than the  Federal Reserve ’s stamp of approval before they
receive an all-clear signal from the  bond market .  While relative yields on their bonds narrowed to 265 basis
points, the lowest since August, that’s almost 1 percentage
point above last year’s low of 173 in April, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. The gap between spreads on
industrial and financial debt has more than doubled from a year
ago and credit-default  swaps  on the six-biggest U.S. banks are
83 basis points higher than last April.  Fixed-income investors are showing they’re not convinced
the worst is over from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
litigation from faulty mortgages issued during the housing boom,
even after the Fed said 15 of the 19 biggest U.S. banks could
maintain adequate capital levels in a recession scenario.
Bondholders also remain concerned that increased regulations and
a slow economic recovery may diminish banks’ profitability.  “It was a positive step, but there’s still risk factors
that sit on the table,”  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC
Asset Management Holdings LLC, said in a telephone interview
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “You still have some degree of
cautions as to the financial sector vis-à-vis industrials.”  ‘Dominoes Fell’  Even as Moody’s Investors Service says financial companies
deriving profits from trading and market-making will likely be
cut this year, bank bonds have gained 4.7 percent since year-
end, on pace for the best quarter since the three months ended
September 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
That compares with industrial debt returns of 0.6 percent. In
2011, a 1.7 percent gain for financial securities’ fell short of
9.9 percent on industrials.  “All these dominoes fell between March of last year and
March of this year,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, citing the earthquake in
 Japan , debate over the U.S. debt ceiling and  Greece ’s worsening
debt crisis. “During that time period, banks took center stage
in terms of investors’ anxieties.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined for a seventh
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropping 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 90
basis points as of 11 a.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd. That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since
July 5.  Bondholder Protection  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 1.04 basis points to 26.25 basis points
as of 11:05 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which has climbed from
a six-month low of 24.69 on March 2, widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of American International Group Inc. are the most
actively traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with
89 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:08 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Fed’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review tested
banks to ensure they have adequate capital to continue lending
in a downturn and avoid a repeat of the crisis that resulted in
a $245 billion taxpayer bailout through the Troubled Asset
Relief Program.  Stress Tests  The stress tests showed that a U.S.  unemployment  rate of as
high as 13 percent, a 50 percent drop in stock prices and a
decline in house prices of more than 20 percent would produce
aggregate losses of $534 billion over nine quarters.  Bank debt spreads have rallied from 403 basis points on
Nov. 29, the widest level since July 2009, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “While on one hand, yes, we’ve made tons of progress from
the wides, there’s still a ways to go,” Janney Montgomery
Scott’s Lurie said in a telephone interview.  The ongoing review by Moody’s may result in one- to three-
step credit downgrades at banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley is also weighing on lenders, according
to analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Capital .  Banks that profit from trading and market-making, as well
as European lenders, will likely be cut this year, Moody’s said
Feb. 15. The ratings company cited regulatory burdens as a
challenge, as the U.S. plans to implement a ban on proprietary
trading in five months called the Volcker rule, part of the
Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul.  Mortgage Litigation  The Fed tests were “a bigger story for equity” as “the
credit market remains more focused on the Moody’s actions,”
JPMorgan analysts Kabir Caprihan and Matthew Hughart wrote in a
March 14 note.  Shobhit Gupta, a credit strategist at Barclays Capital in
New York said in a telephone interview that potential rating
actions and mortgage litigation “are likely to be important
catalysts for bank spreads in the near term.”  U.S. banks face lawsuits stemming from accusations they
deceived homeowners and conducted improper foreclosures.  Last month, Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc. agreed to a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the federal government to resolve
claims of abusive foreclosure practice.  Spreads Narrow  The gap between spreads on bank bonds and industrial debt
has narrowed to 102 basis points, the tightest since reaching 99
basis points on Aug. 8, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. That compares with 44 basis points reached last April.
Financial spreads last traded tighter than industrials in
September 2007.  “It’s unlikely we’re going to get there any time soon, but
the basis could definitely compress if we continue to get
stability in the market,” Gupta said.  While European efforts to resolve the debt crisis are
making progress, “imbalances” in euro-area economies show that
the task is far from complete, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said on March 13.  “Even though we are through a large percentage of the
near-term crisis with Greece, there still are other layers of
this crisis that may develop,” said  Thomas Chow , a  money
manager  at Delaware Investments, which oversees about $170
billion of investment-grade debt. “The economy over there,
given the austerity measures in place, are certainly going to be
a drag and put pressure on the financial system,” Chow said.  ‘Still Uncertainty’  An index averaging five-year credit-default swap prices on
debt from U.S. banks Citigroup, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Wells Fargo and Bank of America has declined to 187.4
basis points from last year’s high of 360.1 on Nov. 25, the
highest since April 2009, CMA data show. The average is up from
this year’s low of 181.8 reached on Feb. 8 and 104.6 on April
11, the lowest level of 2011.  “From a credit perspective, we know the banks
theoretically can weather a pretty dire type of scenario,” said
Adam Steer, an analyst at Brookfield Investment Management Inc.,
whose parent Brookfield Asset Management Inc. oversees about
$150 billion in assets. “They got the all clear from the Fed
but there’s still uncertainty in the near-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  