-- LBBW Returns to Annual Profit After Three Years of Losses
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-15T11:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lbbw-returns-to-annual-profit-after-three-years-of-losses-1-.html
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
 Germany ’s biggest state-owned lender, returned to an annual
profit in 2011 as reduced provisions for risky loans helped snap
three years of losses.  Net income was 87 million euros ($114 million) after a loss
of 363 million euros in 2010, the Stuttgart-based lender said in
an e-mailed statement today. LBBW booked charges of about 940
million euros related to the sovereign-debt crisis last year.  LBBW, led by Chief Executive Officer Hans-Joerg Vetter, is
cutting about 2,500 jobs by 2013. As part of a restructuring
agreement reached with the  European Commission , the lender
agreed last month to sell its LBBW Immobilien real-estate unit
to a group led by  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  for 1.44 billion euros
in Germany’s biggest property deal since 2008.  LBBW aims to increase its earnings this year if there are
no “dramatic dislocations” in  capital markets , Vetter said.  About 680 million euros of the charges on  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis were related to writedowns on Greek bonds
and the sale of the credit default swaps that LBBW held on
securities issued by the country, Vetter told reporters in
Stuttgart today.  The lender was able to cut loan-loss provisions by 68
percent to 152 million euros thanks to the favorable economic
development in its core markets, according to Vetter. Last
year’s figure shouldn’t be seen as “sustainable,” he said.  Risk-Weighted Assets  Last year’s result was helped by lower losses on financial
instruments booked at fair value, with a charge of 33 million
euros compared to 657 million euros a year ago.  Risk-weighted assets were reduced to 108 billion euros from
121 billion euros a year earlier, and the core capital ratio
improved to 12.9 percent from 11.4 percent. LBBW said it’s still
discussing with its owners converting capital instruments to
make them compliant with new Basel III definitions for banks.  LBBW had to restructure its operations on European Union
orders after the company’s  owners , including the state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg and regional savings banks, had to bail it out with
5 billion euros of capital during the financial crisis.  As part of the restructuring, the lender has already cut
about 2,000 positions by voluntary measures such as early
retirement or partial-retirement, it said.  Replenishment Priority  LBBW said in a separate statement that it generated net
income of about 400 million euros in 2011 under German HGB
accounting rules, allowing it to replenish profit participation
certificates and silent partners’ contributions in full.  “As replenishment has a higher priority, it is likely that
no distribution will be made on the profit participation
certificates and silent partners’ contributions for 2011,” the
company said in the statement.  Silent partners’ contributions are funds German state-owned
lenders received from their owners -- savings banks and state
governments -- and that confer no  voting rights . They were also
used by the German government to recapitalize lenders including
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG during the financial crisis.  A further consolidation of German state-owned lenders, or
Landesbanken, including LBBW, Munich-based  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) 
and Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, is currently “not a topic,”
Vetter said today. Landesbanken serve as savings banks’ central
banks and clearing houses in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  