-- Bee Deaths Linked to Sowing Insecticide-Coated Corn, Study Finds
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-15T11:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bee-deaths-linked-to-sowing-insecticide-coated-corn-study-finds.html
Corn planting using insecticide-
coated seeds was linked to honeybee deaths, according to a study
by researchers at  Italy ’s University of Padova.  The scientists found honeybees flying over fields where the
coated corn was being planted were intoxicated by particles
containing neonicotinoid insecticides vented by pneumatic seed
planters, they wrote in a study  published  in the journal
Environmental Science & Technology.  Beekeepers from  China  to the U.S. have experienced
honeybee-colony deaths in recent years that may be linked to
multiple factors, including insecticides, the  United Nations ’
environmental agency reported last year.  “Experimental results show that the environmental release
of particles containing neonicotinoids can produce high exposure
levels for bees, with lethal effects compatible with colony
losses phenomena observed by beekeepers,” the researchers led
by Andrea Tapparo from the university in Padua, northern Italy
wrote.  Planters emit “significant” amounts of insecticide
coating particles during corn sowing, and observations have
indicated a “close link” between spring deaths of bees and use
of pneumatic drilling machines, according to the study.  Insecticide Exposure  Honeybees were exposed to the insecticides by prompting
them to fly over the fields to a sugar-solution dispenser, as
well as by placing caged bees in the field being planted,
according to the study.  About 30 seconds of exposure of single caged bees to the
air flow emitted by the fan of the drilling machine, similar to
one to two flights across the sowing field, always caused acute
lethal effects, the study found.  The research was funded by the  University of Padova  and the
Italian Agriculture Ministry, the researchers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  