-- Belarus Bars Opponents From Leaving Country After EU Visa Ban
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-03-15T09:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/belarus-bars-opponents-from-leaving-country-after-eu-visa-ban.html
Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko ’s government has prevented several opposition leaders
and journalists from leaving the country since the EU expanded
its sanctions against senior government officials, the
Belarusian Association of Journalists said.  At least eight people associated with either opposition
politics, human rights activism or independent media have been
prevented from leaving the former Soviet republic since Feb. 27,
said Zhanna Litvina, head of the media freedom watchdog.  Litvina said by phone that she herself was prevented from
leaving the country today when border guards put an “exit
denied” stamp in her passport as she tried to board a flight to
Warsaw at the Minsk International Airport.  “This kind of pressure is practically a tradition in
Belarus, but it’s getting more intense now because of the
economic problems the government is facing,” Litvina said.  Neither Alexey Begun, head of the  Interior Ministry ’s
Citizenship and Migration service in Minsk, nor Dmitry
Levchenko, head of the service’s passport and foreign travel
department, could be reached immediately when Bloomberg called
their offices seeking comment.  The European Union on Feb. 27 added 21 officials to a list
of more than 200 it accuses of political repression, freezing
their assets and banning them from entering the trading bloc.
Lukashenko, who has been in power since 1994, expelled the EU’s
representative and the Polish ambassador in Minsk in return,
prompting all other EU countries to withdraw their ambassadors.  Belarus, a landlocked country between Poland and  Russia , is
seeking to extend payments on a bailout loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  and receive a new $3.5 billion
credit. The country has  Europe ’s highest inflation and interest
rates, which reached 107 percent and 38 percent, respectively,
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  