-- Berlian Laju May Present Debt-Restructuring Plan in May
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-15T09:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/berlian-laju-may-present-debt-restructuring-plan-in-early-may.html
PT Berlian Laju Tanker (BLTA) , the
Indonesian ship operator under court protection, may present a
plan to creditors in early May as it seeks to restructure debts
and leases.  The company is in “active negotiations” with shipowners
and has begun talks with lenders led by DNB ASA, Cosimo
Borrelli, vice president of restructuring, said by phone
yesterday. He declined to name lessors or to say what the
company was seeking. “We’re not expecting a difficult or long-
winded process.”  The Jakarta-based company has built up $2.4 billion of
group debt, according to a March 12  Singapore  court filing,
after paying $850 million for Chembulk Tankers LLC in 2007 and
suffering from a jump in fuel prices. The operator has about 20
leased-in vessels, which it signed for between 2005 and 2008
when rates were at a peak, Borrelli said, without elaboration.  Fees for carrying cargos are now “too far away” from
those the company agreed to pay in leases, he said. He didn’t
say which types of vessels it had leased in.  Berlian Laju is still operating, Borrelli said. The company
had a fleet of 72 vessels as of December, of which 50 are owned
by subsidiaries and mortgaged to banks, according to the court
documents. Other lenders include ING Groep NV, NIBC Bank NV,
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , and Standard Chartered Plc, the papers show. The
company owns ships that haul chemical products, gas and oil.  Repayment Halt  Berlian Laju has ceased payment of loans, bonds and finance
leases, it said in a Jan. 26 statement. It has principal
payments of about $418 million due this year, it said. The
company had $105.6 million of cash at the end of September,
according to a Nov. 15 financial statement.  “The free cash available to the company is less than that
today,” Borrelli said, without elaboration.  The carrier halted its shares from trading in Jakarta and
Singapore in January. It was downgraded two levels to ‘D’ by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on  Feb. 10 . Fitch Ratings
Ltd. today cut its rating to ‘RD’ from ‘C.’ This comes after
Fitch lowered it on Jan. 27 from ‘CCC.’  Chembulk New York Pte and 12 other Berlian units yesterday
sought protection from creditors in a Manhattan court under
Chapter 15 of the  bankruptcy code , which puts on hold claims
while a company reorganizes outside the U.S.  A day earlier, the shipping group won an order from
Singapore’s High Court preventing creditors from legal
proceedings and seizing vessels for three months. Its lawyers
had sought an urgent hearing on March 12, saying ship arrests in
the U.S.,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and  South Africa  had had an
“adverse impact” on business, according to court filings.  The price of 380 Centistoke Bunker Fuel, used by ships, has
jumped 62 percent in the past two years in Singapore trading,
hitting earnings across the industry.  Tokyo-based Sanko Steamship Co. this month asked
shipowners, shipyards and lenders for a debt standstill.  Torm
A/S (TORM) , a Danish ship operator, has deferred debt repayments four
times since December.  General Maritime Corp. (GMRRQ) , the second-largest U.S. owner of
 oil tankers , sought  bankruptcy protection  in November listing
$1.41 billion of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  