-- MBIA Credit Swaps Drop as UBS Said to Settle Restructuring Fight
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-15T21:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/mbia-credit-swaps-drop-after-ubs-says-it-settled-with-a-monoline.html
The cost to protect against a
default by the  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit that guaranteed toxic mortgage
debt dropped after  UBS AG (UBSN)  was said to have agreed to settle
claims challenging the bond insurer’s 2009 restructuring.  Swaps tied to MBIA Insurance Corp. declined three
percentage points to 26.7 percent upfront, the lowest in more
than two weeks, according to data provider CMA. That’s in
addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it costs $2.67 million
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of MBIA
Insurance’s debt.  UBS will withdraw from litigation in New York State Supreme
Court in which banks  claim  the insurer’s restructuring left it
insolvent, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Switzerland ’s biggest lender is one of four remaining banks
in the lawsuit that had bought default protection from MBIA
against losses on mortgage-linked debt. Fourteen other firms
dropped out of the suit, including Morgan Stanley and Barclays
Plc after settlements that terminated their hedges with MBIA.  UBS (UBS)  said in its annual report today that it lowered its
2011 net trading income by 167 million Swiss francs ($180
million) and booked a tax benefit of 28 million francs after
agreeing to settle credit-default swaps with a monoline insurer
in exchange for a cash payment. The Zurich-based bank didn’t
disclose the name of the insurer.  Contracts on MBIA Inc. also declined, easing 1.4 percentage
points to 13.3 percent upfront, the data show.  Market Benchmark  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
and Tatiana Togni, a spokeswoman for UBS, declined to comment.
MBIA attorney  Marc Kasowitz  didn’t immediately respond to a
phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  Swaps on MBIA dropped as a benchmark gauge of corporate
credit risk broke below 90 basis points for the first time since
July, two days after the  Federal Reserve  raised its assessment
of the economy. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index tied to 125 companies in the U.S. and Canada fell 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 90 basis points at 5:24 p.m. in
New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Jobless Claims  The gauge, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, reached an
eight-month low after U.S. economic reports showed initial
jobless claims dropped last week to match a four-year low and
U.S. consumer confidence rose to the highest since 2008,
signaling an improving labor market may boost household
spending.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 89.4
basis points, the lowest intraday level since July 1. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cases are ABN AMRO BANK NV et al v. MBIA, 601475-2009,
and ABN AMRO BANK NV et al v.  Eric Dinallo , 601846-2009, New
York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  