-- Biden Attacks Republicans by Name in First Campaign Speech
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-15T21:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/biden-attacks-republicans-by-name-in-first-campaign-speech-1-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  used his
first official campaign speech to do something President  Barack Obama  has avoided: mention Republican rivals by name.  Speaking before more than 500 United Auto Workers union
members and local officials in Toledo, Ohio, Biden said that in
coming weeks he will lay out the “clear, stark differences
between us and our opponents” and the stakes for the middle
class in the November election. “ Mitt Romney ,  Rick Santorum  and
 Newt Gingrich , these guys have a fundamentally different
economic philosophy than we do,” Biden said.  In a bid to win support from white blue-collar voters who
polls show favor Republican candidates over Obama, Biden
attacked Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , and former
U.S. House Speaker Gingrich for opposing the Obama
administration’s auto industry bailout.  Obama “didn’t flinch” over the decision, Biden said.
“This is a man with steel in his spine.” The administration is
“about promoting the private sector,” while the Republican
candidates are “about protecting the privileged sector.”  Swing State  Ohio is a swing state that has picked the winning
presidential candidate in the last 12 elections, going with the
Democrat three times and the Republican five times since 1980.
Obama won the state in 2008 with 51.4 percent of the vote. Since
then, Republicans swept statewide offices, won the U.S. Senate
race and replaced five Democrats in the  House of Representatives 
in the 2010 midterm elections.  In 2008, exit polls showed 54 percent of white voters
without a college degree there went for Republican  John McCain .  “Democrats have a problem with white males,” said Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat who was appointed to fill the
remainder of Biden’s Senate term after the 2008 election. “If
the electorate was Hispanic, African-American, married women and
Jewish, the Democrats would win everything.”  Biden, who grew up in Scranton,  Pennsylvania , is a natural
fit for the job of pitching for those voters, according to
 Douglas Brinkley , a presidential historian at  Rice University  in
Houston.  Hard Hat  “He’s made a career out of putting on a hard hat, eating
doughnuts and talking to people on an assembly line,” said
Brinkley, who’s from Perrysburg,  Ohio , about 10 miles south of
Toledo. “That’s what his shtick is, so it makes perfect sense
that he’s going to be really beginning his active campaign
participation in Toledo.”  At today’s rally, Biden said the Republican presidential
candidates were “dead wrong” about the auto bailout, and
scoffed at Romney’s argument that the private sector would have
saved the industry and Santorum’s claim that the rescue was
intended to placate special interests.  “In 2009, no one was lining up to lend General Motors or
Chrysler any money, or for that matter to lend money to
anybody,” Biden said. “That includes  Bain Capital , they
weren’t lining up to lend anybody money.” Romney co-founded
Bain Capital LLC and Democrats have used his personal wealth as
a line of attack.  “Gingrich and Romney and Santorum, they don’t let the
facts get in their way,” Biden said.  ‘Go Joe Go’  “If you give any one of these guys the keys to the White
House they will bankrupt the middle class again,” Biden said to
applause from the crowd, many of whom shouted “Go Joe Go” and
wore UAW T-shirts and hats.  “Republicans have been calling Obama out for six months,
it’s about time he stood up and named names,” said Jack
Siebemaler, 73, a retired auto worker at the Jeep plant in
Toledo.  John Rizzo, 56, a bridge and lock tender at the Ohio
Department of Transportation said he’ll vote for Obama unless
someone new enters the race.  Rizzo said that, while Obama saved the  auto industry , “if
gas prices keep going up I give it a couple weeks until it’s
just as bad as before, you’ve only got so much money to spend.”  Romney’s campaign said Obama is to blame for the economic
hardships middle-class Americans have suffered.  ‘Broken Economy’  Obama “has devastated the middle class by failing to live
up to his promises of fixing unemployment, lowering gas prices,
decreasing health-care costs, and addressing the unsustainable
federal debt,” Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in a
statement e-mailed to reporters after Biden’s speech. “As
president, Mitt Romney will implement a bold, pro-growth jobs
plan that will help all Americans recover from the broken Obama
economy.”  Chrysler employs more than 2,000 people in the Toledo area,
including at a plant that manufactures the Jeep Liberty and Jeep
Wrangler, and  Owens Corning Inc., (OC)  a maker of insulation, has its
headquarters in the city. GM’s Lordstown Plant near the state’s
eastern border with Pennsylvania, another swing state, has added
workers and is operating on three shifts.  Obama’s political advisers are increasingly concerned about
winning Ohio’s 18 electoral votes in 2012. In December, when
campaign manager  Jim Messina  and chief strategist  David Axelrod 
laid out five paths for Obama to get the 270 Electoral College
votes needed to win re-election, only one of them included Ohio.  ‘Failed Policies’  “The failed policies championed by Joe Biden and Barack
Obama have cost Ohio jobs, prolonged our recession and loaded
unsustainable debt onto the backs of taxpayers and autoworkers
alike,” Ohio Republican Party Chairman  Kevin DeWine  said in an
e-mail.  Ohio lost almost 275,000 manufacturing jobs over the last
decade, a 30 percent decline that is second only to  Michigan .
The state’s  unemployment rate  was 7.7 percent in January, below
the national average of 8.3 percent in February. When Obama took
office, Ohio’s unemployment rate was 8.6 percent. The
unemployment rate in the Toledo metropolitan area was 8.6
percent in December, according to Labor Department data.  The state ranks fifth in improving economic health in the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States from the third quarter
of 2009 through the third quarter of last year, the most recent
data available.  “Toledo has become a sort of a symbol of Midwest
industrialism in decline,” Brinkley said. “If Toledo can
rebound the country can rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Toledo, Ohio at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  