-- Big Business Wants All or Nothing Court Ruling on Health
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/big-businesses-wants-all-or-nothing-court-ruling-on-health-law.html
The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the
leading Washington lobbyist for big corporations, spent $86
million two years ago trying to keep the Obama administration’s
health-care overhaul from passing Congress.  Now, as the  Supreme Court  is set to begin reviewing a key
provision of the law, the group’s message is different: If you
can’t kill it, don’t maim it, the chamber said in a legal brief
filed separately with the court.  The chamber is among lobby groups for large companies
caught between their own distaste for the law and the self-
interest of members who have won concessions since it was 
passed. They say that ending the provision mandating that all 
Americans be insured would increase the cost of the rest of the 
law. The concern has split the business community, and could aid 
the law’s defenders, said  Neera Tanden , president of the 
Washington-based Center for American Progress.  “The fact that large businesses, if anything, have been
supportive of the bill and are silent on the lawsuit can
communicate that it would be highly disruptive to find the
individual mandate unconstitutional,'' said Tanden, who helped
write the law as an Obama administration official until 2010.
“The economic interests are not uniform.”  The suit before the high court also challenges a provision
forcing states to broaden their Medicaid programs. It was filed
by 26 states and the  National Federation of Independent
Business , a lobbyist group that represents closely held
companies, most of which have 20 employees or fewer.  Big companies that insure themselves were never the law’s
target, and have won concessions from Congress and the Obama
administration that make the law more palatable, said Steve Wojcik, vice president of public policy at the  National Business
Group on Health , which also represents large employers.  ‘Law Of The Land’  “Our view at this point is it’s the law of the land,” he
said by phone. “We’re doing our best to help influence the
regulations and regulatory guidance.”  Congress took a contentious piece of the overhaul off the
table last year by repealing a tax-compliance requirement that
would have required businesses starting in 2012 to report more
transactions to the  Internal Revenue Service  to prevent
underreporting of income.  The Obama administration has also eased requirements,
including one that would have made companies report the value of
health benefits to workers on annual tax forms. The provision
was delayed a year, to apply to the 2012 tax year instead of
2011, and the calculation was simplified.  “In some regards, they have shown some flexibility and in
others they’ve gone beyond the statute,” said Katie Mahoney,
executive director of health policy for the chamber.  Broad Ruling Undesirable  Now, interest groups representing large corporations --
including the chamber, Wojcik’s organization and the  Business
Roundtable  -- are more concerned a ruling by the justices that
strikes down the provision mandating insurance for all, without
overturning the part that compels costly coverage for the sick,
will cause insurers to raise the price of their coverage.  The chamber hasn’t argued that the mandate to buy insurance
is unconstitutional, the focus of small businesses and 26 states
that sued the government. Instead, it argues that the mandate to
purchase insurance is not “severable” from the rest of the
law; if the mandate falls, the entire measure must go with it.  The chamber agrees with the administration “that the
individual mandate is critical to the law” and shouldn’t be
struck down by itself, Mahoney said by phone.  That leaves the small business federation as the leading
corporate foe of the law. The lobbying group has allied itself
with states that are pressing a constitutional challenge to be
argued March 26 to 28.  Mandate Unaffordable  The group’s members say they can’t afford the law’s
requirement that companies with more than 50 workers provide
health coverage or pay fines of $2,000 per employee starting in
2014.  Small companies have to pay insurers more to cover their
workers and can’t always provide as generous benefits as big
businesses, said Karen Harned, executive director of NFIB’s
Small Business Legal Center in  Washington , in an interview.  Large employers “are not going to be subject to as much of
the negative consequences as our small-business owners will,”
she said by phone. Still, she said, “I kind of thought they’d
be more outraged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 