-- Bini Smaghi Says Portugal, Ireland May Need More Rescue Aid
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-15T11:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bini-smaghi-says-portugal-ireland-may-need-more-rescue-aid.html
Former European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said officials must
accept that Portugal and Ireland may need further assistance if
they want to limit debt restructuring to  Greece .  “It should be recognized right away that Portugal may not
be able to return to the markets next year and needs an
additional bailout package,” Bini Smaghi said in an article
published on the  Financial Times  website today. “If it is
unable to finance itself until 2016, it will need approximately
100 billion euros. The same could be done for Ireland, which
requires an additional 80 billion euros.”  Portugal’s implied borrowing costs have increased as
investors fret about whether the nation will follow Greece in
having to restructure its debt, with the yield on its two-year
bond having doubled in the past year to 11.3 percent. The
 International Monetary Fund  said on March 2 that Ireland may
struggle to regain “sufficient” access to bond markets in
2013. Both countries have already received bailouts.  Greek Bailout  Bini Smaghi, who left the ECB at the end of 2011, said
acceptance of the two countries’ difficulties would help build a
firewall that would ensure Greece remains an exception. Failure
to do this would risk repeating the mistakes made with Greece,
which Bini Smaghi said involved “helplessly” looking on as
market conditions worsened until it became obvious the country
would need aid.  Last week, Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history, with private holders accepting more
than 100 billion euros ($131 billion) of writedowns, a condition
for winning the second bailout.  Ireland’s government is seeking to restructure about 30
billion euros of so-called promissory notes, or IOUs, used to
rescue the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. The nation stepped out
of bond markets and sought external aid in November 2010, amid
concern that banking woes would push it into bankruptcy.  Ireland “has met all of the targets to date” and is “on
track to emerge from the program and return to markets in
2013,” a Finance Ministry spokeswoman said today in response to
the Bini Smaghi article.  Portugal  is raising taxes and cutting spending as it fights
to meet the terms of the 78 billion-euro bailout plan. Vitor Constancio, ECB vice president and former Bank of Portugal
governor, said on March 8 that austerity measures are on track
and that a restructuring won’t be necessary.  The risk is of “publicly denying that restructuring is
even an option, but privately considering involving private
creditors and even discussing the details with some market
participants,” Bini Smaghi wrote. “Finally, hastily putting in
place an additional package and asking the various countries’
parliaments for approval, which they might be willing to
consider...but only in exchange for debt restructuring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  