-- Blatter Meets Brazil’s Rousseff to Avert World Cup Crisis
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-03-16T16:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/blatter-and-brazil-s-rousseff-meet-to-avert-world-cup-crisis.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said he
trusts the Brazilian government will follow through on pledges
as host of the 2014 World Cup following a specially-arranged
meeting with the country’s president today.  Blatter traveled to Brasilia in a bid to get preparations
for the World Cup back on track and reduce tensions with the
host nation that reached a peak this month when President Dilma
Rousseff’s government cut ties with FIFA’s highest ranking
administrator. Soccer’s governing body has grown frustrated at
Brazil’s failure to pass a special law, which confirms
guarantees made to FIFA when the country was awarded hosting
rights in 2007.  “Dilma told me the government will provide all necessary
guarantees and we fully trust her and  Brazil ’s government that
this will happen,” Blatter told reporters in Brasilia. “The
idea now is that FIFA and Brazil work more closely” in
preparing for the event, he said.  FIFA Secretary General Jerome Valcke said on March 2 that
Brazil needed a “kick up the ass” to be ready in time, an
outburst that prompted Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo to request he
be removed as soccer governing body’s emissary.  “The issue between Brazil and Valcke belongs to FIFA and
we’ll have to solve it,” Blatter said.  It’s not the first time FIFA has been critical of a host
nation before a World Cup.  South Africa , which staged the last
tournament in 2010, faced many of the same accusations about the
lack of progress in completing infrastructure projects like
airports and stadiums and concerns over striking workers. That
event went ahead as planned without any major problems.  Time to reflect  “There comes a time in the organization when it’s time to
reflect and reorganize,” World Cup 2010’s former chief
executive officer  Danny Jordaan  said in an interview. “I’m sure
after the meeting with the president of FIFA, things will settle
down and everyone will focus on getting the job done.”  Still, the failure to pass the bill, which has been
ensnared in a dispute between the government and its coalition
in Congress, have raised concern inside FIFA.  “This World Cup bill has to pass,” Valcke said March 3, a
day after his outburst. “The question is also ‘what’ it will
be: the text is changed every day, every minute.”  This week, Brazil’s second-largest party in the lower house
of Congress, on whom the government depends to pass legislation,
said it opposes authorizing of beer sales inside World Cup
stadiums. That’s a key demand by FIFA, which counts  Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV (BUD) ’s Budweiser brand as a top sponsor.  Rebelo said yesterday that his government remains committed
to the sale of alcohol inside World Cup stadiums. South Africa
had agreed to FIFA’s demand before beating competitors to stage
the last World Cup.  World Cup Bill  Prospects for an improved relationship between FIFA and
Brazil were helped when Ricardo Teixeira, who faces a slew of
corruption allegations, quit as head of the Brazilian soccer
federation on March 12 after 23 years in charge.  FIFA officials including Valcke didn’t meet with Teixeira
on their last visit, preferring instead to talk with former
national team starsRonaldo and Bebeto, who are members of the
executive committee.  Rousseff’s relationship with the former soccer head was
also strained. She inserted soccer icon Pele as the nation’s
World Cup ambassador after Teixeira had tried to exclude him
from June’s qualification draw for the 32-team event. Pele and
Ronaldo also participated in today’s meeting with Blatter.  Regular Reports  Jordaan said his organizing team had ignored public
criticism and instead focused on “delivering the best World Cup
ever.”  “It’s about monitoring and regular progress reporting,”
he said. “That’s something that the organization committee must
do and if they do that there shouldn’t be a problem.”  Before being appointed FIFA president in 1998, Blatter
served as general secretary for 17 years, making him responsible
for the last eight World Cups.  “He’s experienced and has a lot of understanding having
seen many World Cups all over the world both as a hands on
manager and as a person who’s not hands on but to whom we are
all accountable,” Jordaan said. “It’s good that such a person
can look at any report and understand immediately whether that
report is comforting or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  