-- Bo Xilai Ouster Insufficient to Say `He’s Finished,' Shih Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T04:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bo-xilai-ouster-insufficient-to-say-he-s-finished-shih-says.html
The following are remarks by Victor Shih, a political economist at  Northwestern University  in
Evanston, Illinois, on the ouster of Bo Xilai, Communist party
chief of Chongqing, one of  China ’s fastest-growing major urban
regions.  Shih is author of “Factions and Finance in China: Elite
Conflict and Inflation” and has researched borrowing by about
8,000 local government entities in the nation. Bo was replaced
by Zhang Dejiang, state news agency Xinhua reported today.  “This series of events, starting from the walkabout of Wang Lijun and leading up to today is the strongest indication of
elite tension we have seen since the arrest of Chen Liangyu.”  Wang was an aide to Bo who is under investigation over
spending a night at the U.S. consulate in  Chengdu . Chen was
fired as Shanghai Communist party chief in 2006 and later
imprisoned for corruption.  “I emphasize that the way the party seems to be dealing
with Bo Xilai is a much milder way than the way that Chen
Liangyu was treated, so far.”  “You will hear other people say he’s finished. I’m not
willing to say so at this point.”  “I don’t think it is by any means the end of his political
future.  Deng Xiaoping  made numerous comebacks after even more
serious setbacks.”  “We don’t see signs of a comprehensive house cleaning.”  “Zhang Dejiang and Bo Xilai both enjoyed a considerable
amount of patronage from  Jiang Zemin . If you believe that they
are not necessarily in the same faction, but in the same kind of
tendency in the party, then Zhang Dejiang would be a lot less
likely to clean house in Chongqing than someone from the Youth
League who wouldn’t have had those historical ties with Bo
Xilai.”  “People typically identified with the Youth League include
 Hu Jintao  and Li Keqiang.” Hu is president of China and leader
of the Communist party, and Li is a vice premier.  “This strongly indicates there are major disagreements on
how to interpret the events in Chengdu last month. The consensus
is a compromise for now at least.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . Editor: Chris Anstey  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  