-- Bo Xilai’s Ouster Shows China Leaders Fear Specter of Mao
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T03:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bo-xilai-axed-as-chongqing-head-after-china-government-probe-1-.html
Bo Xilai’s removal as head of a
city that helped lead  China ’s economic growth is a signal that
the country’s Communist leadership wants to keep his style of
populism out of the inner corridors of power, sticking to a
consensus-driven government that emphasizes gradual change.  Bo, 62, fired yesterday by the party as head of Chongqing
Municipality and replaced by a North Korea-educated vice
premier, stood out in a Politburo that seeks consensus. His
leadership style in the city of about 30 million emphasized a
revival of songs and slogans from China’s Maoist past. This
week, his strategy drew a rebuke from Premier  Wen Jiabao .  With a once-a-decade leadership change coming later this
year, the party elders may have sought to keep Bo from advancing
to the Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee. The nine-
man body, which exercises supreme authority in China, would have
been altered by Bo’s independence, resulting in a leadership
split in the world’s second-biggest economy, said Nicholas Bequelin, a China researcher for  Human Rights Watch .  ‘A Maverick’  “Bo was definitely too much of a maverick,” Hong Kong-
based Bequelin said. “If you had put him in the Politburo
Standing Committee it would have opened up a new era of
competitive politics, and that is not what the party likes.”  The challenge, highlighted by Wen on March 14, is to
overhaul China’s political system without resorting to campaigns
such as Bo’s anti-corruption drive in Chongqing. That resulted
in hundreds of arrests yet also drew criticism from legal
experts  including  Peking University professor He Weifang who
were concerned that legal procedures were being trampled.  Wen said in a press conference on the final day of the
National People’s Congress in Beijing that without political
change, China risked a return to the 1966-1976 Cultural
Revolution. During that time, mobs of Red Guards worshiping
Chairman  Mao Zedong  persecuted millions, including party cadres.  Bo won national attention for his success in cracking down
on organized crime and for his “Chongqing Model” of
emphasizing state-led investment to ease wealth gaps between
urban and rural residents. Meeting with reporters on March 9 in
Beijing, Bo revealed China’s wealth gap as measured by the Gini
coefficient was at a level that social scientists say sparks
unrest. He evoked Mao in vowing to reverse it.  Socialist Society  “As Chairman Mao said as he was building the nation, the
goal of our building a socialist society is to make sure
everyone has a job to do and food to eat, that everybody is
wealthy together,” Bo said. “If only a few people are rich,
then we’ll slide into capitalism. We’ve failed. If a new
capitalist class is created then we’ll really have turned onto a
wrong road.”  Vice President Xi Jinping, in line to succeed President  Hu
Jintao , invoked earlier Communists --  Karl Marx  and  Vladimir
Lenin  -- in arguing that the Communist Party needed to
“resolutely oppose all erroneous political tendencies contrary
to the party’s basic line.”  “We must preserve party unity and firmly oppose all
behavior that splits the party,” Xi said in a March 1 speech at
the Communist Party School in Beijing. The speech was released
hours after Bo’s firing in the party journal “Seeking Truth.”  Decisive Turn  On March 14, before Bo’s firing, Wen told reporters one
floor down from where Bo spoke at Beijing’s Great Hall of the
People that China in the late 1970s had taken a decisive turn
away from the politics of the Cultural Revolution. He then spoke
of Chongqing and the political events that culminated in former
Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun spending a night last month at
the U.S. consulate in Chengdu, Sichuan, prompting speculation he
was seeking asylum.  “The current party committee and government in Chongqing
must seriously reflect on the Wang Lijun incident and learn
lessons from that incident,” Wen said. “What has happened
shows that any practice that we take must be based on the
experience and lessons we have gained from history.”  Zhang Dejiang, 65, a graduate of Kim Il Sung University in
 North Korea , will replace Bo in Chongqing, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing the Communist Party’s
 Central Committee .  ‘Knee-Jerk’ Reaction  Zhang, a native of northeastern Liaoning province, rose to
prominence under former President  Jiang Zemin . As vice premier
and Politburo member, he is in charge of areas including
industrial production, transport and energy, according to
Xinhua. He has also met foreign business leaders including
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Chief Executive Officer
Virginia Rometty, who joined him last month in China’s
leadership compound in central Beijing.  “First, we must clearly and firmly uphold the party’s
leadership,” Zhang told Chongqing leaders yesterday, according
to a  report  in the official Chongqing Daily newspaper.  Chongqing, which sprawls over an area the size of the U.S.
state of  South Carolina , is one of China’s fastest-growing
regions. Annual economic growth has exceeded 10 percent for a
decade, including a 17.1 percent expansion in 2010 and 16.4
percent in 2011.  Some Chongqing-related shares, including  Chongqing Brewery
Co. (600132)  and  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. (200625) , the partner of Ford
Motor Co., fell after the announcement in what  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer of Jingxi Investment
Management, called a “knee-jerk” reaction. Chongqing Brewery
fell by as much as the 10 percent daily limit in  Shanghai  to
32.91 yuan, closing at 33.56 yuan, an 8.2 percent decline.  ‘Almost Zero’  After yesterday’s announcement, a Communist Party  website 
still listed Bo as one of the 25 members of the Politburo. Wang
Lijun was removed as vice mayor of Chongqing, Xinhua reported.  “Before the Wang Lijun incident, it was the consensus
within the party that Bo is the top candidate for the next
Politburo Standing Committee,” said Ding Xueliang, a professor
of social science at the  Hong Kong University  of Science and
Technology. “Right now Bo’s chance is almost zero.”  Bo was seen March 14 in Beijing at the closing ceremony of
the meeting of the people’s congress. On March 9, in his meeting
with reporters, he said he wasn’t a target of a government probe
into Wang and apologized for drawing so much attention to
himself.  A Princeling  “I feel like it came out of nowhere,” Bo said of Wang’s
consulate visit. “It looks like that in any place, no matter
how good the situation is, we have to be alert and be prepared
to prevent unexpected things from happening.”  The last time a Politburo member lost a top post was in
2006, when Shanghai Communist Party Chief Chen Liangyu was
removed and replaced by  Xi Jinping , who is now in line to become
China’s next top leader.  Bequelin said Bo’s firing may have bigger ramifications
than Chen’s because it involves the offspring of one of the
country’s founders, a so-called princeling. Bo’s father, Bo
Yibo, was one of the eight “immortals” who helped shape
Chinese politics after Mao’s death in 1976.  The younger Bo rose from being the mayor of Dalian to
become governor of northeastern Liaoning province before moving
to the commerce ministry, where he oversaw trade ties with the
U.S. from 2004 through 2007. In 2007, he secured a spot on the
Politburo and became the top official in Chongqing, according to
his  official biography .  “Bo was able to tap into parts of the polity that other
Chinese leaders can only dream about,” said James Green, a
former official focusing on China in the U.S. State Department
and National Security Council who now works for Washington-based
consultancy Albright Stonebridge Group. “Will this move only
feed the existing deep cynicism about the ruling class, that a
popular leader ran afoul of the wrong leaders?”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  