-- Taiwan to Consider Premier Wen’s Wish to Visit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T06:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bocom-said-to-plan-raising-about-57-billion-yuan-in-share-sale.html
Bank of Communications Co. ,  China ’s
fifth-largest lender, plans to raise about 57 billion yuan ($9
billion) in the world’s biggest share sale since May, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  China’s Ministry of Finance and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the
Shanghai-based bank’s two  largest shareholders , will take part
in the private placement, the people said, declining to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  BoCom joins rivals including  Industrial Bank Co. (601166)  in seeking
funds after a two-year, $2.7 trillion lending spree sapped their
finances. China’s banking regulator is planning tougher  capital
requirements  for the biggest lenders to fend off rising credit
risks.  “BoCom will become the most-capitalized bank among big
lenders in China after this massive sale,” said Sheng Nan, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd.,
who estimated that the offering will boost the lender’s core
capital adequacy by about 2 percentage points. “Participation
of the government shareholder and HSBC ensures this is a long-
term investment and there will be no additional stock supply to
depress the market.”  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said in August that
it will require the country’s largest, or so-called systemically
important, lenders to have a minimum  capital adequacy ratio  of
11.5 percent by the end of 2013. Smaller banks will be required
to have at least 10.5 percent under “normal conditions” by the
end of 2016, the CBRC said.  Capital Adequacy Declines  BoCom’s capital adequacy ratio fell to 11.89 percent as of
Sept. 30 from 12.36 percent at the beginning of 2011, according
to its third-quarter earnings report. The bank’s core capital
adequacy ratio dropped to 9.24 percent, lower than the 9.5
percent mandatory minimum under the new capital plan.  At $9 billion, BoCom’s share sale would be the largest
since Glencore International Plc raised $9.9 billion in an
initial public offering in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese regulations define a private placement as a share
sale to no more than 10 designated investors at a price of at
least 90 percent of the market value.  Margrit Chang, a spokeswoman for HSBC in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment, as did a BoCom spokesman in  Shanghai . The
bank suspended trading in its shares today, saying it is
planning a private placement in both Hong Kong and Shanghai,
according to a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  Record Profit  Shares of BoCom have gained 14 percent this year to close
at HK$6.19 yesterday. The stock traded 5.8 times its estimated
earnings in 2012 and 1 times estimated book value for the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BoCom may report later this month a record profit of 48.3
billion yuan for 2011, an increase of 24 percent from a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 18 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Industrial Bank, a Chinese lender part-owned by Hang Seng
Bank Co., said earlier this month it will raise as much as 26.4
billion yuan in a private placement.  Standard & Poor’s  warned this week that China’s banks could
face a slump in 2012 as the economy slows, property prices fall
and “sizable” local government debt requires refinancing.  London-based HSBC owns 18.63 percent of BoCom, while
China’s Ministry of Finance held 26.52 percent at the end of the
third quarter, according to BoCom’s earnings report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  