-- Boku Gets $35 Million From Telefonica, NEA to Expand Service
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-15T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/boku-gets-35-million-from-telefonica-nea-to-expand-service.html
Boku Inc., a service that lets
consumers use mobile phones to make purchases, raised $35
million from  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and other investors, helping
the startup bolster its staff and continue expanding abroad.  Telefonica Digital, a unit of the Spanish phone company,
joined venture firm  New Enterprise Associates  in leading the
financing round, San Francisco-based Boku said today in a
statement. Existing investors, including Andreessen Horowitz,
 Benchmark Capital  and Index Ventures, also participated.
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Boku has developed a system that allows users to buy
virtual items -- say, bonus points within a video game. Now it’s
rolling out a product that lets consumers buy physical goods
from any place that accepts MasterCard. The approach provides
more flexibility than near-field communications, a technology
that’s been slow to catch on because it requires phones to have
a special chip and isn’t available at many retailers.  “There’s a great window to come up with a platform that
delivers value to operators and customers while not waiting for
NFC,” Ron Hirson, president of Boku, said in an interview.  Boku, which has now raised $75 million since it was founded
in 2008, works with more than 250 mobile-network partners in 67
countries. The startup’s biggest competitor, Zong Inc., was
purchased last year by  EBay Inc.’s (EBAY)  PayPal unit for $240 million.
Until recently, the companies were mostly vying for buyers of
digital and virtual goods, letting consumers purchase items in
Facebook games and charge the payments to their phone bills.  Boku Accounts  That method doesn’t work for physical goods because
carriers charge such a high fee that it wipes out the profit for
merchant. With the new product, called Boku Accounts, the
company relies on partnerships with carriers and provides the
underlying technology for payments. Purchases are then made over
MasterCard’s network, instead of the phone operator’s.  Carriers send their customers a prepaid MasterCard and NFC
sticker for their phone, and all purchases come out of a single
account that can be managed online. If NFC is available at a
retailer, the system can rely on that to make the transaction,
though Boku’s product works without it. By 2014, at least one in
five smartphones globally will be able to use NFC for mobile-
payment functions, according to  Juniper Research .  “Boku has built a phenomenal business around online
payments,” NEA partner Ravi Viswanathan, whose firm also backed
Groupon Inc., said in the statement. “The next step is bringing
mobile payments offline, and that’s what Boku Accounts
accomplishes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  