-- Bovespa Futures Fall as Central Bank Signals Limited Rate Cuts
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-15T12:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bovespa-futures-fall-as-central-bank-signals-limited-rate-cuts.html
Bovespa futures fell, an indication
the stock gauge may decline a second day, after Brazilian policy
makers signaled they will not cut borrowing costs as much as
expected, dimming the outlook for companies that sell in the
local market.  Vale SA (VALE5)  may move after saying a court overturned a ruling
forcing the mining company to pay taxes on profits from overseas
units. The latest ruling is provisional, Vale said in an e-
mailed statement.  Klabin SA (KLBN4) ,  Latin America ’s biggest paper
maker, may be active after it was lowered to the equivalent of
hold from buy at Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Bovespa futures dropped 0.8 percent to 68,220 at 9:33 a.m.
in Sao Paulo. The equity gauge has advanced 20 percent this
year, buoyed by  Brazil ’s interest-rate cuts, signs of growth in
the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe  may be closer to solving
its debt crisis.  “Some stocks, such as retailers and homebuilders, have
gained this year on the back of bets that the central bank would
cut the Selic rate in a more aggressive way, maybe below 9
percent, but now it looks like that’s not going to be the
case,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
surged after policy makers, in the minutes to their March 6-7
meeting, said they see  interest rates  declining to levels just
above the historical low of 8.75 percent. The bank’s board, led
by President Alexandre Tombini, last week cut the Selic rate by
75 basis points to 9.75 percent. The yield on the futures
contract due in January 2013 rose 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 8.93 percent. The real gained 0.3 percent
to 1.7983 per dollar.  Hering, Hypermarcas  Retailer  Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  and consumer products maker
 Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  are the best performers this year on the Bovespa.
The stocks have jumped 50 percent and 48 percent respectively.  The Bovespa trades at 11.1 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, which compares with a 10.9 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Traders  moved  7.64 billion reais in stocks in
 Sao Paulo  yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.21 billion reais this year
through March 8, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  