-- BP Reaches Estimated $7.8 Billion Deal With Spill Victims
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-15T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bp-reaches-estimated-7-8-billion-deal-with-spill-victims.html
Oil at the highest price since 2008
is increasing  BP Plc (BP/) ’s available cash as it negotiates a final
bill with the Obama administration to pay for damages caused by
the worst U.S. spill.  The soaring price for crude that helped Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley rescue BP from the brink of collapse may
figure into talks with the U.S. government, potentially the
biggest claimant in the Deepwater Horizon accident, according to
Barclays Plc. The U.K. oil producer estimates its earnings rise
$350 million a year for every $1 gain in  Brent crude , which has
jumped $41 a barrel to $126 since the April 20, 2010, tragedy.  BP has been in talks with the  Department of Justice  to
 settle  pollution claims that can reach as much as $17.6 billion,
a person familiar with the discussions said last month. The
company set up a $20 billion trust and has already agreed to a
$7.8 billion settlement with residents and businesses.  “The oil price may well affect attitudes on both sides,”
said Ivor Pether, a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset
Management, who holds BP stock. “The DOJ doesn’t want to be
seen as soft on BP given near-record U.S. gasoline prices, but
high oil prices also give BP scope to pay a few extra billion.”  BP has set aside $3.5 billion for the federal government
claim. President  Barack Obama  faces re-election this year with
Republicans blaming him for rising fuel prices charged by
petroleum companies.  David Nicholas, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined
to comment on settlement talks. DOJ spokeswoman  Tracy Schmaler 
also had no comment. BP Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary
said March 4 that $37.2 billion remains the company’s best
estimate for the cost of the spill.  Cost of Gasoline  Obama is trying to overcome hits to his popularity from
rising gas prices to win the Nov. 6 election. Regular gasoline
at the pump, averaged nationwide, has climbed 16 percent this
year to $3.792 a gallon as of March 10, according to AAA data.  The Justice Department can and should consider a company’s
ability to pay when calculating civil and criminal penalties,
said John Kostyack, a vice president at the National Wildlife
Federation, an environmental lobby group in  Washington .  “BP continues to reap this enormous windfall that comes
from the run up in oil prices.” Kostyack said in a telephone
interview. “That is a strong indicator that it has the ability
to pay a very substantial civil and criminal penalty.”  BP, operator of the doomed Macondo well whose blowout
destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig and killed 11 workers,
already struck a deal to pay an estimated $7.8 billion on March
2 benefiting residents and businesses, from fishermen to Gulf
hotel owners.  Lost Market Value  The company’s shares are little changed since that
settlement. Its market value is down 28 billion pounds ($44
billion) since the accident.  The $7.8 billion was more than the company had provisioned,
and payments will come out of a $20 billion trust BP had already
accounted for.  The trust has about $14 billion remaining, and victims’
lawyers have noted there isn’t a cap on damages BP must pay. The
U.K. company said if the trust is exhausted, it will pay
additional funds directly.  The settlement delayed a trial to apportion blame for the
accident as U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  decides how to
organize proceedings with the remaining plaintiffs.  Dudley has shored up BP’s finances by overseeing more than
$20 billion in asset sales since the spill out of a target of
$38 billion. BP returned to  profit  last year, earning $26
billion after a loss of $3.7 billion in 2010.  Reversal of Fortune  At the height of the spill two years ago, BP couldn’t sell
bonds and Bank of America refused to buy oil from the company.
Shares plunged more than 50 percent and are still 24 percent
 lower  than before the accident.  The first American head of BP in its century-long history
was rewarded last year with a $6.8 million pay package, more
than three times his compensation in 2010. He increased the
dividend in the fourth quarter, a year after the payout to
shareholders was reinstated at half the pre-spill level.  The reversal of fortune at BP may give margin to U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder to extract more punishment. Holder
said Feb. 28 that the U.S. has a “strong” case over liability
for the explosion. The U.S. estimates more than 4 million
barrels of oil spewed into the Gulf.  The company  set aside  $3.5 billion for Clean Water Act
fines, based on its own lower estimate for the number of barrels
released. It also assumes no gross negligence, a standard the
government would have to prove showing the accident resulted
from a conscious BP act or omission. Gross negligence raises the
level of penalty per barrel to as much as $4,300 from the $1,100
maximum under simple negligence.  BP still faces claims from the five U.S. states whose
coastlines were soiled by the spill.  “The higher oil price definitely gives them more
flexibility,” said Lucy Haskins, an analyst at Barclays Plc in
London. “It’s interesting that it’s easier to deal with 116,000
litigants than it was with the DOJ. That tells us it’s going to
be harder.”  BP estimates its pretax replacement cost operating profit
increases $350 million a year for every $1 gain in benchmark
crude.  Still, the government will focus on the cost of the
disaster rather than rising  oil prices , said David Uhlmann. a
 University of Michigan  law professor and former chief of the
U.S. Justice Department’s environmental crime section.  “They will seek a penalty that does justice, which has
more to do with the losses caused by the spill than the profits
that  oil companies  currently are making,” Uhlmann said in an e-
mail.  Colin McLean, chief executive officer of SVM Asset
Management in Edinburgh, who holds BP shares, said the market
“probably doesn’t have an exact figure in mind, it just wants
closure.”  “The DOJ will get more out of BP if they meet BP’s time
scale, which is the sooner the better,” McLean said. “It’s
likely to move along now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  