-- BP Whistle-Blower Says Gulf Atlantis Facility Remains Unsafe
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/bp-whistleblower-seeks-immediate-trial-in-atlantis-safety-case.html
BP Plc (BP\) ’s Atlantis facility remains
unsafe, according to a whistle-blower who said in a court filing
that the company’s second-largest oil producer in the  Gulf of
Mexico  is operating under permits BP obtained by lying to
regulators.  “Immediate court action is needed to remedy unsafe
conditions on Atlantis,”  Mikal Watts , an attorney for former BP
contractor Kenneth Abbott, said in papers filed yesterday
seeking a trial date in federal court in Houston, where the case
has been pending since 2009.  “BP has falsely certified compliance with critical
environmental and safety regulations” to pump billions of
dollars in petroleum from the offshore facility, the lawyer
said. “BP’s corporate policy and practice is to buy its way out
after it is caught and then do it again.”  Abbott sued London-based BP in 2009 on behalf of the U.S.
government, seeking to get a judge to shut down Atlantis, which
produces about 120,000 barrels of oil daily, according to court
records. Abbott said the judge should appoint a special master
to oversee measures to bring the offshore facility into
compliance with safety and environmental laws.  He also seeks $7.8 billion from BP, which he estimated in
court papers is the value of oil and gas the company has pumped
through Atlantis since it came online in 2007.  Atlantis ‘Safe’  BP said in its own court filings that Atlantis is safe and
that Abbott’s complaints were dismissed by federal regulators
who investigated the issue after the April 2010 blowout of BP’s
Macondo well drilled by the Deepwater Horizon. The Atlantis
production platform is located about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
south of where the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig disaster
occurred.  “We fundamentally disagree with plaintiffs’ claims in this
lawsuit,”  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said yesterday in an e-
mail. “The  Department of Interior  conducted a thorough
investigation of Mr. Abbott’s lawsuit allegations and concluded
that Mr. Abbott’s allegations are unfounded and the Atlantis
platform is safe and should continue to be operated by BP.”  The U.S. Interior Department in March 2011 said that BP’s
deficiencies in documentation for the platform posed no
“serious” safety risks, following its investigation of
Abbott’s allegations.  Lawyers for BP and Abbott will meet before U.S. District
Judge Lynn Hughes on March 19. Abbott’s lawyers said they will
seek an immediate hearing on safety issues.  The case is United States of America Ex Rel. Abbott v. BP
Exploration and Production Inc., 4:09-cv-01193, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  