-- Brazil Anticipates Keeping Key Rate at Near Low Over 18 Months
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2012-03-16T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/brazil-anticipates-keeping-key-rate-at-near-low-over-18-months.html
Brazil anticipates keeping its
benchmark borrowing cost near a record low for the next 18
months, a government official said, challenging higher market
 interest rates  based on above-target inflation in 2013.  Policy makers said yesterday that  inflation  will slow to
around their 4.5 percent target in 2012, giving the central bank
room to reduce the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate to “slightly above” the
historical low of 8.75 percent.  Analysts expect Brazil’s consumer prices to rise 5.3
percent in 2012 and 5.5 percent in 2013, according to the median
estimates in a March 9 central bank survey. That has prompted
traders to bet bank President Alexandre Tombini will have
to reverse course early in 2013 after reducing the rate to 9
percent by May, interest-rate futures show.  Slower global economic growth and a delay in a definitive
solution for the European debt crisis mean that there is no
reason to expect inflation will accelerate in  Brazil , said the
official yesterday, who asked not to be identified to comply
with internal policy. As a result, the government anticipates
interest rates may stay close to record low levels over the next
18 months, the official said.  Futures Yields  Yields on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2016 declined yesterday, as traders pared bets the
central bank will resume rate increases early next year. The
contract, after rising as much as four basis points in earlier
trading, fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
10.52 percent.  “Markets will only buy this view if economic growth
doesn’t accelerate and inflation remains tame,”  Solange Srour ,
chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos, said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “This discourse won’t stand if inflation
quickens.”  The outlook for Brazil’s interest rate may change if
consumer prices rise faster than current projections by the
government, the official said, adding that the administration of
President  Dilma Rousseff  won’t tolerate more inflation.  “It doesn’t make sense to keep the interest rate at that
level for such a period of time,”  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Keeping it at 9 percent for that
long a period is going to bring more and more inflation.”  ‘High Probability’  Policy makers, in the minutes to their March 6-7 meeting,
said that with inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
under control, they see a “high probability” of the benchmark
rate falling to slightly above the historical low.  Last week, the central bank unexpectedly lowered the
benchmark interest rate to 9.75 percent, bringing the Selic rate
to a single digit for only the second time since inflation
targeting was adopted in 1999. The decision, which was
anticipated by 2 of 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, split the
board for a second time in its last five meetings, with two of 
the seven members arguing for a fifth straight half-point cut.  The decision to speed the pace of monetary easing reflected
a “redistribution” of rate cuts already planned, the bank
said.  Policy makers have chosen to set interest rates at a lower
level than analysts expected in three of the 10 board meetings
presided over by Tombini. The second time was in August, when
the board decided to cut the benchmark interest rate by half a
percentage point, after raising it in each of the previous five
meetings.  Reviving Growth  Rousseff, in an interview published March 12 on the blog of
independent journalist Luis Nassif, said the central bank was
cutting rates with the dual goal of reviving growth and
narrowing the interest-rate gap between Brazil and rich nations
that prompt investors to bring dollars into the country.  Rousseff has pledged to take all needed measures to shield
Brazil from what she called a “monetary tsunami” unleashed by
the U.S. and  Europe .  To stem a rally in the real, the government increased taxes
on foreign loans three times in March, leading the currency to
weaken 4.5 percent, the most among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. In trading yesterday, the real rose 0.3
percent to 1.7983 per  U.S. dollar .  Savings Accounts  A rate cut to 9 percent could push yields on local bonds
below government-mandated returns on savings accounts, which pay
7.3 percent per year, after taking into account fees collected
by asset managers and taxes.  That distortion, if allowed to persist, could prompt
investors to shift money into tax-free savings accounts, making
it more difficult for companies and the government to sell bonds
domestically.  The central bank has broadened its mandate beyond
controlling inflation to incorporate economic growth and the
 exchange rate , Marcelo Salomon, co-head of Latin American
economics at Barclays Plc, said in an interview from  New York .  The central bank is likely to resort to credit curbs in a
bid to slow inflation before it decides to resume interest rate
increases in the first quarter of next year, Salomon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Arai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  