-- Tombini Signals Brazil Interest-Rate Reductions to End at 9%
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-03-15T16:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/brazil-central-bank-sees-rates-stabilizing-above-record-low-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will lower interest rates to 9 percent, surprising traders who
expected deeper cuts after policy makers accelerated the pace of
monetary easing last week. Yields on  interest-rate  futures
jumped the most in almost three years.  Policy makers, in the minutes to their March 6-7 meeting,
said that with inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
under control they see a “high probability” of the benchmark
rate falling to “levels slightly above the historical lows and
stabilizing” there. The decision to speed the pace of monetary
easing reflected a “redistribution” of rate cuts already
planned, the bank said.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
5-2 last week to cut the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by 75 basis points to 9.75
percent, bringing it below 10 percent for only the second time
on record. Two dissenting members voted to lower the rate by a
half point for a fifth straight meeting. In 2009, the Selic fell
to a record low 8.75 percent.  “The market got ahead of itself, betting on an 8.5
percent” Selic by July, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist
at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in  Sao Paulo . “Even though the
bank accelerated the easing pace, the total cycle of rate cuts
hasn’t changed.”  Yields Jump  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 jumped 27 basis points to 8.94 percent at 12:31
p.m. Brasilia time, as traders pared bets on deeper rate cuts.
That was the biggest single-day gain since a 32 basis point jump
on June 9, 2009. The real reversed earlier declines to gain 0.1
percent to 1.8028 per  U.S. dollar . The currency has weakened 4.8
percent this month, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “They are telling you that they are going to 9, and that
they are going to stay there for a while,” said  Tony Volpon  of
Nomura Securities, one of just two economists who correctly
forecast this month’s rate cut in a Bloomberg survey of 62
analysts. “They see 9 percent as being the steady state place
that they can stay at.”  The clear signaling in today’s minutes represents a
refinement of the bank’s use of “forward guidance” to give
investors a better idea of the path of interest rates, said
Volpon, chief emerging markets economist for the Americas at
Nomura, speaking in a phone interview from  New York . In January,
the bank told investors that rates would fall to a “single
digit.”  Volpon raised his year-end 2012 interest rate forecast to 9
percent from 8.5 percent after the minutes were published.  Gasoline Prices  The central bank’s forecasting models showed that the
outlook for 2012 inflation improved since the bank’s January
policy meeting, while the 2013 outlook deteriorated, with
consumer price increases above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
target range in its so-called “market” and “reference”
scenarios. Policy makers maintained their forecast that gasoline
prices will remain unchanged this year.  Tombini began lowering the benchmark rate in half-point
increments from 12.5 percent in August, saying that reductions
in borrowing costs would shield Brazil from the deterioration in
the world economy.  The risks of a banking crisis have receded thanks to the
 European Central Bank ’s injections of liquidity, though the
“fragile” global economy will continue to exert a
“disinflationary bias” on Brazil, the minutes said.  “The process of moderation in the Brazilian economy
already under way in the first half of last year, was
accentuated by the fragility of the global economy,” the
minutes said.  Slower Inflation  Inflation as measured by the  benchmark IPCA  index slowed
for a fifth straight month to 5.84 percent in February, the
first time it had fallen below 6 percent since January 2011.
Prices rose 6.5 percent last year. Policy makers expect the
trend to continue, helped by slower growth.  Even with inflation cooling, economists are doubtful that
Tombini can fulfill his pledge to hit the 4.5 percent target
this year, with unemployment close to a record low and credit
growth of 18 percent fueling consumer demand.  Consumer prices will rise 5.27 percent this year, according
to the median forecast in a March 9 central bank survey. After
the rate cut, the analysts surveyed raised their inflation
forecasts. Analysts now expect inflation to remain above the
midpoint of the target until 2017.  ‘Favorable’ Outlook  The outlook for the Brazilian economy remains “favorable”
due to credit growth, high levels of  consumer confidence  and
wage increases driven by “historically low” unemployment, even
though all of these factors have moderated, the minutes said.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects Brazil to grow 3
percent this year, slower than Russia, India and  China , the
other BRIC nations.  Industrial  production  in January contracted 2.1 percent
from a month earlier, its biggest fall in three years, while the
economy as a whole had its second-worst performance since 2003
last year.  Gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent in 2011, less
than that of Brazil’s neighbors and below  Germany ’s 3 percent
growth amid the euro debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  