-- Brazil Futures Yields Jump as Tombini Signals Limit to Rate Cuts
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-15T22:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/brazil-futures-yields-jump-as-tombini-signals-limit-to-rate-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts surged the most in almost three years after
the central bank signaled it will refrain from lowering
borrowing costs below 9 percent.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 rose 26 basis
points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 8.93 percent as traders
scrapped wagers on more aggressive cuts. Yields on the contracts
maturing 2016 or longer fell. The real pared its gain to 0.3
percent, closing the day at 1.7983 per  U.S. dollar , after the
central bank bought dollars in the foreign-exchange market.  Policy makers said they see a “high probability” of
 interest rates  declining to levels just above the record low of
8.75 percent as inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
remains under control, according to minutes of their March 6-7
meeting at which they reduced borrowing costs 75 basis points.  “The minutes reduce a little the fear of those who thought
that the central bank was being too aggressive in its cuts,’”
 Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit Agricole
Brasil, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The central bank’s
biggest critics are now breathing easier.”  Yields on some contracts pared their increases after a
government official said policy makers anticipate keeping
borrowing costs near the record low for the next 18 months.
Slower global economic growth and a delay in a definitive
solution for the European debt crisis mean that there is no
reason to expect inflation will accelerate in  Brazil , said the
government official, who asked not to be identified to comply
with internal policy.  Rate-Cut ‘Redistribution’  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini stepped
up the pace of interest-rate cuts on March 7, reducing the
overnight rate to 9.75 percent, to spur growth and curb gains in
the real by diminishing the allure of the country’s fixed-income
assets. Policy makers have reduced the rate 275 basis points
since August.  The bank, in today’s minutes, said its March decision to
accelerate the pace of monetary easing reflected
“redistribution” of interest rate cuts already planned.  Yields on contracts due in 2017 fell 12 basis points to 10.7
percent on expectations that less aggressive rate cuts will help
contain inflation.  Interest-rate futures contracts indicate traders expect the
central bank to cut the benchmark rate 75 basis points to 9
percent by July. Yesterday, the contracts showed bets on a
reduction to as low as 8.5 percent.  Consumer prices will rise 5.2 percent this year, according
to the median forecast in a March 9 central bank survey. After
the 75 basis-point cut on March 7, the analysts surveyed raised
their inflation forecasts. Analysts now expect inflation to
remain above the mid-point of the target until 2017.  The central bank targets of inflation of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  Dollar Auction  Brazil’s real pared gains after Brazil’s central bank said
it bought dollars in the  spot market  at an auction today, three
days after the government extended a tax on foreign loans and
bonds by local companies to curb the currency’s gains.  Brazil “wants to demonstrate that it won’t just rely on”
the tax measures to contain the rally, said Jose Carlos Amado, a
currency trader at Renasenca DTVM Ltda in Sao Paulo.  The real is up 3.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  