-- BOE’s Broadbent Says Better Credit May Warrant Stimulus Exit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-15T15:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/broadbent-says-boe-rate-view-should-weigh-euro-risks-to-banks.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said easing bank funding conditions and an improvement
in credit supply could warrant tighter policy even if U.K.
private debt levels remain high.  “Any abatement in overseas risks  -- which now reside more
in the  euro zone  than in the U.S. housing market -- would have
favorable effects on the funding costs of British banks and on
the supply of credit to the domestic economy,” he said in a
speech in London today. This “could warrant a withdrawal of
monetary accommodation by the MPC even if domestic debt-income
ratios remain well above some notional historical ‘norm’.”  Still, Broadbent said that he’s not in favor of tightening
policy now and that it was right for the Monetary Policy
Committee to raise the target for  bond purchases  by 50 billion
pounds ($78 billion) to 325 billion pounds last month. The U.K.
economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter and Broadbent
said banks’ borrowing costs remained elevated even after the
 European Central Bank ’s three-year loans.  “With the domestic economy still fragile” and “funding
costs for European banks -- including the U.K.’s -- still high,
I thought it was right to vote for further asset purchases,”
Broadbent said. Still, “if we focus solely on domestic debts --
residential mortgages in particular -- we are in danger of being
too parochial about the key risks facing the economy.”  Debt Impact  The policy maker said recent gains in commodity prices pose
a risk that  inflation  may slow less sharply than forecast.  “Other things being equal,” the rise in  oil prices  since
the Bank of England’s February forecast “would add a little to
near-term inflation,” Broadbent told reporters. “It’s not
clear how you respond to this because” there is also a risk to
growth “if it were to go up a lot,” he said.  Still, “the near-term news has undoubtedly got better,
certainly than was the case in November, because the ECB has
succeeded in taking out a strand of this potential feedback loop
between the banks and the sovereigns by insuring the funding of
the banks,” he said.  However, “what it has not done necessarily is solve these
underlying imbalances,” Broadbent said. “It’s bought a lot
more time to address those issues. It has not in itself
addressed them, so those risks are still there.”  Capital Gains  In an analysis of the impact of pre-crisis excessive
borrowing on economic growth, Broadbent said it’s a mistake for
officials to focus on the burdens faced by indebted households
who bought property, because their borrowing was accompanied by
 capital gains  earned by sellers.  “For the aggregate private sector, all this extra debt was
being used not to finance above-income spending but -- it
appears -- an equally rapid accumulation of financial assets,”
he said. There’s been “a very significant transfer of financial
resources from young to old, one that leaves aggregate household
balance sheets unchanged.”  The expansion in aggregate household balance sheets means
that they’re more sensitive to higher  interest rates . Still,
that shouldn’t pose a barrier to policy makers raising rates. An
analysis of a case where the bank raised its  key rate  to 5
percent from the current 0.5 percent would be “pessimistic” if
it excluded an offset from tighter mortgage spreads, he said.  “Increased sensitivity should not be seen as an over-
riding deterrent to any withdrawal of the monetary stimulus, if
and when that becomes justified,” he said.  Broadbent said what “distinguished the U.K. was not so
much the size of its mortgage market but the extent and
riskiness of its banks’ overseas balance sheets.”  “It is there that most of the losses were made, and there
still, in my view, that the larger risks reside,” Broadbent
said. “As such, it is perfectly possible that funding and
credit conditions could improve, and a withdrawal of monetary
accommodation become warranted, quite independently of the
gearing of domestic creditors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  