-- Brown Reaches Deal With Union on Tax-Increase Compromise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/brown-reaches-deal-with-union-on-tax-increase-compromise.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown 
reached agreement with the state’s second-largest teachers’
union leaving only one rival plan to his proposed ballot measure
for higher taxes.  The deal between the Democratic governor and the  California 
Federation of Teachers, which had campaigned for a so-called
millionaires’ tax, spreads the burden on top earners while
curbing a sales-tax increase.  The agreement would ask voters to raise California’s sales
levy, already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent, and boost tax rates on income starting at $250,000.
Those making $1 million or more, now taxed 10.3 percent, would
pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  “The good news for the governor is that there’s one fewer
initiative on the ballot,” said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a
University of  Southern California  political science professor,
in a telephone interview yesterday. “It also means the governor
can take advantage of the teachers’ organization and the
teachers’ money.”  That leaves one other potential tax increase vying for the
November ballot. Attorney Molly Munger, the daughter of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, is
pressing for higher taxes on earnings of $17,346 or more, with
rates stepped up on higher incomes.  Brown and fellow Democrats have warned that voters
confronted by three tax measures might reject them all.  “The governor and the federation of teachers have come
together and joined forces in such a way that that dramatically
increases our chances of success,” Senate President Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , said of the compromise.  More Revenue  The proposal would raise $2 billion more in the fiscal year
starting in July than Brown had said his measure would generate,
Steinberg said. The governor estimated his proposal would raise
$6.9 billion a year.  The higher estimate might cut against the proposal’s
chances, said  Jon Coupal , president of the Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association, named for the author of California’s tax-
limiting Proposition 13.  “This is a pretty far left-wing proposal,” he said by
telephone.  The California Chamber of Commerce, the state’s largest
business group, had opposed the teacher’s federation’s proposal
and Munger’s, and was neutral on Brown’s. The business group
hasn’t taken a position on the new plan, said a spokeswoman,
Denise Davis.  Second-Largest Union  The federation, representing 120,000 school employees, is
California’s second-largest educators’ union after the
 California Teachers Association , with 325,000 members. The
larger union had endorsed Brown’s plan.  Under the new measure, those making more than $250,000 a
year would see their income tax rates increase by 1 percentage
point. Those making more than $300,000 would see an increase of
2 percentage points, instead of the 1.5 percentage points in
Brown’s initial plan. Earnings of more than $500,000 would be
taxed 3 percentage points higher, instead of the 2 percentage
points sought by Brown.  The increases would expire in seven years, instead of five
under Brown’s proposal. Sales taxes would rise by a quarter of a
cent instead of a half cent under Brown’s measure, to 7.5
percent instead of 7.75 percent, and would expire in four years.  “We have been trying to make the governor’s proposal more
progressive,” Fred Glass, a spokesman for the federation, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The polling backs our
position.”  Diminished Support  Just over half of California’s likely voters backed Brown’s
plan in a poll released March 7 by the  Public Policy Institute
of California (85265MF) . Support had diminished due to the competition,
said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan institute.  Brown and the federation will have to file a new initiative
and present more than 800,000 valid signatures to county
elections officials around April 20 to qualify for the November
ballot, according to the  Secretary of State ’s office. Signatures
already collected for Brown and the union’s separate measures
won’t count.  The agreement leaves proponents competing with a similar
measure being pursued by Munger, a Los Angeles civil rights
attorney. That initiative would generate about $10 billion by
raising income taxes on most Californians and dedicate the extra
money to schools.  Steinberg said talks continued in an effort to persuade
Munger to drop her proposal.  “We don’t anticipate that it will change our plans,”
Addisu Demissie, the Munger measure’s campaign manager, said in
a statement. “We have an open line of communication with the
governor’s office and we look forward to continuing the
dialogue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  