-- Burundian Opposition Urges Government Talks Over Strike Threat
-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 2012-03-15T14:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/burundian-opposition-urges-government-talks-over-strike-threat.html
Burundi’s opposition leader urged
the government to negotiate with civil society and labor-union
supporters threatening to hold demonstrations over the rising
cost of living and demand government officials pay taxes.  “The Alliance for Democratic Change urges the government to
talk with all of those who say life has become difficult because
of higher prices,” Leonce Ngendakumana, the head of the group of
opposition parties, said in a phone interview today from
Bujumbura, the capital. “The government will be the first to
lose if all those unionists and citizens start to strike and
demonstrate.”  The Forum for the Reinforcement of Civil Society in Burundi
is meeting today to decide when to begin protests, Pacifique
Nininahazwe, the president of the organization, said in a phone
interview. More than 470 civil society organizations and 39
labor unions plan to hold demonstrations across the country, he
said.  Burundian inflation accelerated to 21.6 percent in January
from 14.9 percent in December as food prices increased,
according to the country’s statistics office. The East African
country, a coffee and tea-exporter, is the third-least developed
nation on the United Nations’  Human Development Index , which
measures indicators including education and income, behind Niger
and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  Water, Electricity Costs  Regie de Production et de Distribution d’Eau et
d’Electricite, the state-owned water and power utility, raised
electricity costs by as much as 100 percent in September and by
as much as 51 percent this month, while water prices as much as
tripled since September, according to a document handed to
Bloomberg at the company’s office in Bujumbura, the capital,
today. The utility announced in May it planned to increase
prices to upgrade ageing infrastructure.  The opposition also want senior government officials to
start paying taxes, Ngendakumana said.  Civil Service Minister Annonciate Sendazirasa said
demonstrations and strikes are “not the solutions to the
problems the country has.”  “I’d rather call everyone to work hard instead of striking
and demonstrating to allow the country to gain more,” she said
told reporters yesterday in Bujumbura.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 