-- Buy New IPad. Flip Over. Understand U.S.-China Economics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/buy-new-ipad-flip-over-understand-u-s-china-economics.html
Today is International Wait in Line
for Your New iPad Day, an annual rite of spring for thousands of
urban American hipsters and an official holiday in  many   regions 
of the Internet. It will not, however, be celebrated in  China .  That’s because the  new iPad  is not yet available in China,
except in  Hong Kong . It is being released first in the U.S.
and  nine other wealthy markets  across four continents. Chinese
consumers will live to wait another day. The irony here, almost
as vivid as the new iPad’s 2048-by-1536-pixel screen, is that
there are already millions of the devices in China. As it says
on the back of every iPad: “Designed by Apple in California.
Assembled in China.”  It’s nice to have a two-sentence illustration of the
concept of  comparative advantage  handy, especially in an
election year. The debate over  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s labor practices --
or, more generally, the U.S. trade relationship with China --
has a tendency to obscure more than it clarifies.  So let’s take each of those sentences in turn. The first --
“Designed by Apple in  California ” -- is pure marketing, intended
in part to deflect the critical attention attracted by the
second. A more ambitious effort to quantify Apple’s impact on
the  U.S. economy  (too long to fit on the back of an iPad) came
this month, when Apple released  a report  about how many jobs it
“creates or supports” in the U.S.: 514,000.  Apple directly employs only about 47,000 people in the U.S.
Those extra 467,000 are accounted for by “standard Type 1
employment multipliers” (so reads the fine print), which seem
almost as  magical  as the iPad itself. Certainly there are many
programmers, engineers, marketers and taco-truck drivers who
would not otherwise have jobs but for Apple. But  economists
disagree  over how far to take this reasoning. How many editors,
producers and baristas has the production of this editorial
“supported”? Not even we can quantify.  Which brings us to that second sentence, “Assembled in
China,” a legal requirement governed by the  rules of
origin  doctrine. The Foxconn Technology Group has a contract
with Apple to make iPhones and iPads at its factory complex in
Shenzhen, China, where it employs about 230,000. The New York
Times has reported on the horrific (and occasionally fatal)
working conditions there, and Apple and Foxconn have
recently  taken steps  to improve them.  It is highly unlikely these improvements would have
happened without public pressure from U.S. and international
labor and consumer groups. Credit goes to groups such as the
Fair Labor Association, which Apple  recently joined , and people
such as the playwright  Mike Daisey , whose one-man show about
 Steve Jobs  personalizes the issue in a powerful way.  It is not contradictory to support these efforts, as we do,
while also supporting the right of Apple to manufacture its
products in China. It benefits both U.S. consumers and Chinese
workers for Apple to design its gadgetry over here and put it
together over there. Economies are supposed to do what they’re
good at. If you don’t believe David Ricardo on the  general
theory , see  Paul Krugman  about the  specific case .  The larger point is that the laws of economics cannot be
overturned by activism, nor do they need to be apologized for.
The Fair Labor Association will continue to work to improve
factory conditions in China, and people can continue  to argue 
that a job in a manufacturing plant is better than one in a rice
paddy, or no job at all.  The buying public is free to assess who has the comparative
advantage in this debate and behave accordingly -- there are a
lot of good reasons to buy an iPad, or not to. The voting public
would do well not to pay much heed to the  overheated rhetoric  on
U.S. trade policy toward China in the presidential campaign.  Meanwhile, Apple is free to amend the back of the iPad to
read: “Designed and supported by hundreds of thousands of well-
paid employees in California and the rest of the  United States .
Assembled by fairly treated contractors working with regular
breaks in China.” Or maybe something a little snappier. Think
about it while you’re waiting in line for that new iPad.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial
board:  view@bloomberg.net . 