-- Cameron Says No Decision Reached on Releasing Oil Reserves
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-15T20:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cameron-says-no-decision-reached-on-releasing-oil-reserves-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said that, while releasing oil from strategic stockpiles should
be considered, there is no agreement with U.S. President Barack Obama on using reserves to reduce  oil prices .  “We didn’t make any decision,” Cameron told students at
 New York University . “We’ve got to look at this issue
carefully, it’s something worth looking at. Short term, should
we look at the reserves? Yes, we should.”  Cameron told the students that he and Obama would “both
like to see global oil prices at a lower level than they are.”
Speaking earlier to reporters, Cameron said it’s “important
that we do what we can to try to help families who are trying to
make their family budgets add up.”  The price of oil in  New York  fell as much as 1.6 percent
after Reuters reported that Obama and Cameron agreed to
cooperate on a release from stockpiles, including the U.S.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Futures pared the decline after  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said reports that the
leaders reached any kind of agreement are “inaccurate.”  With rising energy prices threatening to crimp the economic
recovery, it “should not be surprising” that Obama and Cameron
would discuss the matter, Carney said.  Crude oil for April delivery fell 8 cents, or 0.1 percent,
to $105.35 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Price of Gasoline  The national average retail price of  unleaded regular 
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to $3.821 a gallon yesterday,
according to a daily survey by the American Automobile
Association. That’s 7.5 percent higher than a year ago,
according to AAA’s survey.  Rising gasoline prices have opened a line of attack for
Republican presidential candidates, as higher energy costs in an
election year overshadow gains elsewhere in the economy,
including the addition of 227,000 new jobs in February.  Some Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  have urged Obama to use
the oil stockpile as gasoline prices have risen amid a standoff
with Iran over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program. Obama has
cited turmoil in the region and greater demand from rapidly
growing countries such as China and  India .  Carney said he wouldn’t discuss deliberations about the
 strategic petroleum reserve . He repeated earlier statements that
all options are under consideration to keep down energy costs.
Obama has said there are no easy solutions.  No ‘Quick Fix’  “There’s no such thing as a quick fix when it comes to
high gas prices,” Obama said in a speech today in Largo,
 Maryland , near Washington. “Anybody who tells you otherwise
isn’t really looking for a solution.”  Releasing oil from the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve has
proven no guarantee of lower prices at the pump over the last
eight years. In four instances, gasoline rose following the
announcements of supplies from emergency inventories. In 2008
and 2011, tapping stockpiles brought down the cost of a fill-up,
according to data from AAA.  The strategic reserve was last tapped in July and August
2011 under an International Energy Agency effort to ease
shortages in supplies from the  Middle East .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in New York at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  