-- Canada Fourth Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/canada-fourth-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s national balance sheet account report for the
fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased 0.8% to $6.6 trillion in the
fourth quarter, as a result of higher values of non-financial
assets. National wealth was $6.8 trillion while non-resident
claims were $0.2 trillion.  National net worth  National net worth on a per capita basis increased to
$190,900 in the fourth quarter from $189,700 in the third
quarter. Non-financial assets were up $60 billion to $6.8
trillion in the fourth quarter, which accounted for the change
in national net worth. This increase was moderated by the
increase in Canada’s net foreign debt, as growth in
international liabilities outpaced that of international assets.  Rise in share values increases household net worth  Household net worth was up nearly 1% in the fourth quarter,
led by gains in the values of household holdings of equities
(including mutual funds) and pension assets. The increase in
equities reflected a 2.9% rise in the Standard and Poor’s /
Toronto Stock Exchange composite index, following a 12% decrease
in the third quarter. Per capita household net worth rose to
$182,100 in the fourth quarter from $180,600 in the third
quarter.  Household sector assets  Household credit market debt increased in the fourth quarter
despite a slower rate of borrowing in  consumer credit  and
mortgages. This led to an increase in the ratio of credit market
debt to net worth to 25.3% from 25.2% in the third quarter. The
debt service ratio was unchanged in the fourth quarter. The
ratio of credit market debt to personal disposable income
declined to 150.6% in the fourth quarter from 151.9% in the
third quarter as personal disposable income increased at a
faster rate than credit market debt.  Government net debt up  Total government net debt (expressed at book value) increased
to $812 billion in the fourth quarter from $794 billion in the
third quarter. The ratio of total government net debt to gross
domestic product rose to 47.3% from 46.8%. In the third quarter
of 2008, this ratio was 35.7%, and has increased for 13
consecutive quarters.  The increase in government debt largely reflected an increase
in federal bond issues, which outpaced redemptions of short-term
paper.  Private non-financial corporate debt to equity down  The ratio of total private non-financial corporation credit
market debt to equity (expressed at book value) eased to 54.2%
in the fourth quarter, continuing a downward trend from 2008.
The decline during the fourth quarter was largely caused by
strong growth in corporate undistributed earnings, as the rate
of share issuances and borrowing were lower in the quarter.  Corporate debt-to-equity  Value of assets held by financial institutions increases  Note to readers  Canadian publicly traded companies have begun their
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards in the
first quarter of 2011. As all companies adopt the new reporting
standards over the next quarters, this will have an affect on
the National Balance Sheet Accounts (NBSA). For more information
on some of these impacts, consult the following article: “Impact
of new accounting standards on the Financial and Wealth
Accounts.”  The NBSA comprise the balance sheets of all sectors of the
economy: the persons and unincorporated business (households),
corporate, government, and non-resident sectors. They cover all
national non-financial assets and financial claims and their
associated liabilities outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less what
non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is the sum of
the net worth of the persons and unincorporated business,
corporate, and government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises consumer credit,
mortgage, and loan debt of households, non-profit institutions
serving households, and unincorporated businesses.  Corporate equity is treated as a liability on the balance
sheet of the corporate sector since it represents a claim by
shareholders on the corporate sector. As a result, as equity
prices increase, corporate net worth will tend to decline,
reflecting the increase in the corporate sector’s equity
liabilities.  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts is
scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. A schedule of
releases has been posted on the National economic accounts
website. Additional information will be posted as it becomes
available.  For more information, contact the information officer (csna-
 info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  