-- Cannibalism, Bigamy Spice Up Zoffany London Show: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-03-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cannibalism-bigamy-spice-up-zoffany-london-show-martin-gayford.html
Johan Zoffany (1733-1810) is
alleged to have been the only member of Britain’s  Royal Academy 
to practice cannibalism.  Legend has it that he was among the starving passengers and
crew of a ship who ate a young sailor after being wrecked in the
 Indian Ocean .  The catalog of “Johan Zoffany RA: Society Observed”
doesn’t mention this episode, though it does unmask him as a
bigamist. More importantly, this delightful exhibition at the RA
in  London  reveals Zoffany as a bohemian and cosmopolitan painter
who was a consummate master of one type of picture -- the so-
called “conversation piece” -- though not outstanding at
anything else.  Born Johannes Josephus Zaufallij in  Frankfurt , and resident
at different times in  Italy ,  India  and Britain, he led a
wandering life, both geographically and artistically. As a
result, historians have been puzzled where to place him. There
isn’t much consensus on how good Zoffany was, nor whether he was
really an English painter.  This exhibition shows Zoffany at his best when operating in
a specifically British tradition -- as artistic heir to  William
Hogarth . Though trained in Germany and  Rome , he came to maturity
as a painter in London and that was where almost all his finest
work was done.  Erotic Myths  His early pictures show him to have been a competent young
artist without a distinctive style. During his 20s in Italy,
Zoffany produced a series of lightly erotic mythological scenes
in the late Baroque manner, which by the mid-18th century was
running out of steam. Then, in 1760 he found his way to London,
and two years later began working for the greatest actor-manager
of the age, David Garrick.  Zoffany seems to have been recommended to Garrick by
Hogarth himself. The pictures he produced for Garrick and other
theatrical stars were in a genre that had been pioneered by
Hogarth: portraits of actors, in character and costume,
performing roles in their hit plays. Suddenly, Zoffany found his
idiom. The mix of portraiture and fantasy, drama and realism is
fresh and seemed to capture the mood of Dr. Johnson’s London.
Pictures such as “Thomas King as Touchstone in ‘As You Like
It’” (1780) virtually seat you in front of a Georgian stage.  The other type of painting in which Zoffany excelled was
similar and also had a Hogarth precedent. The conversation piece
is a group portrait in which the various figures interact. In
other words, it is a miniature visual drama. In one example from
1771-2, the members of the then-new  Royal Academy  are gathered
around the naked model in a life-class. In another spectacular
picture, “The Tribuna of the Uffizi” (1772-7), Zoffany gathers
an assortment of British aristocrats on the Grand Tour,
surrounded by Old Master paintings and classical sculpture.  Wooden Royals  When Zoffany strayed from these two types of painting, he
tended to fail. His attempt at a more formal group of George III
and his family looks wooden. He also seemed to decline as a
painter after he sailed to India in 1783. Although his pictures
of Anglo-Indian life in Calcutta, Lucknow and elsewhere are
fascinating as social documents they don’t have the quality of
his earlier paintings.  The same is true of the work he did in his last years, when
he seems to have suffered from dementia, and was unable to
finish his paintings. At his best, Zoffany was an artist who
wonderfully caught the chatty, quirky mood of 18th-century
British life.  “Johan Zoffany RA: Society Observed” is at the Royal
Academy, London, through June 10. The exhibition is supported by
Japan Tobacco International and  Cox & Kings Ltd. (COXK)  Information:
http//:www.royalacademy.org.uk.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 