-- Carlyle Repays Debt Sold to Abu Dhabi for Pre-IPO Payout
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-15T15:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/carlyle-repays-debt-sold-to-abu-dhabi-for-pre-ipo-payout.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  repaid the
remaining balance of $500 million of subordinated notes that it
sold to Abu Dhabi in 2010 to finance a payout to owners before
its initial public offering.  The firm borrowed $263.1 million to retire $250 million of
notes sold to Mubadala Development Co. in December 2010,
Washington-based Carlyle said in a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The amount, borrowed on
March 1, included a $10 million premium and accrued interest of
$3.1 million.  Carlyle is retiring the debt to cut borrowing costs and
avoid conversion of the notes at a discount, as it prepares to
join rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  as a publicly
traded company this year. The firm paid out most of the proceeds
from the Mubadala investments to its owners in 2010, even though
it said initially it would use part of the money to expand
investment products.  The subordinated debt paid interest at an annual rate of
7.25 percent and was convertible into Carlyle shares at a 7.5
percent discount to the IPO price, if it hadn’t been repaid. As
part of the transaction, Carlyle issued a 2 percent equity stake
to Mubadala valued at about $200 million.  About 80 percent of the proceeds, or $398.5 million, was
distributed to the private equity firm’s current owners, Carlyle
disclosed in a September filing. The owners include the firm’s
founders,  David Rubenstein ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  William Conway ,
along with Mubadala and the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , also known as Calpers.  ‘Liquefy’ Stake  Rubenstein said last month one of the reasons he is taking
his firm public is to “liquefy” his stake.  “When you create value, ultimately you want to liquefy and
get the benefit of that,” Rubenstein said. “I’m committed to
giving away the bulk of my money. If I have money that is
available to me as a result of some factors, that’s what I’m
going to do with it.”  Carlyle expanded its list of IPO underwriters to include 21
banks in total, including  Bank of America Corp. , Barclays Plc,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley and
UBS AG, on top of lead underwriters  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CS)  Carlyle plans to list
shares on the  Nasdaq  under the symbol CG. It hasn’t set a  price
range  or the number of shares it aims to sell.  Profit Fell  Net income fell to $1.36 billion last year from $1.53
billion a year earlier, Carlyle said in today’s filing. Economic
net income, a measure excluding some costs and reflecting
strength or weakness of a firm’s management fee income, fell 18
percent to $833.1 million, compared with $1.01 billion in 2010.  Distributable earnings more than doubled to $864.4 million
from $342.5 million in 2010, following $165.3 million in 2009.
Full-year revenue increased to $2.85 billion from $2.8 billion,
and Carlyle’s assets under management rose to $147 billion from
$107.5 billion.  Carlyle returned $18.8 billion to investors during the
year, more than three times its distribution the year before,
according to the filing. The firm has $37.5 billion in capital
commitments, or “dry powder.”  New Directors  Carlyle also nominated seven new members to its board of
directors, including William Shaw, former vice chairman of
Marriott International Inc.; Jay Fishman, chairman and chief
executive officer of Travelers Cos.; James Hance, former Bank of
America chief financial officer; Lawton Fitt, a former Goldman
Sachs partner; Janet Hill, a principal with Hill Family Advisors
and mother of professional basketball player  Grant Hill ; Edward Mathias, a Carlyle managing director; and Thomas Robertson, dean
of the Wharton School at  University of Pennsylvania . They join
the three founders as well as Chief Operating Officer Glenn Youngkin, CFO Adena Friedman and Jeffrey Ferguson, the firm’s
general counsel.  Mubadala, an investment vehicle owned by the  Abu Dhabi 
government, originally acquired a 7.5 percent stake in Carlyle
in October 2007, paying $1.35 billion in a deal that valued the
buyout firm at $20 billion. Mubadala received a 10 percent
discount as well as protection against a drop in the value of
its holdings.  Revolving Credit Line  Carlyle increased the revolving portion of its bank loan
agreement to $750 million last September from $150 million and
used the expanded credit line to repay half of Mubadala’s notes
the following month. As part of the transaction, Carlyle also
repaid $5 million of accrued interest and a $10 million premium
to Mubadala.  Interest on the amounts borrowed under the revolving  credit
line  would be about $3.25 million less per quarter than that on
the redeemed subordinated debt, Carlyle said in an amended IPO
filing in February. That estimate was based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, as of Oct. 20, the firm said.  Carlyle is the second-biggest private equity firm by assets
under management behind Blackstone, with stakes in companies
including Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. and Nielsen Holdings N.V.
The three founders received a combined $413 million last year,
according to a January regulatory filing.  Blackstone, KKR  Blackstone, which oversees about $166 billion, said last
month that 2011 profit was $1.39 billion, down 2 percent from
$1.42 billion a year earlier. The New York-based firm, which
went public in 2007, said it deployed a near-record $16 billion
during the year and returned $9 billion to investors.  KKR, which went public in 2010 and oversees about $59
billion, posted profit of $502.9 million for the year, compared
with $1.93 billion in 2010. The New York-based firm attributed
the decline to market volatility that slowed gains in the firm’s
holdings.  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s CEO, earned $213.5 million
in pay and cash dividends last year, the firm said in a recent
filing. KKR said its co-CEOs,  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts ,
received $94 million each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  