-- Cathay Pacific Focuses on Asia Growth as Long-Haul Demand Cools
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-15T02:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cathay-pacific-focuses-on-asia-growth-as-long-haul-demand-cools.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
largest international carrier, plans to focus expansion on
regional routes this year as the global economic slowdown damps
demand for flights to  Europe  and the U.S.  “Asia’s economies are better than the rest of the world’s
at the moment,” Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said in an
interview in Hong Kong today. “Traffic around the Asian points
is good, we think that’s a pretty good strategy for this year.”  The Hong Kong-based airline is adding frequencies to
destinations including  Kuala Lumpur , Bangkok,  Seoul  and Ningbo,
as rising wages and trade spur demand. Total capacity growth
will slow to about 7 percent this year, as the carrier won’t add
any new long-haul flights and it’s paring Middle East services.  The carrier has no plan to trim capacity growth further as
loads are “holding up pretty well”, Slosar said. The airline
yesterday said that 2012 may be more challenging than 2011
because of the global economy and waning cargo volumes.  “We find little reason to be optimistic on Cathay
Pacific’s earnings prospects,” said Barclays Capital analysts
led by Patrick Xu in a note to investors today. “We expect it
to underperform the Chinese carriers, given that it doesn’t have
as resilient a domestic market and its balance sheet is not
positively exposed to yuan appreciation.”  The analysts reiterated an underweight  rating  on the stock,
while lowering their target price to HK$15.72 from HK$16.45.  The  carrier  rose 0.4 percent to HK$15.20 at 9:47 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading. It has dropped 17 percent in the past year
compared with a 5.9 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Capacity Expansion  The airline plans to expand both passenger and cargo
capacity by about 6 percent to 7 percent this year. Last year,
passenger capacity expanded 9.2 percent, while freight space
increased 7.9 percent.  Southeast and North Asian routes accounted for 33 percent
of Cathay’s capacity last year, based on figures in its annual
results statement.  North America  was 25 percent and Europe’s
share was 18 percent.  Cargo volumes tumbled 8.6 percent last year, contributing
to the carrier yesterday reporting a 61 percent decline in full-
year profit. Freight demand has remained weak into this year,
the airline said. Volumes may pick up in the second half helped
by the introduction of a revamped Apple Inc. iPad and other
consumer-electronics products, Slosar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  