-- Cheniere’s Costs for Project Tied to Commodities, Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-15T20:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cheniere-s-costs-for-project-tied-to-commodities-chief-says-1-.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s cost to
build a Louisiana gas export terminal won’t be affected by a
U.S. regulator’s failure to approve the project today, the
company’s chairman said after earlier warning of “significant
price increases.”  Cheniere’s engineering and construction contract with a
unit of Bechtel Group Inc. locked in prices until March 31,
Charif Souki, also the chief executive officer, said today in a
meeting at Bloomberg’s Washington office.  “I’m highly confident that there will not be any
significant changes to the pricing as of now,” he said, citing
costs for commodities such as nickel and steel.  Cheniere, which runs the largest U.S. liquefied gas import
terminal in  Cameron Parish , Louisiana, is seeking approval to
build a $10 billion plant to export liquefied gas from the site.
The Energy Department approved the Sabine Pass project, which
may begin exporting by 2015 or 2016. The  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  is reviewing the plans.  FERC’s failure to act at a monthly meeting today might
cause “significant price increases” for engineering services
and construction delays, Souki said in a March 7 letter to FERC
Chairman Jon Wellinghoff, who hasn’t yet replied.  “If something were to happen where all of a sudden
commodity prices started rising significantly, we would be at
risk,” Souki said today. “The letter was sent to say ‘we don’t
like to be at risk.’”  ‘On The Schedule’  “Hopefully we’ll be on the schedule next month,” Souki
said. He is seeking to arrange  project financing  by the end of
March. FERC is “just making sure they’re doing it correctly
from a procedural standpoint,” he said.  Natural gas for April delivery fell 0.5 cent to settle at
$2.279 per million British thermal units today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures are down 24 percent this year, and
touched $2.204 on March 13, the lowest intraday price since Feb.
15, 2002.  Cheniere rose 21 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $15.71 at 4:15
p.m. in New York trading. The shares have climbed 81 percent so
far this year.  Cheniere on March 14 said it would sell 21 million shares
at $15.10 each, its fourth offering in less than a year to raise
cash.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  on Feb. 27 pledged $2 billion to help
build the gas-export plant.  Cheniere has agreed to supply liquefied natural gas to
London-based BG Group Plc; closely held Gas Natural Fenosa of
Barcelona,  Spain ;  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  of New Delhi; and  Korea Gas
Corp. (036460)  of Gyeonggi,  South Korea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  