-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Economic Surge Kills Need for Stimulus
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-03-15T21:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-economic-surge-kills-need-for-stimulus.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a second month as faster-
than-expected inflation and growth reduced the need for policy
makers to stimulate the economy.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the overnight rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by all
17 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The board cut borrowing
costs in January and discussed doing the same last month before
voting unanimously to keep rates unchanged, minutes of that
meeting show.  The third-highest borrowing costs among major rate-setting
central banks in Latin America haven’t prevented inflation from
breaching Chile’s target range for the past three months. The
surge in prices, plus a pick-up in economic growth since
December, makes a second rate cut this year unlikely, said
Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director at Moody’s Analytics.  “The Chilean economic reality is showing the rate cut in
January was a mistake,” Coutino said by phone yesterday. “The
central bank cannot ignore that the Chilean economy is in an
overheating situation.”  The world’s  leading copper producer  grew 5.3 percent in
December from the previous year, bringing growth for the full
year to 6.3 percent -- the fastest pace since 1997. The economy
expanded 5.5 percent in January, exceeding the estimate of all
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economists surveyed this month by the central bank
increased their 2012 economic expansion estimate to 4.4 percent
from 4.1 percent in February and 4 percent in January.  Changing Outlook  “Clearly there has been a very, very significant change in
people’s forecasts,”  Alejandro Puente , an economist at Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Santiago, said yesterday by
phone. “A lot of people changed their outlook not just for this
month’s meeting, but for future ones as well.”  Traders and investors surveyed by the central bank on March
13 forecast rates will remain unchanged for six months, before
rising to 5.25 percent by March 2013. They had forecast a rate
cut by June in the Feb. 21 poll. A separate survey of economists
this week forecast no change in rates in 2012.  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, rose to 5.26 percent today from 4.68
percent on Feb. 14 when policy makers previously met.  The central bank conducted the surveys of traders,
investors and analysts after data showed inflation reached a
higher-than-forecast 4.4 percent in February, exceeding the
upper limit of the bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range
for the third straight month.  Unemployment (CHUETOTL)  in January was a
lower-than-forecast 6.6 percent and wages in the month surged
6.7 percent from the year earlier.  “We’re using all our strength and are doing all the work
needed in coordination with the central bank to see how we can
collaborate to contain price increases,” Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain told reporters yesterday in Santiago. “This is
an issue that will be discussed and undoubtedly among other
issues will influence the decisions the central bank makes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 