-- Chile Probably Will Hold Rates Steady as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-03-15T18:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/chile-probably-will-hold-rates-steady-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Chile’s central bank probably will
keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged today after a pick-up
in inflation and economic growth closed the door on a repeat of
January’s surprise rate cut.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at 5 percent for the
second consecutive month, according to all 17 analysts  surveyed
by Bloomberg . The bank will announce its decision after 6:00
p.m. local time.  Europe ’s debt crisis and five interest rate increases last
year haven’t tamed inflation, which has exceeded the central
bank’s target range for three consecutive months. With inflation
expectations rising, the central bank may increase borrowing
costs before year-end, said Sebastian Cerda, Santiago-based
chief economist at CorpResearch SA.  “Cuts are unlikely for the rest of the year because
economic activity has been faster than forecast and higher
inflation has started to appear,” Cerda said in a telephone
interview. “Rate increases are possible in the second half of
the year, although that isn’t yet a certainty.”  One-year breakeven inflation, the gap between nominal and
inflation-indexed yields, widened to 3.54 percent today from
3.06 percent when the central bank last met Feb. 14. The central
bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage
point over two years.  Market Surveys  Traders and investors surveyed by the central bank on March
13 forecast rates will remain unchanged for six months, before
rising to 5.25 percent by March 2013. They had forecast a rate
cut by June in the Feb. 21 poll. A separate survey of economists
this week also forecast no change in rates in 2012.  Latin American central banks have taken a mixed approach to
accelerating inflation and the European debt crisis, with  Brazil 
cutting rates,  Mexico  keeping them on hold and  Colombia  opting
for increases. Policy makers must focus their efforts on keeping
inflation close to target, Min Zhu, deputy managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund , said March 1.  “Inflation expectations remain relatively well anchored in
most countries, allowing some countries to put monetary policy
on hold during the period of global uncertainties,” Min said in
prepared remarks for a forum in Punta del Este, Uruguay. “Some
of the slowdown in  South America  is welcome, as it will help
fend off remaining overheating pressures.”  Inflation Rate  Chile’s inflation rate rose to 4.4 percent in February from
4.2 percent in January. Inflation was 4.4 percent in December,
the highest level since April 2009.  Economic growth is picking up at the same time, reaching an
annual pace of 5.5 percent in January, compared with 5.3 percent
in December and 4 percent in November. Also in January, the
 unemployment rate  remained at a lower-than-forecast 6.6 percent
and wages surged 6.7 percent from the previous year.  “Economic growth has recovered in recent months and is
currently close to potential (or even above according to some
gauges),” Florencia Vazquez, an economist at BNP Paribas, wrote
in a note e-mailed to investors March 5. “The sharp improvement
seen recently increases the likelihood that  Chile ’s central bank
will remain on hold this month.”  The Imacec index, which is a proxy for gross domestic
product, rose 6.3 percent in 2011. GDP growth will slow this
year, with the economy expanding 3.75 percent to 4.75 percent,
the central bank said in its quarterly monetary report Dec. 20.  Economists have raised growth forecasts since the Imacec
started to accelerate in December. Economists surveyed this
month by the central bank raised their 2012 economic growth
estimate to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in February and 4
percent in January.  “We’re in a phase of deceleration that is somewhat softer
than what was forecast some months ago,” Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago March 5. “We have to
closely follow what’s happening abroad because a good
performance in one month doesn’t guarantee that we’re going to
continue like that for the rest of the year.”  The peso rose 0.9 percent to 482.25 per  U.S. dollar  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 