-- China’s Foreign Direct Investment Falls for Fourth Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T02:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/china-s-foreign-direct-investment-falls-for-fourth-month-1-.html
Foreign direct investment in  China 
fell for a fourth straight month in February as companies reined
in spending amid a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest
economy and the prolonged European debt crisis.  Investment declined 0.9 percent to $7.73 billion last month
from a year earlier, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in a
statement today, following a 0.3 percent drop in January.
Overseas spending in the first two months decreased 0.6 percent
to $17.7 billion.  The outlook for foreign investment in China is “grim,”
ministry spokesman Shen Danyang said last month, citing
“slack” external demand, rising operating costs and funding
difficulties faced by some companies. Spending by overseas
businesses, which climbed to a record $116 billion last year,
may stabilize at around $100 billion, according to ING Financial
Markets.  “Investors are cautious now due to the sluggish global
recovery,” Pan Xiangdong, a Beijing-based economist with China
Galaxy Securities Co., said before the release. At the same time,
“China will continue to attract foreign investment because it
has an expanding middle class that offers attractive
opportunities.”  U.S. companies are becoming less confident in business
prospects in China amid rising costs and difficulties hiring and
retaining skilled labor, according to a survey from the American
Chamber of Commerce in  Shanghai  released last month. Businesses
are also finding it harder to generate higher profitability, it
said.  At the same time, 77 percent of respondents said they
intended to boost spending, compared with 72 percent in 2011,
the chamber said.  The nation will stop encouraging foreign investment in
industries including automobile manufacturing while opening up
other markets such as medical services, the commerce ministry
and the National Development and Reform Commission, the top
economic planning agency, said in December.  European Union Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht last month
called on China to open its markets more to foreign investors,
especially in areas dominated by state-owned companies.  --Zheng Lifei. Editor: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  