-- China Adds Treasuries For First Time Since July on Europe Woes
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-15T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/china-adds-treasuries-for-first-time-since-july-on-europe-woes.html
China , the  largest  foreign U.S.
creditor, increased its holdings of U.S. government securities
in January for the first time in six months as European leaders
struggled to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Holdings rose by 0.7 percent to $1.16 trillion, the first
growth in China’s stake since July, Treasury data released
yesterday show. The report also showed that net foreign
purchases of  Treasuries (HOLDTOT)  totaled almost $83 billion in January,
compared with net selling of $14.9 billion the month before.  Demand for Treasury debt was supported by concern whether
Greece would be able to muster political support for austerity
measures needed in order to obtain access to bailout funds. The
decline in China’s holdings began in August as  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the U.S. credit rating to AA+ following a dispute
between Republicans in Congress and President Barack Obama about
the terms under which the U.S. would raise its borrowing limit.  “We can attribute” the rise in January to  Europe , said
 George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries
directly with the  Federal Reserve . “That was during the flight
to quality move. That was early on in the year when there was
still denial that Europe was getting better.”  China reduced its holdings of U.S. government debt in 2011
for the first time since the Treasury started releasing the data
in 2001, as yields fell to record lows. The world’s second-
largest economy held $1.15 trillion Treasuries as of Dec. 31,
down from $1.16 trillion in December 2010 and from a peak of
$1.31 trillion in July 2011.  Currency Reserves  The pace of reserve accumulation will “first and
foremost” impact Chinese demand for  U.S. government debt ,
Goncalves said.  China’s currency  reserves  declined 2.8 percent in November
and December to $3.18 trillion, according to China’s National
Bureau of Statistics.  Chinese policy makers have advocated diversification of the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves away from U.S. assets after
more than doubling its holdings of Treasuries since 2007 in the
wake of the global financial crisis.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark 10-year
Treasury notes dropped to a record low of 1.67 percent in
September as investors sought a haven from Europe’s debt crisis
and the Federal Reserve pledged to keep borrowing costs close to
zero to sustain economic growth.  Japan  maintained its place as America’s second-largest
lender, adding 2 percent to its Treasury position, which climbed
to $1.08 trillion.  Hong Kong ’s stake rose 7.1 percent to $130.3
billion, while the United Kingdom, which is often seen as a
proxy for Chinese demand, rose $29.9 billion, or 27 percent, to
$142.3 billion.  The Fed remains the top holder of  U.S. debt  with $1.66
trillion on its balance sheet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  