-- China Mobile Adds to 2012 Gains on 4G Expansion: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-15T21:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/china-mobile-adds-to-2012-gains-on-4g-expansion-china-overnight.html
China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the world’s
biggest phone company by subscribers, extended the best
performance among Chinese phone companies in the U.S. this year
as it builds out a faster wireless network to lure subscribers.  The Hong Kong-based carrier that’s gained 12 percent in
2012  rose  0.4 percent yesterday to $54.24 in  New York . The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies
in the U.S. rose 0.6 percent to 104.85, led by  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s largest private
education service provider.  China Mobile is expanding its so-called fourth-generation
wireless network in a bid to attract customers who use higher-
end phones to watch videos and play games. Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said at a press conference in  Hong Kong  yesterday that
 China  Mobile will expand its 4G coverage to nine cities from six
last year. The company’s 3G network uses a technology that’s
incompatible with popular smartphones including Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, which is offered by its main rivals.  “There’s been some growing optimism around China Mobile’s
opportunities in 4G,”  Steve Clement , an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities Inc. in Portland, Oregon, said yesterday by
phone. China Mobile hasn’t “had as good a network or handset
selection relative to their competitors. The hope is the sooner
they can move to 4G, the better for them.”  China Mobile has out-gained competitors as investors favor
its reliable  revenue  and  dividend , Clement said.  Net Income Increase  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , the nation’s second-largest
carrier and first to offer the iPhone with a service contract,
rose 2 percent to $18.10 yesterday, paring its 2012 decline to
14 percent.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the third-largest carrier,
began sales of the iPhone on March 9. The stock gained 1.5
percent to $58.85 yesterday and has risen 3 percent this year in
New York.  China Mobile’s fourth-quarter  net income  rose 4.6 percent
to 33.9 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) on 144.2 billion yuan of
sales, the company said yesterday. Profit narrowly missed the
34.2 billion yuan median estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  “That company is just an absolute juggernaut,” Kevin Carter, co-founder and chief executive officer at Baochuan
Capital Management LLC., said by phone from Walnut Creek,
 California . “When they do get a proper iPhone, it’ll be a 4G
phone and those data-intense users are what the phone companies
are looking for.”  Hong Kong Premium  China Mobile’s  Hong Kong shares gained  0.5 percent to
HK$84.65, or $10.91, the first advance in three days to trade
0.5 percent above the company’s American depositary receipts.
Each ADR is worth five ordinary shares. China Unicom rose 0.7
percent in Hong Kong to HK$13.98 and China Telecom also added
0.7 percent to HK$4.55.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland shares
traded in Hong Kong fell for a third day this week, losing 0.5
percent to 11,240.57. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 0.7
percent to 2,373.77 yesterday.  Foreign direct investment in China fell 0.9 percent last
month, the fourth straight decline as companies reined in
spending amid a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
and the European debt crisis.  Premier Wen Jiabao announced on March 5 an economic growth
target of 7.5 percent for this year, down from 8 percent over
the past seven years.  ‘In a Hard Landing’  “If you look at the Chinese data, you should stop debating
about a hard landing,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said at a conference
in  Singapore  on March 14. “China is in a hard landing. Car
sales are down, cement production is down, steel production is
down, construction stocks are down. It’s not a debate anymore,
it’s a fact.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.5 percent to $38.86
yesterday, climbing for the second day this week.  Beijing-based New Oriental jumped 7.1 percent to $27.89
yesterday, the first advance in five days.  CNinsure Inc. (CISG) , a Chinese insurance agency and brokerage,
fell 3.2 percent to $6.93 in New York, the biggest decliner on
the Bloomberg China-US 55 Index.  China will allow exchange-traded funds of Hong Kong shares
to list on mainland exchanges “soon,” K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s
Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, said in an
interview in New York yesterday.  The process of getting Hong Kong stocks to trade on the
Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges as ETFs is “almost near
completion,” Chan said. “The final step would be for the
regulators in China” to review companies’ applications to start
the funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  