-- China to Slow Yuan Rise, Boost Volatility, HSBC’s Fung Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-15T21:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/china-to-slow-yuan-rise-boost-volatility-hsbc-s-fung-says.html
China  will slow the pace of the
yuan’s appreciation even as it steps up efforts to promote the
currency’s use in international markets, says Anita Fung, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s chief executive officer for Hong Kong.  Yuan appreciation will “take a moderate pace,” Fung said
at an event in  New York . “There will be two-way flexibility.
The internationalization of the renminbi remains on course,”
she said, referring to the alternative name of the yuan.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily fixing for the
yuan at the lowest level since December yesterday, after
allowing the currency to gain 31 percent since 2005. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 14 that the yuan may be near “equilibrium”
and policy makers will allow greater  exchange-rate  volatility.  “Currency policy is more cyclical and less structural,”
Fung said.  The yuan has lost 0.5 percent against the dollar this year
to 6.329, after gaining an average 4.3 percent annually over the
past six years. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards traded at
6.33 yuan yesterday, indicating traders expect the currency to
be little changed for the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said March 12 that
market supply and demand is playing a bigger role in determining
the exchange rate. The surplus in China’s current account, the
broadest measure of trade and services, probably narrowed to 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, from more than 10
percent in 2007, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said in a statement last month.  Shifting Focus  Policy markers’ focus has shifted from managing currency
appreciation to promoting the yuan’s use in trade settlement and
fostering markets for yuan-denominated bonds, loans and stocks
in  Hong Kong , HSBC’s Fung said yesterday.  Tempering currency expectations will aid the development of
Hong Kong’s market for yuan-denominated bonds, called Dim Sum
bonds, because investors will use them less as proxies to
speculate on the yuan, said Benjamin Rudd, head of overseas
investment at Ping An of China Asset Management Hong Kong Co.  Sales of the Dim Sum bonds fell 13 percent in the second
half of 2011 from the first six months of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, as the European debt crisis pared
demand for yuan-denominated investment vehicles.  “What we saw in the third quarter is a massive shakeout,
which is very positive for the development of the offshore  bond
market ,” Rudd said. The Dim Sum market has become “a proper
credit market,” he said.  Issuance of Dim Sum bonds will increase to 250 billion yuan
($40 billion) this year, Rudd said. Sales totaled 151 billion
yuan in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  