-- China Mobile’s Quarterly Profit Rises on Data Sales Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T06:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/china-mobile-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-4-6-as-data-sales-gain.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone company by subscribers, posted a 4.6 percent gain
in fourth-quarter profit that missed estimates as it sought to
add customers using smartphones to download games and videos.  Net income climbed to 33.9 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 32.4 billion yuan a year
earlier, according to figures derived from full-year earnings
reported to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. The company was
projected to post a profit of 34.2 billion yuan, according to
the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Sales rose 8.7 percent to 144.2 billion yuan.  China Mobile Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  is battling the
disadvantages of a homegrown third-generation network by adding
Wi-Fi hotspots, totaling 2.2 million at the end of last year, to
attract users of mobile data. That’s allowed it to stay ahead of
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. and  China Telecom Corp. (728) , both of
which offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. China Mobile said this month it
has 15 million iPhone users on its Wi-Fi or 2G networks, as its
3G TD-SCDMA network is incompatible with the device.  “The war to fend off China Telecom and China Unicom has a
cost,” Eric Wen, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities, said in an e-mail today, referring to China Mobile
missing estimates.  Capital expenditure will rise to 131.9 billion yuan this
year from 128.5 billion yuan last year, China Mobile said today
in a presentation on its website. The Beijing-based company was
projected to spend 130.2 billion yuan this year, according to
the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Dividend Payout  China Mobile was expected to post sales of 140.4 billion
yuan, according to the median of eight analyst estimates.  The company said its dividend payout ratio for 2012 will be
43 percent, unchanged from last year, when the full-year payout
was HK$3.327 a share. China Mobile listed 86.3 billion yuan in
cash and cash equivalents on its balance sheet at the end of
December.  “The dividend payout will be a disappointment,” said Jim
Tang, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“Many people were looking for an increase. The growth rate is
not great for profit, so the payout with cash is what the market
expects.”  China Mobile gained 1.1 percent to HK$85.10 as of 2:50 p.m.
in Hong Kong trading. The  stock  has gained 12 percent this year,
while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has added 16 percent.  ‘Cannot Satisfy Demand’  The carrier is the only one of the nation’s three wireless
companies not offering the iPhone, after No. 3 China Telecom
added the device last week. China Mobile added  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry Bold 9788 in September in a bid to win
over higher-spending 3G users.  “The poor TD-SCDMA network cannot satisfy demand for high-
speed data transmission,” Tommy Mok, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at RBS Asia Ltd., wrote in a March 12 note to clients.  China
Mobile “has taken a different route to capture mobile data
usage growth in 2011, with faster expansion in Wi-Fi.”  China Mobile said today it had 2.2 million Wi-Fi hotspots
as of the end of 2011.  “Wireless data traffic became a major driver of operating
revenue growth” last year, China Mobile’s Wang said in the
statement.  The company’s Mobile Market app store has 158 million
registered customers and has logged more than 630 million
application downloads, it said in the statement. Mobile Market
has become the world’s largest Chinese-language app store, the
company said.  China Unicom  China Unicom has so far failed to use the iPhone to catch
up with China Mobile. China Mobile had 655.4 million mobile-
phone subscribers, including 53.9 million 3G users, at the end
of January, the company said last month.  The figures exceed China Unicom’s 202.9 million mobile
customers and 43.1 million 3G users in the same period.  China Unicom and China Telecom are both scheduled to report
earnings next week.  China Mobile also announced today that Lu Xiangdong, an
executive director and vice president, had resigned due to “his
inability to perform his duties as an Executive Director and a
Vice President under his current personal circumstances.”  The company said March 3 that Lu was “assisting judicial
authorities in the investigation of suspected financial-related
issues.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  