-- Cigna CEO Cordani Says Court Won’t Derail Health-Care Shift
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-15T20:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cigna-ceo-cordani-says-court-won-t-derail-health-care-shift.html
A  Supreme Court (1000L)  ruling on whether
the U.S. health-care law is constitutional won’t stop market
forces transforming how Americans get their medical care, said
 Cigna Corp. (CI) ’s chief executive officer.  Employers are increasingly pushing workers into plans where
they share more of the cost and responsibility for managing
care, the health insurer’s CEO, David Cordani, said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters.  The change, aimed at taming soaring health costs, has come
to businesses including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S.
bank, which asked Cigna to revamp its benefits for this year,
Cordani said. The bank switched workers into high-deductible
policies that include fixed health-savings accounts that can be
tapped by employees for out-of-pocket expenses.  Even if the 2010 law is overturned, “the problem still
exists, the problem of affordability, eroding health status, an
aging population,” Cordani said. “The good news is, a lot of
change is unfolding in the marketplace today.”  In a 45-minute interview, Cordani said health plans may
flee the market for individual and small-business coverage if
the court kills only the mandate that all Americans get coverage
while leaving the rest of the legislation in place. That would
leave insurance pools dominated by patients who wait until they
get sick to buy a policy, he said.  Oral Arguments  Three days of oral arguments on the health law are
scheduled to begin March 26 before the nine-member court.
Twenty-six states have challenged the law, championed by
President  Barack Obama , saying its insurance-buying mandate is
unconstitutional.  Cordani also said Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna, the
fourth-biggest U.S. insurer, would increase the number of
patients covered by joint ventures with doctors -- so-called
accountable-care organizations -- by 10-fold over two years.  By 2014, the company plans to have 1 million patients in
such arrangements, in which physicians and insurers work to
better coordinate care and share in any cost savings, he said.  “We philosophically believe it is a big part of the
solution” to rising health-care costs, he said.  Cigna rose less than 1 percent to $46.81 at the close of
New York  trading . The shares have gained  10 percent  in the last
12 months. The company provides medical benefits to 11.5 million
members in the U.S. and operates in about 30 countries.  Sweeping Changes  The so-called consumer-directed benefits Cigna put in place
at JPMorgan this year are an example of the changes sweeping
through much of U.S. health care, Cordani said.  Such plans can include a health-reimbursement account,
funded by employers, or a health savings account, where workers
can steer their own pretax contributions, said Paul Fronstin, a
research director at the Employee Benefit Research Institute in
Washington.  Companies are “hoping that it’s going to save them some
money, that it’s going to control their costs, that people are
going to think twice about the type of health-care services they
use as a result,” Fronstin said.  In addition to JPMorgan, Fairfield, Connecticut-based
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  of  San Francisco , and
 American Express Co. (AXP) , based in New York, have shifted their
workers to consumer-directed plans, Fronstin said. So far, the
evidence on whether they reduce costs is mixed, he said.  These type of programs “are probably not really ready for
prime time” in terms of saving money for customers, said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care strategist and portfolio manager at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. Consumers are at a disadvantage
because prices charged by doctors and hospitals often aren’t
transparent, he said.  Unfulfilled Promise  “Without information, these consumer-driven plans will not
deliver as promised,” Funtleyder said in an interview.  Cigna has tried to give members those tools, said a
spokesman, Joseph Mondy. Earlier this month, the company debuted
an online feature allowing customers to estimate the price of
more than 200 procedures, from delivering babies to knee
replacement surgery, he said in an e-mail.  Cordani said Cigna has enrolled about 100,000 JPMorgan
employees in the new policies. For the insurer, “it’s an
example of change and it’s an example of being much more retail-
oriented,” he said.  The plans often include features such as 100 percent
coverage of preventive care, personal health coaches and online
tools to help workers choose doctors and hospitals, said Gloria Barone Rosanio, a Cigna spokeswoman.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Patient-Focused  Like consumer-directed plans, Cigna’s accountable-care
partnerships with doctors are an attempt to focus more on the
needs of individual members than the employers who buy their
policies, Cordani said. The company now has 17 such
arrangements, covering 100,000 people. It’s goal is to expand to
1 million by the beginning of 2014, he said.  Under the ACO model, Cigna “embeds” nurse-practitioners
or health coaches in physicians’ practices, helping doctors to
track which members are taking their medicines or need follow-up
calls. Cigna uses its claims information to flag signs a patient
may be relapsing.  “There are a lot of products designed now around incenting
health, incenting behavioral change and lifestyle changes and
where physicians and hospitals engage in a much more
comprehensive fashion,” Cordani said. “With or without the
health-care law, the economic forces are driving change in any
regard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  