-- Cipla Medpro Slumps Most in Three Months on Approval Delays
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-03-15T15:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cipla-medpro-slumps-most-in-three-months-on-approval-delays-1-.html
Cipla Medpro South Africa Ltd. (CMP)  fell
the most in three months after the generic drug maker said
delays in government approvals for medicines curbed sales.  Shares in the company declined 3.8 percent to 6.51 rand at
the close in Johannesburg, the biggest drop since Nov. 29.  “There are other regulatory problems. The slow approval of
generic medicines is also a problem that’s an industrywide
thing. It’s a real excuse,” Drikus Combrinck, a portfolio
manager at PSG Konsult, said by telephone from  Pretoria . “The
market might be a bit disappointed about that.”  Cipla’s anti-retroviral tender business didn’t
“materialize to the numbers we expected,” the company said.
The company won about 15 percent of a 4.16 billion-rand ($543
million) contract to supply AIDS treatments in December 2010.
The slow government registration process for drugs “continues
to weigh heavily on our business,” Cipla said in a statement
today.  “Although we experienced slower growth than expected, we
believe 2012 will be better,” the company said. “Provided, of
course, that the registrations we expect materialize.”  Earnings per share adjusted for one-time items for the year
through December rose 83 percent to 80.8 cents, beating the 59.1
cents  median estimate  of seven analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Results were also boosted by an undisclosed settlement with
Pfizer Ltd. and Pfizer Laboratories (Pty) Ltd. after it claimed
damages over an “incorrectly obtained interdict against the
group’s amlodipine besylate products in 2003,” Cipla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  