-- Cisco Buy NDS for $5 Billion to Add Digital TV Software
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-15T21:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cisco-in-talks-to-acquire-nds-for-5-billion-calcalist-says.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest
maker of equipment for  computer networks , agreed to buy  NDS
Group Ltd. (NNDS)  in a deal valued at about $5 billion to add software
used in next-generation video services.  The purchase price includes debt and retention-based
incentives, San Jose, California-based Cisco said today. The
boards of both companies have approved the transaction, which is
subject to regulatory review and will be completed in the second
half of 2012, it said.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  is working to
add more profitable products as part of a turnaround plan. The
company had about $46.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents in
the U.S. and overseas as of January and has pledged to be
aggressive in technology acquisitions. NDS, which makes software
for pay-TV channels used by British Sky Broadcasting Corp. and
 DirecTV (DTV) , is co-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. and London
private-equity firm Permira Advisers LLP.  “Our strategy has always been driven by customer need and
on capturing market transitions,” Chambers said in the
statement. “Our acquisition of NDS fits squarely into this
strategy, enabling content and service providers to deliver new
video solutions that leverage the cloud and drive new
monetization opportunities and service differentiation.”  NDS is Cisco’s biggest deal since it bought Scientific-
Atlanta Inc. in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cisco  fell  1.4 percent to $19.91 at the close in  New York .
The stock has gained 10 percent this year.  Price Competition  News Corp. and Permira agreed to take NDS private in 2008
in a deal that gave New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)  a 49 percent stake
and Permira the remaining 51 percent. News Corp. had previously
held 72 percent.  As part of the purchase, Cisco will get operations in
 India ,  China , Israel, the U.K. and  France  as well as about 5,000
NDS employees, who will join Cisco’s video technology business
for service providers. The purchase price, compared to the
earnings NDS makes before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, is in line with what News Corp. and Permira paid
when they took the company private, Cisco said today.  NDS had about $1.04 billion in debt as of September 2011,
according to a regulatory filing.  Chambers began a turnaround plan last year, when he cut
jobs, eliminated businesses and refocused on more profitable
products. The company, trying to reignite growth after market-
share losses to rivals, became more competitive on price last
quarter. NDS’s products are used to send interactive content to
TV set-top boxes, digital video recorders and mobile phones.  Last month, Cisco reported fiscal second-quarter earnings
and sales that beat estimates, defying concerns that delays in
network upgrades by phone and cable companies would drag down
revenue.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Centerview Partners LLP advised
Cisco on the transaction.  (Cisco hosted a call to discuss the deal today. To access a
replay, dial +1-800-469-5424 in the U.S. and +1-203-369-3287
from elsewhere.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  