-- Cisco to Use Cash Held Overseas to Fund $5 Billion NDS Deal
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-03-15T19:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cisco-said-to-use-cash-held-overseas-to-pay-for-nds-acquisition.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  said it will
finance its $5 billion purchase of U.K. video-services software
company NDS Group Ltd. with cash held overseas.  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of equipment for  computer
networks , had $46.7 billion in  cash  at the close of its second
quarter ended Jan. 28. All but $5 billion was held outside the
U.S., said John Earnhardt, a spokesman for the  San Jose ,
California-based company.  Cisco, which announced the agreement to buy NDS today, is
part of a group of U.S. companies that have been lobbying for a
repatriation tax holiday for offshore profits. U.S. companies
are using such cash more often to buy foreign companies, as
taxes on most overseas earnings can be deferred indefinitely.
When brought back to the U.S., the money is taxed at the federal
and state combined corporate rate of 39.5 percent, minus
credits.  John Chambers , Cisco’s chairman and chief executive
officer, has  advocated  lowering the rate, saying companies that
do business internationally are taxed twice, once in the local
market and then again when earnings are repatriated to the U.S.  Before Cisco faced a slowdown in its business and cut 6,500
jobs last year, Chambers had said a tax holiday would let the
company expand its workforce by at least 10 percent. Chambers
has since qualified that statement, saying in an interview aired
on Bloomberg Television on Jan. 26 that hiring will depend on
the economy.  Video Software  Opponents of a tax holiday, including Democratic Senator
 Carl Levin  of  Michigan , have argued that companies used proceeds
from a 2004 tax holiday to buy back stock and then cut jobs.  Cisco agreed to buy Middlesex, England-based NDS to add
software used in next-generation video services as Chambers
works to add more profitable products as part of a turnaround
plan. The purchase price for closely held NDS includes debt and
retention-based incentives, Cisco said in a statement today.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  used $8.5 billion of offshore cash to buy
Luxembourg-based Internet phone service Skype Technologies SA
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  