-- Citigroup Hires Ex-Citadel Executive Boyle for Asia Derivatives
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-15T23:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/citigroup-hires-ex-citadel-executive-boyle-for-asia-derivatives.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, hired former Citadel LLC executive James Boyle to head equity derivatives trading in Asia as the bank
overhauls the unit amid a revenue slump.  Boyle, who will report to Asia equities trading chief
Joseph Chang, previously oversaw U.S. equities at Citadel, the
$12 billion hedge fund run by  Kenneth Griffin , according to an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a bank spokeswoman, confirmed the memo’s contents.  “We continue to grow our Asian trading capabilities and
the capacity to service Citi’s institutional, corporate and
retail client franchise,” Chang said in the memo.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, and global
equities head Derek Bandeen are shaking up the stock-trading
unit after revenue plunged 21 percent last year to $2.76
billion, the biggest drop among the five largest Wall Street
firms. Bandeen this week appointed new global heads of equity
derivatives, cash equities and “Delta One” trading.  Boyle led global equity derivatives trading at  Merrill
Lynch & Co. (MER)  before joining Citadel, according to the memo. He
left the Chicago-based hedge fund as part of an exodus of senior
executives. He was replaced in October 2010 by Brad Kurtzman,
who has since departed and is now Citigroup’s head of equity
derivatives trading in the U.S.  The equity-derivatives unit trades in contracts whose
values are based on underlying securities, such as common stock.
The business contributed to about half of Citigroup’s revenue
decline last year, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said
Jan. 17.  Citigroup doesn’t disclose the performance of its Asia
equities-trading business. Income from continuing operations in
Asia at the securities and banking division, which includes
equities-trading, fell 21 percent to $898 million last year.  Boyle’s hiring was reported earlier this week by
Derivatives Intelligence, a newsletter published by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 