-- Citigroup Names Tsang, Zhu as Co-Heads of Greater China Banking
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-15T03:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/citigroup-names-tsang-zhu-as-co-heads-of-greater-china-banking.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  appointed Rodney Tsang and Roger Zhu as co-heads of corporate and investment
banking operations in greater China.  Tsang will also oversee the Hong Kong banking business,
while Zhu will focus on Citigroup’s largest clients in China and
help develop the New York-based bank’s local securities joint
venture, said Farhan Faruqui, Citigroup’s head of global banking
for the Asia-Pacific region.  Citigroup has expanded the workforce at its corporate and
investment bank in China by 35 percent in the past three years,
as it challenges  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley for
a greater share of deals in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy.  “We’re in very good shape now, and we’ll hire as we need
further to support clients and our growth,” Faruqui said in a
telephone interview. “Overall, we’ve come a long long way in
 China  from where we were three years ago.”  Citigroup was given regulatory approval for its Citi Orient
Securities Co. joint venture in January, allowing it to start
underwriting local equity offerings. The bank ranked seventh
among advisers of overseas stock sales by Chinese companies last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley were first and second.  Citigroup’s goal is to be among the top three banks in
China for corporate or investment banking, a target that can be
reached within two years, Faruqui said. Citigroup was the
second-ranked adviser on mergers involving Chinese companies
last year, rising from 10th position in 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  CICC Veteran  Zhu spent almost decade at China International Capital
Corp. and joined Citigroup in October. At CICC, he rose to the
position of executive chairman and helped build firm’s
investment banking and asset management business, according to
an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Tsang joined
Citigroup in 2009 from Bank of America Corp.  Christie Chang, head of the global banking and
institutional clients group for  Taiwan , and Edward Lam, in
charge of global banking for  Hong Kong , will remain in their
roles. Eugene Qian was named head of global banking for Citibank
China, its commercial banking arm in the country, and will move
to  Shanghai  from Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  