-- Colombia Eyes $500 Million in Energy Spending in Shale Gas
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-03-15T23:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/colombia-eyes-500-million-in-energy-spending-in-shale-gas-oil.html
Colombia , South America’s third-
largest producer of oil, expects this year’s auction of so-
called unconventional energy reserves to attract at least $500
million in investment.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
have shown interest in Colombia’s reserves of gas trapped in
shale rock and other unconventional sources, government
Hydrocarbons Director Julio Cesar Vera Diaz said yesterday in an
interview in Cartagena in northern Colombia.  “The blocks could easily draw hundreds of millions of
dollars,” Vera Diaz said. “We have potential.”  President Juan Manuel Santos is taking advantage of energy
and metals reserves to draw record international spending to
Colombia, including by billionaires Eike Batista and Carlos
Slim. Improved security has enabled  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s
largest oil producer, and other companies to explore for fuel in
areas that were off-limits a decade ago, Ecopetrol Chief
Executive Officer Javier Gutierrez said this week.  About 30 onshore blocks of 109 blocks the nation will
auction for exploration and production hold natural gas trapped
in shale-rock formations or oil shales, Vera Diaz said. Colombia
aims to surpass Argentina in production of such fuels, he said.  “We have the conditions to guarantee investment,” he
said.  Commercial Production  Ecopetrol, Colombia’s largest oil company, is in the early
stages of searching for unconventional fuels in central
Colombia, Gutierrez said this week. Companies are drilling for
unconventional fuels in Colombia and the first commercial
production probably will start next year, Vera Diaz said.  In northern Colombia, Drummond Co. aims to extract methane
from coal beds to fuel its operations, he said. Colombia is
 South America ’s largest supplier of coal.  World energy demand is expected to increase by one-third by
2035, according to the International Energy Agency. Venezuela
and Brazil are South America’s largest oil producers.  Ecopetrol slid 0.4 percent to close at 5,280 pesos in
Bogota. Crude oil for April delivery declined 32 cents to
$105.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
lowest settlement since March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  