-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rose Last Week to Four-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-15T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rose-last-week-to-four-year-high.html
Consumer confidence  rose last week
to the highest level in four years as job gains put more
Americans in the mood to spend.  The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  climbed to minus 33.7
in the period to March 11, the strongest since March 2008, from
minus 36.7 the previous week. A buying-climate gauge reached the
highest level since November 2007, and a measure of the state of
the economy had its best showing since September 2008.  The bounce in sentiment coincides with gains in employment
and a pickup in incomes that are giving households the means to
withstand rising fuel bills. A rally in stock prices also bodes
well for  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy.  “Improvement in the labor market has boosted the
confidence of consumers,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. Wage gains are
“bolstering retail sales and consumer confidence despite rising
gasoline costs.”  Since its inception in December 1985, the comfort index has
averaged minus 15.2.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, indicating factories are still
driving the expansion, another report showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  unexpectedly increased to 20.2 this month from 19.5 in
February. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists was 17.5. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Jobless Claims  Claims for  jobless benefits  dropped more than projected
last week, matching the lowest level in four years. Applications
for  unemployment insurance  declined by 14,000 to 351,000 in the
week ended March 10, the Labor Department said today.  Higher fuel costs drove wholesale prices up in February by
the most in five months, another report showed. The  producer
price index  climbed 0.4 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in
January, according to the Labor Department. The core measure,
which excludes food and energy, rose 0.2 percent, less than in
the prior month.  Stocks were little changed after the reports, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining less than 0.1 percent to
1,394.88 at 9:37 a.m. in  New York .  The  measure  of Americans’ views of the state of the economy
rose to minus 67.1 last week from minus 70 the prior week,
today’s report showed. The index of whether it’s a good time to
buy increased to minus 33.7 from minus 40.4. The gauge of
personal finances was little changed at minus 0.5, compared with
0.3 the prior week.  Stronger Sales  Gains in retail sales indicate households are following
through. Purchases at stores and malls advanced 1.1 percent in
February, the most in five months, after a 0.6 percent rise in
January that was larger than previously estimated.  Clothing stores and auto dealers were among those showing
improving demand last month. Cars and light trucks sold last
month at the fastest pace in four years, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the U.S. Food Lion
supermarkets, this month said the improvement in the labor
market is encouraging.  “There are some good forward-looking economic indicators
here in the U.S. that would help give all of us some optimism,”
Ronald Hodge, chief executive officer of Delhaize’s U.S.
business, said on a March 8 conference call with analysts.  Hiring Pickup  A pickup in hiring is probably responsible in part for the
gains in spending. Payrolls grew by 227,000 in February after a
284,000 gain in January, capping the best six-month streak of
job growth since 2006. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-
year low of 8.3 percent following five consecutive declines.
Worker pay jumped in the last six months of 2011 by the most in
almost five years.  “Breaks in the ice of unemployment have more than
compensated this year for rising gasoline prices,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump climbed
to a 10-month high of $3.82 a gallon yesterday.  Today’s report also showed sentiment among black Americans
improved to the highest level since March 2007, exceeding the
reading for whites by the biggest margin in records dating back
to 1990. The comfort gauge among women climbed to the highest
level since July 2008.  Full-Time Employment  Full-time workers and people living in the South were among
the groups that registered their highest levels of confidence in
four years. The comfort gauge for political independents, a key
swing group during this year’s election, improved to minus 29.9,
the best reading since 2007, the year before voters last went to
the polls to pick a new president.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  