-- Contraception Coverage Rule Assailed by Catholic Businessman
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-15T21:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/contraception-coverage-rule-assailed-by-catholic-businessman-1-.html
A U.S. government mandate that
businesses offer employees coverage for contraception through
health-care insurance was challenged in court as
unconstitutional by a  St. Louis  businessman.  Frank O’Brien is a practicing Catholic who believes life
begins at conception and ends with death, according to the
complaint that he and O’Brien Industrial Holdings LLC filed
today in St. Louis.  “He cannot pay for and provide coverage for
contraceptives, sterilization, abortion or related education and
counseling without violating his religious beliefs,” O’Brien’s
lawyers wrote in the complaint.  The contraception requirement is part of President Barack Obama’s 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
intended to create almost-universal health-care insurance
coverage.  While the mandate initially called on religious
institutions and secular employers to pay for the coverage, the
president last month said he would relieve religious groups of
the responsibility by requiring their insurers to provide the
coverage free of charge after encountering opposition to the
rule.  ‘First Amendment’  The attempted compromise has been criticized by church
leaders and by members of the  Republican Party  as an attack upon
the U.S. Constitution’s guarantees of religious freedom
contained in the First Amendment.  “If Democrats no longer see the value in defending the
First Amendment because they don’t think it’s politically
expedient to do so, or because they want to protect the
president, then Republicans will have to do it for them,” said
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  O’Brien employs 87 people at his businesses, which mine
clays and silicates, and manufacture products such as insulation
and the clay used for baseball infields, according to the
complaint and the corporate  website .  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on O’Brien’s lawsuit.  The case is O’Brien v.  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services, 12-cv-476, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  