-- Convicted Tyco CEO Kozlowski Moves Back to Manhattan
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-23T20:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/convicted-tyco-ceo-kozlowski-moves-to-back-to-manhattan.html
(Corrects to add new law firm statement describing
Kozlowski’s job in third paragraph of story published March 16.)  The new home of felon and ex- Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  Chief Executive Officer  Dennis Kozlowski ,
while not furnished with the $6,000 shower curtain and paintings
by Monet and Renoir that decorated his previous  Manhattan  abode,
offers a stunning view of Central Park and the New York skyline.  Convicted in 2005 of looting his company, Kozlowski was
transferred from an upstate prison to a minimum-security
facility on Manhattan’s 110th Street near Fifth Avenue, on the
north border of the park. Kozlowski leaves every weekday morning
to participate in a work-release program, said Peter Cutler, a
spokesman for the New York State Department of Corrections and
Community Supervision.  Alan Lewis, Kozlowski’s lead lawyer and a partner at Carter
Ledyard & Milburn LLP, said in an e-mailed statement that the
ex-CEO works as a clerk at a software company, revising an
earlier comment by partner Michael Shapiro in a telephone
interview that Kozlowski worked as a financial consultant. The
two attorneys co-chair New York-based Carter Ledyard’s white
collar practice, according to its website.  While in prison, Kozlowski has helped other inmates learn
to read and to earn their General Equivalency Diplomas, Shapiro
said.  Prison Sentence  Kozlowski, still serving a prison sentence of 8 1/3 to 25
years, must return every work night to his new home, known as
the Lincoln Correctional Facility, said Cutler. He is permitted
to spend Saturday nights outside the prison.  Kozlowski, along with former Chief Financial Officer Mark Swartz, was convicted in June 2005 of  securities fraud , grand
larceny and falsifying business records.  Swartz also has been transferred to the Lincoln facility
and is participating in work-release, according to his lawyer,
Charles Stillman. Stillman declined to provide any additional
details of his client’s status.  In Kozlowski’s trial, prosecutors told jurors the ex-CEO’s
$30 million Fifth Avenue apartment, paid for with Tyco funds,
featured the now-infamous shower curtain and a $15,000 umbrella
stand. They also detailed his crimes, many of which were
committed while working from Tyco’s offices on Manhattan’s West
57th Street, a few miles south of Kozlowski’s new address.  Former Building  The New York Post has reported that Kozlowski’s former
building, in the Italian Renaissance Palazzo style, has been
home to media and real estate mogul  Mort Zuckerman , former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Vice President Robert Hurst and
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  CEO  Howard Schultz .  Kozlowski’s duplex co-op had 11 rooms, including four
bedrooms, four and a half bathrooms, four wood-burning
fireplaces and an eat-in kitchen. During Kozlowski’s trial,
jurors got to see a glimpse of how Kozlowski lived, viewing a
15-minute videotape of the apartment made by prosecutors.  Evidence at trial showed he decorated it with more than
$13 million worth of gilded furnishings and a fine art
collection that prosecutors said was purchased with Tyco funds.  Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland , is the world’s
biggest maker of security systems.  The jury, in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan,
found that Kozlowski and Swartz stole about $137 million from
Tyco in unauthorized compensation and made $410 million from the
sale of inflated stock. An earlier trial resulted in a mistrial
after a juror reported receiving threats.  Kozlowski, 65, has his first parole hearing next month and
could be released as soon as Aug. 25, Cutler said.  He was transferred to Lincoln from medium-security Mid-
State Correctional Facility, in Marcy, in January and started in
the work-release program last month, Cutler said.  Lincoln is located in an eight-story building that opened
in 1914 as a branch of the Young Women’s Hebrew Association,
according to a corrections department profile of the facility.
The state took over the property and opened it as a work- and
education-release prison in 1976.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  