-- Corona-Brewer Modelo Gains on Growth View: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-03-15T17:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/corona-brewer-modelo-gains-on-growth-view-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , the maker of
Corona beer, headed for a record high amid optimism about rising
profit and speculation that the world’s biggest brewer was
seeking control of the company.  The stock rose 2.1 percent to 90.15 pesos at 11:12 a.m.
Mexico City time. A close at that level would be the highest on
record. The benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican companies gained
0.3 percent.  Modelo’s stock is the second-best performer on the
benchmark gauge since its Feb. 22 fourth-quarter  report  showed
profit jumped 48 percent to 3.59 billion pesos ($283 million).
Mexico City-based Modelo is also benefiting from optimism it
will expand revenue abroad from  Brazil  to the U.S., said Mario
Copca, an analyst with CI Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City.  “The company continues to be interested in increasing its
market,” Copca said in a telephone interview. “That’s what
you’re seeing incorporated in the price -- a good report and the
expectation of greater expansion in  South America , particularly
Brazil.”  Alberto Aguilar, a columnist for Mexico City-based El
Universal newspaper,  said  today there was renewed speculation
that Leuven, Belgium-based  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest beer maker, wants to take control of Modelo. He didn’t
say where he got the information.  Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Modelo, declined to
comment. Laura Vallis, a New York-based spokeswoman for AB
InBev, declined to comment.  The report is also helping drive the stock, Copca said.  “Nothing is confirmed,” he said. “You should be
cautious” basing investment decisions on that report.  InBev has a 50 percent, non-controlling stake in Modelo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  