-- Costa Rica Tax Changes Pass to Supreme Court After Congress Vote
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-15T19:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/costa-rica-tax-changes-pass-to-supreme-court-after-congress-vote.html
Costa Rica’s Congress last night
gave initial approval to an overhaul of the tax system aimed at
paring a fiscal deficit equal to more than 5 percent of gross
domestic product.  The legislation now awaits a  Supreme Court  ruling on
opposition allegations that its fast-track treatment by
lawmakers was unconstitutional. The tribunal takes an average 18
months to decide on constitutional matters, court spokeswoman
Vanlly Cantillo said.  The new system would add about $650 million annually to
government revenue, according to the Finance Ministry. Changes
include replacing the 13 percent sales tax with a 14 percent
value-added tax and imposing a 15 percent tax on dividends
earned by companies that enter the country’s free-trade zones
after 2015.  Costa Rica’s $40 billion economy, the second-biggest in
Central America, is weighed down by a fiscal deficit equivalent
to about $2 billion, approximately the amount the country earns
from tourism. Central bank President Rodrigo Bolanos said in
January that as a result, economic growth will slow to 3.8
percent this year from 4.2 percent in 2011.  The legislation’s approval by Congress was the “biggest
and most progressive” fiscal agreement in the nation’s history,
Finance Minister Fernando Herrero said. Thirty-one of 50
legislators present voted in favor.  “This is a fundamental step to contain the risk facing the
national economy,” Herrero said in a statement.  Given a favorable ruling by the Supreme Court, the
legislation would require a second approval by Congress and then
need presidential ratification before becoming law.  U.S. companies  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  have units in Costa
Rican free-trade zones.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Adam Williams in San Jose at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Joshua Goodman
at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  