-- Cotton Rises on U.S. Export Sales, Economy; Orange Juice Falls
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-03-15T19:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/cotton-rises-on-u-s-export-sales-economy-orange-juice-falls.html
Cotton futures rose the most in
more than a week after U.S. export sales jumped and an improving
job market bolstered prospects for textile demand.  Orange juice 
slipped.  Net sales of upland cotton more than doubled in the week
ended March 8 from a week earlier, the government said today.
The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter. Jobless claims dropped
last week to match a four-year low, Labor Department figures
showed. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  raised his
assessment of the economy on March 13, while the central bank
retained the option of providing more monetary stimulus.  “Some near-term support factors for cotton are good sales,
Texas weather and, as always, Bernanke,” Rogers Varner Jr., the
president of Varner Bros., a brokerage in  Cleveland ,
 Mississippi , said in an e-mail.  Cotton for May delivery rose 0.2 percent to close at 87.34
cents a pound at 2:34 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since March 5.  The fiber has tumbled 54 percent in the past year on
forecasts for record harvests and rising global inventories.  “The big bear is there,” Varner said. He predicts prices
may drop to 70 cents by the end of the year.  Last year’s U.S. cotton output was 13 percent smaller than
the previous year as drought hurt crops in  Texas , the biggest
producing state. Dry conditions will continue across West Texas
next week, according to Donald Keeney, a senior agricultural
meteorologist at Gaithersburg, Maryland-
based MDA Information Systems Inc.  Orange-juice futures for May delivery dropped 0.1 percent
to $1.876 a pound in New York. The price has climbed 11 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  