-- Oil Falls on Report Obama, Cameron Discussed SPR Release
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-15T20:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/crude-futures-rise-in-new-york-gaining-as-much-as-0-6-.html
Oil fell for the third time in four
days on reports that President  Barack Obama  discussed a release
from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  Futures declined 0.3 percent as  Jay Carney , the White House
press secretary, said the leaders reached no agreement. The
price dropped as much as 1.6 percent in intraday trading after
Reuters reported that two people it didn’t name said the U.K.
has decided to cooperate with the U.S. on a supply release with
 gasoline pump prices  over $3.80 a gallon.  “The market took a massive tumble on the rumors of a SPR
release,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “It makes sense that they would be
planning a release now. We will have to see if the bears can
continue to keep us lower.”  Crude oil for April delivery declined 32 cents to $105.11 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the lowest
settlement since March 6. Futures are up 6.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement fell $1.42, or 1.1 percent,
to end the session at $123.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract expired today. May futures
slipped $1.98, or 1.6 percent, to $122.60.  The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded West Texas intermediate oil narrowed to $18.44, the least
since March 7. The spread reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Stockpile Releases  Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  have called on Obama to use
the oil stockpile to fight an increase in gasoline prices
spurred by tensions with  Iran  over its nuclear program.  “Oil prices and surety of supply have become a top
priority, and markets are justifiably nervous,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “Upside price risks remain high.”  The U.S. has withdrawn oil 18 times since 1985, including
in 2008 after hurricanes struck the  Gulf Coast . The U.S. reserve
was used in July and August last year, under an International
Energy Agency effort to ease shortages of Middle East supply.  “A global release, not just U.S. action, will be needed to
calm markets,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “This
is a sign that we will be seeing coordinated releases.”  Oil in  New York  climbed above $110 a barrel on March 1 for
the first time since May as escalating tension between Iran and
the West threatened supplies. The U.S. and its allies say Iran
is seeking the capability to make an atomic bomb. Iran says its
program is for civilian energy and medical research.  Swift Action  Futures rose in early trading today after the leading
worldwide financial messaging service for international money
transfers announced that it will stop providing services to
Iranian banks subject to European Union sanctions. Iran’s
central bank is included in the list.  The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication, known as Swift, said it is taking the action
effective March 17 in response to EU regulations.  “The SPR rumors came 30 minutes after the release of the
Swift headlines, overwhelming what is very bullish news for
oil,” Schork said.  Futures rose as high as $106.18 a barrel earlier on data
showing U.S. economic growth. The Labor Department said U.S.
 unemployment insurance  applications fell to 351,000 last week,
matching a four-year low. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
 general economic index  unexpectedly increased to 20.2 this month
from 19.5 in February.  “Prices have climbed quite a bit and we need a period of
consolidation at the least,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis .
“The biggest bearish factor is word that Obama and Cameron were
talking about an SPR release.”  Goldman Projection  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said global spare production
capacity is at “dangerously low levels” and the market will
tighten, pushing Brent oil higher this year.  Increased exports from  Saudi Arabia  and  Libya , members of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, are being
absorbed by consumers,  David Greely , Goldman’s head of energy
research in New York, said in a report distributed today.  “We expect prices to average $130 in 2013, so we expect
them to rise higher between now and then,” Greely said. “On a
12-month horizon we see Brent prices at $127.50.”  Production rate declines at oilfields in OPEC have
“accelerated precipitously” and will continue to worsen, Bank
of America Corp. said today in an e-mailed report.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 796,119
contracts as of 4:55 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 671,171
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  