-- CSX Surges Most Since 2009 After Forecasting Record Profit
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-03-15T20:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/csx-surges-most-since-2009-after-forecasting-record-profit-3-.html
CSX Corp. (CSX)  rose the most since April
2009, leading gains among U.S. railroads, after predicting
record first-quarter earnings because of increased demand for
container and merchandise shipments.  That freight is helping blunt a drop of as much as 30
percent in domestic utility coal cargos, CSX said today in a
website presentation. Total carloads climbed 1 percent through
the week ended March 9, Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX said.  It’s “only the utility business that is not doing well,
and that is becoming increasingly a very small piece of our
overall business,” Chief Financial Officer Fredrik Eliasson
said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in New York. “Despite
the utility coal being down 25 percent to 30 percent during the
first quarter, we’re going to have the record first quarter.”  CSX also expects record full-year earnings, Eliasson said,
without giving specifics for either period. The average
estimates in Bloomberg  analyst surveys  were for profit of 38
cents a share in the first quarter and $1.81 for all of 2012.  The stock  climbed  8.5 percent to $21.92 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and in the three-carrier S&P 500 Railroads Index. It was the
biggest jump since April 2009.  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  climbed 5.5 percent to $68.53, the
most since Oct. 27.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  jumped 5 percent to
$113.08, the most since Aug. 9.  Housing-Related Goods  Rising demand for automotive, metal and housing-related
goods is helping make up for CSX’s coal decline, which is due to
a milder winter and lower natural gas prices that prompted
utilities to switch fuel sources. While falling coal volumes
have sparked investor concern that profit growth will slow, the
commodity is only about 15 percent of CSX’s business.  Eliasson also reaffirmed CSX’s goal for a 65 percent
operating ratio, a measure of operating expenses over sales, by
2015, though he said it will be “more difficult” to reach that
target with utility coal volumes dwindling.  “At some point utility coal has to stabilize and clearly
we’re expecting that,” he said. “As long as we’re executing on
the things that we’re seeing that we can control around pricing,
productivity, volume growth in the other markets, we still think
we can get there.”  Norfolk Southern  Norfolk Southern, CSX’s rival in the eastern U.S., said a
17 percent decline in utility coal carloads through March 10 is
mostly from milder weather rather than natural-gas switching.
Those shipments may improve with warm spring weather, which is
“not all that implausible right now,” Chief Financial Officer
James Squires said at the same conference.  Investors appear to be “pricing in” an unrealistically
bad earnings outlook for U.S railroads, Justin Yagerman, a New
York-based analyst with Deutsche Bank, said in a note to clients
yesterday.  “Although rails face coal and ag headwinds, they should
benefit from solid core pricing gains, merchandise traffic
growth, and market share gains in intermodal,” Yagerman wrote.
He recommends buying CSX and has a hold rating on Norfolk,
Virginia-based Norfolk Southern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  