-- Deripaska’s Plan Brings Board Conflict, Loss for Li Ka-Shing
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-03-16T12:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/deripaska-plan-brings-management-conflict-loss-for-li-ka-shing.html
United Co. Rusal (486) ’s Oleg Deripaska
is wedded to an investment that barely covers borrowing costs,
has brought management into conflict and added to losses for
stockholders such as billionaire  Li Ka-shing  and Paulson & Co.  Deripaska, whose company today chose a new chairman after a
boardroom clash, has snubbed offers of as much as $18 billion
for Rusal’s 25 percent stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  that
could cut Rusal’s debt and restart the payment of dividends. For
the founder of the world’s biggest aluminum maker such rewards
take second place to the goal of creating a diversified mining
company to rival Australia’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   “The key issue seems to be the tight grip that Deripaska
holds over the strategy and operations of the company,” said
 Mikhail Stiskin , head of metals research at Troika Dialog, the
oldest Russian investment bank. Victor Vekselberg, who quit as
chairman this week, is among shareholders who are “mainly
interested in the immediate cash returned from the business,”
he said.  The annual  dividend  of about $290 million Rusal gets from
Norilsk is eaten up by about $230 million in repayments on the
loan used to buy the stake, Bloomberg calculations show. Rusal
pays about 4.5 percentage points above the London interbank
offered rate.  Boardroom discord over strategy also eroded Rusal’s market
value. The shares fell 13 percent in the four days after
Vekselberg quit on March 12 saying management had driven the
company into “deep crisis.” Rusal, owned 47.7 percent by
Deripaska’s En+ Group, said it had already planned to consider
replacing him.  Barry Cheung  Rusal dropped 0.5 percent to HK$5.65 by the close of
trading in  Hong Kong  today. Its Moscow-traded depositary
receipts gained 3.5 percent to 224.70 rubles at 4:38 p.m. local
time. Deripaska sold the stock for HK$10.80 each in a January
2010 initial public offering, the first by a Russian company in
Hong Kong.  Rusal said today it elected Barry Cheung, chairman of the
Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange, to replace Vekselberg. A
“comprehensive review” of corporate governance is an
“immediate priority,” and additional independent directors
will be appointed so that they comprise a third of the board,
Cheung said in a statement.  The slump in the stock since the IPO has wiped $5 billion
off the value of shares held by investors other than Deripaska.
Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, the fund of U.S. money manager  John
Paulson , Shangri-La owner  Robert Kuok  and mining investor
 Nathaniel Rothschild  were Rusal cornerstone investors at the
time of the IPO. They haven’t sold the stock since, Rusal First
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Soloviev said Nov. 14.  No Dividends  The loss in value is compounded by the absence of a
dividend, including from the 2011 earnings Rusal will release on
March 19.  “It all depends on what type of investor you are,” said
 Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB-Hay Hian Ltd. “From the CEO’s
point of view we should have a long vision. Diversifying into
other metals makes sense to even out your earnings volatility.”  As a Norilsk shareholder, Rusal can use the nickel and
copper producer’s dividends to bolster  cash flow , Lau said.
“The chairman said that the company’s in a deep crisis but
we’ve seen that it’s improving.”  Hong Kong-listed Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. has slumped
51 percent since Rusal’s IPO and many Chinese aluminum makers
are now looking for assets outside their main metal, Lau said.
Meanwhile, Rusal’s valuation has benefited from a 28 percent, or
$3 billion, gain in the value of its Norilsk stake during the
same period. Norilsk is the world’s biggest nickel miner.  ‘Strong Conviction’  Still, for many investors stable dividends are important
and concern about Rusal’s boardroom conflict will outweigh any
improvements the company is showing financially, Lau said.  “As a minority shareholder I’d be very concerned,” Lau
said. “Unless I have a strong conviction in this company, I’d
sell. I don’t want to take the risk” of siding with any of the
conflicting parties inside Rusal, she said.  Rusal is rated a buy by 19 analysts, a hold by 7 and a sell
by 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deripaska’s plan for Norilsk, the largest Russian mining
company and producer of half the world’s palladium, began with
his purchase of the 25 percent stake in March 2008. The deal,
which doubled Rusal’s debt to almost $17 billion months before
the global financial crisis cut metal demand and prices, was
touted by the aluminum company as the first step in a merger.  While Rusal’s IPO helped cut its debt burden, Deripaska’s
ambitions for Norilsk have been stymied by a feud with rival
shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  and his allies on the board.  This leaves shareholders asking if they can afford to wait
for the founder’s plans to pan out, according to  Ben Collett ,
Japanese equity chief in Hong Kong for Louis Capital Markets.  “This is more of an owner’s company than a shareholders’
company,” Collett said. “If the owner’s neglecting the short
or medium-term interest of all shareholders to pursue a long-
term strategy, then you have to sell the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  