-- Deutsche Bank Said to Propose Lewis as Risk Chief
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-16T00:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/deutsche-bank-said-to-propose-stuart-lewis-as-chief-risk-officer.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  plans to propose
Stuart Lewis as chief risk officer after German financial
regulator BaFin opposed the planned appointment of William Broeksmit, according to a person close to the supervisory board.  Lewis, who is currently the company’s deputy chief risk
officer as well as head of risk for the corporate and investment
bank, will be proposed to the supervisory board at a meeting
today to discuss a wider management shake-up, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  BaFin and Deutsche Bank discussed multiple candidates, and
Lewis was selected based on the regulator’s criteria, the person
said. Broeksmit didn’t receive unanimous support from BaFin
because of concern that he lacked experience managing a large
number of employees, the person said.  German magazine  Der Spiegel  reported BaFin’s possible
rejection of Broeksmit on its website earlier. Friederike
Borgmann, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank plans to propose three new management board
members at the supervisory board meeting as designated co-Chief
Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen begin to put
their mark on  Germany ’s biggest bank, a person with knowledge of
the matter said last week.  Ritchotte, Leithner  The candidates include Henry Ritchotte as chief operating
officer and Stephan Leithner in charge of personnel, legal and
regional management in  Europe  outside of Germany, the person
said at the time. Broeksmit, who had been a candidate for head
of risk, will remain in charge of risk portfolio optimization at
the corporate and investment bank after BaFin’s rejection, with
Lewis coming forward, one person said yesterday.  Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, who was considered a
candidate for the co-CEO role, and COO Hermann-Josef Lamberti
have been asked to leave the firm, the person said last week, as
Jain promotes people from his corporate and investment bank with
whom he has worked closely.  Jain and Fitschen also plan to expand the group executive
committee to 17 members from 12, and Michele Faissola, who
oversees rates and commodities, will head a combined asset and
wealth management operation, the person said.  Deutsche Bank’s new chief risk officer will focus entirely
on risk management as the legal and treasury responsibilities
are passed to other board members, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  