-- Drydocks World Is ‘Confident’ in Debt Deal After Court Case Loss
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-03-15T13:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/drydocks-world-is-confident-in-debt-deal-after-court-case-loss.html
Drydocks World LLC, owner of the
 Middle East ’s biggest shipyard in Dubai, is “confident” it can
complete a $2.2 billion debt restructuring even after a hedge
fund won a $45.5 million claim against it in a London court.  New York-based Monarch Alternative Capital LP, a company
that invests mainly in distressed debt, won the claim against
Drydocks in the  High Court  of Justice on Feb. 28, Monarch
spokesman Jeremy Fielding confirmed in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News today. A unit of Monarch filed the
claim against Drydocks in October.  “I would very much hope that, notwithstanding their legal
action, Monarch will accept the very reasonable restructuring
proposal,” Drydocks Chairman Khamis Juma Buamim said in
response to e-mailed questions today. The company, a unit of
state-owned Dubai World, “is confident that it can still
implement its restructuring if it transpires that Monarch do not
accept the terms on offer.”  Drydocks has proposed to repay creditors over five years as
part of a debt restructuring plan it submitted March 8. The
company is one of several in Dubai seeking to restructure debt
after property prices and asset values slumped in the Persian
Gulf business hub and credit markets froze with the onset of the
2008 global credit crisis.  Drydocks borrowed $2.2 billion to finance two acquisitions
in  Singapore  in 2008 to gain ships and Asian shipbuilding sites.
The company borrowed $1.7 billion for three years at 170 basis
points, or 1.7 percentage points, over the London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
borrowed another $500 million for five years at 190 basis points
over Libor, the data shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  