-- Dubai Oil Draws Near to Brent on Iran, Asian Refiner Use
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-03-15T08:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/dubai-oil-draws-near-to-brent-on-iran-asian-refiner-use.html
Poland ’s plan to avoid power
blackouts by limiting  Germany ’s growing renewable electricity
flows through its territory may help erase the biggest price gap
between the neighbors in at least three years.  Baseload, or round-the-clock, supplies of German power for
next-year delivery were an average 13 percent more expensive
than Poland’s in the past year, the biggest premium for the
comparable period since at least 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Poland’s plan to put transformers on its
467-kilometer (290-mile) border with Germany may regulate flows,
freeing up its own capacity for buying and selling, according to
PSE Operator SA, Poland’s grid manager.  Germany is being forced to turn to Polish and Czech grids
to ship record electricity output from  wind turbines  in the
country’s north to industrial users in the south. Flows via
Poland intensified since  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s decision a
year ago to close the country’s oldest nuclear plants after the
reactor meltdowns in Fukushima,  Japan . Poland’s grid says the
transformers will protect power lines from overload at the same
time as tripling electricity export capacity.  “If the capacity increase is sustained, Polish prices
would quickly converge with those in the Czech Republic and
Germany,” Michal Wilczkiewicz, a trader for  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  in
Warsaw, said in a phone interview.  German power for next-year delivery was 1.40 euros ($1.83)
a megawatt-hour more expensive than its Polish equivalent today,
compared with an average of 7.03 euros during the past 12
months, broker data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap was 8.98
euros on Nov. 21, when PSE Operator SA, Poland’s network
manager, said it would have no capacity to  export  electricity to
Germany available to traders for the six months from May.  104 Billion Euros  Europe needs to invest 104 billion euros in its extra high
voltage power lines over the next 10 years to avoid bottlenecks,
80 percent of which are related to renewable sources such as
wind and solar power,  according  to the European Network of
Transmission System Operators for Electricity, which represents
network managers in Brussels.  Increased wind production in Germany on Feb. 24 left no
capacity available to trade on a cable linking the country with
Sweden, according to grid operator TenneT Holding BV. The  Czech
Republic ’s grid is at risk of failure after unscheduled flows
from Germany rose as high as 3,500 megawatts, more than three
times the usual value, according to its operator.  Belgium  in
2009 installed the so-called phase shifting transformers on its
links to stabilize supply as generation from wind and sun, which
depends on favorable weather conditions, increased.  Unscheduled Power Flows  Poland handles as much as 2,000 megawatts of unscheduled
power from Germany and needs phase shifters to improve the
system, Grzegorz Tomasik, management board member of  PSE
Operator  said in a Feb. 22 interview. The flows are equal to
about 11 percent of Poland’s demand last year, grid data show.  “Recent years have shown a steady increase in unscheduled
flows of about 5 percent annually” mainly from wind farms in
northern Germany, Jerzy Dudzik, the head of PSE Operator’s
system management department, said by e-mail yesterday.  The transformers would also allow the grid to offer the
capacity to import power to Poland now blocked by German flows,
boosting trade, Tomasik said. A tender will be announced by
April, he said. Poland plans to put the phase shifters on its
two cable connections with Germany in two to three years, more
than tripling exports to over 2,000 megawatts and boosting
imports by about 500 megawatts, PSE Operator said. 1,000
megawatts is enough to supply about 2 million European homes.  Elia System Operator NV (ELI) , the manager of Belgium’s grid,
installed the transformers on its external connections as
greater variability of energy flows in  Europe ’s interconnected
markets required measures to maintain stability of supply.  ‘Act Like Taps’  “Elia has put in place phase-shifting transformers, which
act like taps and allow electricity flows to be distributed
between a larger number of connections on the Central West
European grid,” the company said in its 2010 annual  report .  Germany installed a record 3,000 megawatts of new solar
panels in December, according to the Bonn-based
Bundesnetzagentur, the network regulator. Output from the
nation’s wind turbines reached a record 8 terawatt-hours in
December, the BDEW utility group said Jan. 11. The country plans
to get at least 35 percent of its electricity from renewable
sources by 2020, compared with 20 percent last year.  “Phase shifters won’t harm the development of renewable
energy in Germany,” Tomasik said.  Merkel’s decision to shut Germany’s reactors by 2022 and
replace them with fossil fuel-fired plants and renewable
capacity will require at least 4,500 kilometers of extra  power
lines , according to Economy Minister Philipp Roesler. In
January, TenneT TSO GmbH, a German grid operator, said it was
forced to tap as much as 1 gigawatt of capacity from fossil-fuel
plants in  Austria  in December to help stabilize its network amid
high winds in the north and peak demand in the south.  Risks of Blackouts  “If Poland goes ahead and installs phase shifters on the
border and Germany fails to improve its grid by then the risk of
transmission failures and blackouts would increase, all other
things being the same,” Paolo Coghe, a senior European power
analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said by phone.  The shifters may boost power plant operating costs as
companies have to react more quickly to movements in supply,
said Pawel Smolen, the Berlin-based head of power-production
asset management at  Sweden ’s Vattenfall AB, said by e-mail.  “With the higher number of halts and restarts and load
shifting from high to low more often, the costs will rise and
that is likely to affect the final price,” Smolen said.  Czechs Invest  The Czech Republic may also have to resort to phase
shifters if it continues to experience overloading from German
flows, Eva Vitkova, a spokeswoman at the Prague-based CEPS AS,
the Czech electricity network operator, said by e-mail.  The nation plans to invest about 2 billion euros in its
grid rather than limit flows, Prime Minister Petr Necas said in
Berlin Feb. 10. The country’s network was at risk of failing in
November and December because of the flows, CEPS said Jan. 10.  “If phase shifters are installed, German prices may become
much less predictable and more volatile,” Tomasz Krzyzewski,
director of power trading at the Polish unit of  Mercuria Energy
Group Ltd., said by phone. “If more cross-border capacity is
available Polish power prices should converge with Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  