-- Dutch Austerity Demands Risk Backfiring on Premier: Euro Credit
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-03-15T09:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/dutch-austerity-demands-risk-backfiring-on-premier-euro-credit.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
demand for budget cuts in debt-laden southern Europe may
backfire as the leader of one of the four remaining AAA euro
countries struggles to narrow a bigger-than-planned deficit.  His coalition must find 9 billion euros ($11.8 billion) in
budget cuts this year, equal to 1.5 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product, to meet European rules and protect the
top credit grade that France and  Austria  lost in January.  Rutte, who led demands that Greece deepen spending cuts and
overhaul its economy in exchange for a rescue, is squeezed by
mounting domestic dissent and a campaign by nationalist leader
 Geert Wilders  to exit the euro. The  risk premium  demanded by
investors to own Dutch 10-year bonds relative to  Germany ’s
almost doubled since January. Dutch yields  surpassed  those of
AAA Finland last month for the first time since August.  “Rutte has brought himself into a very difficult position
and he either loses face in Europe in order to save the
coalition or his coalition collapses to meet the European budget
rules,” Bas Jacobs, professor of economics and public finance
at the Erasmus University of Rotterdam, said in a March 13
interview. “There’s a substantial probability the government
will collapse.”  Yields on 10-year Dutch bonds climbed to 2.48 percent today
from a low of 2.03 percent as recently as Jan. 16. German rates
were at 1.97 percent today, while Finnish bonds of similar
maturity were at 2.39 percent.  Deficit Blowout  The Dutch economy entered its second recession in three
years during the second half of 2011 and unemployment has risen
for two quarters to 5 percent. That’s far less dire than  Spain ,
where the  unemployment rate  is 23 percent. January consumer
confidence was at minus 37, the lowest since 2003, according to
the  Central Bureau of Statistics .  Rutte and Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  say the
deficit is too high and have committed to more cuts. Their
government, which took office in October 2010 and vowed to trim
spending by 18 billion euros by 2015, forecast March 1 a deficit
of 4.5 percent of GDP next year -- the same as 2012 -- exceeding
the 3 percent EU limit for a fifth year. The estimate represents
a “big setback,” Rutte said.  Government debt would rise to 73 percent of GDP from an
expected 69.7 percent this year, the government forecast. The EU
limit is 60 percent. The Dutch debt-to-GDP ratio is compared
with 81.8 percent in Germany and 47.2 percent in  Finland  at the
end of September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The  budget deficit , when compared with other countries
that are doing well like Germany, Finland and  Luxembourg , really
is too high,” De Jager said March 1 at a regional meeting of
finance ministers in Brussels.  ‘Huge Problem’  “It is uncertain if the parties involved eventually are
able to take those measures,” De Jager told RTL on March 6
during his weekly interview with the television station. “I
hope so, it is important for everyone but if not, it is clear
that we will have a huge problem.”  Rutte has said he wants to make “smart cuts.” Opposition
parties want reforms ranging from raising the pension age sooner
to 66 to making it easier to fire people. The cabinet has also
said it will present a new vision before the beginning of July
on the tax break for mortgage-interest payments while Wilders
wants to curb aid to  developing countries  in return for the
additional cuts.  Opposition Pushback  Rutte may not even get a parliamentary majority for the EU
treaty as the  Labor party  says measures to reach the 3 percent
budget deficit limit will hurt the economy, NRC Handelsblad
reported yesterday, citing lawmakers Ronald Plasterk and
Diederik Samson, who are competing for the party’s leadership.  Economists say the cabinet may risk a deeper slump or half-
measures that would fail to satisfy  investors . The AEX stock
index, the benchmark for the biggest Dutch companies, has gained
about 7 percent percent this year, trailing the 20 percent
advance of Germany’s  DAX Index. (DAX)   “Additional short-term austerity measures will
unnecessarily damage the economy, which already slipped into a
new recession,” said Danijela Piljic, an economist at
Amsterdam-based Rabobank, in a March 8  note  to clients. “The
political inability to deal with hot potatoes like pensions, the
labor market, healthcare and the housing market, can for
financial markets and credit-rating agencies be the main reason
to doubt the solvency of Dutch state finances.”  Euro Referendum  Just as the negotiations began last week, Wilders, an anti-
immigration activist and leader of the  Freedom Party , said the
country would profit from returning to the guilder, citing a
report by London-based Lombard Street Research commissioned by
his party. Wilders said a referendum is needed on whether the
Dutch should stay in the euro area.  Wilders is tapping into rising discontent. Cleaners working
at offices of Royal Philips Electronics NV, public train
stations and other offices, are in their 10th week of a strike.  Police in four provinces refused to fine people for minor
violations such as speeding, while the Amsterdam ArenA stadium
was filled on March 6 by 50,000 teachers who voiced their
protest over funding cuts. Municipal civil servants also plan
labor stoppages in April and May.  The ruling Liberals and  Christian Democrats , together with
the Freedom Party, would drop six of 76 seats in the 150-member
parliament if elections were held today, losing its lower-house
majority, according to a March 8 poll by  Ipsos Synovate .  Given their advocacy of German-inspired demands for more
austerity to cut debt throughout  Europe , Rutte and De Jager
aren’t likely to get much room to maneuver from the EU.  “We think that the Netherlands is one country that has
been very vocal when supporting the reinforcement of our fiscal
surveillance rules,”  Amadeu Altafaj , European Commission
economy spokesman, said in e-mailed comments March 7. “So it’s
absolutely normal to believe that the Netherlands will apply
this same approach to its own fiscal policies,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  