-- Howard Commits to Magic Through 2013 on NBA Trade Deadline Day
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-15T17:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/dwight-howard-passes-up-free-agency-in-2012-to-stay-with-magic.html
Dwight Howard  said he’s staying
with the  Orlando Magic  on the  National Basketball Association ’s
trade-deadline day, the league’s most dominant center passing up
the chance to be a free agent after this season.  Howard signed a waiver of the early termination option in
his contract that would have allowed him to end the deal after
this season, Magic President Alex Martins said today in a press
conference in Orlando,  Florida .  The six-time All-Star center will remain under contract
with the Magic through next season, when he is set to make $19.5
million.  “I’ve always believed that loyalty is before anything,”
Howard, 26, said at the press conference. “I want the city to
know that I love them, I love this team. I want them to believe
in us and believe in what we can accomplish.”  Howard had asked to be traded before changing his mind in
recent days. His possible destinations in a deal had included
the  New Jersey Nets .  Martins said he hasn’t thought about the team’s plan for
next year, when it could find itself in a similar situation with
Howard facing possible free-agency. Howard also declined to
address his intentions beyond next season.  Today’s move ends a 24-hour period in which ESPN and other
media outlets reported that Howard planned to stay, intended to
leave, and finally decided to stay again. Howard told Magic
management and his teammates yesterday that he wouldn’t out of
his contract, thus being eligible to test free agency, then
changed his mind during a conference call before the team’s game
against the  San Antonio Spurs , ESPN reported.  O’Neal Example  The trade deadline is 3 p.m. New York time today. The
waived clause prevents Howard from becoming a free agent at the
end of this season and leaving  Orlando  without the Magic
receiving compensation, as All-Star center  Shaquille O’Neal  did
in 1996.  Howard said that he had gone back and forth on what he
called a “career-changing” decision. He thanked his teammates
and the Magic fans for their support and said he had made his
decision about an hour before the press conference.  “I’ve gotten everything I wanted right here in Orlando,”
he said. “I hope to get back to just playing basketball, having
some peace and going for a championship.”  Howard is in his eighth season with Orlando, which took the
6-foot-11 center with the No. 1 pick in the 2004 draft. He
scored 12 points and had 10 rebounds, three steals and four
blocks in his NBA debut, a 93-92 win over the  Milwaukee Bucks  on
Nov. 3, 2004.  Top Defender  An All-Star in each of the past six seasons, Howard was
named the NBA’s Defensive Player of the Year in 2009, 2010 and
2011. In 611 NBA games he has averaged 18.4 points, 13 rebounds
and 2.2 blocks.  He scored 22 points and had 12 rebounds last night in a
loss to the Spurs, leaving Orlando 3 1/2 games behind the  Miami
Heat  in the  Southeast Division . Miami lost 106-102 last night to
the  Chicago Bulls  in a matchup of the two leading teams in the
Eastern Conference.  In his most recent home game, Howard had 24 points and 25
rebounds as the Magic beat the Heat 104-98 in overtime. After
the game he told reporters that he wanted to finish the season
with the Magic.  “I’ve been telling them for the past two or three weeks
now that I’m going to stay and finish the season,” Howard said.  The Magic reached the playoffs in each of the past five
seasons, ending a three-year postseason drought that began with
the 2003-04 campaign. The team’s best finish was a 4-1 loss in
the NBA Finals to the  Los Angeles Lakers  in 2009.  Martins said that Howard gave the team its best chance to
get back to the NBA Finals.  “Over the course of the past eight years Dwight has grown
with this organization and this organization has grown with
Dwight,” he said. “We are in a position today, better than
ever before, to win an NBA championship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 