-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for March (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-03-15T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s March monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 8 March 2012 to keep
the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. The information that has
become available since the beginning of February has confirmed
the Governing Council’s previous assessment of the outlook for
economic activity. Available survey indicators confirm signs of
a stabilisation in the euro area economy. However, the economic
outlook is still subject to downside risks. Owing to rises in
energy prices and indirect taxes, inflation rates are now likely
to stay above 2% in 2012, with upside risks prevailing.
Nevertheless, the Governing Council expects price developments
to remain in line with price stability over the policy-relevant
horizon. The underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
subdued, consistent with contained inflationary pressures over
the medium term. Looking ahead, the Governing Council is firmly
committed to maintaining  price stability  in the euro area, in
line with its mandate. To this end, the continued firm anchoring
of inflation expectations - in line with the Governing Council’s
aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over
the medium term - is of the essence.  Over recent months a wide range of additional non-standard
monetary policy measures has been implemented by the Eurosystem.
These measures, including in particular the two three-year
longer-term refinancing operations, were decided upon against
the background of exceptional circumstances in the last quarter
of 2011. The first impact of these measures has been positive.
Together with fiscal consolidation and stepped-up structural
reforms in several euro area countries, as well as progress
towards a stronger euro area economic governance framework, they
have contributed to a significant improvement in the financial
environment over recent months. The Governing Council expects
that the three-year longer-term refinancing operations will
provide further support for the ongoing stabilisation in
financial markets and, in particular, for lending activity in
the euro area. All the non-standard monetary policy measures are
temporary in nature. Furthermore, ﻿all the necessary tools to
address potential upside risks to medium-term price stability
are fully available.  With regard to the economic analysis, real GDP contracted by
0.3% in the euro area in the fourth quarter of 2011. According
to recent survey data, there are signs of a stabilisation in
economic activity, albeit still at a low level. Looking ahead,
the Governing Council expects the euro area economy to recover
gradually in the course of this year. The outlook for economic
activity should be supported by foreign demand, the very low
short-term interest rates in the euro area, and all the measures
taken to foster the proper functioning of the euro area
financial sector. However, the remaining tensions in euro area
sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit conditions, as
well as the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial
and non-financial sectors, are expected to continue to dampen
the underlying growth momentum. This assessment is also
reflected in the March 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections
for the euro area, which foresee annual real GDP growth in a
range between -0.5% and 0.3% in 2012 and between 0.0% and 2.2%
in 2013. Compared with the December 2011 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections, the ranges have been shifted slightly
downwards. This outlook remains subject to downside risks. They
notably relate to a renewed intensification of tensions in euro
area debt markets and their potential spillover to the euro area
real economy. Downside risks also relate to further increases in
commodity prices.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.7% in February 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, slightly up from 2.6% in
January. Looking ahead, inflation is now likely to stay above 2%
in 2012, mainly owing to recent increases in energy prices, as
well as recently announced increases in indirect taxes. On the
basis of current futures prices for commodities, annual
inflation rates should fall again to below 2% in early 2013.
Looking further ahead, in an environment of modest growth in the
euro ﻿area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain limited.  The March 2012 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the euro
area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.1% and
2.7% in 2012 and between 0.9% and 2.3% in 2013. In comparison
with the December 2011 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the ranges for HICP inflation have been shifted
upwards, notably the range for 2012. Risks to projected HICP
inflation rates in the coming years are seen to be still broadly
balanced, with upside risks in the near term mainly stemming
from higher than expected oil prices and indirect tax increases.
However, downside risks continue to exist owing to weaker than
expected developments in economic activity.  The monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. The annual growth rate of M3
was 2.5% in January 2012, up from 1.5% in December 2011. Loan
growth to the private sector also remains subdued. However, its
annual rate (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) picked
up slightly in January to 1.5% year on year from 1.2% in
December. The annual growth rates of loans to non-financial
corporations and loans to households (adjusted for loan sales
and securitisation) stood at 0.8% and 2.1% respectively in
January. The volume of MFI loans to non-financial corporations
declined only slightly in January, following the pronounced
decline in December. By contrast, the flow of loans to
households in January was positive. Following the signs of
improvement in the financial environment, it is essential for
banks to strengthen their resilience further, including by
retaining earnings. The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will
be a key factor in facilitating an appropriate provision of
credit to the economy.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. ﻿A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Looking ahead, in order to deliver a favourable environment for
sustainable growth and to support confidence and competitiveness,
the Governing Council stresses the urgent need for governments
to make further progress towards restoring sound fiscal
positions and implementing the structural reform agenda.
Regarding fiscal consolidation, many governments in the euro
area are making progress. Continuing with comprehensive fiscal
consolidation and complying with all commitments remain
essential. In this respect, the 2012 European Semester should be
used to enforce rigorously the reinforced fiscal surveillance
mechanism. Equally important are structural reforms to increase
the adjustment capacity and competitiveness of euro area
countries and to strengthen growth prospects and  job creation .
In this area, more progress is desirable. The Governing Council
strongly welcomes the European Commission’s Alert Mechanism
Report on macroeconomic imbalances and expects the proposed in-
depth country reviews to actively support the reform processes
under way in euro area countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  