-- Ted Stevens Prosecutors Hid Evidence Before Trial, Report Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ted-stevens-prosecution-report-filed-with-washington-court-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors repeatedly hid
evidence in the failed public corruption case against the late
Alaska Senator Ted Stevens while the Justice Department let the
trial team go without supervision, according to findings by a
court-appointed special counsel.  A 514-page report on misconduct in the case, which
torpedoed the re-election of the longest-serving Republican
senator, was filed yesterday in federal court in  Washington ,
almost three years after a judge set aside Stevens’s conviction
for omitting $250,000 worth of gifts from his financial
disclosure reports.  “The investigation and prosecution of U.S. Senator Ted
Stevens were permeated by the systematic concealment of
significant exculpatory evidence, which would have independently
corroborated Senator Stevens’s defense and his testimony, and
seriously damaged the testimony and credibility of the
government’s key witness,” special counsel Henry Schuelke III
said in the report.  The appointment of Brenda Morris as lead prosecutor a few
days before the indictment caused resentment on the government
team and Morris responded by failing to supervise the
prosecution, Schuelke said. During the case, she bypassed her
supervisor, the chief of the public integrity section, in
deciding what to provide to the defense, according to the
report.  ‘Effective Review’  Prosecutors also failed to conduct “a comprehensive and
effective review” of government files for information that
might have assisted Stevens’s defense as required by law. Still,
Schuelke concluded the misconduct didn’t warrant criminal
contempt charges because the prosecutors didn’t violate specific
court orders.  While Stevens awaited sentencing in April 2009, Attorney
General Eric Holder asked U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  to
dismiss the case, after a department review discovered the
evidence had been withheld. The investigation had begun during
the administration of President  George W. Bush .  Stevens, who served 40 years in the Senate, lost a re-
election campaign in 2008. He died in a plane crash in 2010 at
age 86.  “From the day new prosecutors came into this case and
presented us with the information of government corruption we’ve
been learning more all along and we’ve continued to learn more
from that report,” Brendan Sullivan of Williams & Connolly LLP,
who represented Stevens, said in an interview.  ‘Memory Failure’  The report also criticizes the entire prosecution team for
having “complete, simultaneous and long-term memory failure”
when questioned by Schuelke about a meeting with the
government’s key witness, Bill Allen, the owner of an  Alaska 
construction company.  The government didn’t disclose to the defense that Allen
changed his story about letters Stevens sent asking to be billed
for renovations on his house. Allen told prosecutors for the
first time a week before trial that the letters were just a
scheme to make it appear Stevens intended to pay for the
improvements.  The government then told jurors that Allen’s work on
Stevens’s Alaska chalet was a gift the senator should have
reported on his financial disclosure forms, without revealing to
the defense that Allen never mentioned such a scheme in earlier
interviews.  Holder cited discovery of prosecutor notes from one those
interviews in the department’s request to dismiss the case.  Schuelke noted other instances where Joseph Bottini and
James Goeke, then assistant U.S. attorneys in Alaska, withheld
and concealed information from the Stevens defense team.  Witness Interviews  The report says the lead Federal Bureau of Investigation
agent in the case, Mary Beth Kepner, failed to write memorandums
of witness interviews that didn’t favor the government.  “The premeditated nature of the ethical and professional
breeches are jawdropping,”  Jacob Frenkel , a former Securities
and Exchange Commission lawyer now with Shulman Rogers Gandal
Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland , said in an interview.  “The report highlights this perception that prosecutors
have abandoned objectivity in their duty under the law in favor
of a win-at-all cost mindset,” said Frenkel, who isn’t involved
in the case.  Bottini and Goeke remain federal prosecutors.  Kenneth Wainstein, a lawyer for Bottini, said in an e-
mailed statement that his client’s “human errors have been
miscast as intentional criminal misconduct.”  ‘No Such Disclosure’  Goeke’s lawyer, Matthew Menchel of Kobre & Kim LLP, said
his client “repeatedly and persistently” pushed to disclose
information and was told by superiors that “no such
disclosure” would be made.  “The real fault lies with those who were at the time the
upper management of the  Justice Department ,” Menchel said in an
interview.  In a March 8 letter to Schuelke, Morris said she relied on
information from prosecution team.  Kepner’s lawyer, Michael A. Schwartz of Pepper Hamilton LLP
in Philadelphia, didn’t respond to a phone message and e-mail
seeking comment on the report.  The Justice Department’s office of professional
responsibility investigated the conduct and “will endeavor” to
make the findings public when the review is final,  Laura Sweeney , a department spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. Holder told a Senate committee March 8 the report is
done and includes sanction recommendations.  The case is In re Special Proceedings, 09-00198, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  