-- Education Management Preys on Students, Ex-Recruiter Claims
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-03-15T20:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/education-management-preys-on-students-former-recruiter-claims.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest U.S. for-profit college chain, defrauded U.S.
taxpayers by paying illegal bonuses to recruiters who cited
falsified job-placement data to lure students, a former employee
claimed in a lawsuit.  Education Management used “boiler-room” tactics to
receive millions of dollars in federally backed student loans
and grants, Jason Sobek, a former recruiter for the company’s
South University, said in a complaint unsealed yesterday in
Pittsburgh federal court. The company targeted “troubled”
students, including the homeless and mentally ill, according to
the lawsuit.  For-profit colleges, which can receive as much as 90
percent of their revenue from federal financial-aid programs,
are under scrutiny by Congress, state attorneys general and
federal prosecutors for their sales practices and student-loan
default rates. The  Justice Department  and several states joined
a separate whistle-blower case last year against Education
Management that makes similar allegations.  Education Management “had a corps of recruiters, all well-
trained in sales and closing techniques, who perfected the art
of preying on the hopes and dreams of vulnerable students
desperately seeking better lives,” Sobek said in his complaint,
which was filed in 2010. He worked as an associate director of
admissions from June 2008 until November 2010.  Jacquelyn Muller, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based
Education Management, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Education Management, which is 43 percent owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  funds, rose 0.1 percent to $15.92 at the close
in  New York . The shares have slid 43 percent  this year .  Whistle-Blower Cases  As of October, Education Management had about 151,000
students and also operates the Art Institutes, Brown Mackie
College, Western State University and Argosy University, through
its campuses and online offerings.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s
University of Phoenix is the largest for-profit college company.  In whistle-blower, or qui tam, lawsuits, private citizens
file fraud complaints on behalf of the federal government. The
cases are filed under seal while the government investigates and
decides whether or not to join. The whistle-blower may get 15 to
25 percent of any recovery.  The Justice Department hasn’t intervened in this case
though it is still investigating, Andrew Stone, an attorney for
Sobek said in a phone interview.  Margaret Philbin, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney David J. Hickton in Pittsburgh, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on Sobek’s complaint.  ‘Troubled Population’  Education Management targeted “a troubled population”
that included “the poor, the undereducated, the homeless,”
students with criminal records, single mothers on welfare and
those living in shelters and halfway houses, Sobek said in the
complaint.  The company routinely enrolled mentally ill students who
had to retake classes and were likely to default on their loans,
according to the lawsuit.  In internal materials for recruiters, Education Management
said that 87 percent of Art Institute graduates and 92 percent
of South University graduates were employed in their fields of
study, according to the lawsuit. The average salary of South
University graduates was listed at $51,000, while at the Art
Institute, it was $31,455, Sobek said in his complaint.  ‘Pleasure and Pain’  Education Management kept two sets of job-placement
statistics, one for accrediting agencies and another for
prospective students, employers and investors that inflated the
rates, Sobek claimed. The more favorable rates omitted single
parents and graduates with jobs outside their field of study,
and included graduates who worked as little as a single day,
according to the complaint.  The company told recruiters to prey on students’
weaknesses, using a strategy of invoking “pleasure and pain,”
even insulting them if it could help make a sale, according to
the lawsuit.  The complaint cited a passage from a training document that
read: “When are you allowed to call a student a LOSER? When
they give us permission by telling us why they think they are a
loser. You can repeat it back to them.”  As in the other whistle-blower complaint, Sobek alleges
that Education Management tied bonuses directly to the number of
students enrolled, in violation of federal student-aid rules.
Those rules are designed to make sure recruiters don’t have an
incentive to enroll students who aren’t in a position to benefit
from degrees. In the earlier complaint, federal prosecutors said
the company used improper recruitment practices to secure more
than $11 billion in U.S. student aid.  The case is U.S., ex. rel. Jason Sobek v. Education
Management, 10-cv-0131, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net.To  