-- HeidelbergCement Seeks U.S. Brick Exit Following Review by Chief
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-15T12:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/heidelbergcement-seeks-u-s-brick-exit-following-review-by-chief.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest cement maker, is looking to sell North American
brick operations this year after Chief Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele carried out a strategic review with an eye on costs.  The sale of brick plants in the U.S. and  Canada  may
generate “a couple of hundred million euros,” Chief Financial
Officer Lorenz Naeger told journalists today. The Heidelberg,
Germany-based company may go on to seek buyers for similar
operations in the U.K., which include a site in Maidenhead, over
the next couple of years, he said.  Scheifele and managers spent months reviewing operations as
the company battles higher energy prices, which rose 24 percent
last year. To spur growth, HeidelbergCement is focusing on
aggregates and cement. It’s channeling 80 percent of its
investment into emerging markets and targets as much as 9
percent growth in cement sales this year, he said.  “In our strategic review we concluded we must continue to
aggressively manage costs,” Scheifele said. The sale of  North
American (PAL)  brick units is a project the company is “pushing for
2012.”  The global brick market is dominated by  Wienerberger AG (WIE) ,
based in Vienna, with 2.4 billion euros ($3.1 billion) in sales.
The Vienna-based company expressed interest in the assets, the
HeidelbergCement CEO said last year.  Scheifele is extending a purge on costs in a bid to reclaim
investment-grade status. HeidelbergCement will expand a cost-
cutting target by an additional 250 million euros by 2013, and
aims to save another 150 million euros by 2014 by optimizing its
supply chain.  Outlook  The company predicted operating profit and sales will rise
this year on growth in Asia and  Africa , buoyed by easing raw-
material and energy inflation.  Net income in 2011 rose 4.5 percent to 534 million euros.
Sales advanced 10 percent to 12.9 billion euros. Both figures
beat estimates by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It proposed a
dividend of 35 cents a share, an increase of 40 percent, and
pledged to lower debt to 6.5 billion euros from 7.77 billion
euros in the medium-term.  “Deleveraging remains the highest priority for us,”
Scheifele said. “We will again intensify our efforts to reduce
costs and improve efficiency.´´  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  