-- Temasek, Khazanah Said to Sign S$5 Billion of Loans
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-03-15T09:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/temasek-khazanah-said-to-sign-s-5-billion-of-loans-correct-.html
(Corrects Khazanah company comment in third paragraph to
reflect spokesman didn’t confirm loan amount.)  Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK)  and Khazanah
Nasional Bhd., the state-owned investment companies of  Singapore 
and Malaysia, signed S$5 billion ($3.9 billion) of property
development loans, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., United
Overseas Bank Ltd. and Malayan Banking Bhd. lent S$850 million
each, while Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. each
pledged S$500 million, the person said, asking not to be
identified because details are private. CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
committed S$100 million, the person said.  Mohd Asuki Abas, a Khazanah spokesman, confirmed a loan was
signed with eight banks. Serena Khoo, a spokeswoman for Temasek,
also said a loan was signed with the eight banks, declining to
confirm the amount.  Khazanah and Temasek said in June they would jointly
develop about $9.8 billion of projects in southern  Malaysia  and
Singapore. About S$11 billion of Singapore developments will
include hotels, apartments, offices and shops in 501,020 square
meters (5.4 million square feet) of space in two main areas of
the city’s downtown. The 3 billion ringgit ($981 million) of
projects in Malaysia’s Iskandar region will have homes, retail
space and “wellness-related offerings,” the companies said.  Banks that committed the most funds will receive a so-
called all-in fee of 112 basis points more than benchmark rates,
while those at the next level are being paid an all-in fee of
110 basis points, the person said. Loan documents were signed
yesterday, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  