-- Embraer Ecstasy Over U.S. Contract Proves Agony Losing It
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-03-15T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/embraer-ecstasy-over-u-s-contract-proves-agony-losing-it.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3)  Chief Executive Officer
Frederico Curado won’t forget the day he learned that the
Brazilian planemaker had won a $355 million contract for a U.S.
 Air Force  light-attack aircraft after 14 months of work.  Even more memorable was the day Curado saw in the press
that the U.S. had canceled the award.  “We’re trying to stay sober. It was a huge frustration for
us, and a shock, frankly,” Curado said in a March 12 interview
at Embraer’s office in  Sao Paulo . “We got there. We won. Then
it was taken away from us.”  Embraer’s Feb. 28 loss of a contract for 20 Super Tucano
turboprops quashed the elation that came with earning the
business two months earlier. Now, Curado is left with only the
satisfaction of knowing that warplanes from the company founded
in 1969 to jump-start  Brazil ’s aviation industry can compete for
a spot in the fleet of the world’s most-powerful air force.  “Being selected by such an organization is a recognition
of quality, which to a certain extent we already got, because we
were selected, the contract was awarded and we initiated the
contract,” Curado said.  A deal with the U.S. Air Force would have been a “door
opener” for Embraer elsewhere in the U.S. Defense Department
and in other countries, said Curado, 50, who became CEO in 2007
and is only the second chief executive at the Sao Jose dos
Campos-based planemaker since its privatization in 1994.  “It would be a stamp of credibility abroad for us and a
chance to develop a relationship with the DoD,” Curado said.  U.S. Partner  The work, won with closely held U.S. partner Sierra  Nevada 
Corp., included support as well as the single-engine A-29 Super
Tucanos for use on ground-attack missions in  Afghanistan .
Supplying aircraft for specific needs, not offering a full range
of military models, is Embraer’s niche, Curado said.  Best known for regional jets from the E-Jet family flown by
airlines worldwide, including  Air France (AF)  and AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines (AMR1) , Embraer got its start in military aviation.
Its lineup includes patrol, reconnaissance and surveillance
planes based on commercial models, and defense and government
sales accounted for about 15 percent of  third-quarter revenue .  “I see that increasing to something like 20 percent, 25
percent,” Curado said. “This is not a goal in itself, but more
or less what we see” as the potential for the business in about
five years.  Now under development is a plane that would be Embraer’s
biggest ever, the twin-engine KC-390 military transport jet,
whose potential customers include the Brazilian air force,
 Chile ,  Colombia , the  Czech Republic  and  Argentina .  ‘Brilliant Idea’  “The KC-390 is a brilliant idea,” said Fabio Figueiredo,
a  fund manager  and partner at Orbe Investimentos e Participacoes
Ltda. in Sao Paulo. Orbe’s funds own 1.78 million  Embraer shares 
and last bought the stock in November.  Embraer is trying to crack a segment dominated by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s C-130 Hercules, the four-engine turboprop that
entered service in 1957 and has been a workhorse in the U.S. Air
Force and dozens of militaries overseas for decades.  “After the Hercules, there has been no new aircraft of the
same size and capability, and the Hercules is more than 50 years
old,” Figueiredo said. “Embraer was very smart to bet in this
niche.”  While military exports to the U.S. and elsewhere would
help, they may not be pivotal, Curado said. Embraer now gets
half of its defense sales from the domestic market and sees this
slice growing to as much as 75 percent in the next few years, he
said.  Defense Opportunity  “There’s an opportunity in Brazil itself because it is one
of the few countries actually increasing expenses in defense
after 20 or 30 years of no or little investment,” Curado said.  Curado worked in Embraer’s commercial business before
becoming CEO, serving as executive vice president for the
airline market before his promotion. He joined  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney Canada engine unit in 1984,
working with Embraer, after earning an aeronautical engineering
degree at ITA, Brazil’s most prominent engineering school.  Embraer’s fleeting win for the Super Tucano contract with
Sparks, Nevada-based Sierra Nevada beat the AT-6 entrant from
Hawker Beechcraft Corp., the planemaker partly owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Hawker sued the U.S. military, triggering the
scrapping of the Embraer contract and an Air Force inquiry into
the initial award.  Air Force Inquiry  The Air Force’s senior acquisition executive, David Van
Buren, was “not satisfied with the quality of the documentation
supporting the award decision,” according to a Feb. 28
statement from Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley announcing
the cancellation.  Embraer hasn’t filed an appeal over the contract, Flavia
Sekles, the company’s communications director, said on March 13.
She declined to comment further.  The shares  rose 18 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 20 percent gain for the benchmark Bovespa index.  Embraer probably will post a fourth-quarter profit March
20; two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg gave per-share estimates
of 1.11 reais and 36 centavos. Sales for 2012 will be 10.8
billion reais ($5.98 billion), based on the average of three
estimates.  The company has grown to the brink of overtaking  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  as the world’s third-largest planemaker, just as Brazil has
emerged as a global economic powerhouse. The country cut
inflation to 6.5 percent in 2011 from almost 2,500 percent in
1993, the year before Embraer left state control. Brazil passed
the U.K. in 2011 to become the world’s sixth-largest economy.  Commercial Shift  Along the way, Embraer dodged a near-bankruptcy before
being privatized and moved beyond its roots in military
aviation. The company estimates that commercial sales will
account for 60 percent of 2012 revenue.  Deliveries from Embraer this year probably will total 215
regional and business aircraft, while Montreal-based Bombardier
will hand over 235 such planes, according to projections from
the companies. That compares with totals of 204 and 239
respectively in 2011.  “We see a very strong demand for Embraer’s jets in the
long term, driven by  emerging markets  that now are going through
what happened in the U.S. in the 1990s, with airlines seeking
smaller, more-efficient regional jets,” said Orbe’s Figueiredo.  Curado reaffirmed Embraer’s lack of interest in following
Bombardier into competition with Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
largest planemakers, in building full-sized airliners.  Embraer opted Nov. 10 to upgrade its E-Jet regional planes
with new engines and wings by 2018, rather than build a larger,
all-new model to compete with the  Boeing 737  and  Airbus A320 
that will get new engines within the next five years.  “To come into their turf trying to capture customers, you
need a breakthrough, and it has to come through technology, and
the technology is just not there,” Curado said. “Today there’s
no window of opportunity at all for a third player on that
segment. Sometimes you have to be braver to not do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  