-- JPMorgan Sued by Assured Guaranty Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-15T18:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/emc-mortgage-sued-by-assured-guaranty-over-mortgage-securities.html
Assured Guaranty Corp. (AGO)  sued
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMC Mortgage and Bear Stearns units in
New York state court, accusing them of making misrepresentations
to market mortgage-backed securities.  The lawsuit was brought in connection with a mortgage-
backed securities transaction known as SACO I Trust 2005-GPI,
sold in September 2005, which has experienced cumulative losses
of more than $75 million, resulting in more than $43 million in
claims to be paid by the plaintiff, a New York-based unit of
Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer  Assured Guaranty  Ltd.  “The transaction that Bear Stearns marketed and
effectuated based on its materially false and misleading
representations and disclosures has failed miserably,” Assured
Guaranty said in its complaint. “An overwhelming percentage of
the loans that Bear Stearns securitized in the transaction
either have been written off as total losses or are severely
delinquent.”  EMC Mortgage was a unit of Bear Stearns Cos. until the
investment bank was bought by  JPMorgan (JPM)  in 2008.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Assured Guaranty Corp. v. EMC Mortgage LLC,
650805/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  