-- Most Emerging Stocks Decline on China, India Growth
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-15T13:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/emerging-stocks-decline-amid-concern-over-china-india-slowdown.html
(Corrects scope of Hang Seng index in sixth paragraph)  Most emerging-market stocks
retreated, following two days of gains in the benchmark index,
on concern that growth in  China  and  India  is slowing.  Three shares declined for every two that advanced in the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,066.41 at 11:40 a.m. in London. A  gauge  of Chinese property
companies lost 2.5 percent, tipping the Shanghai Composite Index
to its biggest two-day drop in since August. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  slid 1.4 percent. Turkish banks led the  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  0.5 percent higher.  Foreign direct investment in China fell 0.9 percent in
February, its fourth straight decline, as companies reined in
spending amid a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
and the prolonged European debt crisis. The  Reserve Bank  of
India kept the repurchase rate at 8.5 percent for a third
consecutive meeting, it said today. Economic growth may slow to
6.9 percent this year as inflation stays “high,” Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said today.  “Fears of a slowdown in China and India are keeping
investors at bay,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “A slowdown in
China and an elusive recovery in India may weaken demand and
send commodity prices lower further.”  The U.S. Labor Department may say today that the number of
Americans  applying for jobless benefits  fell to 357,000 last
week, from 362,000 a week earlier, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shanghai Stocks Fall  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent, taking its
two-day decline to 3.3 percent, the most since Aug. 9. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies slid 0.5
percent., its biggest decline since March 7.  China Vanke Co. (200002) , the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, fell 3.4 percent in Shanghai, and  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048)  , the second-largest, slid 2.6 percent. Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday home prices are still far from reasonable
levels, dimming hopes real-estate curbs will be eased.  China’s economy is already in a “hard landing,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said at a conference in  Singapore  yesterday. “It’s
not a debate anymore, it’s a fact.”  State Bank of India Ltd.  lost 2.4 percent as the central
bank held rates steady.  India Inflation  Data yesterday showed India’s  inflation  accelerated for the
first time in five months in February, weakening the case for
lower borrowing costs. The wholesale-price index rose 6.95
percent in February, after rising 6.55 percent in January.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
gained 1.5 percent and  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s
biggest listed bank by market value, advanced 0.6 percent.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  fell 0.2 percent in Moscow, snapping two
days of gains. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  was little
changed in Johannesburg. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  in  Seoul  and the  Taiex
Index (TWSE)  in Taipei each fell less than 0.1 percent.  The rand appreciated 0.9 percent against the dollar,
following its 2.5 percent decline yesterday, which had been the
most since Dec. 8. The lira rose 0.3 percent and the zloty
strengthened 0.4 percent versus the euro.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 316, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
3466 or  jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  