-- Merkel Faces State Vote That Heralds Election Handicap Next Year
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-15T10:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/merkel-faces-state-vote-that-heralds-election-handicap-next-year.html
The Social Democrat-led government
in Germany’s most populous state vowed to take on and defeat
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party in elections in North Rhine-
Westphalia, setting an example for next year’s federal vote.  Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and two other opposition
parties united in the state parliament in Dusseldorf yesterday
to vote down the budget, prompting the minority government of
Social Democrats and Greens to dissolve parliament and call new
elections three years early. Twenty months after causing an
upset by squeezing Merkel’s party out of power, polls suggest
the SPD and Greens will win a majority at the vote due in May.  “We’re not backing away from the conflict,” the state’s
SPD prime minister, Hannelore Kraft, said on ARD television
today. “We sent a signal to Berlin in 2010 and we’re quite
proud of that,” she said. “A good result at the election will
send another signal to the country.”  The election in  Germany ’s one-time  industrial heartland 
saddles Merkel with a third state poll in a year that was only
supposed to have one such ballot. Saarland in the west will vote
March 25 after the CDU-led coalition collapsed in January, while
a ballot in the northernmost state of Schleswig-Holstein is
slated for May 6.  North Rhine-Westphalia, which with 18 million inhabitants
comprises almost a quarter of Germany’s population, is the most
important of the three votes and may provide a template for
Merkel’s fortunes in national elections in the fall of 2013.  Latest Poll  A snap poll in the state conducted yesterday put the SPD at
38 percent and the Greens at 14 percent, enough for an absolute
majority. The CDU, led locally by federal Environment Minister
Norbert Roettgen, had the backing of 34 percent, while the Free
Democratic Party, Merkel’s national coalition partner in Berlin,
looked poised to be voted out of the assembly with 2 percent,
the  Infratest-Dimap poll  of 1,002 voters showed.  That will be weighed against Merkel’s personal ratings that
are at a record high. The chancellor said yesterday that she
welcomed the challenge to try and regain the state, which her
party ruled for five years through 2010.  Kraft’s SPD took North Rhine-Westphalia from Merkel’s party
at elections in May 2010, days after Merkel backtracked and
agreed to a first bailout in  Greece . The result deprived the
German leader of her majority in the national parliament’s upper
house, the Bundesrat, where states are represented.  ‘More Stable’  “If it comes to new elections in North Rhine-Westphalia,
then I think it’s good and proper that there’s no longer a
minority government,” Merkel said in Berlin. Voters should be
able “to opt for a more stable administration that by pursuing
a more solid budgetary policy thinks more about the future and
doesn’t undermine its options by piling up ever more debt.”  North Rhine-Westphalia has served before as a bellwether
for German politics in general and Merkel’s fate in particular.
A 2005 state election at which the CDU ousted the union-backed
SPD after governing the region for almost four decades prompted
then-Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  to call early federal
elections in September of that year. He lost to Merkel, who
assumed power in November 2005 at the head of a so-called grand
coalition with his Social Democrats, minus Schroeder.  While Merkel was able to ditch the SPD in September 2009
and form a second-term government with her party’s traditional
Free Democratic Party ally, support for the junior coalition
partner has since collapsed. The FDP crashed out of five state
parliaments in the seven state elections held last year. The SPD
entered the state government in each of the eight state votes
since North Rhine-Westphalia in 2010.  Unexpected Impasse  The unexpected impasse in the state capital, Dusseldorf,
reached a head yesterday when the CDU and FDP joined the Left
Party in blocking the budget. The former two parties objected to
taking on new debt, while the latter supported increased
spending.  “Although the opposition defeated this bill, they’re
likely to lose dramatically in the election,” Ulrich von Alemann, a professor of political science at the University of
Dusseldorf, said by phone yesterday. Polls suggest that Kraft
“lost the vote in the assembly but probably won the election.”  With just 90 of the 180 seats in the Dusseldorf parliament,
Kraft struggled to pass legislation since forming a government
with the Greens in July 2010.  In March last year, Kraft denied that she planned to call
early elections after a court ruled the 2010 budget to be
unconstitutional. Then in July, her government was forced to
amend a restructuring plan for WestLB AG at the last minute to
secure the support of parliament for the proposal. North Rhine-
Westphalia partly owns WestLB, a bank that was bailed out by its
owners and Germany’s Soffin rescue fund after running up losses
during the financial crisis.  Saarland Squabbles  In Saarland, voters go to the polls in 10 days after
Merkel’s CDU ended its three-way coalition with the FDP and
Greens there in January, blaming squabbling within the local
FDP. Polls suggest the CDU and the  Social Democrats  will form a
grand coalition after the vote, mirroring Merkel’s first-term
national government.  The FDP will probably lose their assembly seats in both
states, “speeding up their decline,” said Ulrich Deupmann, a
partner at management adviser Brunswick Group Inc. in Berlin.  “Merkel will stand by the FDP as long as they can give her
a majority in the Bundestag,” Deupmann said in an interview.
“But if the party starts to fall apart and can longer do that,
she’s not going to show them any consideration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  