-- Tesco CEO Clarke to Oversee U.K. Business as Brasher Leaves
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-15T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/tesco-says-head-of-u-k-business-to-leave-company-board.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  said the head of its
biggest unit,  Richard Brasher , will step down from the board and
leave the company in July after the U.K.’s largest supermarket
chain saw market share slide to seven-year low.  Tesco Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  will assume
responsibility for the U.K., the Cheshunt, England-based
retailer said in a statement. The unit accounts for 65 percent
of sales.  “The U.K. remains Tesco’s biggest challenge and Mr.
Clarke’s more direct involvement should reassure shareholders
that his focus remains on this key challenge,” JP Morgan
Cazenove analyst Matthew Truman said in an e-mail. He has an
“overweight” recommendation on the stock.  Tesco shares fell 1 percent to 321.75 pence in  London .  Brasher canceled a planned speech today at the Retail Week
conference in London, event chairman Declan Curry said. The
executive oversaw the failed Big Price Drop campaign that
prompted Tesco to say in January that it will miss earnings
estimates, sending  shares  down 16 percent.  The company has promised to boost staff numbers by 20,000
and improve service, stores and fresh food to lure back
customers after market share slid below 30 percent.  “I have decided to assume responsibility as the CEO of our
U.K. business at this very important time,” Clarke said in the
statement. “This greater focus will allow me to oversee the
improvements that are so important for customers.”  Brasher, 50, spent 29 years at Tesco after joining from
Rank Hovis McDougall Plc in 1983. His roles included store
manager and buying positions before becoming U.K. marketing
director and later overseeing the non-food commercial and
trading activities for three years. He joined the grocer’s board
in 2003 and became commercial and trading director. When Clarke
took over last March, Brasher was handed the newly-created role
of CEO for the U.K. business.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  