-- MetLife’s Capital, Austrian Loans, Goldman Op-ed: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-15T12:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/metlife-s-capital-austrian-lending-kinnucan-pleads-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  saw $2.15
billion of its market value wiped out after an employee assailed
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein’s management and the
firm’s treatment of clients, sparking debate across  Wall Street .  The shares dropped 3.4 percent in  New York  trading
yesterday, the third-biggest  decline  in the 81-company Standard
& Poor’s 500 Financials Index, after London-based Greg Smith
made the accusations in a New York Times  op-ed piece .  Smith, who also wrote that he was quitting after 12 years
at the company, blamed Blankfein, 57, and President Gary D.
Cohn, 51, for a “decline in the firm’s moral fiber.” They
responded in a memo to current and former employees, saying that
Smith’s assertions don’t reflect the firm’s values, culture or
“how the vast majority of people at Goldman Sachs think about
the firm and the work it does on behalf of our clients.”  Former  Federal Reserve  Chairman Paul Volcker, 84, whose
“Volcker rule” would limit banks like New York-based Goldman
Sachs from making bets with their own money, called Smith’s
article “a radical, strong” piece. “I’m afraid it’s a
business that leads to a lot of conflicts of interest,” Volcker
said at a conference in  Washington  sponsored by the Atlantic.  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment beyond the contents of the memo and an
earlier e-mailed statement in which the firm said it disagrees
with the views expressed in the op-ed.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Basel Head Says Liquidity Rules May Be Clarified Late 2012  The head of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
the group is seeking to publish an updated liquidity rule for
banks later this year. The committee is hoping to give more
clarity on the measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio,
“at some point during the latter part of this year,” said
 Stefan Ingves , the group’s chairman.  A provisional version of the standard was published in
December 2010.  Austria Regulators Don’t See Bank Deleverage Danger on New Rules  Austrian regulators said new rules on strengthening the
“sustainability of the business models” of the country’s top
lenders won’t lead to a reduction of loans in Eastern  Europe .  “During the consultation process, some stakeholders raised
their concern regarding potential unintended consequences and
more specifically regarding any induced deleveraging pressure in
central, eastern and south-eastern Europe,” Austria’s Central
Bank and Financial Markets Authority said in a joint statement
yesterday. “According to the Austrian supervisors’ impact
assessment, none of the measures will lead to additional
deleveraging pressure for Austrian banks abroad.”  The regulators in November presented a plan that restricts
new loan business to 1.1 times the deposits and wholesale
funding that  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA) ,  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS) , and  UniCredit Bank Austria AG (BACA) ’s local units in eastern
Europe are able to raise on their own. They also accelerated the
implementation of capital rules from the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. The comprehensive version of the rules was
published yesterday.  Banks will also be required to present “recovery and
resolution plans for potential crisis situations” by the end of
the year, the regulators said.  Mortgage Rules Needed to Avoid Sub-Prime Crisis, Turner Says  Tougher rules on mortgage lending will rein in the type of
practices that led to the U.S. sub-prime crisis, Adair Turner,
chairman of the Financial Services Authority, said yesterday.  The review of the mortgage market, which will restrict
interest-only and self-certified mortgages, will stop banks
relying on rising property prices to balance the risk that a
borrower might not repay their loan, Turner told lawmakers in
 London  yesterday.  The FSA has proposed plans to reform the U.K.’s 1.2
trillion-pound ($1.89 trillion) mortgage market, arguing some
practices exacerbated the banking crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The watchdog
is seeking views on the proposals for the  seventh time  since the
review began in 2009. The full set of proposals will be
implemented in 2013.  SEC’s Schapiro Wants More Limits on IPO On-Ramp, Crowdfunding  U.S. lawmakers should reduce the $1 billion annual revenue
threshold for easing regulations on newly public companies in
legislation now being considered by the Senate, said  Securities
and Exchange Commission  Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Several provisions of a House-approved bill designed to
ease regulations for small and emerging companies go too far,
Schapiro said in a letter to  Senate Banking Committee  Chairman
Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, and Richard Shelby of
Alabama, the committee’s senior Republican. The House language
would allow “even very large companies” to bypass investor
protections, Schapiro said.  “A lower annual revenue threshold would pose less risk to
investors and would more appropriately focus benefits provided
by the new provisions on those smaller businesses that are the
engine of growth for our economy,” Schapiro said in the letter,
dated March 13. Giving so-called on ramp companies a break from
internal controls audits is “unwarranted,” she said.  Schapiro, who wrote to the lawmakers following criticism of
the legislation, said senators now working on the bill should
also consider further restrictions on its so-called crowdfunding
idea to let companies solicit and pool investment online. The
provision should include regulatory oversight of professionals
who handle such offerings and additional disclosures about the
companies seeking investors, she said in the letter.  Kasich Wants Tougher Regulations, Taxes on Ohio’s Drillers  Ohio Governor John Kasich is proposing changes to how the
state taxes and regulates oil and natural-gas drilling with what
he calls a goal of “leading the nation with a comprehensive
energy strategy.”  The plans, many of which require legislative approval,
include a higher tax on drillers to pay for an income-tax cut,
updating standards for well construction, disclosing chemicals
used in hydraulic fracturing and new regulations for natural-gas
gathering lines, according to information released by Kasich’s
office.  Kasich was expected to release his proposals yesterday as
part of a “Mid-Biennium Review” halfway through  Ohio (STOOH1) ’s two-
year budget. States including  Ohio (STOOH1) ,  Pennsylvania (STOPA1)  and  North
Dakota (STOND1)  are confronting the costs and benefits of hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, which involves injecting water, sand
and chemicals underground at high pressure. While the industry
says fracking is safe and has allowed increased production,
environmental groups say it can lead to contamination.  For more, click here.  IOSCO Seeks Views on Rules for Exchange-Traded Funds  The  International Organization of Securities Commissions 
said it’s seeking views on proposed rules for exchange-traded
funds.  “Interest in ETFs has increased worldwide as evidenced by
the significant amount of money invested in these types of
products,” IOSCO said in a statement on its website. “This
dynamic growth has drawn the attention of regulators who are
concerned about the potential impact of ETFs on investors and
the marketplace,” it said.  Compliance Action  MetLife Leads Life Insurers Lower After Failing Fed Test (1)  MetLife Inc. (MET) , whose plan for a share buyback was rejected
March 13 by the Federal Reserve, led life insurers lower in New
York trading yesterday on speculation the industry’s biggest
companies may face tighter capital rules.  U.S. regulators are taking greater responsibility over an
industry that has traditionally been overseen by individual
states. MetLife is required to get Fed approval for its capital
plans because it owns a bank, while Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential isn’t subject to the same scrutiny. Both companies
may face Fed oversight if they are classified as systemically
important financial institutions, or SIFIs.  The SIFI designation was created after the 2008 financial
crisis when gaps in oversight between federal and state
regulators allowed insurer  American International Group Inc. (AGI)  to
slide to the brink of bankruptcy. Prudential and MetLife, which
is unwinding its banking business to reduce federal oversight,
have said they may be subject to SIFI rules.  MetLife, led by Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian ,
would fall short of a U.S. capital standard in a severe economic
downturn, the Fed said March 13. The insurer was one of four
companies to fail the Fed’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review, which was applied to 19 of the largest U.S. financial
firms. Kandarian, who had requested permission for $2 billion of
buybacks, said he disagreed with the ruling and remains “fully
committed” to returning funds to investors.  “We are deeply disappointed with the Federal Reserve’s
announcement,” Kandarian said. “We do not believe that the
bank-centric methodologies used under the CCAR are appropriate
for insurance companies, which operate under a different
business model than banks.”  For more, click here.  Canter Says Insurers Expect Rise in Hedge Fund Probes  Richard Canter, president and chief operating officer of
SKCG Group, a White Plains, New York-based insurance broker,
talked about insurance for expenses incurred by  hedge funds 
related to government investigations into insider trading.  Hedge funds’ risk of lawsuits is rising after regulatory
probes of insider trading at Galleon Group LLC and the collapse
of MF Global Holdings Ltd., insurance rates show. Canter speaks
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  U.K. to Consolidate Two Antitrust Agencies, Prioritize Probes  The U.K. government will consolidate two antitrust agencies
to streamline the current process and make it easier to
prosecute for cartel-law violations.  The new agency will include what’s now the Competition
Commission and parts of the Office of Fair Trading, the
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills in London said in
an e-mailed  statement  today.  The Competition and Markets Authority, which should be
operating by April 2014, is being set up because the current
system is complicated and contains too much duplication, the
government said. The agency will have responsibility for merger
regulation, market investigations and prosecuting cartel cases.  SEC Settles With SharesPost Over Private-Share Trading Probe  SharesPost Inc.  and its president will pay $100,000 to
resolve claims that the online marketplace for private-company
shares acted as an unregistered broker, as U.S. regulators took
their first action in a probe of trades involving non-public
startups.  As part of the same investigation, Laurence Albukerk and
his firm EB Financial Group LLC, and Frank Mazzola, principal
and chief executive officer of Felix Investments LLC, were
accused by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of
misleading investors and charging undisclosed fees in raising
more than $70 million from investors seeking stakes in Silicon
Valley firms, including  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the SEC said yesterday.  The agency has been scrutinizing trading in closely held
companies such as Facebook, which has filed to sell shares in
the largest initial public offering of an Internet company. The
SEC is examining whether the trades expose investors to fraud
because the companies aren’t required to disclose financial
data, including revenue, cash flow and debt obligations, and
frequently carry restrictions, such as limits on share sales.  SharesPost will pay $80,000 to resolve the SEC claims and
company President Greg Brogger will pay $20,000. Albukerk and EB
Financial agreed to pay about $310,000 to settle the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Mazzola has denied the
SEC’s claims in public broker filings.  The SEC approached SharesPost in December 2010 to probe its
compliance strategy, Brogger said in a telephone interview.  “The exact legal question is whether or not SharesPost
itself should have been a broker-dealer in 2010,” he said.
“They came to the conclusion that we ought to have been a
broker-dealer in 2010.”  Mazzola and John Hewitt, a lawyer for McCarter & English
LLP, which represents Felix Investments, didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls seeking comment. Larry Albukerk didn’t
immediately respond to a voice mail seeking comment.  Courts  Analyst Kinnucan Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan, who
challenged U.S. authorities to arrest him for more than 18
months, pleaded not guilty to federal insider trading charges
and remains in custody because he’s unable to make bail.  Kinnucan was indicted on Feb. 21 by a federal grand jury in
New York, accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients
about  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other
companies. He was arrested at his home in Portland, Oregon, on
Feb. 16 by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public technology
companies, obtained nonpublic information from them and passed
it to his fund manager clients, prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged.  Kinnucan announced in October 2010 that he had refused a
request by FBI agents in New York to wear a wire and inform on
his clients, a move that presaged more than two dozen insider-
trading arrests.  He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
securities fraud.  The judge yesterday appointed Jennifer Brown and Sarah Jane
Baumgartel, federal defenders in New York, to represent
Kinnucan. Both declined to comment after court on whether they
would seek his release pending trial.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Brazilian Lover of Convicted VW Labor Boss Charged Over Bribe  The former Brazilian lover of an ex- Volkswagen AG (VOW)  labor
leader was charged for aiding in breach of trust over her role
in a bribery scandal at Europe’s largest carmaker.  Prosecutors said the 47-year-old woman received 350,000
euros ($457,000) under sham contracts between 2002 and 2005,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the Regional Court
of Braunschweig,  Germany . The trial for the woman, who wasn’t
identified by name, is scheduled to begin March 27.  The case is part of a probe over bribes paid to union
leaders in exchange for favorable votes on Volkswagen policy
from 1995 through 2005. According to the statement, the woman is
the former companion of Klaus Volkert, the former chief worker
representative on VW’s  supervisory board  who was convicted of
accepting 2.6 million euros in benefits.  Volkswagen’s press office didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Interviews/Speeches  Brown Sees Need for Better On-Site Examination of Banks  Thomas Brown, chief executive officer at  Second Curve
Capital LLC  and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about
the results of the Federal Reserve’s bank stress tests.  Brown spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-
chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Ross ‘Surprised’ at Citi, BofA, MetLife Test Results  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire chairman of private-equity
firm WL Ross & Co., talked about results of Federal Reserve
stress tests for banks and yesterday’s New York Times opinion
piece by an outgoing Goldman Sachs Group executive.  Ross spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Ghizzoni Says Bank Stress-Test Results ‘Positive News’  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni 
talked with reporters in Rome about the results of the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s bank stress tests and credit conditions.  For the video, click here.  Regulators Must Rein In $47 Trillion Shadow Banks, Turner Says  Global financial supervisors must act to contain the $47
trillion shadow-banking industry, Adair Turner, chairman of the
U.K.  Financial Services Authority , said in a speech in London.  Shadow banking, which encompasses financial activities that
take place outside the regulated banking system, is
“potentially very unstable,” and vulnerable to liquidity
shocks, Turner said. The shadow banking industry in Europe is
worth $22 trillion, and $25 trillion in the U.S., by some
estimates, he said.  “Our regulatory response should therefore entail a bias to
prudence,” Turner, 56, said in the speech at the Cass Business
School yesterday. Supervisors shouldn’t allow “complex
interconnectivity” and “high leverage to develop in
unregulated institutions or markets.”  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, G-20 central bankers and finance ministry officials,
said last year that shadow banks may create “an opportunity for
regulatory arbitrage.” Shadow banking includes money-market
funds, securitizations and off-balance-sheet investment
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 