-- EU Parliament Calls for Emissions-Permit Set-Aside Option
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-15T13:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/eu-parliament-calls-for-emissions-permit-set-aside-option-1-.html
The European Parliament threw its
weight behind the option of temporarily setting aside some
emission permits for energy and manufacturing companies to
bolster prices while stopping short of urging a tighter cap.  In a non-binding resolution, the European Union assembly
said EU regulators should put forward, “if appropriate,”
measures that “may include withholding the necessary amount of
allowances” in the world’s biggest emissions-trading system.
The carbon-dioxide permits, whose prices have slumped, would be
withheld from auctions as early as next year.  The language in the resolution mirrors a provision that the
assembly’s industry committee inserted last month into draft EU
energy legislation. As a result, today’s vote in Strasbourg,
 France  strengthens the hand of Parliament negotiators seeking to
win fast-track backing from EU national governments for the set-
aside provision in that planned law, which relates to  energy
efficiency .  At the same time, the 754-seat assembly rejected a version
of the resolution that went further by asking the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, to propose legislation that
would eliminate a share of  Europe ’s emission permits. The
Parliament’s environment committee had recommended calling for
that more ambitious step, which would result in a tightening of
the CO2 cap on European power plants and factories.  Political Debate  The political debate in Europe over the possibility of
curbing the supply of EU-CO2 permits has intensified in recent
months as their cost has fallen. The  euro-area economy  is
projected by the EU to contract this year for the first time
since 2009. Allowance prices dropped to a four-year low in
January because of oversupply.  At stake is the credibility of the EU emissions-trading
market, which imposes CO2 quotas on more than 11,000 facilities
including plants owned by  Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the region’s
largest oil company. The system, the 27-nation EU’s leading tool
to fight climate change, requires businesses that exceed their
limits to buy permits from companies that discharge less.  The Parliament resolution approved today is on Europe’s
climate goals in general. It endorses a path recommended by the
commission for the EU to cut greenhouse gases including CO2 by
80 percent in 2050 compared with 1990 levels.  Best Scenario  The commission said in a strategy paper last year that the
best scenario for Europe would be to reduce emissions by 40
percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040. The EU is already on
track to meets it goal of reducing  greenhouse gases  by 20
percent in 2020.  The Parliament’s support for the paper is a boost for the
commission after it suffered a setback six days ago when the
Polish government blocked a similar declaration on climate
policy at a meeting of EU environment ministers. Such national
vetoes can make it harder for the commission to put forward
measures to crack down further on emissions.  “We should not allow that the most reluctant among us
dictates the pace,” European Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard told the Parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  