-- Ex-GE Manager Convicted of Murder, Sentenced to Life
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-03-15T21:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ex-ge-manager-is-convicted-of-murder-by-atlanta-area-jury.html
Hemy Neuman, a former GE Energy
manager, was found guilty of murder in the shooting death of a
co-worker’s husband and sentenced 90 minutes later by a  Georgia 
judge to imprisonment for life with no possibility of parole.  A jury in Decatur, Georgia, where the killing happened in
November 2010, delivered the guilty verdict today after
deliberating a day and a half.  After a break, Superior Court Judge Gregory Adams began
hearing arguments on the sentence. While the jury found Neuman
is mentally ill, he faced a mandatory life sentence under
Georgia law. The mental-illness finding means he will receive
treatment.  Neuman pleaded not guilty by reason of temporary insanity
in the killing of Russell “Rusty” Sneiderman, 36, the husband
of a GE Energy subordinate with whom he had a relationship
called an obsession by lawyers for both sides.  The judge called the crime a “for lack of a better word
planned execution.” Sneiderman was killed in front of the day
care center where he had dropped off his 2-year-old son.  Robert James, the DeKalb County  district attorney , told the
judge that Neuman “savagely gunned down” Sneiderman and
deserved the sentence that Adams imposed.  “He had limitless potential which will now never be
realized,” the victim’s brother, Steve, told the judge. “He
was a great father. All of that love is silenced forever.”  Top Sentence Urged  He urged Adams to “show him the same mercy he showed
Rusty” and impose life without parole.  Neuman spoke in his own behalf.  “A lot of what Mr. Sneiderman said about Rusty Sneiderman
is true,” Neuman said. “He was a good man. I am so so so sorry
for their loss.”  He didn’t ask for a lighter sentence. His lawyer Doug
Peters asked for the possibility of parole because of Neuman’s
mental illness.  “I’m glad we brought some closure and justice to the
Sneiderman family,” James, who prosecuted the case personally,
said in an interview after the verdict was delivered.  Neuman and Sneiderman’s wife, Andrea, 35, had an emotional
personal relationship that included trips to  South Carolina  and
 Lake Tahoe  where they engaged in sexual activity, Peters told
the jury in closing arguments March 13.  Colleagues at Work  Andrea Sneiderman worked for Neuman in software systems
support at the company, where he was an engineer overseeing
5,000 people, according to evidence in court. She isn’t charged
with a crime.  A defense forensic psychologist, Adriana Flores, testified
that Neuman was delusional and didn’t know right from wrong when
he shot Sneiderman four times. Neuman has bipolar disorder with
psychotic episodes, Tracey Marks, a psychiatrist, testified for
the defense.  He doesn’t take medication for bipolar disorder,
prosecutors said in closing arguments.  Neuman was never considered so depressed that he was a
suicide risk, said William Brickhouse, a psychiatrist and mental
health director at the DeKalb County jail where he has been
held.  The defense portrayed Neuman as an emotionally neglected
and physically abused child who was sent to an Israeli boarding
school at age 13 with no family support. Neuman’s doctors said
he first became depressed and saw a demon when he was at
boarding school.  Closing Arguments  In closing arguments, Peters, the defense attorney, called
Andrea Sneiderman an “adulterer,” “evil” and a “master
manipulator.”  James, the district attorney, said Neuman was in love with
her and phoned her within 30 minutes of his crime to tell her
what he’d done. He referred to Neuman as a “co-conspirator.”  No evidence was introduced to link Andrea Sneiderman to the
murder. She testified that she didn’t have an affair with
Neuman, that he “had been stalking my house for months” and
that he made unwanted advances to her.  At a news conference after the sentencing, James said the
investigation is continuing.  “I have to follow the evidence,” he said. “I have to
follow the law. When we know something, you will know.”  Neuman was arrested two months after the killing. During
the trial, jurors were shown videos of him being interviewed by
a prosecution psychiatrist in which he described planning the
shooting. He said a demon and an angel told him to kill
Sneiderman to save Andrea Sneiderman’s children.  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5, Georgia Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 