-- Ex-Helmerich & Payne Rig Manager Denies Lying About Tests
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-15T19:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ex-helmerich-payne-rig-manager-denies-lying-about-tests-1-.html
A former manager at drilling-rig
operator  Helmerich & Payne Inc. (HP)  pleaded not guilty to a charge
of lying to a federal agent reviewing blowout-prevention testing
and records of rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Federal prosecutors said Donald Hudson lied to an
investigator with the Office of the Inspector General at the
U.S. Interior Department when he denied directing others to
falsify blowout-prevention testing records.  “Not guilty,” Hudson said at his arraignment in federal
court in  New Orleans  today.  Magistrate Judge Louis Moore Jr. accepted the plea and set
a trial date for April 30. Moore said Hudson didn’t have to be
held in custody because he had no prior criminal history.  “You’re free to go,” Moore told the defendant.  The U.S. said Hudson was employed by Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Helmerich & Payne as a drilling-rig manager in May 2010, a time
of heightened vigilance in the gulf after the blast that killed
11 crew members aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig operated by  BP
Plc (BP/) , an unrelated incident that triggered the nation’s worst
offshore oil spill.  In May 2011, Helmerich & Payne said in a regulatory filing
that it had suspended operations on an offshore rig after an
employee reported possible “testing irregularities.” The
company told stockholders that operations on the rig were
“promptly suspended,” federal authorities alerted and
“certain employees” fired for violating company policies and
procedures.  The company said it was cooperating with a grand jury
investigation of the matter.  The case is U.S. v. Hudson, 12-cr-115, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  