-- F&C’s Second-Biggest Shareholder to Sell Stake in Fund Manager
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-15T18:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/f-c-s-second-biggest-shareholder-to-sell-stake-in-fund-manager.html
Achmea BV , the Dutch insurer
formerly named Eureko BV, will sell its entire 9.6 percent stake
in London-based  F&C Asset Management Plc. (FCAM)   The sale of 51.1 million shares, valued at about 35 million
pounds ($55 million), is part of the insurer’s policy of
reducing risk and will be settled on March 20, Achmea said in a
statement today.  The decision “has no effect on Achmea’s relationship with
F&C Asset Management as one of Achmea’s principal asset
managers,” the company said in the statement.  Activist investor  Edward Bramson , founder of Sherborne
Investors LLC, replaced Nick MacAndrew as chairman of F&C in
February 2010 after building a 20 percent stake in the fund
manager. Achmea, F&C’s largest shareholder behind Sherborne,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, rejected Bramson’s bid
to become chairman last year and instead backed the existing
management. F&C was an wholly owned unit of Achmea until 2004.  F&C’s stock  dropped  6.6 percent to 68.2 pence in London
trading, the biggest one-day fall since October.  Stefan Kloet, a spokesman for Zeist, Netherlands-based
Achmea, said the sale of its F&C stake fits with a policy of
reducing risk. Achmea has cut back its equity holdings and
increased its investments in government bonds of AAA-rated
countries in particular, he said.  An F&C spokesman, Jason Hollands, declined to comment.  Bramson, who previously criticized the firm’s costs, debt
level and acquisitions, overhauled the board and is seeking to
move F&C back to its roots as a manager of assets for
institutions such as insurance companies.  About 60 percent of F&C’s 100 billion pounds of assets
under management belong to its four biggest clients, including
Achmea. The  fund manager  said today its 2011 net loss narrowed
to 500,000 pounds, compared with 16.6 million pounds a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  