-- MF Global Trustee to Return $685 Million to Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-15T20:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/mf-global-trustee-to-return-685-million-to-customers.html
The  MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  brokerage
trustee is seeking to distribute another $685 million to
customers, giving some of them a return of about 80 percent.  Commodity customers who traded futures on foreign exchanges
will get their first payments of about $50 million, while about
$600 million will go to customers who traded on U.S. exchanges,
trustee James Giddens said today in a statement. Holders of
physical assets such as precious metals are in line to get about
$35 million.  “We believe that requesting an additional distribution is
prudent and appropriate at this time and is consistent with our
goal of returning as much customer property as possible,”
Giddens said.  The distributions require a judge’s approval. No date has
been set for the payments.  So far, distributions to commodities customers have repaid
about $3.9 billion, or 72 percent of their funds, and Giddens
has estimated a shortfall of $1.6 billion to what customers are
owed. Giddens said today that his staff continues its “efforts
to recover additional assets” and resolve disputed claims.  The new distributions would mean that customers who traded
on U.S. exchanges will have 80 percent of their claims paid. For
customers who traded on foreign exchanges, the amount will be
less than 10 percent, Giddens said.  U.K. Dispute  Disputes with MF Global U.K. Ltd. and other units may make
it impossible to determine the exact amounts to be distributed,
Giddens said.  Separately, customers who want to trade their right to a
future recovery for money now will soon be able to do so through
twice weekly auctions, CRT Capital Group LLC said in a
statement. A unit of the Stamford, Connecticut-based broker-
dealer will hold the auctions.  “There are a number of firms offering to buy claims, but
none have so far provided a transparent, fair mechanism to offer
customers both attractive liquidity and the highest possible
return,” Joe Sarachek, managing director of CRT Special
Investments, said in the statement.  According to court papers, claims have recently been bought
by the CRT unit, VonWin Capital Management LP and Contrarian
Funds LLC.  Parent Company  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the broker’s parent company, filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with debt of
almost $40 billion after making $6.3 billion in bets on
sovereign debt and getting margin calls.  Jon Corzine , chairman of MF Global Holdings until his
resignation on Nov. 4, has said he didn’t authorize any misuse
of customer money that may have occurred. Corzine is a former
governor of  New Jersey  and former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  