-- Fisker to Fix Software That Led to Consumer Reports Failure
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-15T21:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/fisker-to-fix-software-flaw-that-led-to-consumer-reports-failure.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the maker
of plug-in luxury sports cars, said it’s developing a software
fix for a problem that led its Karma model to shut down during
testing by  Consumer Reports .  The magazine, published by Yonkers, New York-based
Consumers Union, said March 8 the rechargeable Fisker model
purchased for evaluation failed during tests on its Connecticut
track after 180 miles (290 kilometers). Tom LaSorda, who became
Fisker’s chief executive officer last month, said the shutdown
showed the vehicle performed as intended in the event of an
electrical glitch.  “The on-board diagnostics detected a fault and entered a
protection mode that shut the car down to protect other
components,” LaSorda said in a  statement  on Fisker’s website
this week. “New software has been developed and installed in a
large fleet of vehicles and they are being driven round the
clock for testing and validation. As soon as this procedure is
complete we will send updated software out.”  The magazine’s report was the latest challenge for the
Anaheim, California-based startup that seeks to become a
profitable maker of premium plug-in cars powered by a
combination of batteries and gasoline. Fisker on Feb. 6 said it
stopped working on its Wilmington,  Delaware , plant after the
U.S. Energy Department blocked access to a federal loan, citing
unmet milestones. The factory was slated to build a second
model.  Late last year, Fisker recalled 239 Karmas to fix a flaw
related to battery packs supplied by  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  It has
delivered about 500 of the cars to customers mainly in the U.S.
and produced about 2,000, said Roger Ormisher, a company
spokesman.  Blog Reports  Separately, Fisker today denied a report it began
delivering Karmas before the car was ready for retail customers.  The  San Francisco Chronicle  this week reported that four of
five Karmas shipped to a dealership in Marin County,  California ,
experienced software glitches “almost immediately,” citing the
store’s manager.  “A number of blogs and media websites have recently
published (and repeated) several false and misleading statements
and allegations that Fisker Automotive rushed its Karma sedan to
market even though it was not properly developed in order to
meet certain milestones related to Fisker’s Department of Energy
loan,” the company said in a statement. “Those allegations are
absolutely untrue.”  Chrysler Veteran  LaSorda, an auto-industry veteran who was a president of
the predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC, said he’s working to
solve any issues with Karma.  “I have put in place a ‘SWAT team’ with over 50 dedicated
engineers and other consulting professionals to help identify
this and other unique customer issues with the Karma,” LaSorda
said. “I am personally involved in all these initiatives and am
committed to delivering complete customer satisfaction and peace
of mind.”  David Champion , head of the magazine’s auto-testing center,
said he received “a number of calls” from LaSorda about the
car that failed while being driven by a Consumer Reports
technician.  Expensive Car  The $107,000 Karma was the most expensive vehicle Consumer
Reports has ever bought, Champion told reporters in  Washington 
on March 12 in Washington. The magazine, which accepts no
advertising, purchases all the cars it tests and sells them
after it’s done with the evaluations.  Fisker was founded by auto designer  Henrik Fisker  and
awarded Energy Department loans of as much as $529 million in
April 2010 from a program intended to spur development of
advanced-technology vehicles. About $170 million of those funds
were for U.S. engineering work on the Karma, and about $360
million for production of the Nina, the car Fisker intends to
eventually build in Delaware.  Fisker, which is closely held, has drawn $193 million from
the loans and raised about $900 million in private capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  