-- Ford Extends $9 Billion Revolving Credit Line by Two Years
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-03-15T20:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ford-extends-9-billion-revolving-credit-line-by-two-years.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which borrowed $23
billion in 2006 to survive, extended the maturity of a revolving
line of credit by two years and increased its size.  The $9 billion revolving credit line, which originated with
the 2006 borrowings, will now mature on Nov. 30, 2015, instead
of Nov. 30, 2013, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said
today. The credit line grew by $400 million to $9.3 billion.
About $300 million in commitments on the credit facility still
mature on Nov. 30, 2013, Ford said.  The renegotiated revolver “was significantly
oversubscribed,” Neil Schloss, Ford’s treasurer, said in the
statement. “This support from our global banking partners
represents an important source of committed liquidity and
financial flexibility.”  Standard & Poor’s  said today it assigned the revolving
facility a BBB issue-level rating, which is two steps into
investment grade. S&P also assigned the credit line a recovery
rating of 1, indicating lenders would recover 90 percent to 100
percent in a default. Ford’s corporate  credit rating  remains
BB+, one level below investment grade.  Ford has been working to return to investment grade and
clean up its balance sheet, which carries more debt than U.S.-
based rivals because of its 2006 borrowings. Ford reduced its
automotive debt by $6 billion last year to $13.1 billion as of
Dec. 31. Ford’s debt level is unchanged by the renegotiated
revolver, Schloss said.  ‘Cut It Back’  While lenders agreed to extend more than $10 billion to
Ford, the automaker “chose to cut it back to the $9 billion
level,” Schloss said in a conference call with reporters.  Ford said it hasn’t drawn on the credit line since paying
it off in 2011, with the exception of $130 million used for
letters of credit. Ford drew down this revolver in 2009 during
the credit crisis, when it feared banks might run out of lending
capacity, Schloss said.  Ford rose 0.2 percent to $12.90 at the close in  New York .  In a revolving credit line, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid. Ford has no plans to draw it down now, Schloss
said.  “This is an insurance policy that you hope you never have
to use,” Schloss said of the credit line.  The second-largest U.S. automaker also modified the terms
of the credit line to ease the return of collateral Ford put up
to obtain the loans in 2006, according to the statement. Ford
pledged all major assets, including the Ford-brand blue oval
logo, to secure the loans that enabled it to avoid the 2009
bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler
Group LLC.  Limitations Eliminated  The lenders on the revolving credit line agreed to
eliminate limitations on debt prepayments and issuing dividends
upon release of the collateral, Ford said. Ford began paying a
dividend this month following a five-year suspension. The
automaker yesterday declared a second-quarter dividend of 5
cents a share payable June 1 to shareholders of record on May 2.  Ford still must receive an investment-grade credit rating
from two major rating companies in order to recover its
collateral, the automaker said.  “Getting the collateral back, getting the blue oval back
has been a huge rallying cry and one that we all feel
emotionally connected to,” Schloss said. “Investment-grade
companies feel better about themselves.”  Ford reported its  11th consecutive  profitable quarter Jan.
27, with net income of $13.6 billion, or $3.40 a share, compared
with $190 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier. Ford earned $29.5
billion in the last three years after $30.1 billion in losses
from 2006 through 2008.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , 66, turned around the
automaker by globalizing operations, cutting costs, improving
quality and expanding the lineup with fuel-efficient models like
the Fiesta subcompact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  