-- Fortress Said to Be in Talks to Pay $1 Billion for ResCap
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-15T21:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/fortress-said-to-be-in-talks-to-pay-1-billion-for-rescap-assets.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  is in
talks to pay more than $1 billion to acquire assets from  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s mortgage unit, according to three people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Fortress would buy parts of the Residential Capital unit,
including some of its servicing business, as part of a ResCap
bankruptcy filing in the coming weeks, said the people, who
asked for anonymity because the process is private. ResCap is
lining up as much as $2 billion in loans to fund operations when
it files, they said.  A sale of ResCap assets would help  Ally (ALLY)  shrink its mortgage
business as the lender works to repay a government bailout that
swelled to $17.2 billion. Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, who once predicted that an initial public offering
could value the company at $30 billion, said last month the IPO
won’t happen until there’s progress on the mortgage business.
The company faces litigation tied to private-label mortgage
securitizations.  “It appears that Fortress is only bidding for a small
portion of ResCap, which suggests the wind-down could take
longer than people expect,” said  Kirk Ludtke , an analyst at
Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.  Asset Values  ResCap had $16.8 billion in assets at year-end, including
mortgage-servicing rights valued at $1.2 billion, according to a
company presentation. Servicing involves billing and collections
and, when homeowners don’t pay, foreclosures and evictions.  Fortress is being vetted by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the
government-controlled mortgage-finance companies, to ensure it
can handle the servicing volume, two of the people said. The New
York-based private-equity firm outbid companies such as
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC to enter into exclusive talks,
said one of these people.  Fortress may fold the servicing operations into Nationstar
Mortgage Holdings Inc., the residential-mortgage servicer it
took public this month, according to one of the people. Fortress
still owns about 77 percent of Nationstar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fortress shares rose 8.5 percent to $4.07 in New York
trading. Nationstar gained 4 percent to $14.45. Fortress is up
20 percent this year.  Liquidity Deadline  Ally and ResCap had been seeking to reach an agreement on a
transaction before the end of March, when the unit faces
financing and liquidity deadlines, people familiar with the
matter said in February. The filing may drag into April now,
said one person, citing  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac’s review of
Fortress.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined
to comment.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
among lenders that would probably provide the so-called debtor-
in-possession financing, the people said. ResCap needs a DIP
loan as large as $2 billion because a line of credit with
Citigroup is set to expire at the end of March, one person said.  ResCap is required to maintain its net worth above $250
million, as measured monthly, under agreements it has with
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other lenders. ResCap dropped below
that level at the end of December before Ally forgave almost
$200 million in inter-company debt.  Investors holding at least $800 million in ResCap debt,
including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa Management LP, had joined together to oppose a
bankruptcy filing. Advisers to the group have since signed
confidentiality agreements with ResCap to get inside information
on the ResCap sales process, one person said.  Credit Facility  Ally may forgive a $1 billion senior secured credit
facility if it helps get bondholders to sign on to the filing,
one person said. Ally has warned in regulatory filings that the
loans may be wiped out. ResCap had about $2.6 billion of so-
called funding arrangements with Ally at the end of December,
according to Ally’s annual filing.  A sale may also make it easier for Ally to pass Federal
Reserve stress tests. The company, one of four that fell short
on at least one measure in the Fed’s test of how 19 of the
nation’s biggest lenders would fare in a severe economic slump,
said in a statement it planned to resubmit in the “near
future.”  Stress Test  Ally’s Tier 1 common capital ratio fell to 2.5 percent
under the Fed’s worst-case scenario, primarily because of losses
and repurchase requests tied to soured mortgages. Ally said in
an e-mailed statement the Fed’s analysis overstated some risks
and didn’t account for some of the auto and home lender’s
financial and management resources.  The U.S. Treasury Department boosted Ally’s capital in late
2010 when it converted $5.5 billion of preferred stock into
common shares, increasing its stake to 74 percent. The
government still holds $5.9 billion of preferred shares that
must be converted into common equity by Dec. 30, 2016.  The company didn’t say whether the original capital plan it
submitted to the Fed or a new one would involve a resolution on
ResCap.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  