-- Galaxy Earnings Miss Estimates, Won’t Pay Dividend
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-04-02T05:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/galaxy-entertainment-2011-profit-triples-aided-by-new-resort.html
(Corrects year Deutsche Bank projection in penultimate
paragraph of story dated March 15)  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) 
posted annual profit that missed analyst estimates and said it
won’t pay a dividend as it boosts spending on casino
development. The shares fell.  The Hong Kong-listed casino operator’s net income more than
tripled to HK$3 billion ($387 million) in 2011, according a
statement to the local stock exchange today, missing the HK$3.1
billion average of 10  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
News. The board doesn’t recommend the payment of a final
dividend for the year ended December, it said.  Casino companies including  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  MGM China
Holdings Ltd (2282) . and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  have reported
income gains fueled by rising tourism to Macau, the world’s
biggest gambling hub and the only place in  China  where gambling
is legal. Sands in January said it will pay its first dividend
because it has enough cash to fund expansion plans.  Net income was “a little disappointing” as the company
wrote down the value of convertible bonds, said Edwin Fan, an
analyst at BOC International. “The market was also let down by
no dividend payout,” he said.  Goldman Sachs in January named Galaxy as among the casino
operators most likely to raise or begin paying dividends. Galaxy
will invest funds in projects instead of paying out cash to
shareholders, Deputy Chairman Francis Lui said in August.  “We are a growth company and we have the largest approved
 land bank  in Cotai so we think it’s in our shareholders best
interest to reinvest the capital,” Chief Financial Officer
 Robert Drake  said in an interview today.  Permira Investment  Gaming revenue in the first quarter is set to meet or
exceed sales in the fourth quarter and will grow in the “high
teens” this year, he estimated. He didn’t provide a timeframe
for when the company would start the second phase of development
of a Cotai project.  Revenue at the company, which opened the Galaxy Macau
resort at Cotai in May, more than doubled to HK$41.2 billion in
2011.  Galaxy  fell  as much as 5.2 percent before closing down 0.84
percent at HK$18.86. The stock has gained 32 percent this year,
 compared  with 16 percent for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Private equity firm Permira Advisers LLP is a long-term
investor of Galaxy and has no plan to reduce its investment in
the company in the short term, Deputy Chairman Francis Lui said
at a press conference in  Hong Kong  today. Permira sold some
Galaxy shares at a discount last year.  Rising Competition  Competition has heated up in Macau as new casinos are
opened. Gambling revenue in the former Portuguese colony last
year climbed 42 percent to 268 billion patacas ($34 billion).  Galaxy’s new resort opened in May with about 450 gaming
tables, 1,100 electronic gaming machines and 1,400 hotel rooms,
the company estimated when announcing first-half results in
August. That helped almost triple its profit in the third
quarter ended September. Las Vegas Sands, through Hong Kong-
listed unit Sands China, is adding to its existing properties,
the Venetian, Four Seasons and Sands. The first phase of its new
Sands Cotai Central resort is set to open next month.  Deutsche Bank this week raised its estimate for 2012 casino
revenue growth in Macau to 25 percent on spending by wealthy
Chinese tourists. Revenue at the world’s largest gambling hub
may rise as spending by VIP or high-stakes gamblers who can bet
as much as $250,000 a hand picks up, Deutsche Bank analyst  Karen Tang  said.  Sands in January said it would pay an interim dividend of
58 Hong Kong cents per share.  SJM Holdings Ltd (880) , with casinos
including Grand Lisboa and Ponte 16, will pay a final dividend
of 43 Hong Kong cents a share and a special dividend of 22
cents, compared with a final dividend of 30 cents paid in 2010,
the casino operator said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  