-- Gasoline Falls on Lower Demand as Obama Discusses SPR Release
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-15T20:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/gasoline-falls-on-lower-demand-obama-discussing-spr-release.html
Gasoline slid on speculation that
higher pump prices will reduce demand and after reports that
President Barack Obama and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
discussed using U.S. oil reserves to stem price increases.  Futures fell as gasoline  demand  over the four weeks ended
March 9 dropped 7.2 percent from a year earlier, the Energy
Department reported yesterday. Retail gasoline has jumped 17
percent this year, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.
Obama and Cameron discussed energy costs yesterday without
making a decision on using strategic stockpiles, said  Jay Carney , White House press secretary.  “It triggered some selling,” said Fred Rigolini, vice
president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York . “I’m surprised
it didn’t come off a little bit more. There’s a lot of long
speculation in gasoline and it may be due for a correction.”  Gasoline for April delivery fell 5.85 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $3.2885 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures have gained 22 percent this year,
making the fuel the best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 commodities.  Volume in electronic trading was 162,589 contracts as of
3:20 p.m. in New York, 21 percent above the three-month average
of 134,000 through yesterday.  Helping Families  Cameron, speaking to reporters in New York today, said he
and Obama “didn’t reach a decision yesterday about oil reserves
but we discussed the issue. It is important that we do what we
can to try to help families who are trying to make their family
budgets add up.”  Congressional Democrats have urged the president to use
the reserve amid a standoff with  Iran  over its nuclear program,
while Republican presidential candidates have attacked Obama
over costlier gasoline. Retail prices have surged 54.3 cents
this year, data from AAA show.  “The headlines today show political sensitivity to the
high prices the consumer is paying and the market’s reaction to
the possibility there may be a supply disruption in the  Middle
East ,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston. “Part of the reason for high prices is the
geopolitical  risk premium .”  The April gasoline crack spread on the Nymex fell $2.14 to
$33.01 a barrel after yesterday reaching the highest level for
the front-month spread since August.  Investment High  A release from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve
“doesn’t help products whatsoever, but some investors might
think so,” said Amrita Sen, a London-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital . “But gasoline stats weren’t great; the crack spread
was very high. We have seen a huge amount of investment going
into this market and that may be why it’s coming off.”  Demand at the pump fell 7.2 percent below the year-earlier
level last week, the biggest drop in that measure in more than
two years,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said March 13 in its SpendingPulse
report. It was the 28th consecutive week that consumption was
lower than the year before.  “The market is probably thinking about the weakness that
we’ve seen in demand and pulling back a little,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.  Heating oil for April delivery slipped 3.93 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $3.2225 a gallon.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1
cent to $3.821 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring group. Prices are 7.5 percent higher
than a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  