-- GE Goes From Laggard to Leader in Swap Drop: Corporate Finance
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-15T15:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ge-goes-from-laggard-to-leader-in-swap-drop-corporate-finance.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance arm
is pulling away from the biggest U.S. banks in the eyes of
credit traders, signaling an end to more than three years of
repression for declining profits during the financial crisis.  The cost to protect the debt of  GE Capital  Corp. with
credit-default swaps narrowed to 135 basis points yesterday, or
52 basis points less than the 187 basis-point average for the
six biggest U.S. lenders, according to data provider CMA.
Stamford, Connecticut-based GE Capital’s swaps reached 1,037
basis points in March 2009, 660 basis points wider than the
banks, the data show.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s plan to shrink GE
Capital’s  balance sheet  and boost industrial earnings at the
world’s largest maker of  jet engines  and diesel locomotives is
bolstering the firm’s perceived creditworthiness. Debt issuance
will slow this year as the unit turns to funding sources such as
deposits, including $7.5 billion acquired from MetLife Inc. in
December, GE said in an investor presentation.  “The company is focusing its efforts on more profitable
businesses and it’s working,” said Richard Familetti, senior
portfolio manager at New York-based Ryan Labs Inc., which
manages $4.5 billion, including some GE bonds.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers had bought and
sold credit swaps that protect against a default on a net $10.7
billion of GE Capital obligations as of March 12, more than any
other corporate issuer, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which runs a central repository for the market.  Declining Sales  GE Capital, which leases commercial aircraft, lends to
consumers and mid-size businesses and finances energy projects
around the world, accounted for $45.7 billion in revenue last
year, or 31 percent of GE’s total, according to its annual
report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. That
compares with $66.3 billion of financial revenue in 2007, a 39
percent share.  “During the financial crisis, General Electric was viewed
solely as a financial company, and its industrial element was
somewhat discarded,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond
strategy at Susquehanna International Group, said in a telephone
interview. “The market was concerned about tail risk and that
the financial side of GE could really hurt it. When that risk
went away, the picture started to improve.” Susquehanna
International is a New York-based broker-dealer.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for GE, declined to comment on
trading in the company’s swaps.  Yield Gap  GE Capital has $280 billion of corporate bonds outstanding,
including $61.8 billion maturing before the end of this year,
Bloomberg data show.  Yields on GE Capital’s bonds are falling relative to those
of large banks. Its $2.75 billion of 4.65 percent notes due in
October 2021 traded at 107.2 cents on the dollar at 9:24 a.m. in
New York to yield 3.75 percent, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point,
less than JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $3 billion of 4.35 percent debt
due in August of the same year, which yields 3.97 percent.  The gap in spreads reached 34 basis points on March 9, the
most since GE Capital’s bonds were issued five months ago, the
data show.  The cost to protect GE Capital debt against losses using
swaps fell yesterday to the lowest in more than eight months
after the  Federal Reserve  said all but four of the biggest 19
U.S. lenders passed stress tests that simulated an economic
downturn.  Risk Proxy  GE Capital contracts declined 3 basis points yesterday to
the lowest since July, according to data from CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  The swap rally may reflect investors who use GE contracts
as a proxy to bet on credit risk in the financial sector, taking
advantage of the ease of trading its swaps, according to Jesse Rosenthal, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York  who said
it’s “too soon to tell” if it’s decoupling from big banks.  The relative opacity of GE Capital’s  earnings  means it’s
fair that its swaps trade wider than industrial rivals such as
United Technologies Corp. and Honeywell International Inc., said
Marilyn Cohen, president of Los Angeles-based Envision Capital
Management Inc.  “I find it still to be somewhat of a hedge fund in drag,”
Cohen said. “It’s very important that one understand exactly
how a company is making money, and I find that difficult with GE
Capital.”  ‘Plenty of Cash’  The stress results bolstered confidence that GE Capital,
which wasn’t included in the tests, would be cleared to resume a
payout to its parent that would free up  cash  to return to
shareholders,  Julian Mitchell , an equity analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients. JPMorgan, the
largest U.S. lender, and  Wells Fargo & Co ., the most valuable,
were among banks that boosted dividends and share buybacks after
the results were announced.  The Fed, which took over as GE’s regulator last year, must
conclude a review of the finance arm’s business before the
dividend can be resumed. The  payment  of almost half of GE
Capital’s earnings reached as much as $8.6 billion before it was
suspended after the 2008 financial and economic crisis.  “They throw off plenty of cash to fund their operations,”
said Scott Kimball, a portfolio manager at Taplin Canida &
Habacht LLC in Miami, which manages $7 billion.  Buffett Investment  Restoring the dividend would mark a fresh step in GE’s
recovery from the crisis, when it raised $15 billion in equity,
including $3 billion through a sale of preferred stock to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and cut its quarterly
dividend to shareholders for the first time in more than 70
years to preserve cash.  “Investors took it for granted that GE Capital was well-
capitalized and making good investments, but when the market
started to turn, investors realized they didn’t know as much
about their business as they wanted to or needed to,” Pinto
said.  GE redeemed Buffett’s investment in October and has
increased its dividend four times since July 2010. GE Capital is
reducing reliance on debt markets for its financing, instead
turning to deposits and debt backed by mortgages. Those sources
accounted for 21 percent of GE Capital’s funding as of last
year’s third quarter, compared with 12 percent in 2008, the
company said in a Dec. 6  investor presentation .  ‘Plenty of Things’  Ending net investment, a measure of GE Capital’s size that
excludes non-interest-bearing liabilities and cash, may fall to
as low as $425 billion at the end of this year, the company has
said. That compares with $525 billion at the end of 2008. GE
Capital profit fell to $7.84 billion in 2008 from $12.2 billion
a year earlier, then slid to $1.36 billion in 2009.  Spreads on GE Capital swaps widened on Aug. 29 to 51 basis
points more than the average of JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley, CMA data show. That was the most since July 2010. By
Nov. 30, GE fell to 80 basis points less than the banks, the
biggest advantage on record, and hasn’t been higher since.  “GE has done quite a bit both in terms of transparency and
in improving its balance sheet,” said Dan Coker, a senior
research analyst at Moody’s Analytics in New York. “The market
for financials in North American has seen some tightening and
the market for industrials has done well as well, but GE Capital
has also done plenty of things to bring about the tightening of
spreads.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 