-- Pound Falls After Fitch Says U.K. at Risk of Losing AAA Rating
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-15T16:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/gilts-drop-as-fitch-lowers-britain-s-outlook-before-u-s-claims.html
The pound fell for the first time
in three days against the euro after  Fitch Ratings  said the U.K.
risks losing its top investment grade, sapping demand for
Britain’s currency.  Sterling weakened against 11 of its 16 major peers as Fitch
changed its outlook for Britain to negative from stable,
indicating a “slightly greater” than 50 percent chance the
nation will lose its AAA grade within two years. Longer-dated
bonds underperformed two-year gilts as the debt agency sold 2
billion pounds ($3.13 billion) of December 2042 securities.  “The Fitch announcement did take some of the shine off the
pound,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “It’s a reminder to the
market that if the austerity measures don’t stay in place there
could be a downgrade.”  The pound declined 0.4 percent to 83.37 pence per euro at
4:11 p.m. in London after appreciating to 82.95 yesterday, the
strongest since Feb. 17. The U.K. currency was little changed at
$1.5683, and slid 0.4 percent to 130.73 yen.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who is
implementing the biggest squeeze on  government spending  since
World War II, is scheduled to present his budget on March 21.
Moody’s Investors Service said last month that Britain may lose
its AAA rating should the economy deteriorate. That assessment
was “perfectly reasonable,” Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Feb. 29.  Spreads Widen  The yield on the 30-year gilt climbed two basis points to
3.42 percent.  Two-year yields  fell seven basis points to 0.44
percent after reaching 0.57 percent.  That left the yield spread between the securities at 297
basis points, the most since Oct. 1. The difference in yield
between the two- and 10-year securities was at 1.91 percentage
points, the most since Dec. 5.  Longer-dated gilts declined as  Bank of England  policy maker
Ben Broadbent said easing bank funding conditions and an
improvement in credit supply could warrant tighter policy.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee raised the
target for  bond purchases  by 50 billion pounds to 325 billion
pounds last month while keeping its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low 0.5 percent. The U.K. economy shrank 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter.  “Any abatement in overseas risks, which now reside more in
the euro zone than in the U.S. housing market, would have
favorable effects on the funding costs of British banks and on
the supply of credit to the domestic economy,” he said in a
speech in  London  today. This “could warrant a withdrawal of
monetary accommodation by the MPC even if domestic debt-income
ratios remain well above some notional historical norm.”  Gilts have lost 2.6 percent this year, compared with a 0.7
percent decline by German bunds, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. U.S. Treasuries lost 1.7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  