-- Glaxo to Sell Consumer Brands in Europe to Omega Pharma
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-03-15T10:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/glaxo-to-sell-consumer-brands-in-europe-to-omega-pharma-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said it agreed
to sell some over-the-counter drug brands in  Europe  to  Omega
Pharma (OME)  for 470 million euros ($613.8 million) as it streamlines
its consumer business.  The brands, which include Lactacyd skin cleanser, Zantac
for heartburn, and the Nytol sleep aid, generated about 185
million pounds ($290 million) in sales last year, the company
said in a  statement  today. Glaxo is still in talks to sell
brands in markets outside of Europe and  North America , and to
sell the global rights to the Alli weight-loss treatment,
according to the statement.  The cash proceeds, which Glaxo plans to return to
shareholders this year, will be about 310 million pounds, the
company said. Glaxo said in December that it would sell 17 over-
the-counter medicine brands in the U.S. and Canada to  Prestige
Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH)  for $660 million. The 242 million pounds in
net cash proceeds from that sale will fund a 5-pence
supplemental dividend to be paid in the fourth quarter.  “The objective of this divestment process is to generate
attractive returns for shareholders as well as simplifying our
ongoing consumer business and enabling it to focus on its
priority brands and markets,” Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Witty is working to expand
the company’s consumer business in oral health, wellness and
nutrition in emerging markets, and plans to keep fast-growing
brands such as Sensodyne toothpaste and Panadol pain reliever.
The over-the-counter brands that have yet to be sold had revenue
of about 60 million pounds last year, Glaxo said.  The sale of Alli has been delayed because of a temporary
supply disruption, Glaxo said.  Omega Pharma is an over-the-counter health-care company
based in Nazareth,  Belgium .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  