-- Glomming Onto Proteins to Detect Cancer Early On
-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 2012-03-15T16:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/glomming-onto-proteins-to-detect-cancer-early-on.html
     (The Q&A incorrectly reported the amount of a Gates
Foundation grant as $1.5 million. The correct amount is
$500,000.)  Lung cancer  is often diagnosed too late for treatment to
help. That's part of the reason why it's the leading cause of
cancer deaths worldwide. Early detection makes a difference --
86 percent of patients with timely diagnoses who undergo
surgery survive for five years.  Among the most promising technologies to find early-stage
lung cancer is a new type of synthetic molecule that
identifies and fits onto proteins that cancer and other
diseases dump into the blood. Made by SomaLogic in
Boulder, Colo., the new molecules detected early-stage lung
cancer in the blood of 90 percent of heavy smokers, a
2011 study showed. SomaLogic's molecular cancer sleuths were
fast, too, analyzing 1,300 lung cancer samples in two
weeks, whereas other methods can take months, require larger
samples, or cost more.  The lung cancer protein binders are just a few of the
1,600 molecules SomaLogic has created since Chief Executive
Officer Larry Gold, 70, founded it 12 years ago. They are a
new type of biomarker that may tip off doctors to illnesses
early on. The lung cancer study showed that the technology
works, and last November the company licensed its molecules to
Novartis AG for  drug development . In February, SomaLogic
unveiled its technology to the molecular medicine community.
They'll be used in tests by Quest Diagnostics this summer.
Gold's goal is to create a "wellness chip" that uses the
molecules to quickly screen a blood sample for hundreds of
diseases.  Gold helped invent the precursor to SomaLogic's
protein-snaring molecules 20 years ago, pioneering the science
of finding proteins associated with disease and eventually
creating new drugs for treatment, a growing field known as
proteomics. He also founded NeXstar Pharmaceuticals (merged in
1999 with Gilead Sciences) and co-founded Synergen (acquired
by Amgen in 1994). He spoke recently with Bloomberg.com
contributor Karen A. Frenkel:  Q: You believe your protein-identifying molecules are a
disruptive technology and envision them packed onto a
"wellness chip" that will enable doctors to identify diseases
before patients report symptoms. How would it work?  A: Besides lung cancer, SomaLogic has molecules that can
detect proteins thrown off by 20 diseases and
conditions, including  heart disease , Alzheimer's, pancreatic
cancer, and mesothelioma [lung cancer due to asbestos
exposure], early labor, and infectious diseases. The molecules
attach to the protein "gloves" they fit, and can then be
detected on a chip by a flash of light with every match.  I've believed since 1997, and haven't wavered once in 15
years, that if we can find 10 or so important biomarkers for
every disease, the ultimate value would be to help a physician
during annual checkups, because blood is an integrator of all
the biology that's happening in your body. And it's not just
for disease, but for wellness and nutrition, which constitute
holistic medicine.  Our whole business model coalesces into the wellness
chip. Measuring 1,000 proteins doesn't cost much more than
measuring 10. So sets of our molecules associated with
specific diseases can be aggregated onto a chip and patients
screened for many diseases at once. A drop of blood would be
placed on the chip and it would read out associated diseases.
It might also help when you decide to go on a diet or run
more.  Q: How would your biomarker molecules help with diet and
exercise?  A: There are two integrators of your whole biology --
nutrition, exercise, sleep, disease, everything -- and they
are the brain and blood. We believe you can learn amazing
things from watching a person's blood over time. We asked our
90 employees to give blood and go to a local restaurant and
have a 2,500-calorie meal. Then they gave blood again and we
watched a whopping number of things go up and down. So there's
a connection between blood and diet. You know your blood is
watching you.  Q: What is SomaLogic's business model?  A: Our synthetic molecules operate in our business model
in three ways. We license them for making diagnoses, drug
discovery and development, and they themselves can act as
drugs. Our molecules behave as medications when they
inactivate a protein. We have great molecules that have done
wonderful jobs in animals. None have been used to treat
humans, but we expect a clinical program in the next year or
two.  So we are a proteomics play with this vast group of
molecules, which is growing by one or two thousand a year.
We'll get to 6,000 by 2014. We might as well do the whole
human proteom [the collection of all the proteins human cells
can make], which is about 20,000 proteins. Our goal is to
finish the job by 2016.  Q: But other diagnostic tools such as mass spectrometry
are entrenched among researchers. How will you catch up?  A: Almost nobody has been successful doing protein-based
diagnostics with mass spectrometry. But it's early in the
game. You can't deny people the opportunity to prove I'm
wrong. But we don't think of it as competition.  Q: How have you financed your company?  A: We have raised $200 million from  venture
capital , angels, and our pharmaceutical partners
Novartis, NEC, Otsuka, and Quest, and NeXstar money that I
plowed back in. We also get some revenue from licensing.
Revenues this year were $20 million. We operated at a loss
last year, but expect much more in 2012, although it won't be
enough to drive us to profitability, which we expect in 2013.  Q: And you also recently got a grant.  A: We got a $500,000 Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
grant to make a diagnostic test for tuberculosis. That will
take less than a year.  Q: What did you think when you saw your new molecules?  A: You look at them and you're aghast at their
extraordinary beauty. We have shown people 3-D structures of
them and one will be published in the next few months.  Q: What is the company's future?  A: The $40 billion monoclonal antibodies market is a
small fraction of what we're going after. We will never
displace all antibody drugs. They work beautifully. But our
molecules will operate within that growing market. It's
anybody's guess what fraction they might ultimately enjoy. It
could be 10 percent. No one can possibly know.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel
at  kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
