-- Goldman’s ‘Change in Culture’ Hurts Clients, Greenberg Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-03-15T13:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/goldman-s-change-in-culture-hurts-clients-greenberg-says.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former chairman of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , said
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. had a “change in culture” that made
the securities firm less responsive to clients.  “You didn’t have investment bankers running the firm, you
had traders running the firm” after Goldman Sachs went public,
Greenberg told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu today in an
interview on the “In the Loop” program. “And a trader has a
short-term memory, and a short-term look at things, and that
change really has changed the culture of Goldman Sachs. It is
not the Goldman Sachs that represented companies as an
investment banker.”  Greg Smith yesterday blamed Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and President  Gary Cohn  for a “decline
in the firm’s moral fiber” in a New York Times op-ed piece in
which Smith announced his resignation from a post in London
selling derivatives. Executives at Goldman Sachs are mistreating
clients even after the firm paid $550 million to settle a fraud
suit with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Smith wrote.  Greenberg said he counted on Goldman Sachs for  investment
banking  when he ran the New York-based insurer. AIG later took
billions of dollars of losses on collateralized debt obligations
it backed for Goldman Sachs and ran short of cash. The insurer
averted bankruptcy only because of a U.S. bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion.  ‘Contentious Relationship’  Greenberg’s former firm had a “contentious relationship”
with Goldman Sachs, then-Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission
Chairman  Phil Angelides  said in 2010. AIG sought to limit
collateral demands in 2007 from Goldman Sachs, saying the bank
was too aggressive marking down the value of the mortgage-
related securities backed by the insurer through credit-default
swaps.  Using rescue funds to cover AIG’s obligations on the
contracts amounted to a “back-door bailout” of New York-based
 Goldman Sachs (GS) , Greenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 Cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  