-- Goldman Roiled by Op-Ed Loses $2.2 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-15T13:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/goldman-stunned-by-op-ed-loses-2-2-billion-for-shareholders.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  saw $2.15
billion of its market value wiped out after an employee assailed
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein’s management and the
firm’s treatment of clients, sparking debate across Wall Street.  The shares dropped 3.4 percent in New York trading
yesterday, the third-biggest  decline  in the 81-company Standard
& Poor’s 500 Financials Index, after London-based Greg Smith
made the accusations in a New York Times  op-ed piece .  Smith, who also wrote that he was quitting after 12 years
at the company, blamed Blankfein, 57, and President Gary D. Cohn, 51, for a “decline in the firm’s moral fiber.” They
responded in a memo to current and former employees, saying that
Smith’s assertions don’t reflect the firm’s values, culture or
“how the vast majority of people at Goldman Sachs think about
the firm and the work it does on behalf of our clients.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , 84, whose
“Volcker rule” would limit banks like New York-based Goldman
Sachs from making bets with their own money, called Smith’s
article “a radical, strong” piece. “I’m afraid it’s a
business that leads to a lot of conflicts of interest,” Volcker
said at a conference in  Washington  sponsored by the Atlantic
magazine.  Goldman Sachs slid $4.17 to $120.37 yesterday, leaving the
shares still up 33 percent this year. The stock advanced 0.5
percent to $120.98 at 9:33 a.m. in New York today.  Goldman Sachs Disagrees  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment beyond the contents of the memo and an
earlier e-mailed statement in which the firm said it disagrees
with the views expressed in the op-ed.  Executives at Goldman Sachs haven’t changed their behavior
even after the firm paid $550 million to settle a fraud lawsuit
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was accused by
the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of
misleading clients, Smith wrote. The company published a  report 
in January 2011 with 39 recommendations on how to improve its
business practices and client focus.  “Over the last 12 months I have seen five different
managing directors refer to their own clients as ‘muppets,’
sometimes over internal e-mail,” Smith wrote. “It astounds me
how little senior management gets a basic truth: If clients
don’t trust you they will eventually stop doing business with
you.”  Darth Vader  The article was e-mailed across Wall Street. One employee
at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division, a competitor
to Goldman Sachs, said his team was told not to send copies to
clients. Parodies such as  “Why I am leaving the Empire, by
Darth Vader”  on thedailymash.co.uk and the borowitzreport.com’s
 “A Response from Goldman Sachs”  also circulated.  “It does hurt them,” said Stephane Rambosson, managing
partner at executive search firm Veni Partners in  London  and a
former Citigroup Inc. banker. “The perception of the firm has
gone down, and a lot of the winners of tomorrow are sitting back
and thinking, ‘Do I want to be with Goldman?’”  There’s little evidence that the firm’s popularity with
clients has been hurt by the SEC lawsuit, the Senate’s criticism
or a recent ruling by Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine,
who faulted Goldman Sachs’s handling of a conflict of interest.
The bank won more business than any other in advising companies
on takeovers and equity offerings last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Some clients of Goldman Sachs’s sales and trading
department, the business in which Smith worked, said they are
always cautious in dealings with  Wall Street  banks,
understanding that their interests can diverge.  ‘Prostitution in Vegas’  “The argument that Goldman has become increasingly profit-
driven, sometimes at the expense of clients’ best interests, and
that some employees use vulgar and disrespectful language, is
hardly news,”  Whitney Tilson , founder of hedge fund T2 Partners
LLC, wrote in an e-mailed commentary. “What’s the next
‘shocking’ headline: ‘Prostitution in Vegas!?’”  Smith was an executive director in London, a title equal to
vice president in New York. The firm employs almost 12,000 vice
presidents, and most said in a recent internal survey that “the
firm provides exceptional service” to clients, Blankfein and
Cohn said in the memo. Smith, who sold U.S. equity derivatives
to clients in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , didn’t respond
to calls seeking comment.  Junior Employee  Seven former Goldman Sachs partners and managing directors,
positions that are more senior than vice president, said in
interviews that Smith shouldn’t be taken seriously because he
was a junior employee and may have been disgruntled about his
pay or career. All asked not to be identified because they
didn’t want to risk ruining their relationship with the firm.  Still, six of the seven said they agreed with Smith’s
criticism of how the firm has treated clients under Blankfein
and Cohn’s management and that current members of the management
committee would, too. Even so, they said they don’t expect the
board of directors to take action or that anything will change
because the firm has made money and outperformed most rivals.  “He may have aired a few comments that are true, but he’s
placed himself on a pedestal,” said  Jason Kennedy , CEO of the
Kennedy Group, a London-based recruitment firm. “The reason
he’s been at Goldman Sachs for 12 years is that he liked the
name and probably liked the money.”  A Rarity  It’s rare for people on Wall Street, especially at Goldman
Sachs, to speak out publicly against their employers or former
employees, said  Roy Smith , a former Goldman Sachs partner who’s
now a finance professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of
Business.  “Who’s going to hire someone who would do that?” he said.
“The industry will close ranks on such things as whistle-
blowing in this context.”  NYU’s Smith, who’s not related to the author of the op-ed,
said Wall Street’s culture has changed because trading has
become a more important source of revenue than the fees banks
get from advising companies on takeovers or financing. Goldman
Sachs generated 60 percent of its  2011 revenue  from sales and
trading.  The relationship with clients in the trading department
differs from the investment bank, Smith said. Firms often are on
the opposite side of a client’s trade, and can profit at the
client’s expense. Still, it’s not as simple as the article
describes, he said.  Smart People  “It just doesn’t happen that it’s easy to make money by
ripping off your clients or counterparties because they’re
pretty smart people for the most part,” he said.  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former chairman of bailed-
out insurer American International Group Inc., said Goldman
Sachs’s “change in culture” made the bank less responsive to
clients.  “A trader has a short-term memory, and a short-term look
at things, and that change really has changed the culture of
Goldman Sachs,” Greenberg told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu
today in an interview on the “In the Loop” program. “It is
not the Goldman Sachs that represented companies as an
investment banker.”  Greenberg’s former firm had a “contentious relationship”
with Goldman Sachs, then-Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission
Chairman  Phil Angelides  said in 2010. AIG sought to limit
collateral demands in 2007 from Goldman Sachs, saying the bank
was too aggressive marking down the value of the mortgage-
related securities backed by the insurer through credit-default
swaps.  Back-Door Bailout  Using rescue funds to cover AIG’s obligations on the
contracts amounted to a “back-door bailout” of Goldman Sachs,
Greenberg said.  Though some competitors relished Smith’s criticism of
Goldman Sachs, which was the most profitable securities firm in
Wall Street history before it converted to a bank in 2008, they
may not be so different.  Smith’s opinion piece “seems to be symptomatic of many, if
not most, of the banks around the world,” said Tom Kirchmaier,
a fellow in the financial-markets group at the  London School  of
Economics. “It might be that Goldman, as one of the most
successful ones, is also one of the most extreme.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 