-- Gory ‘Camino’ Evokes Tarantino; Margulies Talks: Chicago Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/gory-camino-evokes-tarantino-margulies-talks-chicago-stage.html
In the theater, “caveat emptor”
invariably means “as reimagined by...” Those words attached to
a play’s title are a warning: Watch out. You’re entering
Director World.  That’s the case with the  Goodman Theatre ’s revival of
“Camino Real,”  Tennessee Williams ’s 1953 bad-acid trip of a
play, as staged for this Chicago company by Calixto Bieito, with
writer Marc Rosich.  Bieito is the  Quentin Tarantino  of the opera and theater
worlds. The Catalonian director, best known for his queasy-
making opera productions, hasn’t met the character who wouldn’t
look better doused with blood, covered with vomit or engaged in
a sexual act -- not infrequently all three simultaneously.  Ditto here. The visually arresting and oddly poignant
“Camino Real” is Bieito’s “ Pulp Fiction .”  Williams was following the lyric realism of “The Glass
Menagerie” and “A Streetcar Named Desire,” with a vision of
hell.  He created a closed-off world inhabited by a panoply of
figures real and imagined, including  Lord Byron , Casanova,
Marguerite Gautier and Kilroy, a young boxing champion whose
name was popular among U.S. soldiers who left the graffito
“Kilroy Was Here” around places where they were stationed during
World War II.  Desolation Row  Each of them wants to escape; none can. And so they pass
the time as thrill-seekers hawking their wares, whether sexual,
philosophical or merely scatological. A decade later  Bob Dylan 
peopled “Desolation Row” with many of the same characters and
certainly the mise-en-scene.  Bieito and Rosich add a prologue in which Williams (played
by Michael Medeiros), sick-drunk and stumbling, pre-enacts the
playwright’s tawdry death in 1983 (Williams choked on a bottle
cap in a midtown Manhattan hotel room). “There are no Lears
left,” he remarks.  Think of the production as a dreamscape in which set
designer Rebecca Ringst fills the stage with neon lights, smoky
nights and a rope ladder out of a trapeze act, aptly suffused
with day-for-night glare by lighting designer James F. Ingalls.  Ana Kuzmanic’s costumes call for a pink-and-black vinyl
minidress and leopard-skin boots for a peroxide blond
prostitute. The dandified Casanova laps brandy off the street
while the ageless Andre De Shields, as the Baron de Charlus,
reels between flamboyant swoops and angry exhortations.  And then there’s Kilroy (Antwayn Hopper) in Stars-and-
Stripes boxing shorts and boasting “a heart as big as a baby’s
head” (which, of course, we will eventually see for ourselves).  The visuals of this “Camino Real” are unforgiving, and
unforgettable. They provoke what the Bieito/Rosich text mostly
abjures: sympathy for this sordid conclave.  That’s the conundrum of “Camino Real,” whether staged by
Elia Kazan or “reimagined” by Calixto Bieito: In the end, can we
really overcome revulsion and empathize with this sick crew?  Yes -- even in such gruesome environs.  Julianna Margulies  Here’s what I learned when  Steppenwolf Theatre Company 
artistic director Martha Lavey interviewed Julianna Margulies,
the exceedingly charming star of CBS’s “The Good Wife” on
Monday before a ballroom filled with supporters of the company.  When she had her first scene with  George Clooney , in
“E.R.” she was supposed to die. When the network suits looked
at the film, they changed their minds.  “They said,” Margulies recalled, “’Don’t take another
job. I think you’re gonna live.’”  She hated living in  Los Angeles . “When you have roses in
your garden all year long,” said the native  New Yorker ,
“something’s wrong.”  Casting directors, especially for commercials, thought she
was Latina.  “There would always be the white girl, the black girl and
me in the middle,” she recalled. “I’m Jewish!”  She hates actor divas: “Get real. Cure AIDS or cancer and
I will bow down to you.”  That drew a big round of applause.  “Camino Real” is running through April 8 at 170 N.
Dearborn St.,  Chicago . Information: +1-312-443-3800;
 http://www.goodmantheatre.org .
Rating: ** 1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 