-- Greek Bonds Signal $2.6 Billion Payout on Credit-Default Swaps
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-15T07:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/greek-bonds-signal-2-6-billion-payout-on-credit-default-swaps.html
Greek bonds issued as part of the
biggest ever sovereign debt restructuring signal sellers of
default insurance will have to pay about $2.6 billion to holders
of credit swaps.  Investors are using new Greek 30-year bonds that are
trading at about 23 cents on the euro to calculate the payout,
according to Teo Lasarte, a European credit strategist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  London .  The credit-default swaps will be settled at an auction on
March 19 after investors were forced to exchange their Greek
debt holdings at a loss. Austria may have to inject 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) into KA Finanz AG, the so-called bad bank
of Kommunalkredit Austria AG, to help cover Greek swap payouts,
the nationalized lender said.  “People are using the longest-dated new bond as an
indication of recovery,” Lasarte said. “The important thing is
that the payout will be reflective of the economic loss faced by
most bondholders.”  In the exchange, investors agreed to write off more than
100 billion euros of debt in return for new Greek bonds worth
31.5 percent of their original investment.  Settlement Auction  The  settlement auction  will determine the amount that
sellers of protection pay by setting an agreed price for Greek
bonds. Sellers pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The recovery value may fall at the auction to 20 cents on
the euro, giving protection holders an 80 percent cash payout,
because more investors will want to sell their securities,
according to Saul Doctor, a credit strategist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  “Investors with CDS and bonds will likely see this as a
good opportunity to sell their holdings,” Doctor said. Buyers
may be scarce unless prices fall to about 18 cents, he said.  There were 4,369 swaps contracts covering a net $3.18
billion of Greek debt outstanding as of March 9, according to
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The vast majority of Greek contracts will be cash settled
at auction, with a small minority of investors exchanging their
bonds for the full face amount, according to Sherif Hamid, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London.  Basis Risk  Investors that held equal amounts of bonds and insurance
may now have an imbalance after the exchange, creating a so-
called basis risk, according to Hamid.  “Investors were able to unwind their basis packages close
to par in recent weeks if they so chose, and it appears that the
remaining” cheapest-to-deliver “obligations are trading at
similar levels to the economic recovery,” Hamid wrote in a
note. “That said, this potential basis is an issue that we
believe investors should remain mindful of.”  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association said it
is expediting the  auction  to maximize the number of bonds that
can be used to set payout amounts.  “Fears beforehand that the auction would have been
delayed, thereby thwarting the value of CDS, are now gone,”
according to Ciaran O’Hagan, head of European rates strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London. “ISDA’s decisions will go some
way to ensuring that sovereign CDS in  Europe  survive and prosper
as an instrument of cover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  