-- Greek Restructuring Delay Helps Banks as Risks Shift
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-03-15T16:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/greek-restructuring-delay-helps-banks-as-risks-shift.html
Delaying  Greece ’s debt
restructuring by more than a year reduced banks’ potential
losses as firms trimmed their holdings and most of the risk
shifted to European taxpayers.  When Greece was first rescued by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  in May 2010, lenders in other EU
nations held $68 billion of its sovereign debt, according to the
 Bank for International Settlements . If Greece had defaulted,
banks would have lost $51 billion at a 25 percent recovery rate.  Banks’ holdings of  Greek bonds  fell by more than half to
about $31 billion over the next 15 months, according to BIS,
cutting creditors’ losses at last week’s swap by at least 45
percent. Lenders are protected against further losses thanks to
sweeteners from the EU to encourage the exchange. Meanwhile,
Greece’s debt remains almost unchanged and the risk of future
default is now mostly borne by the public. The same playbook is
being used with  Portugal  and Ireland.  “This is a horrible deal for the EU taxpayer,” said Raoul Ruparel, chief economist at Open Europe, a London-based research
group. “The longer we wait for these restructurings, the worse
the deal gets for the public. There’s an ongoing risk transfer
from the banks to the taxpayers.”  New Borrowing  On the face of it, the swap chopped 137 billion euros ($179
billion) from Greece’s 368 billion-euro debt burden. The actual
reduction is less than half of that because the country has to
borrow from the EU and the IMF to provide new debt to private
creditors and to recapitalize banks and pension funds that can’t
handle losses from the swap.  The new borrowing -- in effect, replacing private with
public debt -- will amount to 78 billion euros, according to the
EU, leaving the actual relief from the swap at 59 billion euros.
Greece also will need to draw money from a second, 130 billion-
euro EU and IMF rescue fund to repay other private debt and
finance the government’s budget deficit.  That will leave Greece’s debt at 161 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of the year, 4 percentage points
less than the current level, according to a March 11 report by
the European Commission. The ratio probably will return to 165
percent in 2013, the commission said.  When all IMF and EU loans promised to Greece are disbursed,
66 percent to 75 percent of the country’s debt will be held by
the public. In 2010, before the first bailout and before the
 European Central Bank  started buying its bonds, Greece had about
310 billion euros of debt, all held by the private sector.  Taxpayers on Hook  If Greece has to restructure again, or defaults, taxpayers
will be on the hook.  “The swap doesn’t achieve debt sustainability for
Greece,” said Nicola Mai, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  London . “Debt relief going forward will have to come from
the public sector.”  Banks reduced holdings of Greek bonds as they matured.
Greece used loans from the IMF and the EU to make those
payments. The European Central Bank also has bought about 66
billion euros of Greek sovereign bonds from financial
institutions since May 2010, JPMorgan has estimated.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-largest bank, reduced its
holdings of Greek, Irish and Portuguese sovereign bonds by 70
percent to 1.6 billion euros in the past two years, including a
2.3 billion writedown, according to investor presentations by
the firm.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest lender, reduced its
long-term exposure to the three countries’ debt by 61 percent to
2.6 billion euros in 2011, including a 3.2 billion-euro
writedown, according to company statements.  ‘Zombie Banks’  “Relative to where banks were a year ago, they’re at a
much better point,” said Roger Lister, a New York-based analyst
who covers European lenders for credit-ratings firm DBRS Inc.
“They may still face future losses, but those will be at a much
smaller scale because their exposure is reduced greatly after
all the actions by the EU.”  The EU’s moves have favored banks, especially the weakest
lenders that couldn’t bear losses from a Greek default,
according to Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge fund
TF Market Advisors.  “Every policy seems to be designed to help the zombie
banks survive,” said Tchir, whose company focuses on European
credit markets.  It’s not only European banks that have been spared greater
losses from exposure to Greece. If the country had defaulted in
2010, losses for all bondholders, including insurance companies
and asset managers, would have been 232 billion euros, based on
a 25 percent recovery. During last week’s swap, they ended up
losing 107 billion euros.  Portugal, Ireland  A similar shift of risk to taxpayers is happening with
Portugal and Ireland. The ECB has bought 20 billion euros of
each nation’s debt, according to Open  Europe  estimates, while
the EU and the IMF provided 78 billion euros and 85 billion
euros, respectively, in new loans to replace private financing
for the two countries.  In Ireland, most of the public money has been used to pay
the debt of failed Irish banks. The ECB and the Irish central
bank have taken over financing of the lenders, providing about
140 billion euros of funding and transferring risk to taxpayers.  Since the November 2010 bailout of Ireland, European
lenders have reduced their exposure to that country’s banking
system by more than half to 61 billion euros. While current and
past Irish governments have tried to stop paying banks’ debts
with public funds, the EU has rejected the requests.  Collateral Needs  Ireland has been in talks with the EU, IMF and the ECB to
extend payments on 30 billion euros of debt linked to the
bailout of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. The notes, a form of IOU that
must be repaid over more than a decade, are used as collateral
for funding from the country’s central bank. The ECB is seeking
stronger collateral, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today.
The changes that the ECB is “requesting will have to align with
our interests,” he said.  Portugal’s borrowing costs rose this month on concern the
country might follow Greece into a debt restructuring. Portugal
may get a second bailout package from the EU and the IMF this
year, according to JPMorgan’s Mai. Unlike Greece, a second
rescue won’t include a debt swap, he said.  “As long as they continue to push for reforms, there won’t
be a political motivation to get the private sector involved and
take losses on Ireland or Portugal,” Mai said.  Even if the political will materializes for a restructuring
that involves private bondholders, it might be too late. Most of
Portugal’s debt has shifted to the public, said Open Europe’s
Ruparel.  “They’d like us to believe Greece was a special case and
won’t be repeated in other cases,” Ruparel said. “Greece is
the worst case, but not a special case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 