-- Groupama May Cut Stakes in SocGen, Mediobanca, Veolia
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-03-15T17:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/groupama-may-cut-stakes-in-socgen-mediobanca-veolia-1-.html
Groupama SA (GPAS) , the French insurer
that swung to a 2011 loss on Greek sovereign-debt writedowns,
may sell part of its holdings in  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Veolia
 Environnement SA (ALTEV)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   The stakes “aren’t going to stay on Groupama’s balance
sheet forever,” Chief Executive Officer Thierry Martel told
reporters at a meeting in Paris today, when asked whether the
insurer is considering cutting its holdings in the three firms.
Any sales will depend on market conditions, he said.  Martel, who became CEO in October, ending the 11-year
tenure of his predecessor, Jean Azema, got help from state-owned
bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations to bolster Groupama’s
solvency level. The insurer in December agreed to sell part of
its stake in real-estate company  Silic SA (SIL)  to CDC, which
yesterday also injected 300 million euros ($392 million) in
Groupama’s unit Gan Eurocourtage by subscribing to preferred
shares.  Groupama is aiming to sell Gan Eurocourtage, its private-
equity funds and its U.K. insurance business, Martel said today.
While the company wants to focus on its main insurance markets -
- especially France and  Italy  -- it will stop targeting
acquisitions for international expansion, he said.  ‘Turned the Page’  “Clearly we’ve turned the page of capital opening and fast
growth” through takeovers, Martel said. The insurer, which
plans 400 million euros in cost savings by 2014, will
“stabilize or cut slightly staff” without making any layoffs,
the CEO said.  Stock investments represented about 13 percent of
Groupama’s invested assets at the end of 2011, down from about
16 percent a year earlier, according to a presentation today.
The firm plans to reduce the proportion of stock investments to
about 5 percent over the next two to three years, Deputy CEO
Christian Collin told reporters.  Groupama’s holdings of Greek government debt was about 3.2
billion euros before the writedowns, Collin said. That’s more
than the insurer’s Spanish sovereign risks. Groupama bought half
of its Greek government holdings between 2001 and 2008, while
the remaining half was acquired in 2009, Collin said.  Groupama, owned by a group of French regional insurers, had
a 1.8 billion-euro net loss in 2011 as it booked 1.55 billion
euros in writedowns from Greek sovereign debt and 1.5 billion
euros of losses on its “strategic” stock investments, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Whitehouse at 
 dwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  