-- High-Grade Debt Loss Will Shrink on Demand, Bank of America Says
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-15T17:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/high-grade-debt-loss-will-shrink-on-demand-bank-of-america-says.html
The worst loss for U.S. investment-
grade corporate bonds since November is likely to shrink as
rising  interest rates  spur growing demand for the securities,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The debt has lost 1.25 percent this month as 10-year
Treasury yields  jumped  to 2.28 percent, narrowing relative
yields to 194 basis points, the least since August 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Losses
for the month will be reduced as Treasury yields stop rising and
spreads tighten further, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
strategist Hans Mikkelsen said.  “As higher interest rates make corporate bonds more
attractive for yield-sensitive investors at current still ultra-
low levels, subsequent spread tightening - assuming no further
increase in interest rates and 15 basis points further spread
tightening from today - would lead to March total-return losses
of only about 15 basis points,” he wrote in a report today.  Investment-grade corporate bonds are losing this month as
Treasury yields, which the securities price off of, have surged 
on better-than-expected economic data, reducing the allure of
safer securities. While that might prompt some retail investors
to sell, it’s more likely that demand for the bonds will rise
because of higher yields, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in
a note today.  Yields on investment-grade debt rose to 3.6 percent
yesterday from 3.4 percent on March 2, which was the lowest on
record, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That’s
still below the 3.93 percent reached on Jan. 4, the highest
level this year.  Since December 1999, there have been 50 months with total
return losses, according to the note. Fund outflows occurred
either during one of those months or in the subsequent month
only 12 times, Mikkelsen wrote.  “While we may still see some daily outflows going forward,
we are still unlikely in our view to see monthly outflows unless
interest rates back up much further,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  