-- Tighter Fracking Regulations Favored by 65% of U.S. in Poll
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-15T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/tighter-fracking-regulations-favored-by-65-of-u-s-in-poll.html
The U.S. public favors greater
regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a natural gas drilling
technique that has reduced prices for consumers while raising
environmental concerns.  More than three times as many Americans say there should be
more regulation of fracturing, known as fracking, than less,
according to a Bloomberg News National Poll conducted March
8-11. The findings coincide with recent surveys in Ohio and New
York where people who believe fracking will cause environmental
damage outnumber those who say the process is safe.  “That actually doesn’t surprise me,” Mark Boling,
executive vice president for Houston-based  Southwestern Energy
Co. (SWN) , said of the poll results in an interview. “We have been so
focused as an industry on figuring out how to crack the code and
get these huge volumes of gas trapped in shale formations. We
haven’t focused on the things we have to do differently above
ground.”  Because of fracking, the U.S. is producing so much gas that
the government may approve an export terminal after warning four
years ago of a need to boost imports. Gas from shale, fine-
grained sedimentary rocks that trap the fuel, made up 23 percent
of U.S. production in 2010, and is forecast to rise to 49
percent by 2035, according to the Energy Department.  Fracking Jobs  In 2010, the industry supported more than 600,000 U.S.
jobs, according to a report that consultants IHS  Global Insight 
prepared for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a group that
represents drillers.  Gas prices  fell 36 percent last year,
helping to put U.S. household expenditures for gas this winter
on a track to be the lowest in nine years.  When asked by Bloomberg if there needs to be more or less
regulation of fracking, 65 percent said more, 18 percent said
less and 17 percent said they weren’t sure. The poll of 1,002
adults 18 and older was conducted by  Selzer & Co. , a  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break up rock and allow
gas or oil to flow. Environmental groups have raised concerns
over harmful emissions and the handling of wastewater from gas
wells.  State Regulation  Fracking has been used in places such as Texas and  Oklahoma 
since 1949 and is largely regulated by the states. Its use has
expanded with the adoption of horizontal wells that branch off
to tap into more gas from a single well.  In  Pennsylvania , Ohio and  West Virginia , drillers are
tapping a formation known as the Marcellus Shale that may hold
enough gas to supply the U.S. for six years.  The drilling boom has also produced some high-profile
failures that have prompted state regulators to review
standards. In Pennsylvania, rules were beefed up after the state
found that gas from wells operated by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
had seeped into drinking water supplies in 2010.
In his Jan. 24 State of the Union address, President  Barack Obama  said his administration would “take every possible
action” to see that gas fracking is done without putting the
public’s health or safety at risk. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency is investigating claims that the extraction 
process tainted drinking water in  Wyoming  and Pennsylvania.  New York Moratorium  Former  New York  Governor  David Paterson  put a moratorium on
drilling while regulators draft rules to protect water sources
such as the unfiltered watershed that provides 1.3 billion
gallons (4.9 billion liters) a day to  New York City .  Proposed regulations threaten to slow shale-gas development
and the growth of new jobs, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute , which represents oil and gas companies. Kyle Isakower, vice president for regulatory and economic policy for
the Washington-based industry group, warned of a wave of new
federal regulations.  “We’re concerned that there are now 10 separate federal
government agencies looking to study and potentially add new and
unnecessary layers of regulations on hydraulic fracturing,”
Isakower said in a March 1 statement. “More regulation could
increase costs and delays for operators.”  Proposed EPA Rules  The EPA has proposed rules that would reduce emissions from
gas wells and set standards for how to treat wastewater. The
agency is also conducting a broad study on the potential impacts
of gas fracking on drinking water. Preliminary results are
scheduled to be released later this year.  “I don’t see it as something where the federal government
is moving into an area where they haven’t traditionally had
jurisdiction,” Boling said. “I don’t see a problem with
that.”  Boling is part of an industry group working on a project
with the New York-based Environmental Defense Fund to help
states improve oversight of gas fracking.  In December, the EPA linked fracking to groundwater
contamination in Pavillion, Wyoming. The agency is also testing
water from wells in Dimock, Pennsylvania, after residents in the
community complained of methane and chemical contamination from
wells operated by  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)   Cabot on EPA  That inquiry prompted Cabot Chief Executive Officer Dan Dinges to say the “EPA’s actions in Dimock appear to undercut
the president’s stated commitment to this important resource,”
according to a Jan. 26 letter to EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson .
“EPA’s approach has caused confusion that undermines important
policy goals of the  United States  to ensure safe, reliable,
secure and clean energy sources from domestic natural gas.”  Still, Pennsylvania residents strongly support shale gas
production. When asked if drilling should go forward in light of
its economic benefits or stop because of potential environmental
impacts, 62 percent chose drilling compared with 30 percent who
said there should be no drilling, according to a  survey  by
 Quinnipiac University (78104MF)  in Hamden,  Connecticut . The poll of 1,370
registered voters was conducted Sept. 21-26.  People in New York and  Ohio  expressed greater concern over
environmental damage, according to Quinnipiac. In a January
 survey  of 1,610 registered voters in Ohio, 43 percent said
fracking would cause environmental damage and 16 percent said it
would not. When asked the same question in December, 55 percent
of people  surveyed  in New York said drilling would damage the
environment while 13 percent said it would not.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  