-- Limbaugh Has Advertisers Recalculating Web’s Power: Tech
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/limbaugh-clash-has-advertisers-recalculating-web-s-power-tech.html
A day after  Rush Limbaugh  called
Georgetown law student Sandra Fluke “a slut,” Angelo Carusone,
a Washington-based activist, began contacting advertisers to
boycott Limbaugh’s show -- over the phone, via e-mail, through
Twitter Inc. and on  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Twenty-four hours later, six companies, including  Geico
Corp. (156714Q)  and Citrix Systems Inc., dropped their ads on the
conservative radio program. After three days, 18 more companies,
including  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and Sears Holdings Corp., pulled their
marketing. Before the week was out, 27 more, including Netflix
Inc. and Capital One Financial Corp., cut spots from “The Rush
Limbaugh Show,” heard by more than 13 million listeners daily.  “The boycott wouldn’t have had the same effect without
Twitter or Facebook,” said Carusone, campaign director for
 Media Matters for America , which is dedicated to “monitoring,
analyzing, and correcting conservative misinformation in the
U.S. media,” according to its website. He was careful to add
that others across the Internet fueled a campaign that thus far
has prompted at least 51 advertisers to cut ties to Limbaugh --
in less than eight days.  While threats of boycotts over content are as old as old
media, online social outlets have matured -- both in use and
perception -- to the point that major corporations now weigh
these campaigns more seriously and with an urgency not seen
before. The collective power of social media to specifically
target a group of companies has never been more dramatically on
display than in the Limbaugh incident, shaking companies as
diverse as San Diego-based ProFlowers and Dearborn, Michigan-
based  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Facebook ‘Likes’  Clear Channel Communications Inc.’s Premiere Radio
Networks, which distributes Limbaugh’s show, said most
participants in these online efforts aren’t customers of the
businesses they reach out to and are driven by “professional
special interest groups.”  “If one is discussing social media activity and success,
please note that Rush has more than 1 million ‘likes’ on
Facebook and more than 2.3 million unique visitors to his
website monthly,” said Rachel Nelson, a spokeswoman for
Premiere, in an e-mail.  ‘Vocal Minority’  Whether the Limbaugh boycott continues or withers --
Limbaugh himself has said dropping advertisers is like “losing
a couple of French fries in the container when it’s delivered to
you in the drive-thru. You don’t even notice it” -- the
questions it has raised for companies have taken center stage.  “Should a vocal minority drive major business decisions?”
said  Scott Monty , the social media director for Ford. “Or are
they a minority that is using the online space as a platform
when they don’t have purchase power or influence that others
have? From a data and analysis perspective, the jury is still
out on that.”  Fluke came under attack after testifying before Congress
and supporting President Barack Obama’s regulations mandating
insurance coverage of contraception. Limbaugh had started to
criticize Fluke earlier in the week, for at least three days,
according to Carusone, culminating in his remark on Feb. 29:
“What does that make her? It makes her a slut, right? It makes
her a prostitute.”  Ford on Twitter  Within 24 hours of that statement, Carusone and his
colleagues at Media Matters started making calls, beginning with
national advertisers. “I knew they would appreciate the heads-
up,” he said. “The stakes are higher for them.”  Carusone reached Ford’s Monty through Twitter and sent him
a link to an audio recording of Ford’s ads that he uploaded to
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube site.  “We were alarmed that people were hearing Ford ads on the
Limbaugh show,” Monty said in a phone interview. “But we
wanted to confirm.”  It took at least two days for Ford to corroborate
Carusone’s claims. A few days later, the company asked  radio
stations  syndicating Limbaugh’s shows to make sure its ads
weren’t airing.  Monty said Ford never advertised on Limbaugh on purpose and
that its ads aired either as a result of a mistake on the part
of a radio station or because Ford’s ads aired on a network that
included Limbaugh. Many other advertisers, according to
Carusone, reacted similarly, saying they didn’t know their
marketing messages were on Limbaugh’s show.  Social Media Activity  Monty, who joined Ford more than three years ago to lead
its social media effort, said industries in general no longer
consider his title mere window dressing to spruce up a company’s
image for the Internet audience. Ford’s quick response to
Monty’s information was evidence of how seriously the company
considers these online outlets.  “Ford has taken a much more active role in social media,”
he said. “We’re listening to customer complaints. But it’s also
a way to keep track of what they like, too. We’re much better
than we were even a year ago.”  At the same time Carusone was contacting advertisers, Nita
Chaudhary began her own, parallel effort. Chaudhary, who co-
founded women’s-rights group  UltraViolet  last year, said she was
incensed after reading through a transcript of Limbaugh’s
“slut” comments.  She spent that afternoon finding Limbaugh advertisers, via
the Web and through Media Matters’ website, which had started to
track who was still airing marketing on the show. Washington-
based UltraViolet and Media Matters aren’t affiliated.  Catering to Women  Chaudhary decided to specifically target the online florist
 ProFlowers  because “this is a company that caters largely to
women,” she said in a telephone interview. “Nobody should want
to have a part of what Rush said. He just called a vast part of
their customer bases ‘sluts.’”  UltraViolet, which has a full-time staff of two, reached
out to its members and collected 100,000 signatures online in
two days for a petition asking ProFlowers to boycott the show.  Chaudhary estimates around 30,000 of those followed up with
calls to ProFlowers’ customer complaint line, wrote posts to its
Facebook page and made comments on Twitter, mentioning the
company’s account the weekend after Limbaugh’s Fluke comments.  The ProFlowers Facebook page was riddled with thousands of
comments by March 3, two days into Chaudhary’s petition. One
read: “I will not buy products from ProFlowers ever again.”  The following day, four days after Limbaugh controversy
erupted, ProFlowers retreated. The company announced it would
suspend its advertising on the show, posting on its  Facebook
page : “Mr. Limbaugh’s recent comments went beyond political
discourse to a personal attack and do not reflect our values as
a company.”  “It worked,” Chaudhary said.  Jen Carroll, a spokeswoman for ProFlowers, declined to
comment.  Even with UltraViolet’s small size, Chaudhary said its
“organizing was so effective because people were in an
information environment -- as they’re Googling it a tweet comes
in, or they get an e-mail from us giving them a way to take
action. If the information environment had not existed, this
would have been a slower campaign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brecher at 
 jbrecher4@bloomberg.net  