-- IMF Approves 28 Billion-Euro Greek Loan Warning on Slippage
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-15T21:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/imf-approves-28-billion-euro-loan-for-greece.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
approved a 28 billion-euro ($36.6 billion) loan for Greece as
part of a second bailout led by euro area governments that
requires more austerity and an overhaul of its economy from
public enterprises to the labor market.  The Washington-based IMF said 1.65 billion euros will be
immediately available under the new arrangement. The four-year
loan follows an earlier program that was canceled, which left
9.7 billion euros that were never disbursed.  Greece completed the world’s largest sovereign-debt
restructuring and had to agree to deeper spending cuts to obtain
the new funds. While private creditors’ participation helped
decrease the projected debt level, the IMF warned today that the
country now has “no room for slippages” and needs to focus on
measures that will boost its competitiveness.  “The challenges confronting  Greece  remain significant,
with a large competitiveness gap, a high level of public debt,
and an undercapitalized banking system,” IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said in an e-mailed statement. “The new Fund-
supported program will enable Greece to address these challenges
while remaining in the Eurozone.”  The IMF now sees Greece’s debt reaching 116.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, lower than the 120.5 percent
previously forecast, because of greater participation by the
private sector in the debt restructuring.  Buying Time  While the conditions attached to the loan may prove hard to
meet amid a fifth year of recession and elections that may occur
within weeks, European officials are counting on their 130
billion-euro package to buy time to insulate the rest of the
region from the debt crisis, said Domenico Lombardi, a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “The main function of this agreement is to contain the
crisis for the next few months in order to provide a more stable
environment for  Italy  and  Spain  to carry out their adjustments
and therefore stabilize the euro area as a whole,” said
Lombardi, a former IMF board official.  The package, formally approved by euro countries yesterday,
caps months of negotiations over the second bailout after an
initial rescue in 2010 failed to halt the debt turmoil.  With only about 18.3 billion euros in fresh money, the IMF
is lowering its share of the bailout compared with the first
package, amid concern from member countries including  Brazil 
that Greece accounts for too much of total IMF commitments.  Additional Cuts  Greece had to spell out 3.2 billion euros in additional
spending cuts this year to obtain aid, and the latest round of
measures have provoked street protests in  Athens  as unemployment
tops 20 percent. Steps to be taken include lowering pension
payments, cutting funding for municipalities and firing as many
as 15,000 state workers.  “Greece’s problems above all are competitiveness
problems,”  Poul Thomsen , the IMF mission chief to Greece, said
on a conference call. It will have to “deal with this through
the means of internal devaluation.”  Reforms to the economy must include liberalizing collective
bargaining agreements, Thomson said. Some public enterprises
should be closed and the number of public-sector employees
reduced “steadily.”  Elections in April or May might still derail adherence to
the measures demanded. Under the terms of the bailout, the Greek
government must continue to meet the conditions set by its
international creditors to receive aid payments at three-monthly
intervals.  No ‘Great Illusions’  “Nobody has great illusions on the feasibility of the
program,” said  Laurence Boone , chief European economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “There’s a feeling they
will default again,” this time on its obligations to its public
creditors, because of the scale of efforts asked of Greece, she
said.  Frustrated with Greece’s inability to meet deficit-cutting
and asset-sale targets for two years, donor countries have also
insisted on more control over how Greece spends the money. A
special account will be set up that gives priority to keeping
Greece solvent before releasing money for the country’s budget.  “The main risk to the program is on a delay in structural
reforms” needed to boost growth and offset the impact of fiscal
austerity, Thomsen said. “There are no more low-hanging fruits,
no more easy adjustments.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  