-- India Holds Rate for Third Meeting as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-03-15T09:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/india-holds-rate-for-third-meeting-before-budget-as-prices-rise.html
India ’s central bank left  interest
rates  unchanged for a third consecutive meeting after inflation
accelerated and as it awaits steps to curb the fiscal deficit in
the budget tomorrow.  The  Reserve Bank of India  kept the  repurchase rate  at 8.5
percent, it said in a statement in Mumbai today. The outcome was
predicted by 19 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
with three forecasting a quarter-point reduction. It reiterated
that future actions will be toward lowering rates.  India joins nations from  Indonesia  to  South Korea  in
holding borrowing costs this month, juggling price pressures
with the need to prevent a deeper growth slowdown as investment
falls and  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts exports. The central bank
has signaled rate cuts to counter the  weakest expansion  in
almost three years depend on a sustained easing in inflation and
moves to curb the largest budget gap among BRIC economies.  “ Oil prices  and the decline in the currency pose a huge
worry for the inflation trajectory,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Gurgaon, near  New Delhi .
“The RBI wants to see an indication of reduction in the fiscal
deficit in the budget tomorrow before embarking on cutting
rates.”  India’s benchmark bonds extended a decline and the rupee
weakened after the decision. The yield on the 8.79 percent note
due November 2021 was at 8.36 percent as of 1:35 p.m. in Mumbai,
according to the central bank’s trading system, compared with
8.29 percent before the announcement. The rupee fell 0.8 percent
to 50.325 per dollar, while the stocks index fell 1.6 percent.  Inflation Risks  “Recent growth-inflation dynamics have prompted the
 Reserve Bank  to indicate that no further tightening is required
and that future actions will be towards lowering the rates,” it
said in today’s statement. “However, notwithstanding the
deceleration in growth, inflation risks remain, which will
influence both the timing and magnitude of future rate
actions.”  The monetary authority also said “upside risks” to
inflation have increased from the recent surge in crude oil
prices, “fiscal slippage” and rupee depreciation. It added
“credible fiscal consolidation” will be an “important
factor” in shaping the inflation outlook.  Growth in the $1.7 trillion economy slowed for the fourth
straight quarter from a year earlier in the three months through
December. GDP will probably climb 6.9 percent this fiscal year,
the least since 2009, the government forecasts.  Can’t Delay Cuts  “Even though there are risks from oil prices, the fiscal
deficit and the rupee’s decline, the huge growth slowdown
requires that the RBI starts cutting rates,” said Indranil Sen Gupta, a Mumbai-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“I don’t think they can delay rate cuts beyond April.”  India’s  fiscal deficit  may reach 6.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2012, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc., defeating Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s plan to contain it at 4.6 percent. Slower expansion
has sapped tax receipts even as subsidies and a job guarantee
program for rural workers spur spending.  Inflation was 6.95 percent in February, quickening for the
first time in five months after exceeding 9 percent for most of
2011. The central bank predicts a gain in the benchmark
 wholesale-price index  of 7 percent by March.  BRIC’s Fastest  The monetary authority raised borrowing costs by a record
3.75 percentage points from 2010 to October last year to fight
price rises. The RBI unexpectedly cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves on Jan. 24 and March 9 to
ease a cash squeeze, lowering the  cash reserve ratio  a combined
1.25 percentage points to 4.75 percent.  Inflation in  Asia ’s third-largest economy remains the
fastest in the BRIC group, which also includes Brazil, Russia
and  China , eroding purchasing power in a nation where more than
two-thirds of the population lives on less than $2 per day.  Tata Motors, the country’s biggest automaker by value,
raised car prices by as much as 12,000 rupees ($239) on Feb. 8.
 Indian Railways , Asia’s oldest network, plans to raise passenger
fares for the first time in a decade.  Brent crude , the benchmark for almost all of India’s
imports, has jumped about 17 percent so far this year. India
imports three-quarters of its oil.  ‘Unjustified’  “It’s unjustified to expect the RBI to start cutting rates
given the risks to inflation from higher crude prices and fiscal
slippage,” said Deepali Bhargava, Mumbai-based chief India
economist at Espirito Santo Securities.  India’s gross domestic product may rise as much as 7.85
percent in the year starting April 1, Mukherjee’s advisers said
in a report today. The annual Economic Survey said the
government should target and cap subsidies it pays for food
grains, fertilizers and fuels including diesel.  Investors from ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. to
 Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  predict Mukherjee will announce steps to cut the
deficit to 5 percent of GDP in the year to March 2013 rather
than ramp up spending to aid expansion, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Gross fixed capital formation, a measure of investment in
items such as factories and roads, fell 1.2 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, following a 4 percent tumble.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to preserve an
economic turnaround that began in the 1990s. His ruling Congress
party was routed in regional elections this year.  Allegations of graft against officials, inflation and
policy reversals have hurt Singh’s agenda. Among the setbacks
was the suspension in December of plans to open India’s retail
industry to foreign companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “What India needs is to quickly put in place all the
policy reforms if it wants to accelerate growth to more than 8
percent,” said Jay Shankar, an economist at Religare Capital
Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “Unfortunately, the government is
weakened after the state elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net . 