-- Intesa Reports Fourth-Quarter Loss After Goodwill Writedown
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-03-15T16:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/intesa-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-after-goodwill-writedown.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s
second-biggest bank, posted a fourth-quarter net loss because of
a 10.2 billion-euro ($13.3 billion) writedown of goodwill
related to mergers and acquisitions.  The net loss  was 10.1 billion euros, compared with net
income of 505 million euros a year earlier. Excluding one-time
items, the quarterly profit was 265 million euros, the Milan-
based lender said in a statement. Analysts expected profit of
633 million euros, according to the  average of 10 estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The bank cut its dividend by 3 cents to 5
cents per share.  “The 2011 dividend is a floor for the bank,” Chief
Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani said in a conference
call with analysts. “Shareholders have to be rewarded, and a
bank shouldn’t retain capital unless there is a better
utilization.”  Intesa joined UniCredit SpA, the country’s biggest bank by
assets, in reducing the value of intangible assets related to
acquisitions made more than five years ago. The lender’s
purchases included a 29.6 billion-euro takeover of Sanpaolo IMI,
merged into Banca Intesa in 2007.  The results “look good in terms of total income and pre-
provision profit,”  Carlo Tommaselli , an analyst at Societe
Generale SA in Milan, wrote in a note to clients. Intesa rose 4
percent to 1.56 euros in Milan trading, giving the bank a market
value of 25.4 billion euros.  Revenue  Revenue rose to 4.3 billion euros in the quarter from 4.2
billion euros a year earlier, while net interest income
increased 5.8 percent to 2.5 billion euros, benefiting from
funding borrowed from the  European Central Bank ’s longer-term
refinancing operations, or LTROs.  Intesa’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
health, was 10.1 percent at the end of the year, confirming it
as one of the best capitalized lenders in the country. Loan-loss
provisions more than doubled to 2 billion euros in the quarter.  Cucchiani, named as chief executive officer in November to
replace  Corrado Passera , is working on a business plan review to
take into account negative market development and recession in
Italy. Intesa is shedding jobs and reducing costs to strengthen
finances as part of its five-year business plan.  “Intesa’s operating performance, net of 2011 non-recurring
items, is expected to remain broadly stable,” the bank said in
the statement. In the first quarter of the year operating profit
may record a double-digit growth, Cucchiani said.  Savings Shares  The bank recorded a tax benefit of about 1 billion euros in
the fourth quarter due to the realignment of intangible assets.
One-off items also include 400 million euros of writedowns on
Greek bonds and 120 million euros on its stake in Telco SpA.  Intesa’s savings shares climbed 9 percent to 1.35 euros,
after Cucchiani indicated the bank might consider a buyback or
conversion. ‘Savings shares are not an efficient source of
capital,” he said. Intesa “will see what it can do” about the
class of shares, he said without elaborating.  The lender is focusing on organic growth and it won’t
participate in an eventual consolidation of the Italian banking
industry, he said. Cucchiani ruled out a listing or
extraordinary transaction for its fund-management unit Banca
Fideuram SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net  