-- InterMune Gains on German Esbriet Decision: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-03-15T20:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/intermune-s-esbriet-offers-benefit-according-to-german-agency.html
InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , maker of the lung-
disease drug Esbriet, reached its highest value in five weeks
after a German committee said the medicine offers an additional
benefit, clearing the way for talks with the country’s health
insurers.  InterMune rose 4.4 percent to $15.45 at the close in  New
York , the highest share price since Feb. 8. The Brisbane,
California-based company has declined 65 percent in the past 12
months.  Germany’s Federal Joint Committee, also known as the G-BA,
decided the drug has an added benefit that can’t be quantified
now, and will be defined later based on clinical experience,
InterMune said today in a statement. The ruling ignored a
recommendation in December from the Institute for Quality and
Efficiency in Health Care, an advisory panel. The panel had
found the drug, also known as pirfenidone, had no or low
additional benefit.  The rating “takes the worst-case scenario off the table,
should position InterMune reasonably for upcoming pricing
negotiations, and should also increase confidence that France
will take a similar view,”  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with
Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in a research note today.  First-Year Cost  Esbriet costs 38,474 euros ($50,234) for the first year of
therapy in Germany, according to the G-BA. Additional years of
therapy cost 39,200 euros. Today’s decision sets into motion
negotiations between InterMune and Germany’s public insurers
about a discount to that price, Kristine Reis, a Berlin-based
spokeswoman for the G-BA, said by telephone today.  Under a law passed in 2010, Germany forces drugmakers to
prove their medicine works better than older therapies in order
to charge more for a new drug. Esbriet is the first medicine
classified as an orphan drug, one for a disease with few medical
options, to be reviewed under the new law.  Esbriet may be priced at $30,000 to $34,000 in Germany next
year, and $28,000 in other European countries,  Michael Yee , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , wrote today in a note to
clients. He said he believes negotiations over price in France,
Spain and Italy are “on track” and will be “influenced by
Germany’s decision.”  Esbriet was approved in  Europe  a year ago to treat mild to
moderate  idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , a  lung disease  that robs
patients of their ability to breathe and leads to death. The
drug may reach $352 million in sales by 2014, the average
estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  