-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises Above Forecast
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-15T15:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rose-in-january.html
International demand for U.S.
financial assets rose more than forecast in January as investors
sought a haven from the debt crisis in  Europe .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$101 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$19.1 billion in December, the  Treasury Department  said today in
Washington. Six economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
forecast net buying of $38.5 billion of long-term assets,
according to the median estimate.  “The surge in foreign demand for U.S. financial assets
underscores the healthy appetite that continues to prevail
globally for U.S. securities,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S.
strategist at TD Securities in  New York , said. “Treasuries
demand was especially strong, reflecting the appeal of this
‘safe haven’ asset to global investors even at a time when risk
appetite was improving.”  U.S. assets maintained their attraction in January, as
European leaders struggled to contain their debt crisis that
started in  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland. Global risks posed by
the European crisis diminished after euro area members this week
approved a second bailout for Greece.  The report showed that net foreign purchases of U.S.
Treasuries totaled almost $83 billion in January, compared with
net selling of $14.9 billion the month before.  Custodial Survey  The Treasury said last month it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are invalid.  The department, in an explanatory note to its report, said
that while its data “provide a window into foreign ownership of
U.S. Treasury securities” based primarily on the custodial
data, they do not provide “complete accuracy.”  “For example, if a U.S. Treasury security purchased by a
foreign resident is held in a custodial account in a third
country, the true ownership of the security will not be
reflected in the data,” the department said.  China  remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in January after its holdings rose $7.6 billion to $1.16
trillion, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  Hong Kong , which is counted separately from China,
increased its holdings by $8.6 billion to $130.3 billion.  Japan , the second-largest holder of U.S. Treasuries
increased its holdings in January by $20.8 billion to $1.08
trillion, reaching a record since data were first compiled in
1994.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $18.8 billion in January, compared with
net buying of $95.2 billion the previous month.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  