-- Investec to Miss Analysts’ Estimates on Market Turmoil
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-03-15T16:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/investec-to-miss-analysts-estimates-on-market-turmoil-2-.html
Investec Plc (INL) , the owner of a bank
and money manager in South Africa and the U.K., said earnings
will drop because of “volatile” markets and sluggish activity
in the lender’s fiscal second half, missing estimates.  Operating profit is expected to fall as much as 16 percent
for the year ended in March, the company said in its so-called
pre-close briefing statement today. Earnings per share excluding
one-time items are forecast to be as much as 27 percent lower,
which is more than the 9 percent decline predicted by nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who  estimated  39.2 pence.  “The U.K. business is expected to report operating profit
marginally ahead of the prior year,” the lender said in the
statement. “The South African business is expected to report
operating profit in rands in line with the prior year. As
reported in the group’s interim results, the Australian business
is expected to report an operating loss.”  Investec, which was founded in Johannesburg in 1974 and
listed its shares in London in 2002, still holds the greatest
proportion of its assets in  South Africa . It has been expanding
its wealth business in the U.K. and agreed in September to buy
London-based Evolution Group Plc as it sought access to
Evolution’s wealth-management unit. While South Africa has
avoided being drawn into the European debt crisis, Investec’s
London business has experienced the effects.  “Given the changing financial, regulatory and economic
landscape, the group’s return on equity and capital adequacy
targets have been under review,” the lender said in the
statement today as it lowered its target for  ROE (INVP)  to 12 percent
to 16 percent from 20 percent. Investec also raised its capital
adequacy targets to between 15 percent and 18 percent from 14
percent to 17 percent.  Investec  closed  1.3 percent lower at 400 pence in  London .
The stock has risen 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  