-- IPad Maintains Apple’s Lead: Tech by Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-03-15T00:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ipad-maintains-apple-s-lead-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Let’s get right to the point: If
you don’t already have an iPad, chances are you’ll be very happy
with the third-generation model that goes on sale Friday. If you
already have an iPad 2, there’s little need to upgrade.  It isn’t that the new iPad lacks impressive features --most
notably, a vastly better display and an ultra-fast Internet-
connection option. It’s just that it seems designed to maintain
 Apple (AAPL) ’s huge lead in the tablet wars, rather than to extend it.  The closest parallel might be the iPhone 4S, a similarly
incremental updating of its predecessor. The 4S, though, had one
genuinely breakthrough feature: Siri, the voice-based personal
assistant. For all its improvements, there’s no comparable
innovation in this year’s iPad.  The new tablet, which Apple is just calling “the iPad,”
is in many ways indistinguishable from its predecessor, the iPad
2. The pricing is unchanged, ranging from $499 to $829,
depending on storage capacity and network options. It’s a wee
bit thicker -- two-hundredths of an inch -- and less than two
ounces heavier. Otherwise, it’s the same height and width, with
the same-sized 9.7-inch screen.  Sweet Pixels  But oh, what a screen. For this new edition, Apple has
replaced the previous, perfectly nice one with the same so-
called Retina Display it introduced on the iPhone 4. The new
screen provides 2048 x 1536 resolution, which is to say four
times the number of pixels of the old one, and more even than a
high-definition TV set.  While the Retina Display on the iPhone wasn’t an earth-
shaking advance, the impact is far more evident on the iPad’s
greater real estate. Even the text in an e-book is crisper,
high-def video is sharper and photos are crystal clear.  The visual improvements extend to newly enhanced graphics
processing as well as a better photographic experience. Apple 
junked the iPad 2’s primitive rear-facing camera in favor of a 
new one with a five-megapixel sensor, plus optics and features 
borrowed from the iPhone 4S that include image stabilization 
and the ability to shoot full high-def video. And it’s 
introducing a $4.99 iPad version of its popular  iPhoto  Mac 
app that, combined with the stunning screen, makes editing
and sharing photos a pleasure.  Charged Up  In a week of using the new model, I found battery life to
be quite comparable to the iPad 2. That doesn’t sound like big
news -- but it is. That’s because the new edition introduces
support for the power-hungry 4G  data networks  known as LTE that
are being rolled out in the U.S. by  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless and AT&T.  Especially in these early days, when the networks aren’t
crowded, LTE can deliver thunderous performance. On my test
model, which runs on the AT&T network, I’ve clocked speeds over
40 megabits per second, which is faster than most home cable-
modem connections.  Apple says the iPad provides up to 10 hours of use over Wi-
Fi, and nine hours on a cellular network. Based on my tests,
that may actually be a little conservative. After near-constant
LTE use, including Web surfing and an hour or two of streamed
video, I still had power to spare at the end of the day.  With battery life no longer a concern, the principal issues
around LTE involve price and coverage. An LTE-equipped iPad
costs $130 more than the Wi-Fi-only one, and data plans, which
vary by carrier, range from $15 to $50 a month. (No long-term
contract is needed.) Moreover, LTE is so fast you may find
yourself consuming more data than you’re used to.  Verizon or  AT&T (T) ?  You’ll also have to choose whether you want a Verizon or
AT&T model, since their LTE networks aren’t compatible. Verizon
has broader coverage and lets you share the connection with
other devices. But AT&T’s $30-a-month plan allows you more data
than Verizon’s, and its fallback network when LTE is unavailable
is faster.  The new iPad’s 2012 enhancements -- not to mention its wide
lead over all rivals in terms of the number and quality of
available apps -- keep Apple easily ahead of all other tablet-
makers. In fact, by keeping the iPad 2 alive and cutting its 
starting price by $100, to $399, Apple has instantly made it the 
second-best tablet you can buy.  When the company launched the iPad 2 a year ago, it was
remarkable how few changes were needed to keep it the No. 1
tablet. Since then, devices running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system have flooded the market, while  Microsoft (MSFT)  is poised to
introduce a new generation of competitors running the next
version of Windows. Yet once again, Apple has -- with a minimum
of effort -- lapped the field.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 