-- IPhone Grabs Camera Market From Sony: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-03-15T12:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/iphone-grabs-camera-market-from-sony-chart-of-the-day-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Colorado in third paragraph.)  Smartphones from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  are hijacking the photo-taking market, with camera makers
such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  facing the weakest demand since 2009.  “The cell-phone camera is becoming more accepted as the
primary camera,” said Pamela Tufegdzic, an analyst at research
firm IHS Inc. “Smartphones are cannibalizing the point-and-
shoot, digital-still camera market.”  The CHART OF THE DAY shows digital-camera shipments are
expected to fall 4.3 percent this year to 115.2 million units,
the lowest level since 2009, data compiled by IHS show. By
contrast, smartphone shipments will surge 35 percent to 642
million units, the Englewood, Colorado-based research company
estimates. Japanese camera makers such as  Nikon Corp. (7731)  and  Canon
Inc. (7751)  will bear the brunt of market shift, which has some
similarities to the evolution from film-based to digital
photography.  The iPhone 4S, Apple’s latest smartphone, takes photos with
60 percent higher resolution than the company’s previous model.
HTC, which makes smartphones based on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, said its new One handsets capture images in
poor-lighting conditions. And  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest
mobile-phone maker by volume, last month introduced a handset
with a camera sensor that the company says delivers photos with
five times the resolution of the iPhone 4S.  “You have the ability to zoom in to capture detail that
you can’t immediately see if you’re just looking at the image
itself,” Jo Harlow, head of the smart-devices unit of Nokia,
said at the GSMA Mobile World Congress last month in Barcelona.  Japanese manufacturers including Nikon, Canon, Sony and
Olympus Corp. shipped 5.6 million digital cameras in January, 10
percent fewer than a year earlier, according to the Camera &
Imaging Products Association. Eastman Kodak Co., which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in January, has initiated patent-
infringement cases against Apple and HTC that claim infringement
of inventions related to digital photographs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  