-- Lira Strengthens Most in Two Weeks on Bets Sell-Off Is Overdone
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-15T16:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lira-strengthens-most-in-two-weeks-on-bets-sell-off-is-overdone.html
The lira headed for its biggest
gain in more than two weeks as technical indicators suggested
the currency may have depreciated too far and too fast.  The Turkish currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 1.7970 per
dollar as of 5:53 p.m. in Istanbul, the most since Feb. 28. It
weakened 1 percent yesterday and retreated 2.5 percent from its
strongest level this year reached on Feb. 20.  A stochastic oscillator for the lira versus the dollar was
82.9 today, above the 70 threshold that signals the currency may
have depreciated too fast and is poised for a rebound. The
measure, which tracks the price of a security relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period, climbed above 80 two
days ago for the first time since Jan. 6.  “We are seeing today a correction in yesterday’s big move
but the overall sentiment in the market is that the dollar will
keep its strength,” Emir Baruh, a currency trader at Akbank,
said in e-mailed comments.  The lira plunged as much as 1 percent yesterday to 2.09
against an equally weighted dollar and euro basket following the
 Federal Reserve ’s decision to raise its assessment of the  U.S.
economy  on March 13 and acknowledge strains in global financial
markets have eased. Fed policy makers refrained from new actions
to lower borrowing costs, saying the U.S. labor market is
gathering strength. Relative to the basket, the lira rose 0.4
percent to 2.0751.  The Turkish currency has weakened 2.9 percent this month
performing worse than all  emerging markets  after the Brazilian
real and reduced its gains this year to 5 percent.  Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark debt fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.37 percent, according to
a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index of the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  