-- Irish Whiskey Saves Me From Irish Pubs on St. Patrick’s
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/irish-whiskey-saves-me-from-irish-pubs-on-st-patrick-s.html
It’s not that I’m a spoilsport, but
marauding gangs of fun-loving drunks just don’t do it for me.  My Irish half loves St. Patrick, Erin’s patron saint, and
 New York ’s 251-year-old tradition of saluting him. My Scottish
half can’t be bothered to put on something green.  So I plan to honor the occasion by drinking Irish-whiskey
cocktails in shamrock-free bars.  The Raines Law Room  Named for a Prohibition era regulation, The Raines Law Room
is almost the antithesis of a St. Patrick’s Day vibe. The street
entrance to the cocktail bar is marked just by a small plaque
near the doorbell. Inside it’s dark and cozy. The only green I
saw was the lime in my drink.  Head bartender Meaghan Dorman (yes, she’s packing Irish
ancestry) has created the Madame George. She uses  Bushmills 
Black Bush Irish whiskey, because she likes the dark, fruity
notes, and accentuates with  Cherry Heering  liqueur and house-
made ginger syrup.  If I stop in on Saturday I will consider sitting behind the
gauzy curtains in the semi-private area. There’s also a tiny
barroom where guests can watch the shaking and stirring.  A topic of conversation will inevitably be the wallpaper’s
silhouettes of pretty people in various poses, arms and legs
akimbo.  Seating reservations aren’t taken on most nights. If you
show up, they’ll take your number and you’ll have to wait
elsewhere until they phone you to say a space is available. At
48 W. 17th St. Information:  http://www.raineslawroom.com/   Ward III  Last week on my way into the Tribeca bar Ward III, I was
cussed out by a driver for giving him a sideways look. I’m not a
violent person, but once I got inside, the Hell Bent For Leather
cocktail caught my eye. It read like an episode of “Walker,
Texas Ranger.”  It’s a beefy roundup of 12-year-old  Redbreast  Irish
whiskey,  Maker’s Mark 46  and cardamom, and it made me feel
invincible. After the verbal lashing I got for jaywalking, I
needed it.  This place has a rough-hewn feel that would be at home in
 Brooklyn  and the hip kids favor it. It’s loud with a high tin
ceiling and a long bar where the magic happens.  The menu offers prominently displayed rules that range from
the mundane “start a tab” to the outrageous “cut yourself
off.”  If I’m downtown on Saturday I’ll stop in for a Hell Bent
and a plate of duck nachos and hope the rules apply every day.  Watch out for the slight slope of the floor in the seating
area. At 111 Reade St. Information: +1-212-240-9195.  Vitae  At the very start of the parade route at 46th Street and
Fifth Avenue sits a newly opened, light-filled restaurant with a
top-notch cocktail bar called Vitae.  The dining room and lounge area are divided by a striking
custom-designed screen made of nickel, and the motif is repeated
on the flooring. Mirrors and a sleek glass-encased staircase to
the upstairs dining area expand the room visually.  The place is chic and fashionable, and I felt beautiful
just sitting on the white-leather stool.  Bar Manager Daniel Brancusi (recently in D.C. with the
award-winning chef Jose Andres) and his Irish head bartender,
Gerry Corcoran (formerly at PDT and Eleven Madison Park), came
up with the Gaelic Cup as a play on a Pimm’s Cup. The drink
includes Bushmills,  Pig’s Nose Scotch ,  Drambuie , Orange Curacao,
Cherry Heering,  Punt e Mes  and a salted cucumber.  This heady mixture is balanced, refreshing and goes down
easily. It’s the kind of drink that will make Vitae a
destination for cocktail enthusiasts. I’ll go to this bar again,
but the only green I’ll wear is my eyes.  The food here is also a standout. Information: +1-212-682-
3562;  http://www.vitaenyc.com/ .  Stone Rose Lounge  If I decide to celebrate on Saturday afternoon, I’ll be
sitting in front of the gigantic wall of windows at Stone Rose
Lounge sipping The Whiskey while watching the revelers dodge
traffic below in Columbus Circle.  The drink is made with Jameson, sweet vermouth, the
mixologist’s favorite, Cherry Heering, and my favorite,
absinthe.  With all that booze you’d never know it, but the lounge is
offering what they describe as “a more mellow celebration.”  I suspect that’s just because the inebriates won’t be able
to make it up to the fourth floor of the Time Warner Center. If
they knew about the Jameson tasting menu for $35 that even
includes James Gold reserve, they’d simply fall into their green
beer.  Stone Rose Lounge will serve a corned beef and cabbage
sandwich on St. Patrick’s Day. At 10 Columbus Circle.
Information: +1-212-823-9769; 
 http://gerberbars.com/stone-rose-ny .  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 