-- Lisbon Soccer Club Needing Investor Tries to Mask City Gap
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-15T15:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lisbon-soccer-club-needing-investor-tries-to-mask-gap-with-city.html
As  Sporting Lisbon (SCP)  prepares to
defend its Europa League lead against Manchester City, the close
contest on the soccer field is disguising the divide off it.  An auditor’s report declared last month the Portuguese club
that produced stars such as Cristiano Ronaldo as “technically
bankrupt.” President Luiz Godinho Lopes said in an interview
this week he’s looking for an investor. After prevailing 1-0 at
home last week in the first leg, the Lions will line up in
northwest England  tonight  against a Manchester team of
millionaires funded by its Abu Dhabi owners.  The European debt crisis and austerity measures designed to
tackle it are a double-whammy for soccer clubs. Those without
rich benefactors borrowed over the last decade to upgrade
stadiums, buy players and pay them competitive salaries. Now
they are saddled with loans they can’t refinance while spending
cuts hit the pockets of fans buying tickets and replica shirts.  “This is a sector that is being affected by the credit
crisis,” Borja Garcia-Garcia, a professor at the  School of
Sport at Loughborough University  in central England, said in an
interview. “The problem with football is that money buys
success, so there is a strong correlation between money spent in
wages and direct titles won.”  Manchester City , bought by Abu Dhabi United Group in
September 2008, is among Europe’s 20 richest clubs with 169.6
million euros ($222.4 million) in revenue last season, according
to a  study by consultants Deloitte .  Times Change  After spending most of the decade before then fighting to
keep top players, being relegated and changing owner, it’s
currently vying with local, more successful rival Manchester
United for its first Premier League title. City won the F.A. Cup
last season and qualified for Europe’s elite Champions League
cup competition before being knocked out and entering the
second-tier Europa League.  Sporting, which has lived in the shadow of Lisbon rival
Benfica, won the most recent of its 18 Portuguese titles in 2002
and the cup in 2008. It qualified for the Europa League by
finishing third in  Portugal  last season.  The club lost money in 12 of the last 13 years, with debt
reaching  375 million euros , an internal  audit last month showed .
It invested 183 million euros in its stadium and attached sports
complexes between 1998 and 2010, the  report said .  The 106-year-old Lisbon club is looking for an investor to
ensure it has enough funds to make it through this season and
next, said Godinho Lopes, who traveled to the oil-producing
former Portuguese colony of  Angola  this year. He’s counting on
the club’s youth academy to attract money, he said.  Shares in Sporting rose 2.3 percent at 2:38 p.m. to 0.44
euros in Lisbon trading, the biggest intraday advance since
March 2, giving the company a market value of 9.2 million euros.  ‘Great Players’  “We are looking for a partner that recognizes Sporting’s
ability to develop great players and wants to develop this
concept with us,” he said via mobile phone.  Portugal is one of three euro countries, along with Greece
and Ireland, to seek a financial bailout from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  over the past year.  To make things worse for Portuguese clubs, the government
is raising taxes and curbing spending to comply with the terms
of its 78-billion-euro bailout requested last year.  “Soccer fans are not immune to these austerity measures
and that could weigh on ticket sales at clubs like Sporting,”
said Joao Duque, president of the Higher Institute of Economy
and Management in Lisbon.  Scarcer Money  Sporting, like other debt-laden European soccer teams
without rich backers, will have to find alternative sources of
funding as the credit crisis in  Europe  prompts banks to cut back
on loans, Garcia-Garcia, the academic, said.  “Banks are not providing loans to soccer clubs unless they
are Real Madrid or are profitable,” Garcia said. “But most
clubs aren’t profitable.”  In  Spain , four of the top 20 clubs are under creditor
protection from courts because they can’t pay their bills and
are at risk of going bankrupt. Valencia, the third-ranked
Spanish club, had to halt construction of a new stadium for more
than two years after running out of money, the club said.  In the U.K., Rangers Football Club, the Scottish champion,
went into administration last month amid a tax probe, while
Portsmouth, winner of  England ’s F.A. Cup in 2008, is seeking a
rescue after its former Russian owner was charged in Lithuania
with fraud and embezzlement he denies.  A series of losses have left Sporting standing in fourth
place in the Portuguese league, 12 points behind leaders FC
Porto and 11 points behind Benfica. The club is starting a
discount campaign next month to increase the number club members
and revenue from ticket sales at its 50,000 capacity stadium,
initially upgraded in 2003 ahead of the European Championships
hosted in Portugal the following year.  Buying Ronaldo  Manchester United bought Ronaldo for 12.2 million pounds
($19.9 million) in 2003 after playing an exhibition match with
Sporting to inaugurate the arena. Six years later, the English
club sold the Portuguese player to Real Madrid for a soccer
record fee of 80 million pounds, according to the Spanish club.  “The academy is the key to attract a foreign investor,”
Jose Maria Gay, an accountancy professor at Barcelona
University, said in a telephone interview.  Today, Ronaldo is Spain’s top goal scorer and could be
worth enough to pay off the Lisbon club’s debt several times
over, said Maria Gay. Sporting’s soccer academy, located in the
town of Alcochete, on the southern bank of the river Tagus, is
also famous for developing players like Luis Figo, Paulo Futre,
Quaresma and more recently Nani of  Manchester United .  “It’s sad to see my club going through such a difficult
situation,” said Jose de Sousa Cintra, who served as president
of Sporting between 1989 and 1995. “But I’m sure an investor
will realize the academy’s potential and invest soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  