-- Islamic Bank to Finance Nigeria Education After Militant Attacks
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-03-15T07:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/islamic-bank-to-finance-nigeria-education-after-militant-attacks.html
The  Islamic Development Bank  will
provide $95 million in loans to integrate Nigeria’s Koranic
schools with the West African country’s mainstream education
system after a spate of militant attacks.  “The main purpose is to link the boys coming out of the
Koranic schools, the madrasas, with the public education
system,” IDB President Ahmad Mohammed Ali, said yesterday in an
interview in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. “This is very important
now with the unfortunate problem of Boko Haram.”  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer,
blame Boko Haram, a Taliban-inspired Islamist group whose name
means “Western education is a sin,” for a surge in gun and
bomb attacks in the country’s mainly Muslim north that have
claimed hundreds of lives since 2009.  The Jeddah-based multilateral lender may also provide more
than $2 billion over three years for projects in power,
agriculture and infrastructure, he said. The lender is still in
talks with the government over the details and amount, Ali said.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  asked parliament on Feb. 14 to
approve plans to borrow $7.9 billion for oil and gas pipeline
projects to increase crude output and boost the supply of gas to
new power stations. Five banks, including the IDB,  World Bank ,
and Export-Import Bank of  China , will provide $2.64 billion
annually, Jonathan’s office said in the three-year borrowing
report.  The IDB also signed agreements during visits to  Libya  and
Tunisia this week for $50 million each to create jobs in the
North African countries, Ali said.  “There’s a big problem in Libya there to take care of the
fighters with guns and to find jobs for them,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  