-- Israeli Inflation Eases to Slowest in Four Years in February
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-03-15T18:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/israeli-inflation-eases-to-slowest-in-four-years-in-february-1-.html
Israeli  inflation  eased in February
to its slowest in over four years as economic growth moderated
and the impact of social protests kept prices down.  Inflation slowed to 1.7 percent from 2 percent the previous
month, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
today. That matched the median estimate of a Bloomberg  survey  of
11 economists. Prices were unchanged for a third month.  “It’s the effect of the social protests which very much
put the brakes on prices,” Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank
Hapoalim Ltd.’s economics department, said in a telephone
interview prior to the announcement. “Inflation has also been
affected a bit by slowing growth.”  Growth (ISGSANYY)  is expected to ease to “a little less” than 3
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 13,
lowering its forecast from a September prediction of 3.6
percent. In 2011, the economy expanded 4.7 percent. The Bank of
 Israel , led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , has lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  three times since September, bringing it
to 2.5 percent.  Protests against the high cost of living that spread
through the country last year have helped moderate several
components of the consumer price index, including food and
housing prices, the Bank of Israel said in a February report.  Dairy Prices  The demonstrations in June and July prompted closely-held
Tnuva Industries Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd. to cut its
recommended selling prices by as much as 15 percent. Strauss
Group Ltd. followed with reductions of 12 percent on some of its
 milk products .  During February, gasoline and fresh fruit prices rose,
while internet service and car prices declined, the bureau said.  Forecasters are expecting inflation to accelerate in coming
months. Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  rose to 2.4
percent from 2.2 percent the previous month, the central bank
said Feb. 19. The government’s target is 1 percent to 3 percent.  “We’re looking at a rise in energy prices,” Bahar said.
“This is due both to the increase in global  oil prices , as well
as the increase in electricity costs due to the halting of the
gas flow from Egypt. The fuels used instead are much, much more
expensive and the cost is transferred to consumers.”  Natural gas imports from Egypt have been repeatedly stopped
due to attacks against the pipeline through the Sinai desert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  