-- Mitsubishi Estate to Expand Private REIT for Pension Demand
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-03-15T01:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/mitsubishi-estate-to-expand-private-reit-for-pension-demand.html
Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s
largest developer by market value, plans to increase the size of
a private real estate investment trust it manages to capture
investments from pension funds seeking to diversify assets.  The company plans to raise assets in its open-ended fund to
51 billion yen ($608 million) by the end of March, from about 40
billion yen, said Tetsuji Arimori, president of  Mitsubishi Jisho
Investment Advisors Inc. , the Tokyo-based asset management unit
of Mitsubishi Estate. It added about 10 billion yen to the trust
in September, he said.  Mitsubishi Estate joins Mitsui Fudosan Co. and Nomura Real
Estate Holdings Inc. that are also increasing assets in their
private REITs to tap the world’s second-largest pension fund
pool. Japanese pensions, with total assets at $3.47 trillion,
had a compound annual growth rate of 0.2 percent over the past
10 years, according to Towers Watson & Co.  “There may be competition in the near term,” said Arimori
in an interview. “But that will help investors recognize
private REITs as one of the common financial products.”  Mitsubishi Estate  shares , which gained 35 percent so far
this year, rose 2.9 percent to 1,553 yen in Tokyo yesterday.  Japanese pensions have been trying to diversify their
investments beyond traditional assets such as bonds and equities
to boost returns in a country with the world’s lowest bond yield
and two decades of slumping stocks. AIJ Investment Advisors Co.,
a Tokyo-based asset manager, was suspended by the nation’s
financial regulator on Feb. 24, because it couldn’t account for
all of the 185.3 billion yen it managed for clients who were
mostly retirement funds.  REIT Expansion  The fund, which has office, retail and residential
properties, will increase the share of apartments in its
portfolio, he said, declining to disclose details as the
information is not public.  The  fund  was set up in March last year as part of
Mitsubishi Estate’s long-term goal to more than double the total
assets under management to 5 trillion yen by 2020.  Mitsui Fudosan Co.,  Japan ’s biggest developer by sales,
said last week it plans to triple the size of its private REIT
in three years. Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc., which set up
Japan’s first private REIT, is set to complete acquisitions that
will double the size of the trust, it said last week.  Private REITs own buildings and pay investors dividends
from rental income. Private REITs are not traded on exchanges so
don’t have daily price fluctuations that listed REITs have. That
matches the need of pension funds seeking stable income.  “Private REIT that is backed by stable rental income is
important for institutional investors and has gained their
recognition,” said Arimori.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  