-- Labor-Market Gains in U.S. Boost Consumer Optimism: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-15T20:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/jobless-claims-in-u-s-decrease-matching-four-year-low-1-.html
Claims for jobless benefits dropped
last week to match a four-year low, and U.S. consumer confidence
rose to the highest since 2008, signaling an improving labor
market may boost household spending.  Applications for  unemployment insurance  payments fell by
14,000 to 351,000 in the period ended March 10, Labor Department
figures showed today. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose
to minus 33.7 from minus 36.7 in the week ended March 11.  “There’s a steady, sustained improvement in the labor
market,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who was ranked the
most-accurate forecaster of personal spending over the two years
through February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “As
more people have jobs, confidence is picking up. This is
consistent with pretty solid gains in  consumer spending .”  Prospects for stronger household demand, along with
investment in new equipment, helped sustain manufacturing in the
New York and Philadelphia regions this month, reports from the
Federal Reserve showed today. At the same time, wholesale prices
climbed in February by the most in five months, a reminder that
higher  gasoline  costs pose a risk to corporate and consumer
spending.  U.S. stocks advanced on the data, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index above 1,400 for the first time in almost four
years. The index rose 0.6 percent to 1,402.60 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note was little changed at 2.28 percent.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 52
economists called for 357,000 jobless claims. The Labor
Department revised the prior week’s applications to 365,000 from
the initially reported 362,000.  Firings Slow  Companies have slowed the pace of firings and are expanding
their workforces as sales rise and the threat of financial
contagion from a European default diminishes. Job growth in
February capped the best six months since 2006, and the
 unemployment rate  stayed at 8.3 percent, a three-year low.  “The economy seems to have regained its footing and is now
on the way up,” said  Edmund Phelps , director of the Center on
Capitalism and Society at  Columbia University  in New York and a
Nobel Prize-winning economist. “It’s a good sign that companies
are confident enough to be beginning to get their stock of
employees back up to more normal levels.”  Rising Wages  TopJob Staffing, Inc. in Roswell,  Georgia , which provides
part-time bartenders and banquet employees for company events,
this month added a full-time corporate staff manager. It was the
first full-time manager added in seven years, President Scott
Harb said.  “Our big corporate accounts and country clubs are calling
us more frequently,” said Harb, 47. “When companies cut back,
hospitality is the first thing to go. It came back in 2010 and
was sustained in 2011.”  Brighter job prospects and rising wages are giving
consumers the means to spend more. Purchases at stores and malls
advanced 1.1 percent in February, the most in five months, after
a 0.6 percent rise in January that was larger than previously
estimated.  “We’re seeing some improvement in the environment” for
the American consumer, Stuart Burgdoerfer, chief financial
officer at Limited Brands Inc., said today at a conference in
 Boston . Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Brands operates the
Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain and Bath & Body Works stores.  Clothing stores and auto dealers were among those showing
improving demand last month. Cars and light trucks sold last
month at the fastest pace in four years, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Buying Climate  The confidence report’s measure of the buying climate
reached the highest level since November 2007, and a gauge of
the state of the economy had its best showing since September
2008.  Lauren Barnard, 24, switched jobs last month after she was
recruited by a San Francisco-based public relations company that
specializes in technology. Barnard said she got a higher salary
and is now considering buying a new car.  “I feel more comfortable spending money, going out to eat
and getting drinks, and I think it’s the same for my friends,”
said Barnard, a client executive. “I don’t have a fear that I’m
going to lose my job anytime soon. I feel really comfortable.
One of my friends even just bought a house, which is pretty
cool.”  Stock Gains  Stock gains are also lifting consumer spirits as household
wealth grows. The  S&P 500 Index  has climbed almost 12 percent
this year.  Full-time workers and people living in the South were among
the groups that registered their highest levels of confidence in
four years. The comfort gauge for political independents, a key
swing group during this year’s election, improved to minus 29.9,
the best reading since 2007, the year before voters last went to
the polls to pick a new president.  Manufacturers remain at the forefront of the nearly three-
year economic expansion.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  increased to 20.2 this month, the highest since June 2010,
from 19.5 in February. Readings greater than zero signal growth
in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  A similar index from the Philadelphia Fed showed
manufacturing in eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and
 Delaware  expanded at the fastest pace in 11 months as factory
employment picked up.  Fuel Costs  Rising fuel costs threaten to curb corporate profits and
consumer spending. The average price of regular gasoline at the
pump climbed to a 10-month high of $3.82 a gallon yesterday.  Today’s Labor Department report showed the producer-price
index rose 0.4 percent in February following a 0.1 percent
increase the prior month.  Stepped-up hiring prompted Fed policy makers this week to
raise their assessment of the economy, while repeating that
 interest rates  are likely to stay low at least through late
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  