-- John Edwards Can Use Ex-Mistress’s Lawyers, Judge Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-03-15T21:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/john-edwards-can-use-ex-mistress-s-lawyers-judge-rules-1-.html
John Edwards , the former Democratic
presidential candidate charged with campaign-finance violations,
won court permission to use his former mistress’s lawyers at his
criminal trial, set to start next month.  Prosecutors objected to the participation of the lawyers,
Alan Duncan and Allison Van Laningham, saying there could be a
conflict of interest should Edwards’s former paramour, filmmaker
Rielle Hunter, be called as a witness.  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles in Greensboro, North
Carolina, today said she would allow Edwards to use the lawyers,
while ruling that neither Van Laningham nor Duncan may cross-
examine Hunter if she testifies. Hunter negotiated an immunity
agreement during the federal investigation of Edwards.  Edwards, 58, is charged with breaking campaign-finance laws
to conceal his relationship with Hunter during his 2008 run for
president. Edwards, who was married at the time and fathered a
child with Hunter, allegedly used more than $925,000 in
contributions to hide the affair. Each of the six counts he
faces carries a maximum five-year prison term and $250,000 fine.  The U.S. said the contributions came from multimillionaire
heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon and Dallas-based trial lawyer
 Fred Baron , who died in October 2008.  Elizabeth Edwards , the
defendant’s wife, died in December 2010.  Medical Care  Hunter has acknowledged that as part of the former North
Carolina senator’s effort to support her, she got benefits
including medical care and living expenses, prosecutors said in
court papers. If called as a witness, she may testify that she
complained to Edwards when the benefits provided by Mellon and
Baron weren’t enough, prosecutors said.  Hunter gave testimonial, documentary and physical evidence
during the investigation, prosecutors said in court papers. The
immunity agreement, which was reached early in the probe, covers
only Hunter’s testimony, which cannot be used against her,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Higdon told Eagles today.  When Eagles asked if the government planned to charge
Hunter, Higdon said, “I don’t know. She could be charged.”  Prosecutors gave the judge a copy of the agreement today at
her request.  Van Laningham and Duncan represented Hunter in a lawsuit
against a former Edwards aide, Andrew Young, over the return of
personal property including an alleged sex video of her and the
former presidential candidate. The lawyers filed to join
Edwards’s trial team on March 5, six days after that case was
resolved, prosecutors said.  Edwards testified briefly today, telling Eagles that he
wished departing defense lawyer James Cooney well. Cooney asked
to withdraw last week. Eagles approved that request today.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  