-- Jude Law, Kristin Scott Thomas Nominated for U.K.’s Oliviers
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-03-15T14:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/jude-law-kristin-scott-thomas-nominated-for-u-k-s-oliviers.html
Jude Law and Kristin  Scott Thomas 
are on the shortlist for London theater’s  Laurence Olivier
Awards , the U.K.’s highest stage honors, organizers said today.  Law is a best-actor nominee for his role in “Anna
Christie” at the Donmar Warehouse, where he played a
shipwrecked Irish stoker toiling on a coal barge. The other
best-actor hopefuls include James Corden for “One Man, Two
Guvnors.”  Scott Thomas is one of five names in the best-actress
category for her part as the adulterous gallery owner in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” Her rivals in the category include Marcia
Warren for “The Ladykillers.”  “Matilda the Musical” has the maximum number of
nominations possible for a musical, or a total of 10.  Theater-industry executives said  London  box-office takings
were healthy in spite of tough economic times.  “We’ve had an encouraging start to the year: Theater
revenues and attendances are up year on year,” said Julian Bird, chief executive of the  Society of London Theatre , which
represents the 52 major theaters in central London.  Olympics Effect  Bird downplayed worries that the London 2012 Olympic Games
might hurt theater attendance. “That’s not what we’re seeing so
far,” he said at the nominations ceremony in a London hotel.  Two comedies -- “One Man, Two Guvnors” and “The
Ladykillers” -- have five Olivier nominations each.  The four men shortlisted for the best-director prize
include  Nicholas Hytner  for “One Man, Two Guvnors” at the
Lyttelton Theatre (the play opens on Broadway in April);  Sean
Foley  for “The Ladykillers” at the Gielgud; Rufus Norris for
“London Road” at the Cottesloe; and Matthew Warchus for
“Matilda the Musical” at the Cambridge.  For outstanding achievement in dance, Sylvie Guillem is
nominated for her performance in “6000 Miles Away” at the
Sadler’s Wells Theatre.  The awards ceremony will take place on April 15 at the
Royal Opera House. The Oliviers are sponsored by  Mastercard Inc. (MA)   To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 