-- Bills Sign Defensive End Mario Williams, Chiefs Get Hillis
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kansas-city-chiefs-sign-former-browns-running-back-peyton-hillis.html
The  Buffalo Bills  signed Pro Bowl
player Mario Williams to a six-year contract, adding the former
top pick in the National Football League draft to a defense that
ranked 26th last season.  The package contains $50 million in guaranteed money, a
record for a defensive player, Williams’s agent, Ben Dogra, told
the Associated Press yesterday. Terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed in a news release from the team.  The 27-year-old defensive end totaled 53 sacks in 82 games
and earned two Pro Bowl selections after being chosen by the
Houston Texans with the first pick in the 2006 draft. He was
limited to five games last year because of a torn pectoral
muscle.  “The biggest thing for me is feeling comfortable, not only
with my teammates but with the coaches, and I can already see
the bond here,” Williams told reporters. “I look forward to
working with them, turning this thing around and making it
happen.”  Williams joins a franchise that was once home to Hall of
Fame defensive lineman Bruce Smith, an 11-time  Pro Bowl 
selection who played 19 seasons with the Bills and Washington
Redskins.  The  Kansas City Chiefs  added former  Cleveland Browns 
running back Peyton Hillis to an offense that scored the second-
fewest points in the NFL last season.  Hillis Rejoins Daboll  The signing reunites Hillis with Chiefs offensive
coordinator Brian Daboll, who held the same role in Cleveland in
2010, when the 250-pound Hillis rushed for 1,177 yards and 11
touchdowns while catching 61 passes out of the backfield.  Hillis’s breakout season led him to be selected by fans as
the cover athlete for  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s Madden NFL 12 video
game, beating  Michael Vick  of the  Philadelphia Eagles  in fan
balloting. Hillis was limited to 10 games because of injuries
last season, finishing with 587 yards rushing and three
touchdowns as the Browns went 4-12.  “Peyton is a big, strong, physical back with a lot of
talent and he should fit into our system well,” Chiefs coach
Romeo Crennel said in a statement.  Terms weren’t disclosed.  A former seventh-round draft pick, Hillis joins a backfield
that includes Jamaal Charles, who rushed for 1,467 yards in 2010
before missing 14 games last season with torn knee ligaments.
Charles might not be ready for the start of the season, the
Kansas City Star said.  The Chiefs had a 7-9 record last season and their 212
points scored was more than only the 2-14 St. Louis Rams.  Jaguars Sign Henne  The  Jacksonville Jaguars  signed former Miami Dolphins
quarterback Chad Henne, the  Florida Times-Union reported . Henne,
26, was a second-round draft pick of the Dolphins in 2008 and
had a 13-18 record as a starter, losing all four of his starts
last season before being replaced by Matt Moore.  The  New Orleans Saints  signed former Baltimore Ravens guard
Ben Grubbs to a five-year, $36 million contract, ESPN said, one
day after losing All-Pro guard Carl Nicks to the  Tampa Bay
Buccaneers  as a free agent.  The  San Diego Chargers  acquired a punt returner and
receiver in signing Eddie Royal to a three-year contract. The
fifth-year receiver caught 91 passes for 980 yards as a rookie
in 2008 with the  Denver Broncos  and has averaged 38 catches for
376 yards since.  Chargers Sign Meachem  Royal averages 11.9 yards per punt return for his career,
third in the NFL in that span behind Julian Edelman and Devin Hester. Royal’s 16.2 yards per punt return last season tied him
with Hester for the league’s best mark.  In addition to Royal, the Chargers signed receiver Robert Meachem to a four-year contract two days ago. Meachem will be a
starter along with Malcom Floyd, head coach Norv Turner said.  The  New England Patriots  re-signed Pro Bowl wide receiver
Matthew Slater and signed defensive tackle Marcus Harrison.
Terms of the contracts were not announced.  Slater, 26, is a veteran of four NFL seasons with the
Patriots. He has been utilized as a wide receiver, kickoff
returner, special teams player and on defense at safety during
his NFL career. Slater finished last season with one reception
for 46 yards, 10 tackles on defense and returned three kickoffs
for 54 yards.  Harrison, 27, was drafted in 2008 by the  Chicago Bears  in
the third round out of  Arkansas . During his 37 career games over
three seasons with the Bears, Harrison accumulated 55 tackles,
3.0 sacks and three passes defensed. The lineman was released by
Chicago on Sept. 3. He was signed by the Patriots as a free
agent on Oct. 14 before being released on Oct. 15.  Horton Join Giants  The  New York Giants  signed safety Chris Horton, who spent
three seasons with the  Washington Redskins  but did not play in
2011. He played for the Redskins from 2008-2010 with his final
two seasons cut short by injuries. He started 15 of 29 games to
amass 122 tackles, three interceptions and a sack.  The  Dallas Cowboys  signed linebacker Dan Connor, who was
drafted in 2008 by the  Carolina Panthers . He has played in 42
games in his four NFL seasons with 19 starts to tally 166
tackles, one sack, one forced fumble and one fumble recovery.
Connor also had 21 career special teams tackles for the
Panthers.  The Denver Broncos agreed to terms with safety Mike Adams,
a ninth-year player who had 114 career games with  Cleveland  and
 San Francisco . He recorded 347 tackles, four sacks, 12
interceptions, one forced fumble and four fumble recoveries, as
well as 67 special-teams tackles.  ‘Great Fit’  “It’s a great fit for me,” Adams told reporters. “The
atmosphere is good and it felt right.”  The Chicago Bears and defensive lineman Israel Idonije
reached an agreement on a one-year contract. Idonije has
appeared in 118 games with the Bears during the past eight
seasons to collect 222 tackles, 21 sacks, 20 tackles for losses,
five forced fumbles, four fumble recoveries and 15 pass break
ups. On special teams, Idonije recorded 20 tackles and eight
blocked kicks.  Last season, Idonije set career-highs with 57 tackles, nine
tackles for losses and two fumble recoveries, adding one forced
fumble and his first career touchdown on a fumble recovery in
the end zone.  The Redskins agreed to terms with two-time Pro Bowl strong
safety Brandon Meriweather. The two-year deal is worth $6
million, the Washington Post reported, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the negotiations.  Dolphins Duo  The Dolphins signed defensive back Richard Marshall and re-
signed defensive tackle Paul Soliai.  Marshall, a former Arizona Cardinal, has played in 96 games
during his career, collecting 501 tackles, 17 interceptions, two
of which he returned for touchdowns and seven sacks in his first
six seasons. Marshall also added nine fumble recoveries and
three forced fumbles.  “It’s an up-and-coming team,” Marshall told reporters.
“The defense is a great, young defense. They played well last
year and really it was about the best fit for me as far as
defense and then the best move for me and my family.”  During his five years with the Dolphins, Soliai has 97
tackles, two sacks, one forced fumble and one fumble recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  