-- Kazakhstan’s BTA Bank Said to Consider Balapanov as New CEO
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-03-15T13:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kazakhstan-s-bta-bank-said-to-consider-balapanov-as-new-ceo-1-.html
BTA Bank (BTAS) , the Kazakh lender that’s
seeking to restructure its debts for a second time in as many
years, may name former Kazkommertsbank Managing Director Yerik Balapanov as its new chief executive officer, said two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Balapanov, 43, who resigned from Kazkommertsbank,
 Kazakhstan ’s largest lender by assets, on Feb. 24, has already
begun work at BTA, the two people said, declining to be
identified because the appointment must be approved by the
bank’s board of directors.  Balapanov’s secretary at BTA said he wasn’t available for
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. A secretary for Askhat Beisenbayev, BTA’s acting CEO, referred questions to the bank’s
press service, which declined to comment immediately when
contacted outside of normal business hours. The  National
Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna , which holds an 81.5 percent stake
in BTA, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions sent after business
hours.  BTA is negotiating its second debt restructuring since 2010
after failing to make an interest payment on its July 2018
dollar bonds in January. Kazakh sovereign wealth fund Samruk-
Kazyna took over BTA in February 2009, two months before default
by the nation’s largest bank at the time. BTA accounted for 12
percent of Kazakh banking assets with 1.56 trillion tenge ($10.6
billion) on Feb. 1, compared with a 24 percent share in January
2009, according to the central bank’s financial oversight
committee website.  When he “voluntarily resigned” from Kazkommertsbank last
month, Balapanov also ceased to serve as board chairman of four
of its subsidiaries, including the Grantum pension fund,
according to Kazkommertsbank.  Before he became Kazkommertsbank’s managing director in
2003, Balapanov worked at the  Development Bank  of Kazakhstan,
according to his  biography  on the Grantum website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
BRKZ KZ <Equity>
BTAS KZ <Equity>
SKKZ KZ <Equity>
 Z KZ <Equity> 