-- Kenya Pushes for Expansion of Back-Up Internet Links After Cuts
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-15T14:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kenya-pushes-for-expansion-of-back-up-internet-links-after-cuts.html
Kenya wants to install more back-up
telecommunications cables so  Internet providers  can re-route
traffic if the main network goes down, said  Bitange Ndemo ,
permanent secretary in the Ministry of Communications.  Parts of Kenya lost Internet capacity after a construction
company yesterday accidentally severed a data cable along
Mombasa Road. That followed outages last month after a ship cut
the East African Submarine System cable that serves east and
southern African nations. It is owned by a group of investors
that includes  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)   “Even with the negligence of cable cuts by ships, we are
taking steps to ensure there are more redundancies and a
seamless re-routing when these cuts happen,” Ndemo said today
in an interview in Nairobi, the capital. Alternate routes may
involve laying down a ring of fibre-optic cable in the port city
of Mombasa and a new line through neighboring Tanzania, he said.  The number of  Internet users  in Kenya jumped to 14.3
million in September, from 12.5 million in June, boosted by
increased use of mobile phones, according to the  Communications
Commission of Kenya .  About 36 percent of citizens had access to the Internet in
September, compared with 32 percent in June, the commission
said.  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East Africa’s biggest mobile phone
operator, has market share of 68 percent, followed by Airtel
Networks Kenya Ltd., controlled by Delhi-baed  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
with 16 percent. Telkom Kenya Ltd. has 10 percent of customers
and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., unit of  Essar Group (ESSR)  of  India  6.2
percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  