-- Kenyan Lawmakers Adopt Parliamentary Report on Shilling Collapse
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-15T11:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kenyan-lawmakers-adopt-parliamentary-report-on-shilling-collapse.html
Kenyan lawmakers adopted a
parliamentary report that calls for changes at the country’s
 central bank , including more oversight of monetary policymakers
and merit-based recruitment of the bank’s governor.  The report was “unanimously approved” yesterday, Adan
Keynan, chairman of the parliamentary committee that prepared
the report, said in a phone interview today from Helsinki.  The decision by parliament comes a week after legislators
struck a clause from the report recommending incumbent Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u step aside to allow for an investigation into
his handling of the shilling’s historic drop last year.  Investors and politicians criticized Ndung’u last year for
waiting too long to raise the bank’s  key lending rate  in the
face of soaring inflation and the shilling’s almost 25 percent
decline against the dollar to a record low of 106.75 in October.  Market volatility led to the hoarding of foreign exchange,
arbitrage profit by commercial banks and capital flight,
according to the report based on testimony by government
officials, economic analysts and bank executives.  Ndung’u attributed the shilling’s slide to a variety of
factors, ranging from  currency speculation  to the deteriorating
global economy that curbed export orders from the key European
market, and Kenya’s increasing demand for imports. The 52-year-
old former economics professor at the University of Nairobi was
reappointed by Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki last year and he has
three years remaining in his second and final term.  Inflation Slows  Investor confidence in Kenya improved after four increases
to the central bank’s policy rate over the final quarter of 2011
to a record 18 percent helped the shilling gain 30 percent
against the dollar, lowering import costs. Inflation slowed for
the third month in February, to 16.7 percent.  The report also called for an audit of 12 lenders,
including  CFC Stanbic Bank Kenya Ltd. (CFCB)  and  Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd. (KNCB) , with the largest foreign-exchange holdings in September,
and said the minimum fine for violating central bank rules
should rise to 20 million shillings ($242,718), from 1 million
shillings.  It supported changes to the Central Bank Act to require the
governor to appear for questioning before a parliamentary
committee every quarter, and an overhaul of the Monetary Policy
Committee, including adding an extra member on bank supervision.  Central bank management should face stiffer punishments for
taking actions that “occasion the country huge losses,” while
recruitment of the governor and the deputy governor should be
done through a competitive process, not by appointment, it said.  Samson Burgei, a spokesman for the Central Bank of  Kenya ,
wasn’t available for comment when Bloomberg called his office
today and the bank didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 