-- Kenyan Shilling Weakens Second Day as Oil Companies Buy Dollars
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-03-15T13:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kenyan-shilling-weakens-second-day-as-oil-companies-buy-dollars.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
second day as oil importers bought dollars to pay for mid-month
purchases.  The currency of East  Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.2 percent to 82.45 by 2:18 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  “There is demand from oil importers,” John Muli, a trader
at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp. said in a phone interview
today. “It is mid-month and this is when they normally make
their purchases.”  Pump prices of so-called super petrol, the most commonly
used gasoline grade, increased 0.3 percent to 111.69 shillings
($1.36) a liter (0.3 gallons) in Nairobi, the Energy Regulatory
Commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The price of
kerosene, a fuel used for cooking and lighting, rose 0.39
shillings to 84.13 shillings, while diesel costs decreased by
0.17 shillings per liter to 105.12 shillings, the industry
regulator said.  Kenyan lawmakers yesterday “unanimously approved” a
parliamentary report that calls for changes at the country’s
central bank, including more oversight of monetary policy makers
and merit-based recruitment of the bank’s governor, Adan Keynan,
chairman of the parliamentary committee that prepared the
report, said in a phone interview today from Helsinki.  Investors and politicians criticized Governor Njuguna Ndung’u last year for waiting too long to raise the bank’s  key
lending rate  as inflation soared and the shilling dropped by
about 25 percent to a record low of 106.75 in October.  Tanzania Shilling  The shilling’s decline today brings its appreciation for
the year to 2.9 percent, making it the third best-performing
currency in Africa after the Namibian dollar and the South
African rand.  Tanzania’s shilling moved in a narrow range of 0.3 percent.  “There is very little volatility because the central bank
is there to support the shilling whenever demand comes in,”
Fred Siwale, a dealer with  CRDB Bank Plc. (CRDB) , said by phone from
 Dar es Salaam , the commercial Capital. “This is why the
shilling is trading almost at same levels this week.”  The Ugandan shilling weakened by less than 0.1 percent to
2,472 dollars after having risen as much as 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  