-- Khodorkovsky Pardon Won’t Need Guilt Admission, Council Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-16T12:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/khodorkovsky-pardon-won-t-need-admission-of-guilt-council-says.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human
rights council urged him to pardon  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  in his
last weeks in office, presenting legal advice that this doesn’t
need an admission of guilt from the former Yukos Oil Co. owner.  The recommendation will be discussed at the council’s
meeting with Medvedev next month, the body’s head, Mikhail
Fedotov, said yesterday in an interview in Novokuibyshevsk, in
the Volga region of Samara. Prime Minister and President-elect
 Vladimir Putin  will take over as head of state on May 7.  “The president has the right to pardon whomever he
wants,” said Fedotov. Khodorkovsky’s lawyer,  Yuri Schmidt , said
he isn’t optimistic that his client will be freed since Putin
has the final say.  Medvedev earlier this month ordered a review of the guilty
verdicts against Khodorkovsky, once  Russia ’s richest man.
Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika has until April 1 to review the
cases against Khodorkovsky, 48, and his business partner  Platon Lebedev , as well as 30 other people, the Kremlin press service
said March 5. Medvedev, a former corporate lawyer and Putin
protege who promised to improve the rule of law and attract
foreign investment, has said freeing Khodorkovsky wouldn’t be
dangerous.  ‘Admit His Guilt’  Those seeking to free Khodorkovsky and Lebedev should
follow legal procedures, Putin said March 7, adding that the
 European Court  of Human Rights hadn’t found any political
motives in his prosecution. Putin said last December that
Khodorkovsky would have to petition for pardon and “effectively
admit his guilt.”  Experts from Medvedev’s human rights council cited two
rulings from the  Constitutional Court  and  Supreme Court  in 2004
and 2008 as evidence that the president has the right to pardon
a convicted person independently of his or her status in the
criminal justice system, according to a copy of the  legal advice 
published on its website today.  The jailed billionaire was arrested at gunpoint on the
tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003. Khodorkovsky, who
denies any guilt, says he was targeted by then-President Putin
for financing opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin
denies.  Khodorkovsky was later sentenced to 13 years in prison
after two separate convictions for fraud,  tax evasion  and oil
embezzlement, while Yukos was dismantled and sold at auction,
mostly to state-run OAO Rosneft, to cover more than $30 billion
in back taxes. The U.S. and European Union said the latest
conviction showed a failure to respect the rule of law that was
harmful to the investment climate.  ‘No Reasons’ for Optimism  “I have no reasons to be optimistic because both of our
leaders have drummed it into their heads that for a pardon you
need a personal appeal and admission of guilt,” Schmidt said by
phone. “This isn’t the case at all and Khodorkovsky has many
times said that he will never admit his guilt.”  Putin, who was president from 2000 to 2008 before Medvedev
replaced him, has said Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands and
“thieves should sit in jail.”  The Russian leader “has many other means, without losing
face, to free Khodorkovsky and Lebedev,” including an amnesty,
early release or a court-ordered reduced sentence, said Schmidt.  “There are such possibilities but whether Putin will use
them isn’t clear. Everything depends on Putin’s will.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  