-- Kinder Morgan to Sell Rockies Pipes in FTC Deal on El Paso
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-15T20:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kinder-morgan-to-sell-rockies-pipes-in-ftc-deal-on-el-paso-1-.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , the second-
biggest U.S. pipeline company, has reached a “tentative
agreement” with federal regulators to sell about 7,200 miles of
pipelines to gain approval of its $23.8 billion acquisition of
 El Paso Corp. (EP)   The sales, which one analyst estimated may be valued at
about $3 billion, would reduce the combined company’s dominance
in  Rocky Mountain (RME)  natural-gas transportation, while allowing the
creation of the biggest U.S. gas pipeline company.  Kinder, based in Houston, agreed with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission to sell assets including its 50 percent
interest in the 1,679-mile (2,700 kilometer) Rockies Express gas
pipeline along with the 5,100-mile  Kinder Morgan (KMI)  Interstate Gas
Transmission system and the 436-mile Trailblazer Pipeline Co.,
according to a company statement today.  Kinder said it also will sell two treatment and processing
plants in  Wyoming .  “We would prefer to retain all of these assets, but as we
anticipated when the transaction was announced, we must sell
certain assets in the Rockies to obtain FTC approval,” Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Richard D. Kinder said in the
statement. “The amount of divestitures is reasonably consistent
with our original financial model.”  The FTC is reviewing the deal to ensure  Kinder Morgan 
doesn’t gain an unfair advantage over other pipeline companies.  $3 Billion Value  The sale could bring in as much as $3 billion and reduces
the combined Kinder-El Paso market share in the Rockies to 38
percent from about 52 percent, said Becca Followil, an analyst
with U.S. Capital Advisors LLC in Houston. She estimated earlier
this year that Kinder would need to reduce its share below 40
percent to meet federal guidelines.  “They’ve done a mix of some good assets and a really weak
asset,” Followil said in an interview. “Rockies Express is
going to be a tough sell.”  Rockies Express, which opened in 2009 between Wyoming and
 Ohio , earns less than the other pipelines because of cost
overruns during construction, Followil said.  Kinder Morgan and El Paso spent billions in the past decade
to build pipelines from gas fields in the  Rocky Mountains  to
major cities on the East and West Coasts. In 2007, gas was $4
higher in the Northeast than in the Rockies.  Marcellus Influx  At the same time, new gas fields like the Marcellus Shale
of Pennsylvania were being tapped that are closer to major East
Coast cities, reducing the need for the pipelines. Using
hydraulic fracturing, producers have been able to increase
Pennsylvania’s gas output to 3.34 billion cubic feet of gas a
day, about 45 percent more than the Rockies Express can carry.  “We see absolutely no industry buyers for Rockies Express
given the regional natural-gas supply and demand fundamentals,”
 Andy DeVries , an analyst with CreditSights Inc., wrote in a note
to clients today. “Quite simply, there is no need to bring
natural gas from one supply basin (the Rockies) into another
rapidly growing supply basin (the Marcellus).”  Kinder anticipates “significant interest” in the
pipelines, particularly Rockies Express, the CEO said in the
statement.   Larry Pierce , a Kinder Morgan spokesman, declined to
comment on potential buyers in a telephone interview today.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Sempra Energy (SRE)  Inc., which each own 25
percent of the Rockies Express pipeline, previously tried to
sell their stakes but couldn’t find buyers, Vivek Pal, a
managing director with  Knight Capital  LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , said in an interview.  Long-Term Pain  A ConocoPhillips spokeswoman didn’t respond to voicemails
requesting comment. Scott Crider, a spokesman for Sempra,
declined to comment.  The divestitures may hurt Kinder’s shareholders in the long
run, since new demand for gas, such as from increasing numbers
of gas-fueled vehicles, could make the pipelines more valuable
in the future, Pal said.  “Nobody knew five years back what the market looks like
today; five years from now, it can change dramatically,” he
said.  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  may bid on some of the pipelines,
Chief Executive Officer Greg Ebel said in a March 6 interview.  “We don’t have a huge footprint in the Rockies, so if they
decided to move down that trail, that’s something we’d be
interested in,” Ebel said, referring to a potential Kinder
sale.  Williams Cos. (WMB)  and  Boardwalk Pipeline Partners LP (BWP)  may also
bid for some of the lines, Knight Capital’s Pal said. Jeff Pounds, a spokesman for Williams, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation. Boardwalk didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  Kinder expects the El Paso transaction to close in May, the
company said.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Enterprise Products LP is the biggest U.S. pipeline operator.  Kinder Morgan rose 0.6 percent to close at $36.25 in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  