-- The Worst Presidential Campaign Ever?: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/kinsley-is-this-the-worst-presidential-campaign-ever-.html
Barbara Bush said  the other day 
that the 2012 presidential race has been “the worst campaign
I’ve ever seen in my life.”  I disagree. My vote would be for 1988, when her husband,
 George H.W. Bush , built a repulsive campaign against  Michael Dukakis  based on state prison furlough policy, obscure judicial
rulings about reciting the Pledge of Allegiance and the need for
laws against burning the American flag.  Bush the Elder took the aristocratic view that games (like
tennis, or politics) should be played to the death, but
animosity should be suspended when the drinks cart arrives. He
never understood why some people keep bringing up Willie Horton.  Among the three remaining serious candidates for the
Republican presidential nomination,  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Santorum  are old hands at dirty campaigning.  Mitt Romney  has a
bit of the old Bush attitude (except that the drinks cart is
alcohol-free). Add in his experience in the darker corners of
free-market capitalism, where you do what’s necessary to win,
and Mrs. Bush may turn out to be right in the end.  Dukakis was knocked sideways by the Bush torrent of crap
that poured over him during the 1988 campaign, and he never
recovered.  John Kerry  was equally surprised in 2004, when the
Republicans managed to turn his military service in  Vietnam 
against him in the “swift boats” campaign.  What Lies Ahead  In the past couple of weeks, we have been given a couple of
foretastes of what may lie ahead for 2012. First, there is the
fuss over President Barack Obama’s failure to disassociate
himself from or apologize for statements by the comedian  Bill Maher , who has given $1 million to a super-PAC supporting
Obama’s re-election. Second, there’s the ludicrous attempt to
make an issue of Obama’s embrace (literally -- there’s video),
while at Harvard Law School, of a professor named Derrick Bell.
The Bell story, with video, is the parting gift of Andrew
Breitbart, who died of a heart attack March 1 at the age of 43 -
- much too young even for a right-wing hit man.  Conservative critics compare Maher, who used vulgar
language about Sarah Palin, with  Rush Limbaugh , who is in hot
water of his own for vulgar on-air comments about a young woman
who testified before Congress in favor of Obama’s plan to
require health insurers to cover  birth control . Liberals
pressured an apology out of Limbaugh. Why aren’t they demanding
a similar grovel from Maher -- or returning his money?  I  wrote last week  about the competitive sensitivity game
that dominates our politics these days, in which all sides leap
to take insincere offense at remarks by others and demand
apologies which, by their very nature, are equally insincere.
Maher actually  defended Limbaugh , calling the campaign against
him a “fatwa.” For his troubles, he  was attacked  by a Wall
Street Journal columnist for using an Islamic term as a
metaphor. Typical liberal hypocrite, was the columnist’s point.  You can parse the difference between Limbaugh and Maher if
you want -- one is an overt political pamphleteer and the other
a comedian whose scorn is bipartisan, even if on average it
tilts left. But the ideal solution would be if everyone just
developed a thicker skin.  As for giving back Maher’s million dollars, under our
ridiculous campaign finance laws it would probably be illegal
for Obama to attempt to influence an “independent” super-PAC in
this way. More important, political candidates surely cannot be
held responsible for everything said by their campaign
contributors. Do Gingrich and Santorum want to defend the views
of everyone who has given them money?  Fundamental Beliefs  On the other hand, Obama’s own fundamental beliefs are a
perfectly legitimate issue. Even after a term as president,
they’re not clear (at least to me). But they’re clear to many in
talk-radio land, based on his association with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright (his former pastor in  Chicago ) and Bill Ayers (a former
authentic violent revolutionary, who called for blood and got
it, now playing the more cuddly role of a harmless aging
radical).  Those are characters left over from 2008. For 2012, meet
Professor Bell. He seems to have been a genuine mentor of
Obama’s, although Breitbart’s  “gotcha” video  of the embrace is
hardly dispositive. Imagine how many people of varying views a
politician hugs over the course of a career.  Bell, who died in October at age 80, was an eccentric and
bitter man, as well as a distinguished legal scholar. He founded
a school of thought called critical race theory, a cousin of
critical legal studies, a worldview that roiled Harvard and
other top law schools during the 1970s and 1980s but probably
won’t last the ages. Nevertheless, to make him out to be
radioactive and poisonous to the touch would implicate not just
 Barack Obama  but also Harvard Law School (where Bell became the
first black tenured professor -- in 1971!), the University of
Oregon School of Law (where he was dean) and the legal
establishment generally, of which he was, however ambiguously, a
part. (Ayers, similarly, was embraced by the Chicago
establishment in a way that makes attacking Obama for mere
acquaintanceship ridiculous.)  Someone like Santorum may see no troublesome contradiction
here. Of course Bell was embraced by the Eastern,  Ivy League ,
blah blah blah media establishment. The outrageous passages that
can be plucked selectively and misinterpreted from his many
serious books don’t contradict this: They prove it. That
establishment is as dangerously left-wing and un-American as
Bell was, and so is Obama.  Even Gingrich probably holds a more nuanced view of the
American political landscape, and Romney may sense that a
general attack on the establishment is going to be a tough case
for him to make. But you never know. After all,  George Bush  the
Elder, with four generations of Yale in his family, was able to
make an issue of his rival’s degree from  Harvard Law School .  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 