-- Knicks End Loss Skid as Dolan Says Team Can Win Minus D’Antoni
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-15T04:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/knicks-end-loss-skid-as-dolan-says-team-can-win-minus-d-antoni.html
New York  Knicks owner  James Dolan 
said his team has the talent and character to succeed after
losing the coach hired to bring the franchise a championship.
For at least one night, the players backed him up.  Hours after coach  Mike D’Antoni ’s resignation,  Carmelo Anthony  scored 16 points and the Knicks made 19 3-pointers in
their most lopsided win of the season, 121-79 over the  Portland
Trail Blazers  at New York’s Madison Square Garden.  The victory last night ended a six-game losing streak that
has left the Knicks tied for the eighth and final playoff spot
in the  National Basketball Association ’s Eastern Conference.  “I want to be clear,” Dolan, chairman of  Madison Square
Garden (MSG)  Co., the team’s parent company, said during a news
conference after D’Antoni was replaced by assistant Mike Woodson.
“I believe in our players. I believe in our talent. I believe
in their commitment to keep the team together and get this right.
I believe these guys can do it.”  The Knicks got a season-high seven assists from Anthony, an
All-Star forward who yesterday via Twitter denied a New York
Post report that he wanted to be traded because of a fractured
relationship with D’Antoni. Much of the criticism of the Knicks
during the slide had been aimed at Anthony, whose return from
injury coincided with New York’s struggles.  “There always has to be a scapegoat,” Knicks center  Tyson Chandler  said. “It fell on Melo.”  While Anthony was out, the Knicks and their new starting
point guard, the Harvard University-educated Jeremy Lin, became
the toast of the league with a seven-game unbeaten streak.  Linsanity Takes Over  Lin became one of the most talked-about athletes in the
world, selling more jerseys than any NBA player since Feb. 4,
according to the league, which doesn’t provide specific sales
figures. The hysteria surrounding the player and team became
known as Linsanity, which fueled record ratings on the MSG
Network and higher ticket prices on the secondary market and
prompted broadcasters in  Asia  to add Knicks games to their
schedules. Lin credited D’Antoni’s up-tempo, share-the-ball
style for his success.  “I’m not going to forget what he did for me,” Lin said.
“I owe a lot to him.”  The seven-game winning streak was followed by nine losses
in D’Antoni’s last 12 games.  Anthony told reporters after the game that he had nothing
to do with the coaching change and that he was as shocked as
anyone when told.  “In life, there are times change can be for the better,”
Anthony said. “He felt like the team needed change. I wish it
was under better circumstances.”  Woodson, 53, who posted a 206-286 record as coach with the
 Atlanta Hawks  in 2004-10, said the first thing he told the
players last night was to take a deep breath and relax. Then he
told them their effort and results would be rewarded.  ‘They Responded’  “It’s an emotional day when you lose your head coach, a
lot of players on this team were attached to Mike,” Woodson
said. “They responded.”  New York led by 13 points after the first quarter and by 26
at halftime.  Portland  committed 23 turnovers and shot 37 percent
from the field. The Knicks shot 54 percent.  J.R. Smith came off the bench to lead the Knicks with 23
points, including seven 3-pointers. Fellow reserve  Steve Novak 
hit six 3-pointers and had 20 points.  Lin had six points, six assists and six turnovers.  The Knicks and  Milwaukee Bucks , who beat the  Cleveland
Cavaliers  last night, are tied for eighth place in the
conference with 22 games left in the lockout-shortened regular
season.  New Hires  The Knicks hired D’Antoni as coach and  Donnie Walsh  as team
president in 2008 to resurrect a salary-burdened franchise that
had seven straight losing seasons, including a team-record-tying
59 losses in 2007-08 under then-president and coach Isiah Thomas.
D’Antoni was given a four-year contract worth $24 million.  As coach of the  Phoenix Suns  for five seasons, D’Antoni
became known for a high-powered offense, directing his players
to get off a shot within seven seconds of gaining possession.
The Suns led the NBA in scoring for three straight seasons
beginning in 2004-05 and reached the Western Conference finals
in 2005 and 2007.  That type of attack -- and success in the standings --
never took root with the Knicks. New York is 12th in scoring
among the NBA’s 30 franchises this season, averaging 96.7 points
per game. D’Antoni finished with a 121-167 and one playoff
appearance in New York.  Woodson’s game plan was still on the whiteboard in the
locker room after the game. It read: “Play Smart. Play Hard.
Play Together. Have Fun.”  “For a long time we haven’t been having fun,” Chandler
said. “Tonight, it was fun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  