-- Korea Corporate Yield Premium to Drop for 4th Year, Mirae Says
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-03-15T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/korea-corporate-yield-premium-to-drop-for-4th-year-mirae-says.html
The gap between South Korea’s
sovereign and corporate bond yields may narrow for a fourth year
as  Europe ’s deficit crisis recedes, spurring appetite for
riskier debt, according to Mirae Asset Global Investments.  The premium on three-year top-rated corporate bonds over
similar-maturity government  securities  shrank 14 basis points in
the year to March 14 to 38 basis points, the lowest since April
2010, according to latest figures from Koscom Corp., which
provides financial data from Korea Exchange Inc. The difference
narrowed every year since 2009. Mirae Asset, South Korea’s
second-biggest fund manager, predicts the spread will tighten by
another five to 10 basis points within this year.  “With Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis easing and more
investors looking at higher-yielding bonds, I see room for
further narrowing,” said Choi Jin Young, the Seoul-based head
of the fixed-income management team at Mirae Asset, which
oversees 62.1 trillion won ($55 billion). Choi said in a March
13 interview he plans to remain overweight in corporate debt
“for some time,” suggesting greater ownership than the
securities’ weighting in benchmark indexes.  South Korea ’s corporate borrowing costs declined because
investors sought higher-yielding debt as the central bank held
 rates  unchanged since June to support economic growth. The yield
for  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  notes due November 2017 fell five basis
points this year to 4.12 percent, according to prices from Nice
Pricing Services. The rate touched 4.09 percent on Feb. 28, the
lowest since the securities began trading in November. Kia, the
nation’s second-biggest auto maker, is rated AA, the second-
highest investment grade at Nice Pricing.  Sales Rebound  KB Asset Management Co., a unit of South Korea’s second-
largest bank holding group by assets, has lowered its holdings
of corporate debt to neutral after favoring an overweight
position in 2011, according to Moon Dong Hoon, who oversees 11
trillion won as the company’s managing director in charge of
fixed-income in  Seoul .  “Increased liquidity in the market has supported corporate
bond demand, but with spreads having narrowed so far, the prices
aren’t as attractive as before,” Moon said in a phone interview
on March 14. He predicts the gap between yields on corporate and
government bonds will be little changed in the next couple of
months.  The  yield  on South Korea’s three-year won sovereign bonds
increased 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, this year
to 3.52 percent on March 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average rate for AAA corporate notes advanced
three basis points to 3.89 percent, Koscom data show. The
difference between three-year sovereign and BBB+ corporate
yields shrank 22 basis points to 376 this year, Koscom prices
show.  South Korean companies’ overseas sales rose in February by
the most in six months amid progress in solving the European
debt crisis. Shipments to the European Union climbed 30.4
percent from a year earlier in the first 20 days of February,
while sales to  China , the biggest buyer of South Korean goods,
increased 14.5 percent, government data showed on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  