-- N.J. Assembly Approves Sales-Tax Break to Lure Amazon Center
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-15T21:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/n-j-assembly-approves-sales-tax-break-to-lure-amazon-center.html
The  New Jersey (STONJ1)  Assembly approved an
estimated $40 million in sales-tax breaks designed to bring
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to the state, and a lawmaker is working on a
similar deal in the Senate.  Amazon, the biggest online retailer, is seeking to build
two distribution centers in New Jersey,  Pennsylvania  or
 Delaware , according to the bill’s sponsor, Assemblyman Albert Coutinho, a Newark Democrat. New Jersey would suspend sales-tax
collections through June 30, 2013, so long as Amazon makes a
capital investment of at least $130 million and hires no fewer
than 1,500 full-time workers.  The legislation, approved 70-7 with two abstentions in the
Democratic-controlled Assembly, would apply to Internet
retailers with buildings in the state. The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) 
has ruled that online sellers must collect sales taxes in states
where they have a physical presence, and Seattle-based Amazon
has none in  New Jersey .  Coutinho estimated the break for Amazon alone at $40
million. An earlier version of the bill had sought an investment
of $65 million or more.  The Senate, also with a Democratic majority, has yet to
take up the measure and send it to Governor  Chris Christie , 49,
a Republican midway through his first term.  “There’s not a meeting of the minds right now between
Amazon and both houses,” Senator Ray Lesniak, a Democrat from
Elizabeth and bill sponsor, said in an interview in the
Statehouse before the Assembly voted.  Christie’s View  Lesniak said he is trying to broker an agreement between
Senate members and corporate officials. Mary Osako, a
spokeswoman for Amazon, said the company declined to comment.  Christie told reporters during an appearance at Bordentown
Regional High School March 12 that he wouldn’t express an
opinion on the bill until it comes to his desk. He said his
staff has been working with legislative employees on the matter.  “I do in principle believe that it makes sense for us to
encourage companies to come here and spend a significant amount
of money on buildings and infrastructure and create jobs,”
Christie said.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a bill in September
giving Amazon a similar one-year reprieve from sales taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  