-- Accused N.Y. Brothel Keeper May Consider Plea, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-15T18:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/n-y-woman-charged-with-running-brothel-gets-new-lawyer-1-.html
Anna Gristina, the  New York  woman
charged with running a brothel prosecutors said catered to high-
net-worth clients, may consider a plea deal, according to her
newly assigned lawyer, Gary Greenwald.  Justice  Juan Merchan  of state Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
today accepted Greenwald as Gristina’s new lawyer, while
rejecting the attorney’s request to lower her bail, which is set
at $1 million in cash, or a $2 million bond. Gristina is being
held at New York’s Rikers Island jail complex.  Greenwald said after today’s hearing that his client is
“upset” about being in jail, and that he’s seeking tapes and
documents the prosecution developed in its five-year
investigation of the 44-year-old. Gristina said she has refused
to give investigators any information about possible high-
profile clients, the New York Post has reported.  The lawyer told reporters today after the hearing that
while reaching a plea deal is a possibility, “that doesn’t mean
we will.”  Gristina’s former lawyer, Peter Gleason, maintained his
offer to use his $2.5 million apartment to guarantee her
appearance for trial, and have her and her family stay with him.
Gristina, a mother of four, has pleaded not guilty.  Lower Bail  Greenwald, who once represented the late Mafia leader
Vincent Gigante, was hired last night by Gristina’s family. He
argued that his client’s bail should be much lower given that
her co-defendant, Jaynie Baker, is out on $100,000 bail. Baker,
30, has also pleaded not guilty to charges of promoting
prostitution along with Gristina.  “Ultimately, it goes to the risk of flight,” Merchan
said. He said there was no proof that when Gristina went to
 Canada  in 2008, it wasn’t with the motive of escaping an
investigation, as prosecutors have alleged.  Concerns that Gristina is a flight risk aren’t valid,
Greenwald said.  “I think that is both a misnomer and a red herring that
has no relevance,” according to Greenwald. He said there was no
proof Gristina hadn’t gone to Canada for other reasons. He also
said she and her family didn’t have the $200,000 minimum in cash
required to post a bond.  Gristina, who lived in Monroe, New York, is a legal
permanent resident of the U.S. and a British subject.  “I submit she has many well-placed, well-heeled
individuals who are in a position to bail her out,” Assistant
District Attorney Charles Linehan told Merchan.  Maximum Sentence  He also said he believes there is a good argument that
Gristina should receive the maximum sentence, which is two and
one-third to seven years.  The investigation turned up “at least one eyewitness
account” of a sexual encounter arranged by Gristina in which
minors were involved, Linehan told Merchan on Feb. 23, a day
after her arrest, according to a court transcript.  At the time of her arrest, Gristina was in the office of
“a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  banker who she counts as a close friend,”
Linehan said. The Morgan Stanley employee is David Spencer
Walker, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Gristina was at Walker’s office “for a meeting in which
she was trying to solicit money to fund what we believe is
another illicit business venture on the Internet that involves
matching up male clients with female prostitutes,” said
Linehan, of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s
official corruption unit.  Prosecutors haven’t accused Walker of wrongdoing or
identified him publicly. He works for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, the firm’s retail brokerage, said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because Walker wasn’t named in the case.  Walker has been placed on administrative leave during the
investigation,  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, said
previously.  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751, New York state
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in state Supreme Court in New York at
   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  