-- Napoli Owner Wants to Scrap Relegation, Slash Size of Serie A
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-03-15T00:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/napoli-owner-wants-to-scrap-relegation-slash-size-of-serie-a.html
The movie producer owner of Italian
club Napoli said  Europe ’s top soccer leagues should scrap
relegation and reduce the number of teams.  Aurelio De Laurentiis, whose late uncle Dino De Laurentiis
produced Hollywood hits like  King Kong , Conan the Barbarian and
Serpico, said soccer needs a new model that gives investors
greater certainty and reduces demands on players by cutting
championships like Italy’s Serie A from 20 to 12 or 14 teams.  “It’s absurd you invest a lot of money and you still risk
going back to the second division,” De Laurentiis, 62, said in
an interview in London before Napoli’s 4-1 Champions League loss
to Chelsea last night. “The second problem is you play too many
times. You cannot play three times a week.”  Napoli’s appearance in Europe’s elite competition this
season was its first since  Diego Maradona  starred for the club
in the 1980s. De Laurentiis bought the team when it was forced
to restart in the third tier after going bankrupt in 2004.  The two-time Italian champion is followed fervently in
Naples where streets empty near kickoff as fans gather to watch
the Azzurri, or Blues, as the team is known. Even after
bankruptcy the club’s San Paolo Stadium often had higher
attendances than games played in Serie A.  “We are all thankful to Mr. De Laurentiis because thanks
to him we have risen from the ashes of bankruptcy,” said
Giuseppe Montanino, 61, a doctor from Casalnuovo di Napoli, a
small town near Naples. “He was the only entrepreneur who
believed in a team playing in Serie C investing in it his own
money.”  ‘My Business’  De Laurentiis said he knew nothing about soccer when he
took over and his approach is founded on experience gained at
Filmauro, the production company founded by his father in 1975.  “When I arrived everybody was saying, ‘Mr. De Laurentiis
it’s not like that in soccer,’” he explained. “I said, ‘Leave
me to do what I want to do. It’s my business. It’s my club. If I
want to go and lose money it’s my decision.’”  De Laurentiis said he knows his opinions on restructuring
the game would be “unpopular” with many Italian fans. Patrizio
Pazzaglia, a Rome-based wealth manager at Banca Leonardo SpA,
said the views are more in line with Hollywood than soccer.  “Without promotion and relegation, games are like movies
where stories end after two hours,” he said. “In our
championship, games are like soap operas, each one is connected
to the next.”  Sales Growth  Napoli’s sales have grown every year since its return to
the top division in 2007. Revenue of 115 million euros ($150
million) in 2011 merited its first inclusion in the list of
Europe’s top 20 richest clubs compiled by accountant Deloitte
LLP. Last season’s third-place finish was Napoli’s best since
Maradona, whose image still hangs in many households in the
southern Italian city, led the team to the league title in 1990.
It’s currently in fourth place.  Napoli has banked profits for five straight years while
building a roster featuring international talent. Players
including South American forwards Ezequiel Lavezzi and Edinson
Cavani and Slovak midfielder Marek Hamsik have been linked with
moves to some of Europe’s top clubs. All three have contracts
lasting at least four years and will only leave Napoli if teams
“want to be crazy and overpay,” De Laurentiis said.  “I received a lot of offers and requests but I said no
because I said, ‘Why must I sell?’” he added “I’m not here
just to be a sparring partner, I’m here to compete.”  Fanbase  Napoli is  Italy ’s fourth most-followed club and benefits
from a broadcast deal where teams share income based on a
calculation of their fanbase. Television income grew last year
to 58.2 million euros from 48.2 million euros. Sponsorship
income rose 23 percent to 27.2 million euros because of what De
Laurentiis described as an unconventional approach to building
the brand.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Adidas AG (ADS) , soccer’s biggest apparel
providers, usually pay teams a fee to sell jerseys and other
club-branded products. Napoli gets nothing up front from its
Italian supplier Macron, though takes 90 percent of all sales,
De Laurentiis said. The club also sells 565 branded items from
motorbikes to pasta and olive oil and more are in the pipeline.  “There’s a whole organization behind this,” he said.
“Everything together becomes a conglomerate of soccer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 