-- Natalie Portman Joins Stars Using Facebook Against Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-15T19:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/natalie-portman-joins-stars-using-facebook-against-assad.html
Frustrated by the failure of
diplomats to end the killings in Syria, activists are betting
stars such as  Natalie Portman  and the Internet can be more
effective.  Celebrities have rallied today, the first anniversary of
the conflict, in support of a message to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and the United Nations: Stop One Year of Bloodshed.  Actresses Susan Sarandon and Portman penned hand-written
notes which campaigners posted on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social
networking website. On YouTube, there is a one-minute video
montage of celebrities, such as actor Patrick Stewart from Star
Trek, holding up ‘ ‘Unite for Syria ” signs. Pop stars Nelly Furtado and Annie Lennox posted from their personal Twitter Inc.
accounts to make the topic “trend” the micro-blogging website.  The idea is that celebrities will draw attention to the
situation in  Syria , increasing the weight of world public
opinion on Syria’s leader and his ally Russia, said Philippe
Bolopion, UN director at  Human Rights Watch  in  New York .  “We hope they will help impress on the Syrian government
and its few remaining supporters, including Russia, that the
rest of the world will not turn a blind eye while mass
atrocities are committed against the civilian population,” said
Bolopion. “It was conceived as a show of solidarity to Syrian
victims who must feel abandoned by the UN  Security Council ,
whose hands have been tied by Russia and  China .”  International Effort  About 200 organizations from 27 countries are supporting
the effort to build public pressure on the Assad regime to end
its crackdown, which UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said today
has claimed “well over” 8,000 lives. The groups include
international human rights groups as well as those based in
North  Africa  and the  Middle East .  “There is a sense of increasing frustration that the
atrocities continue and that action at the  United Nations
Security Council  has been blocked twice by Russia and China,”
Bama Athreya, executive director of Washington-based United to
End Genocide, said in an e-mail.  The social media-driven campaign follows a series of
diplomatic disappointments capped by the failed mission to Syria
over the weekend by UN special envoy Kofi Annan. In New York,
Russia has continued to protect its last ally in the Arab world
by twice vetoing Security Council resolutions ordering Assad to
end a crackdown on protesters.  Pro-Government Rally  The regime is also marking the anniversary. Syrian state
agency SANA said millions of supporters are streaming into
squares in cities across the country today in a government-
sanctioned “global march for Syria,” an initiative by Syrian
youth. The march is “uniting all Syrians in affirmation of
their loyalty and affiliation to their homeland,” SANA said
without providing further details.  Pictures posted on SANA showed the crowds carrying pictures
of Assad and the flags of Syria,  Russia ,  Iran  and the Iranian-
backed Lebanese Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah. The agency said
the marchers highlighted Syrian opposition to foreign
intervention and expressed their appreciation toward Russia,
China and other countries that“have stood by Syria against the
conspiracy that it faces.”  Kony2012  Stirring outrage using social media can be a tool to try to
influence policy makers, as demonstrated by the global social-
network campaign to build pressure for the capture of Ugandan
warlord Joseph Kony, head of the Lord’s Resistance Army.  Teen idol Justin Bieber, the second-most followed person on
Twitter, helped a 30-minute video on Kony by San Diego-based
Invisible Children go viral simply by retweeting, or re-posting
a message, to his more than 18 million followers.  The Kony2012 video, in which filmmaker Jason Russell
attempts to explain Kony’s abduction of children to his 4-year-
old son, was viewed more than 78 million times on YouTube since
it was posted on March 5.  Social media played a pivotal role in fanning protests that
toppled longstanding leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya ,
according to a September study by the University of  Washington .
In one example cited, the number of Twitter postings from Egypt
rose to 230,000 from 2,300 in the week leading to President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation.  Celebrity Power  Celebrities are no strangers to the UN, which routinely
leans on their fame to promote causes as so-called goodwill
ambassadors. Angelina Jolie works with refugees, most recently
in Somalia and the Horn of Africa. George Clooney has addressed
the Security Council on the Darfur conflict.  In the case of Syria, stars are increasingly willing to
train their fire at the UN and attack Russia for prolonging the
stalemate.  “I think Syria has got to a point, sadly, where certainly
some form of intervention is absolutely necessary,” Jolie told
Al Jazeera in a Feb. 17 interview. “I feel very strongly that
the use of a veto when you have financial interest in the
country should be questioned, and the use of a veto against
humanitarian intervention should be questioned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  