-- NBG Said to Tap UBS, BofA to Advise on Finansbank Insurer
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-15T13:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/nbg-said-to-tap-ubs-bofa-to-advise-on-finansbank-insurer.html
National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA’s
Turkish lender,  Finansbank AS (FINBN)  (FINBN), plans to complete the sale of its
pension fund and life insurance unit within two months,
Finansbank Chairman Omer Aras said.  The Istanbul-based bank hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  for the sale of  Finans Emeklilik & Hayat AS  and obtained non-
binding bids from potential investors in an initial round of the
process, Aras said in an interview in Istanbul today.  International insurers including  Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest insurer, are among potential bidders, according to three
people who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential.  Sompo Japan Insurance Inc (8755) ., which bought the
Turkish insurer Fiba Sigorta A.S. in 2010, may also be
considering an offer, two of the people said.  “There is great interest in the sale, all foreign,” Aras
said, declining to identify potential buyers. He said the bank
aims to collect binding bids by early April and “complete the
sale in one or two months.”  Turkey ’s private personal pension  industry , where premium
collection grew 19 percent to 14.3 billion liras ($8 billion)
last year, has already attracted international investors, with
nine of the 15 licensed Turkish pension firms controlled by
foreign companies. In June,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  paid 161.9 million
euros ($211 million) for  Dexia SA’s (DEXB)  Turkish insurance unit Deniz
Emeklilik & Hayat AS, which managed a fund valued at 106 million
liras as of March 2.  Finans Emeklilik had a fund of 120.7 million liras on the
same date, representing 0.8 percent of the total funds managed
by private pension firms in Turkey, according to the  website  of
the government agency that monitors the industry. The company
has a 4.6 percent share of Turkey’s life-insurance market,
according to Istanbul-based Tera Brokers.  Turkey’s private pension system, created in 2003, is
voluntary and based on contributions to funds that pay out after
10 years of savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  