-- New York Legislature Approves Cuomo-Backed Pension Overhaul
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-15T17:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/new-york-legislature-approves-cuomo-backed-pension-overhaul-1-.html
The  New York (STONY1)  Legislature approved
much of Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s pension overhaul by raising the
retirement age for most new workers and for the first time
offering a 401(k)-type option to some nonunion employees.  The deal was among a package of bills passed yesterday and
today during an all-night session in Albany that redraws voting
district lines, sets up a teacher-evaluation system, authorizes
a constitutional amendment that would legalize casino gambling and
expands a criminal DNA database. The governor, a 54-year-old
Democrat, is expected to sign the measures, according to
legislative leaders and administration officials.  “This bold and transformational pension reform plan is a
historic win for  New York  taxpayers and municipalities,” Cuomo,
who included the pension overhaul in his $132.5 billion budget
proposal in January, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Without this critical reform,  New Yorkers  would have seen
significant tax increases, as well as layoffs to teachers,
firefighters and police.”  In a radio interview with Talk 1300’s Fred Dicker about
three hours after passage, Cuomo said lawmakers made a “good
start” on the budget, which will be “way less controversial
than last year.” New York’s fiscal year begins April 1.  Raising Contributions  New York’s retirement fund, the third-largest U.S. public
pension, had 101.5 percent of the money to pay its obligations
in 2010, better than any other state, according to an annual
study by Bloomberg Rankings. To keep it there, the system has
raised the contribution rates the state and local governments
pay annually.  Cuomo has said pension costs will consume 35 percent of
local-government budgets by 2015, up from 3 percent in 2001.
Today’s deal is expected to save $80 billion over 30 years,  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, said in an interview. The pension-
change plan is known as Tier VI because it creates a sixth level
of benefits.  The deal was reached as Cuomo threatened lawmakers with a
veto over voting district lines redrawn to meet population
shifts recognized in the 2010  U.S. Census , union officials said.  “Tier VI shoved down the throat of state legislators
fixated on their own self-preservation will be devastating to 99
percent of New Yorkers,” Danny Donohue, president of the Civil
Service Employees Association, the state’s biggest public-worker
union, said in a  statement . “This deal is about politicians
standing with the 1 percent -- the wealthiest New Yorkers -- to
give them a better break while telling nurses, bus drivers,
teachers, secretaries and laborers to put up and shut up.”  No Relief  Localities will see no relief in the short term from the
new tier and will be hurt by loss of state services, downsizing
and consolidation of facilities, the union said.  The pension overhaul affects only new workers, raising the
 retirement age  for most to 63 from 62, and increases the
contribution rate for those who earn more than $45,000 to
between 3.5 percent and 6 percent from 3 percent. Those with an
annual salary of less than $45,000 contribute 3 percent. It also
reduces the percentage of the final average salary used to
calculate annual retirement payments.  Cuomo originally sought a retirement age of 65 and didn’t
get the 401(k)-type option he wanted for every worker, though
employees who aren’t union members and earn at least $75,000 a
year will be able to invest in the plan. The governor said he
was flexible like a “veritable Gumby” on the 401(k) option.  Pension Cuts  A record 43 states from 2009 through 2011 cut public-
pension benefits to reduce costs following the longest recession
since the 1930s, the  National Conference of State Legislatures 
said in a report released yesterday. Former Governor  David Paterson  in 2009 reached a deal with unions and lawmakers to
raise the retirement age and increase worker contributions that
was expected to save $35 billion over 30 years.  Cuomo’s pension agreement marks another victory for him
over New York’s unions. Last year, he won wage freezes and
furloughs from the state’s two biggest unions after threatening
to fire almost 10,000 workers if they didn’t agree to the
contract terms that saved $450 million.  When Cuomo announced his pension-change plan, he was met
with opposition from public unions as well as Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a fellow Democrat and the sole trustee of the $140.3
billion pension fund.  ‘No Quick Fix’  In a statement after the vote, DiNapoli said Tier VI “will
not significantly lower costs for local governments in the short
run.” He said he was pleased the plan doesn’t include Cuomo’s
original 401(k) option.  “There is no quick fix to addressing rising pension
contribution rates driven by the financial market meltdown in
2008-09,” DiNapoli said. “Despite strong investment returns
and two new pension tiers in less than three years, these rates
will likely continue to increase in the near future.”  In television commercials, on billboards and in public
appearances, union leaders said today’s changes were an attack
on the middle class.  Cuomo’s backers, including a coalition of local leaders led
by New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and the business-
supported  Committee to Save New York , produced advertisements
that threatened firings of local employees if changes weren’t
made to the pension system.  The original proposal would have saved states and cities,
including New York, $113 billion over 30 years, Cuomo has said.  ‘Landmark’ Deal  “There’s not a single element of the plan that hasn’t been
changed or negotiated,” Micah Lasher, the mayor’s director of
legislative affairs, said in an interview in  Albany . “The
governor started out with $30 billion in savings and it looks
like we’ll end up with two-thirds of that.”  The pension overhaul was a “landmark” deal representing
big savings for city residents, Bloomberg said in a statement e-
mailed today.  “As a result of Governor Cuomo’s leadership, city
taxpayers will save $21 billion over the next 30 years,” he
said. “Not a single current government worker or retiree will
be affected, and not-yet-hired city workers will continue to be
able to retire securely.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  