-- New York Area Factories Grew in March by Most Since June 2010
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/new-york-area-factories-grew-in-march-by-most-since-june-2010.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in March at the fastest pace since June 2010,
indicating factories are still driving the expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  unexpectedly increased to 20.2 this month from 19.5 in
February. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was 17.5. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  Investment in new equipment and inventory restocking this
quarter will help keep American factories expanding even as
slower global growth limits exports. A pickup in  job creation 
that helps drive bigger gains in  consumer spending  may further
fuel production.  “The economy is gaining momentum and gaining breadth,”
John Herrmann, president of Herrmann Forecasting LLC in Summit,
 New Jersey , said before the report. “Manufacturing is
benefitting from consumers pulling back so much in the past few
years. There’s just this big replacement demand.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 56 economists ranged
from 12 to 25.  The Empire State gauge of factory  employment  climbed to a
10-month high of 13.6 in March from 11.8. A measure of factory
orders eased to 6.8 this month from 9.7 in February. A gauge of
shipments decreased to 18.2 from 22.8.  The Fed’s index of prices paid jumped to 50.6 in March, the
highest since June, from 25.9 a month earlier, and a measure of
the factory workweek climbed to a 10-month high of 18.5 from
7.1.  Expectations Measure  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now declined to 47.5 from 50.4.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s report on U.S. manufacturing. The Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge, to be released today at 10 a.m. New York time, rose
to 12 from 10.2 in February, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey. The national ISM factory data will be
released on April 2.  Manufacturing output, which makes up 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy  and about 6 percent of the New York economy, has picked
up after a lull in the third quarter as consumers purchased more
cars and businesses boosted inventory levels.  That’s prompting some manufacturers to add more workers.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, said yesterday in a statement that it plans to
expand a manufacturing plant in Sumter,  South Carolina , by
adding 170,000 square feet and more than 80 jobs.  Fed policy makers meeting in  Washington  this week said
“labor market conditions have improved further.”  “The  unemployment rate  has declined notably in recent
months but remains elevated,” Federal Open Market Committee
members said in a March 13 statement. “Household spending and
business fixed investment have continued to advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  