-- News Corp.’s Times Gave Inaccurate Account to Hide Hacking
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-15T21:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/news-corp-s-times-gave-inaccurate-account-to-hide-computer-hack.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Times newspaper in
London gave an inaccurate account to a court to hide an instance
of computer hacking by a journalist.  The newspaper’s former lawyer, Alastair Brett, told an
inquiry into media ethics that the explanation of how a reporter
had discovered the identity of a policeman was “not entirely
accurate.” The reporter had hacked into the officer’s e-mail in
May 2009 to expose him as the writer of the unauthorized
“Nightjack” blog about police work.  “It’s not a full and frank account,” Brett told the
inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, today about the reporter’s
witness statement in the case. “He’s certainly skirted the
issues. I told him don’t engage. Keep it simple, say how you did
it legitimately.”  The  Metropolitan Police Service  is investigating the Times
over e-mail hacking, Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson  said in
February. The newspaper is the third News Corp. title in London
to come under suspicion in related probes of phone hacking,
computer hacking and bribes to police officers. News Corp.
closed the News of the World in July after revelations that
reporters accessed messages on a murdered schoolgirl’s mobile
phone.  Lawyers for the police officer, Richard Horton, had raised
the possibility that his e-mail had been illegally accessed. In
response the Times claimed in court proceedings that the
reporter had pursued the story through legitimate means.  ‘Utterly Misleading’  “That is utterly misleading isn’t it?” Leveson said,
referring to the reporter’s statement submitted to the court
during the Nightjack case.  The Times published the stories revealing the police
officer because it was in the public interest, editor James Harding said in February. “I sorely regret the intrusion,”
Harding told the inquiry last month.  Brett who had been the Times’ internal lawyer from 1977
through to 2010, said he never adopted “an end justifies the
means approach.”  Seven people were arrested this week including the former
editor of the News of the World Rebekah Brooks and her husband
as the police probe widened to focus on a possible cover up of
phone hacking at the tabloid. At least three people have been
arrested by police investigating computer hacking.  Brett’s testimony “was a painful reminder of an occasion
when the Times’s conduct failed to meet the high standards
expected of this newspaper,” News International, parent company
of the Times, said in an e-mailed statement. “News
International has changed governance and compliance procedures,
including formalised guidance to the in-house legal team, to
ensure that rigorous internal processes are adhered to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  