-- Nomura Rating Cut by Moody’s to Lowest Investment Grade
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-03-16T04:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/nomura-credit-rating-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-profitability-risk.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s debt rating
was cut to the lowest investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said global competition raises questions over the
profitability of  Japan ’s biggest securities firm.  The one-step reduction brings Nomura’s long-term debt
rating to Baa3, one level above junk. Moody’s has a “stable”
outlook on the rating, it said in a statement.  The cut, which follows a review Moody’s began in November,
may raise Nomura’s borrowing costs and oblige the firm to
increase collateral to counterparties on derivatives trades.
Nomura is trimming $1.2 billion of  expenses  that mounted since
it bought bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and
European operations during the 2008 global financial crisis.  “There remains uncertainty about the long-term positioning
and profitability of Nomura’s international capital market
activities, given its weaker market share compared with those of
its global peers,” Moody’s said in the statement yesterday.  The market reacted little to the move, after Moody’s said a
month ago that any downgrade would probably be by one level.
Shares of Nomura rose 0.3 percent, or 1 yen, to 401 yen as of
1:51 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yield premiums on Nomura’s dollar-
denominated notes due 2015 relative to Treasuries rose 5.9 basis
points to 295.3, according to BNP Paribas SA prices.  Worldwide Scrutiny  Banks worldwide are facing scrutiny by Moody’s. The New
York-based company said on Feb. 15 that it may lower ratings of
17 global banks and securities firms, including Nomura, because
of challenges including higher borrowing costs, stricter
regulatory burdens and lower profitability.  Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest investment bank,
was also downgraded one level, to A3, by Moody’s, which cited
“ongoing earnings challenges.”  Moody’s rates Nomura lower than Wall Street rivals
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose A1 grade is the fifth
highest. BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest lender, had its rating
cut to Aa3 in December after funding costs rose amid the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura’s biggest domestic
competitor, was also cut to Baa3 by Moody’s four months ago.  “Management at Nomura is attempting to bring greater focus
to its international investment banking activities -- a strategy
it has pursued in various forms over a number of years -- but
given the competitive position of Nomura’s international capital
markets platform we think the Baa3 rating better reflects these
risks,” Elisabeth Rudman, a senior vice president at Moody’s,
said in the statement.  ‘Solid Platform’  The downgrade was “disappointing,” Nomura said.  “Nomura maintains a solid platform across its retail,
asset management and wholesale businesses,” the Tokyo-based
company said in a statement. “Our robust capital base and
abundant liquidity position us well to respond to the ongoing
challenges facing the investment banking industry.”  Nomura’s prospects have shown signs of improving since
Moody’s announced its review on Nov. 9.  Shares of the Japanese firm have climbed 72 percent this
year, the second-biggest gainer on the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average. (NKY) 
Nomura returned to profit in the three months ended December
from a loss in the previous quarter, driven in part by cost-
cutting efforts.  The price to insure the bank’s debt against default for
five years has tumbled to 260 basis points yesterday from as
high as 410 in November, according to data provider CMA. That
compares with 225 for credit default swaps on Daiwa bonds and
215 for Goldman Sachs.  Cost-Cutting Progress  Moody’s said Nomura has made “significant progress” on
its $1.2 billion expense-reduction plan and that the program
will boost Nomura’s future performance.  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe’s firm is cutting
jobs, trimming personnel expenses by 11 percent in the three
months ended December from a year earlier. Nomura will cut about
30 managers in its fixed-income unit, a person briefed on the
matter said on March 13.  Two of the highest-ranking former Lehman employees stepped
down in January.  Jesse Bhattal , who was chief of wholesale
banking, left Nomura after his division accumulated losses.
Tarun Jotwani’s global markets division was split into equities
and fixed income after he resigned.  Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata said on Feb. 1 that
a credit-rating downgrade would require the firm to supply more
collateral for derivatives transactions, adding that the bank
has enough cash to withstand it.  Net income  climbed 33 percent to 17.8 billion yen ($213
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier,
buoyed by the sale of private-equity investments, earnings
figures showed on Feb. 1. Brokerage commissions, investment
banking fees and trading profit all fell in the quarter from a
year earlier, and pretax losses from operations abroad widened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  