-- Noonan Says ECB Wants Stronger Collateral for Anglo Irish Notes
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-15T15:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/noonan-says-ecb-not-enarmored-by-anglo-irish-promissory-notes.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the  European Central Bank  is “not enamored” by the
structure of about 30 billion euros ($39 billion) of  promissory
notes used by the state to bail out Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “You could take it that the ECB were never particularly
happy with the collateral provided by the promissory notes and
would like stronger collateral,” Noonan said in an interview
with Irish state-owned broadcaster  RTE Radio . Noonan spoke from
Paris after meeting his French counterpart  Francois Baroin .  Ireland nationalized Dublin-based Anglo Irish in 2009 and
Irish  Nationwide Building Society  a year later as their loan
losses soared following the collapse of a real-estate bubble. To
avoid injecting cash immediately into the lenders, the state
pledged to give the money over more than a decade by issuing
promissory notes -- or IOUs. The two lenders merged last year
and were named Irish Bank Resolution Corp.  Currently, IBRC uses the notes as collateral to access
emergency funding from the country’s central bank.  Noonan is discussing with Ireland’s so-called bailout
troika, the  International Monetary Fund , the European Central
Bank and European Commission, on how it can repay the cost of
bailing out the lender over an extended period at low rates.  The ECB will be “crucial” in any decision to restructure
the notes, Noonan said in the RTE interview today. The changes
that the ECB is “requesting will have to align with our
interests” and position Ireland so the markets can see that the
country can repay its debts, he said.  Noonan said it was also “quite positive” that the troika
was working on a technical paper on how the notes could be re-
engineered, rather than Ireland seeking support from 26 other
European countries.  Noonan didn’t rule out an agreed delay on the next 3.1
billion-euro annual payment on the promissory notes, due at the
end of March, RTE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  