-- North Dakota Shale-Oil Boom Rushes Past Riverbank Dwellers
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-03-15T19:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/north-dakota-shale-oil-boom-rushes-past-riverbank-dwellers.html
North Dakota  landowners say the
state’s claim to  oil deposits  beneath riverbanks and lake shores
is robbing them of millions of dollars in rent and royalties
from a drilling boom that has quadrupled crude production in the
past five years.  The state is accused in a lawsuit by private landowners
along the Missouri and Yellowstone rivers of “unlawful taking
of mineral interests” by improperly applying a public-use
doctrine dating back to the state’s emergence from territorial
status in 1889.  Private property owners have historically held title to
mineral rights on land down to the low-water mark along the
Missouri River and other navigable waterways, unless they sold
or gave them away, Charles Neff, an attorney for the plaintiffs,
said today. The state’s claim that it owns the mineral rights up
to the high-water mark is based on century-old laws intended to
protect public use of riverside roads and parks, said Neff, an
attorney with Neff Eiken & Neff PC in Williston, North Dakota.  “Now that  oil wells  are being punched all over the place,
there’s a lot of fussing about who owns the minerals,” Neff
said in a telephone interview. “The state has the right to make
sure the public has access to things they can use like parks,
lakes, roads -- not minerals 10,000 feet underground that no one
even could conceive of 100 years ago.”  Defendants Named  The lawsuit was filed March 12 in state court in Williston
and names as defendants the state, the North Dakota Board of
University and School Lands and North Dakota Trust Lands
Commissioner Lance Gaebe, according to an electronic record of
the suit filed on the court’s website.  The plaintiffs, including several generations of landowners
in or near Williston in the northwest part of the state, are
asking the court to grant class-action status so other North
Dakota landowners can be included, according to a copy of the
complaint provided by Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP, a
Minneapolis law firm also representing the plaintiffs.  The landowners seek an order barring the state from
claiming absolute title to mineral rights in land below the
“ordinary high-water mark,” as well as awarding damages to the
landowners.  Double Leasing  “We have no comment at this time,” Liz Brocker, a
spokeswoman for North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem,
said today in a telephone interview from Bismarck, the state
capitol.  Gaebe, the lands commissioner, didn’t immediately return a
phone message left at his office in Bismarck. Jeff Zent, a
spokesman for Governor Jack Dalrymple, the highest-ranking
member of the school lands board, also didn’t immediately return
a voice mail.  Oil explorers have been sidestepping disputes over who owns
the mineral rights by double leasing: the practice of paying
both the state and a private landowner thousands of dollars an
acre for the right to drill wells, Neff said. Millions of
dollars in royalties from producing oil wells have been set
aside in escrow-like bank accounts until the ownership disputes
can be hashed out, he said.  “An  oil company  is not going to drill a $10 million well
with any title problems so they’re paying both sides for
leasing,” Neff said. “With the wells that have already been
drilled and are now in production, the  oil companies  don’t know
who to pay” royalties to.  Disputed Well  Stanford Reep, the lead plaintiff, said the well drilled on
his riverfront property in Williston by  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s  Brigham
Exploration (BEXP)  unit produced 100,000 barrels of crude in the past
year. Brigham, an Austin, Texas-based explorer that was acquired
by Norway’s Statoil in December, opted not to double lease in
his case and made a deal with the state, Reep said today in a
telephone interview.  With oil from that region  fetching  an average of $97.55 a
barrel during the past 12 months, the output of that single well
had a value of about $9.76 million. Reep said he hasn’t
calculated what his share would have been if the state hadn’t
laid claim to the mineral rights.  “There have been many wells drilled along the river
here,” said Reep, a 79-year-old retired farm-equipment dealer.
“This one here on my land is one of the prime disputed wells.”  Oil Boom  North Dakota’s crude production surged 59 percent in
January to a record 546,000 barrels a day from a year earlier,
state figures showed. The number of producing wells climbed 24
percent during that period to 6,617.  Horizontal drilling techniques, tougher drill bits and
intensive rock-fracturing practices known as fracking have
allowed explorers such as  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  to unlock crude trapped in
the Bakken Shale, a previously-impenetrable rock formation
beneath North Dakota and  Montana .  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota ; 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  