-- North Korean-Schooled Zhang Picked to Replace Bo in Chongqing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T07:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/north-korean-schooled-zhang-picked-to-replace-bo-in-chongqing.html
Zhang Dejiang, a Chinese vice
premier who oversees industrial and energy policy, was picked by
the ruling Communist Party to take over Chongqing, replacing  Bo Xilai , whose firing was announced today.  Zhang, a 65-year-old native of northeastern Liaoning
province, rose to prominence under former President Jiang Zemin.
He is in charge of areas including industrial production,
transport and energy, according to the official  Xinhua News
Agency . He also meets foreign business leaders, including
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Chief Executive Officer
Virginia Rometty, who  met him  last month in  China ’s leadership
compound in central Beijing.  The choice of Zhang to replace Bo, whose removal was the
strongest rebuke of a Politburo member in at least five years,
is a signal that China’s leadership trusts him to take a
difficult job. Zhang has been mentioned by analysts including  Li
Cheng  at  Washington ’s Brookings Insitution as a candidate for
the Politburo Standing Committee, the group, now with nine
people, that exercises supreme authority in China. The party is
set to pick a new standing committee later this year.  “In terms of economic policy and most likely any political
reform he’s not known as a reform-oriented person, but has a
reputation of being very steady wherever he serves,” said
Victor Shih, a political economist at Northwestern University in
Evanston,  Illinois . “Part of the reason why he has been
assigned to Chongqing is that he will provide relatively steady
leadership to a city in turmoil.”  SARS, Train Crash  Zhang was Communist Party Secretary of southern China’s
 Guangdong Province  from 2002 to 2007, coinciding with the 2003
SARS epidemic that scientists said may have originated in the
region, and which the government initially covered up.     Zhang graduated from the economics department at Kim Il Sung University in North Korea and became a vice premier in
2008. He led the rescue efforts after a high-speed railway crash
last July near the city of Wenzhou in eastern China’s Zhejiang
province.  The 62-year-old Bo was ousted today after his former police
chief, Wang Lijun, was put under investigation after he spent a
day in the U.S. consulate in Chengdu, Sichuan earlier this year,
sparking speculation he was seeking asylum.  Bo was seen yesterday in Beijing at the closing ceremony of
the meeting of the National People’s Congress. Hours later,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  told reporters that Chongqing leaders “must
seriously reflect on the Wang Lijun incident and learn lessons
from that incident.”  The appointment of Zhang ’’reflects the fact that the
party’s leadership considers him to be an appropriate and mild
choice,’’ said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of Chinese
history at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong . “He has close
ties with Jiang and is also on good terms with President Hu
Jintao.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  