-- Norway Faces Housing Bubble as Krone Steals Policy Agenda
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-03-16T11:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/norway-risks-housing-bubble-as-krone-steals-agenda-mortgages.html
Norway is moving closer to a
housing bubble as the central bank’s strategy of cutting
 interest rates  to weaken the krone spurs credit growth and
bloats property values.  A day after Norway’s financial regulator said the biggest
domestic threat to the economy comes from an overheated property
market as borrowers bet rates will stay low, Norges Bank
Governor Oeystein Olsen on March 14 demonstrated he won’t allow
further krone gains by cutting the bank’s  main interest rate  a
quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent.  The country may already be in a housing bubble, according
to  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20)  home-
price index who predicted the U.S. subprime mortgage crash.
Policy makers should “start worrying now,” Shiller said in an
interview in Copenhagen in January.  Norway ’s Financial
Supervisory Authority this week told banks to build up their
capital buffers to prepare for increased losses as low central
bank rates continue to fuel credit-market imbalances.  An overpriced housing market “is one worry that we have,
but we have to balance different developments,” Olsen said in a
March 14 interview in Oslo. The bank “is aware when we set
interest rates of the impact on housing prices,” though there’s
no sign of a bubble “in the classical sense,” he said.  Norway’s  interbank market  is responding to the warnings.
The difference between Norway’s three-month interbank offered
rate and the country’s benchmark deposit rate widened to 83
basis points yesterday, compared with an average of 48 basis
points over the past decade.  Debt-Free Government  The economy of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter has
steered clear of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The government
has no net debt and the biggest budget surplus of any AAA-rated
nation, thanks to a $600 billion sovereign-wealth fund.
Unemployment fell to 2.7 percent in February, Europe’s lowest
rate, the government said on March 1. Norway, like Switzerland,
isn’t a member of the European Union.  The country’s mainland economy, which strips out the effect
of oil, gas and shipping, will grow 3.25 percent this year, the
central bank said March 14. That compares with a Feb. 23
European Commission estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction in
the 17-member euro region.  Norway’s wealth has attracted investors to its  currency
market , sending the krone to a nine-year high this month and
limiting the central bank’s scope to raise interest rates.  Another  Switzerland ?  “There is no doubt that there has been significant
strengthening of the krone,” Olsen said. “That is an important
element” in determining rate policy, he said. In an interview
today, Olsen said that “short-term investors” face a “risk
that the krone weakens. We are not like the Swiss franc, we are
not as voluminous, so the door is much more narrow than in
Switzerland.”  The currency rose 0.1 percent against the euro as of 12:08
p.m. in Oslo today, to 7.5529. It was little changed against the
dollar at 5.7779. On March 14, the day of the rate cut, the
krone slumped 1.7 percent against the euro and fell 2.2 percent
versus the dollar.  Olsen has sharpened his focus on the krone since the  Swiss
National Bank  in September clamped down on currency speculators
by pegging the franc to the euro. That sent investors fleeing
Europe’s debt crisis to alternative markets.  “Let’s not hope Norway will be another Switzerland,” said
 John Hydeskov , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  London , in an
e-mailed reply to questions. “A rate cut signals: ‘We are
alert.’ They hope the symbolic value is enough.”  Debt Burdens  Meanwhile, private debt burdens continue to swell.
Household debt will reach 204 percent of disposable incomes this
year, the central bank estimates. That’s the highest level since
at least 1988, when the bank started compiling the data. In the
1980s, just before a housing collapse triggered a 40 percent
slump in average Norwegian  house prices , the private-debt ratio
was about 150 percent,Morten Baltzersen, director general of
Norway’s FSA, said in an interview last month.  House prices, which haven’t declined on an annual basis
since 2008, jumped 7 percent last month to a record, according
to the Real Estate Brokers Association. Property values have
risen almost twice as fast as disposable incomes since 1992,
central bank data show. Shiller, who is also an economics
professor at Yale University, warns property prices in Norway
“have gone up more than they ever did in the U.S.”  New Guidelines  The financial regulator last year pushed through guidelines
for banks, urging them not to grant loans that make up more than
85 percent of a property’s value. DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest
bank, is “definitely applying the new guidelines,” said Thomas
Midteide, a spokesman at the Oslo-based bank, in an e-mailed
response to questions.  DNB (DNB)  said  mortgage rates  have risen to take account of
higher market funding costs. The bank increased mortgage rates
in May and November last year, by a quarter of a percentage
point each time, Midteide said.  “ Mortgage loans  are financed in the international funding
market, which definitely worsened last year, as risk premiums
banks pay have doubled,” he said in an e-mail.  So far, stricter lending rules and  banks ’ efforts to pass
higher funding costs on to clients have done little to cool the
market. Real-estate brokers complain that they’re unable to
satisfy buyers’ appetite for housing.  “There aren’t enough homes to meet the demand,” Rune
Bertelsen, a sales manager at Eiendomsmegler1 in Stavanger, on
Norway’s south-west coastline, said in an interview. He
estimates prices will rise another 6 percent through December.  ‘Really Hot’  According to Privatmegleren, another broker based in
Stavanger, about 95 percent of houses for sale are bought
between one week and a month after being put on the market.  “It is really hot, it is a good market,” said Janne Mette
Bergesen, a sales manager at Privatmegleren. “It will stay like
this for a long time. People want to buy a house, they don’t
want to rent. It’s a good investment.”  Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority disagrees, saying
this week house prices may fall “markedly” once the market
turns. That would have “substantial knock-on” effects on the
broader economy, the regulator said.  In neighboring  Denmark , where a housing bubble burst in
2007, the economy is still struggling to recover from the
banking meltdown that followed.  Home prices  will have slumped 25
percent since the crisis started by next year, the government-
backed Economic Council estimated in November.  Terje Bach, a sales manager at realtor Privatmegleren in
Bergen, said Norwegian homeowners can probably tolerate price
declines of as much as 6 percent. Some homeowners said they
already smell a bubble.  Lennart Krohn-Hansen, a 28-year-old physiotherapist based
in Bergen, said he’ll probably rent out some rooms in the
apartment he bought this week after looking for eight months, to
help cover the cost.  “Prices are just so high,” he said. “It isn’t
realistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 