-- To Rebuild Libya, Start With Transparency on Oil Revenues: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-15T23:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/to-rebuild-libya-start-with-transparency-on-oil-revenues-view.html
Five months after rebels killed
 Muammar Qaddafi  and a year after a Western-Arab air campaign
intervened to help defeat him, Tripoli reopened its stock
exchange Thursday to signal that Libya is again open for
business.  True, just nine companies listed to trade their shares when
the tiny exchange opened, three fewer than before the uprising.
But Libya is the richest of the countries that unseated
dictators during the Arab Spring. Elections to a National
Assembly are set for June, with a new constitution to follow.
Sitting on  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, this desert nation the
size of  Alaska  should have excellent prospects for rebuilding
its economy and using the proceeds to help found a democratic
society.  So, was the North Atlantic Treaty Organization intervention
a success? With debate rising over whether to intervene to stop
the bloodshed in Syria,  Libya ’s example is being cited as a
model to follow.  Things could be going a lot better. Libya’s economy remains
a shambles after shrinking by 60 percent last year, according to
International Monetary Fund figures. Corruption is rife and the
transitional authorities are weak, ineffectual and non-
transparent. Hundreds of militias remain armed, and some
continue to arrest and torture alleged Qaddafi collaborators
with impunity. A recent bid for autonomy by the country’s oil-
rich east has raised the specter of disintegration. The “open
for business” slogan that Libya’s interim leaders like to tout
is still for  investors  with strong stomachs.  Libya doesn’t necessarily require quantities of financial
aid -- it’s reeling back an estimated $168 billion in frozen
Qaddafi regime assets and turning oil spigots back on -- but it
could use more help with building the institutions needed for a
functioning democracy and market economy to take root.  Many of the challenges Libya faces are inevitable for a
country that endured 42 years of dictatorship and does not yet
have a government with the legitimacy of an electoral mandate.
The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. are wisely keeping a low profile,
while the  United Nations  has taken the lead with what it calls a
“gradual, light-foot approach.” It has 65 international staff on
the ground.  The  U.S.  is spending about $40 million to help secure
Libyan weapons depots and help with disarmament, a necessary but
insufficient focus. The European Union is assessing how to
support civil society and improve border security. The  UN  did
vital work in advising on the draft of an election law. These
are all important efforts, but they are unlikely to be enough.
To give a rough comparison, more than a decade after NATO’s last
big all-air military intervention in  Kosovo , the international
staff of the scaled back Eulex institution-building operation
there varies from 1,400 to just under 2,000. Kosovo is the size
of  Delaware  and has a population less than a third of Libya’s.  A major focus should be on improving transparency. Libya’s
wealth has the potential to create a large middle class,
reducing the appeal of Islamist political movements. Oil
 production  is back up to about 1.2 million barrels per day, from
1.77 million bpd before the uprising. But oil money can also
tear the country apart, triggering mistrust of governments that
handle the gushers of cash, as well as grabs for regional
control of energy assets. This challenge could prove to be
Libya’s biggest.  The National Transitional Council, the self-appointed body
formed to represent the opposition to Qaddafi during the
uprising, isn’t up to this task. It doesn’t disclose its
membership or decision making. The state makes money from
foreign oil producers mainly by exporting oil under production-
sharing deals. But there is no auditing trail to verify how much
money is reaching the central bank, relative to the amount of
oil exported. Many recent protests against the council have
focused on this issue of transparency: Libyans want and need to
know where their oil revenue is going.  The way forward is through better auditing and
transparency, posting verifiable figures on the internet that
trace revenues from the  oil companies  to the government budget
and out. The  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative , a
body setting international standards, invited Libya to sign up
in December, but hasn’t yet had a response. Foreign companies
working in Libya can help in this area, publishing contract
terms on the web to promote a culture of transparency and public
trust.  But none of the Libyan stock market’s dreams of expansion
will be realized until the security situation is brought under
control. The transitional authorities in Tripoli have lashed out
at eastern appeals for autonomy and are trying to attract
militias to join a centralized police force and army. Both are
mistakes. Libya, a country dominated by tribal and regional
loyalties, needs to be decentralized to survive. It makes more
sense to turn militias into local police forces than to try to
centralize them. The east’s calls for autonomy, meanwhile,
should be met with dialogue, rather than threatened with force.  Qaddafi left Libya an institutional wasteland, and Libyans
are only beginning to build a new state. The risk is that with
the more immediate challenge in  Syria , the world’s light touch
leaves Libya largely on its own. That would be unfortunate.
Libya’s progress, or lack thereof, will remain an influential
example as Syria unfolds.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 