-- Obama Praises Cameron’s Strength Over Death of His Son
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-15T11:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/obama-praises-cameron-s-strength-over-death-of-his-son.html
Barack Obama  praised  David Cameron 
for the strength he showed following the death of his son, Ivan,
and the British prime minister responded by comparing the U.S.
president to  Franklin Roosevelt .  The leaders toasted each other at a banquet on the White
House lawn last night that capped two days of bonding between
the Democratic president and Conservative prime minister. Obama,
after talking about Cameron’s “commitment to human dignity”
and “resolve” over Libya, went on to talk about his British
counterpart’s experience as a parent.  “I will say something else, David,” Obama said. “All of
us have seen how you as a parent along with Samantha have shown
a measure of strength that few of us will ever know. Tonight I
thank you for bringing that same strength and solidarity to our
partnership.”  Ivan, who had suffered from cerebral palsy and life-
threatening epileptic fits since birth, died at the age of six
in February 2009 after being rushed to hospital in the night.
Cameron, 45, was in the opposition at the time. His son’s
illness often caused him to sleep on hospital floors after
emergency admissions. The couple had two younger children then
and in 2010 had a daughter.  The prime minister responded by all but endorsing Obama’s
re-election in his own nine-minute toast. He cited the U.S.-led
coalition effort in  Libya , the surge in Afghanistan and the
troop withdrawal from  Iraq . The president “has pressed the
reset button on the moral authority of the entire free world,”
he said.  Oil Prices  Obama and Cameron talked during their meeting yesterday
about releasing oil from strategic petroleum reserves without
reaching a decision, according to a U.K. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks were confidential.  Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  have called on Obama to use
the oil stockpile to fight an increase in gasoline prices
spurred by tensions with Iran over its nuclear program. Regular
gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.6 cents
yesterday to $3.811 a gallon, according to AAA data. Prices are
7.2 percent higher than a year earlier.  The U.S. has withdrawn oil 18 times since 1985, including
in 2008 after hurricanes struck the  Gulf Coast . The U.S. reserve
was used in July and August last year, under an International
Energy Agency effort to ease shortages of Middle East supply.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday that rising oil prices are something “all economies
will be concerned about.”  A Different Feeling  “It’s doesn’t quite have the same spike feeling that it
did a year ago,” Osborne said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television. “It
seems more like a sustained increase, partly driven by demand.”  Cameron, who has made attracting businesses to Britain the
main focus of his foreign policy, will conclude his U.S. trip
today with visits to the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  and the Sept.
11 memorial.  On the prime minister’s first stop in Newark, he’ll meet
Mayor  Cory Booker  to discuss his experience trying to regenerate
the New Jersey city and view urban renewal projects. Cameron is
trying to increase the number of directly elected mayors in
Britain.  In New York, the premier will host a lunch with business
leaders, including billionaire investor  George Soros ; Blackstone
Group LP Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman; Morgan
Stanley CEO  James Gorman  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , according to the prime minister’s office.  ‘Inevitable’ Policies  With banks facing costs of as much as 7 billion pounds ($11
billion) as a result of plans in the U.K. to make them insulate
consumer units from  investment banking , Cameron may look to
reassure financial institutions they can continue to base
themselves in  London .  Osborne said that such policies are “inevitable.”  “In the United States, you’ve had Dodd-Frank,” Osborne
said on the “Charlie Rose” show. “We’ve got to get away from
a situation where the U.S. Treasury secretary or the British
chancellor has no other option on the night but to bail out a
financial institution.”  The prime minister will also take questions today from
students at  New York  University after visiting the Sept. 11
memorial. Cameron’s wife, Samantha, who is traveling with him,
was in New York when the terrorists struck, and he spoke last
year of the five hours he spent trying to get through to her
mobile phone to find out if she was safe.  “I remember exactly where I was when I finally did get
through and how pleased I was to hear her voice,” the prime
minister told Al Jazeera television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  