-- Obama Says Alternative Sources Answer for Rising Energy Costs
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-15T15:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/obama-says-alternative-sources-answer-for-rising-energy-costs.html
President  Barack Obama  promoted his
energy policies in suburban Washington as he sought to fend off
Republican critics who argue the administration’s actions are
driving up energy costs.  Obama said “professional politicians” who dismiss
attempts to develop alternative sources of energy and keep
focusing on fossil fuels “want to keep us stuck in the past.”  “If we’re tired of watching gas prices spike every year --
if we want to bring them down for good -- we need to look beyond
the energy of the past and put ourselves on a path to a real,
sustainable energy future,” the president said in the text of
remarks at Prince George’s Community College in Largo,  Maryland ,
outside Washington.  Rising gasoline prices have opened a line of attack by
Republican presidential candidates, as higher energy costs
overshadow gains elsewhere in the economy, including the
addition of 227,000 new jobs in February.  Obama said critics don’t have a solution for energy costs
beyond more drilling for oil and gas in the U.S. He said the
U.S. is already producing more oil domestically than at any time
in the last eight years and more public land has been opened for
exploration.  Exploration will continue “in a way that protects the
health and safety” of the public, he said.  Gasoline costs $4 per gallon or more in five states and
 Washington , D.C. according to a daily survey by the  American
Automobile Association (3AGSREG) . Alaska,  California , Hawaii,  Illinois ,
 New York  and the nation’s capital reached or exceeded $4, with
Connecticut, Washington and Oregon within two cents of that
mark.  Pump Prices  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline climbed to $3.821 a gallon yesterday, AAA said. That’s
7.5 percent higher than a year ago, according to AAA’s survey.  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 9 cents to $105.34 a
barrel at 10:03 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Even so, the world’s largest economy will strengthen
through 2012 as employment gains more than offset rising fuel
costs, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Obama and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  discussed a
release of oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve during
talks yesterday at the White House but didn’t reach a
conclusion, according to a U.K. official with knowledge of the
talks. A White House official said the two leaders discussed
energy markets and  oil prices , a White House confirmed, while
refusing to say if the discussions included the oil reserve.  While Obama didn’t name his critics,  Mitt Romney  and other
Republican presidential candidates say the president’s policies
have stifled domestic energy production, including his failure
to approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline.  The U.S. is on track to achieve an Obama goal of reducing
oil  imports  by a third in a little over a decade because of
increased U.S. oil and gas production, more efficient cars and
trucks, and improve refining operations, the administration said
in March 12 report. The U.S. imported 45 percent of its oil
needs last year, down from 57 percent in 2008, according to the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  