-- Obama Spokesman Says No Agreement on Releasing Oil Reserves
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-15T18:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/obama-spokesman-says-no-agreement-on-releasing-oil-reserves.html
The U.S. and the U.K. haven’t
reached any agreement on releasing strategic oil reserves or set
a timetable for action, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said.  President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron discussed energy supplies during Cameron’s visit to the
White House yesterday, Carney said at a briefing.  “It is inaccurate, as was reported, that any kind of
agreement was reached” on a course of action, he said. With
rising energy prices threatening to crimp the economic recovery,
it “should not be surprising” that Obama and Cameron would
discuss the matter, Carney said.  Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters today in
New York: “The issue of oil supply was discussed, but no
decisions have been taken.”  Crude oil for April delivery declined 31 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $105.12 a barrel at 12:38 p.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures are up 6.4 percent this year.  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to $3.821 a gallon yesterday,
according to a daily survey by the  American Automobile
Association (3AGSREG) . That’s 7.5 percent higher than a year ago,
according to AAA’s survey.  Political Issue  Rising gasoline prices have opened a line of attack by
Republican presidential candidates, as higher energy costs in an
election year overshadow gains elsewhere in the economy,
including the addition of 227,000 new jobs in February.  Some Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  have urged Obama to use
the  oil stockpile  as gasoline prices have risen amid a standoff
with  Iran  over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program. Obama has
cited turmoil in the region and greater demand from rapidly
growing countries such as China and  India .  Carney said he wouldn’t discuss deliberations about the
strategic petroleum reserve. He repeated earlier statements that
all options are under consideration to keep down energy costs.
Obama has said there are no easy solutions.  “There’s no such thing as a quick fix when it comes to
high gas prices,” Obama said in a speech today in Largo,
 Maryland , near Washington. “Anybody who tells you otherwise
isn’t really looking for a solution.”  Releasing oil from the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve has
proven no guarantee of lower prices at the pump over the last
eight years. In four instances, gasoline rose following the
announcements of supplies from emergency inventories. In 2008
and 2011, tapping stockpiles brought down the cost of a fill-up,
according to  data  from AAA.  The strategic reserve was last tapped in July and August
2011 under an International Energy Agency effort to ease
shortages in supplies from the  Middle East .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  