-- Obama’s Second Term To-Do List Positioned to Out-Regulate Bush
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-03-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/obama-s-second-term-to-do-list-positioned-to-out-regulate-bush.html
Pending rules in the White House
pipeline would position a re-elected President  Barack Obama  to
outpace his predecessor with second-term rulemaking, according
to a review of regulatory filings.  Obama has delayed until after the election decisions on
regulating ozone levels and rearview cameras for cars. Rules
still need to be written to carry out much of Obama’s signature
first-term domestic policy initiatives, the health-care overhaul
and the Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry.  Rulemaking in George W. Bush’s second term posed costs to
the  U.S. economy , including business compliance expenses,
estimated at $30.4 billion or more, according to  Office of
Management and Budget  data. Estimates for rules headed for
completion in a second Obama administration already approach
that figure.  “If Obama’s goal is to beat Bush in regulation, the math
looks better for him than the math for Romney in delegates,”
said James Gattuso, a senior research fellow in regulatory
policy at the Washington-based  Heritage Foundation , which says
it promotes conservative political policies.  The ozone rule would cost $19 billion to $90 billion in
2020, according to the White House. The Obama administration
puts the cost of rearview cameras at $2.7 billion. A Bloomberg
Government study in July found that four provisions of the Dodd-
Frank law may cost banks and other financial services companies
$22 billion, with hundreds of rules yet to be written.  “There would have to be a dramatic change in regulation
for him not to exceed” Bush’s rulemaking history, Gattuso said.  Benefits Overlooked  Obama’s critics talk about the cost of regulations without
factoring in the benefits, said  Kenneth Baer , associate OMB
director for communications and strategic planning. Rules
approved during the first 32 months of Obama’s presidency will
cost an estimated $19.9 billion while yielding net benefits of
more than $91 billion in monetary savings and deaths and
injuries avoided, according to OMB figures.  “You have to focus on what you’re buying,” said  Michael
Livermore , executive director of the Institute for Policy
Integrity at the  New York University School of Law . “If you
just look at the price, you don’t know what you’re getting. Are
these wise investments? That’s the question.”  An example of a regulation that is paying off, according to
Livermore, is the  Environmental Protection Agency ’s mercury and
air toxics rule, which caps pollutants emitted by  power plants .
It will cost utilities about $9.6 billion per year and is
projected to yield up to $90 billion in benefits in terms of
saved lives, reduced illness and jobs created, according to the
EPA.  Regulation Resistant  As with many rules in the environmental and financial
services sectors, the expense and benefits are unevenly
distributed, which tends to make those saddled with costs
particularly resistant to regulation, Livermore said.  Power companies “pay the costs and don’t receive the
benefits,” he said. “There’s also not as powerful a lobby for
’lives saved.’”  The backlog of rulemaking plays into the attacks on Obama
by  Mitt Romney  and other Republican presidential contenders, who
say that regulatory burdens on business are slowing down
economic recovery.  In a campaign  position paper , Romney describes Obama’s
approach to regulation as “unprecedented, unpredictable and
unproductive” and he pledged to issue an executive order
freeing states from complying with rules for the health care
initiative and to scale back the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime.  Republican candidates  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  have
made similar statements.  Supreme Court Hearing  The  Supreme Court  could do some of the Republican
candidates’ work for them if it strikes down the health care
law, the Affordable Care Act. The court is slated to hear a
challenge to the law beginning March 26.  Even without sweeping initiatives like Dodd-Frank and the
health care law, regulatory activity is likely to increase in a
second Obama term, said  Anne Joseph O’Connell , an administrative
law professor at the  University of California , Berkeley, law
school.  Presidents try to take advantage of a honeymoon period with
Congress early in a first term and concentrate on legislative
achievements, she said. Lame-duck administrations tend to rely
more on regulations to carry out their priorities, particularly
in their final year in office, she said.  In addition, “it takes a long time to get their people in
and regulations take time,” O’Connell said.  Second Bush Term  During  George W. Bush ’s second term, OMB reviewed 171
“economically significant” rules, up from 135 in his first
term, according to OMB data. The estimated cost of first term
rules, $21.6 billion, was about $9 billion less than the second
term total.  While  Bill Clinton  issued fewer rules in his second term
than his first, they were more costly on average. The total cost
of his second term regulation is estimated at $24.5 billion for
144 significant rules, compared with $22.9 billion for 154
significant regulations in the first Clinton term. The figures
are in 2001 dollars.  Rulemaking rarely is as one-sided toward costs as critics
sometimes make it out to be, O’Connell said.  “The system is set up to make sure that agencies balance
benefits and costs. The only way a rule is going to see very
high costs is with even higher benefits,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  