-- Obama Atomic-Test Ban Goal Faces Scrutiny From Science Panel
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/obama-atomic-test-ban-goal-faces-scrutiny-from-science-panel.html
President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
Senate ratification for a treaty banning atomic weapons tests
faces a key hurdle later this month, when a scientific panel
will weigh in on whether the U.S. can verify the reliability of
its nuclear stockpile without additional tests.  A National Academy of Sciences committee will release the
long-awaited report on March 30 in  Washington , according to a
notice posted on the group’s  website . The study has been
underway since 2009.  “The report addresses the ability of the  United States  to
maintain the safety and reliability of the U.S. nuclear
stockpile,” according to the announcement. The assessment also
examines questions such as “the capability to detect, locate
and identify nuclear explosions.”  The ability of the U.S. to rely on modern scientific
measures rather than test explosions is central to Obama’s
argument for reversing the Senate’s 1999 vote against ratifying
the treaty. Obama’s nuclear  arms control  agenda has largely
stalled after a successful 2010 fight with Senate Republicans to
ratify a new nuclear weapons treaty with  Russia  and in the run-
up to November’s presidential election.  “The report is likely to confirm that the stockpile
stewardship program has been very effective and that there are
no technical reasons to resume testing,” Daryl Kimball,
executive director of the Arms Control Association policy group
in Washington, said in an interview. The program has used
alternative technical means to verify the reliability of the
weapons.  The Holdouts  The test-ban treaty, while not yet in force, has been
signed by more than 180 countries. Its terms require that 44
designated countries with nuclear technology must sign and
ratify the treaty before it enters into force. In addition to
the U.S., the holdouts are  China , North Korea,  Egypt ,  India ,
Iran, Israel and Pakistan.  “The President is committed to getting the CTBT
ratified,” Ellen Tauscher, then-undersecretary of state for
arms control and international security, told the Defense
Writers Group in January.  The U.S. has banned its own nuclear testing by law and
executive order since the early 1990s.  “So we‘ve been living under a treaty, but we can‘t
actually use it to enforce the same thing on other people,’’
said Tauscher, who now is the administration’s special envoy for
strategic stability and missile defense.  Opponents’ Questions  Opponents of Senate ratification question whether the
treaty can be enforced on other nations and whether the
reliability of the U.S. nuclear stockpile can be verified
without testing.  The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization in Vienna
has worked for years to establish a system of tools to monitor a
ban on nuclear weapons tests.  The monitors provided data after  North Korea ’s 2009 nuclear
test to indicate that shocks being reported as a possible
earthquake more likely originated from a nuclear detonation.
Thirty minutes later, North Korea announced that it had
conducted a nuclear test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  