-- OECD Predicts ‘Grim’ Outlook for Global Environment by 2050
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/oecd-predicts-grim-outlook-for-global-environment-by-2050.html
The global environment faces a
bleak future unless world leaders change the way energy and
water are consumed, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said.  Greenhouse gas output will rise by 50 percent, annual
deaths from particulate air pollution may double to 3.6 million
people and 2.3 billion more people will live in water-stressed
areas in fewer than 4 decades under the planet’s current
trajectory, the Paris-based OECD said today in its first
environmental outlook report since 2008.  “If we fail to transform our policies and behavior, the
picture is rather grim,” OECD Secretary-General  Angel Gurria 
said in the report. “The costs and consequences of inaction are
colossal, both in economic and human terms.”  Global leaders must prepare for a planet that’s projected
to have more than 2 billion additional people by 2050 and a
greater demand for water, energy and other resources. The
prospects for  climate change , biodiversity, water, and the
impacts on human health of pollution are all “more alarming”
than in 2008, according to the OECD.  Energy demand is likely to be 80 percent higher in 2050
than now, putting greenhouse gas emissions on a trajectory that
may lead to at least 3 degrees Celsius (5.4 degrees Fahrenheit)
of warming by the end of the century, the OECD said. Primary
forests, which are rich in wildlife and plants, are projected to
shrink 13 percent by then, while farm runoff will worsen,
damaging water ecosystems, it said.  “Delay in alleviating these environmental pressures will
impose significant costs, undermine growth and development and
run the risk of irreversible and potentially catastrophic
changes further into the future,” the report’s authors wrote.  Rio+20  Every dollar invested in alleviating air pollution in the
fast-growing economies of  Brazil , Russia India,  Indonesia ,  China 
and  South Africa  may yield $10 of benefits in the future,
according to the report. Investing in safe water and sanitation
in  developing countries  may lead to savings worth seven times
the expenditure, it said.  The OECD prepared the study as a guide for world leaders
who will gather in  Rio de Janeiro  in June to chart a development
path that doesn’t deplete resources and pollute unsustainably.
That gathering, called the  Rio+20  United Nations Conference on
 Sustainable Development , has been convened to mark 20 years
since the first UN environmental summit in the Brazilian city
that set up bodies to preserve the planet’s species and climate.  Government Policies  The OECD recommended that governments devise policies to
halt and reverse the trends of environmental degradation. These
policies would make pollution “an expensive business” through
environmental taxes, removing fossil fuel subsidies, putting a
price on water and establishing regulations and standards for
the energy efficiency of products, vehicles and buildings.  “Progress on an incremental, piecemeal, business-as-usual
basis in the coming decades will not be enough,” the OECD said.
“Environmental policy reform work best when high-level
political leaders are committed.”  Without concerted action, “the erosion of our natural
environmental capital will increase the risk of irreversible
changes that could jeopardize two centuries of rising living
standards,” Gurria wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 