-- Logitech Picks Whirlpool’s Darrell as Chief Executive
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-03-15T10:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/logitech-picks-whirlpool-s-darrell-as-chief-executive.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN)  said
Bracken P. Darrell will succeed Guerrino  De Luca  as chief
executive officer next year as the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice seeks to revamp its products.  Darrell, 49, is joining the company from  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ,
where he has been president for the  Europe , Middle East and
Africa region, Morges, Switzerland-based Logitech said in a
statement today.  The proliferation of tablet computers that aren’t
controlled by mice has eroded Logitech’s traditional desktop and
notebook business. The company hasn’t been able to exceed its
peak annual sales set in 2008, which led De Luca to take the CEO
position on an interim basis in July, replacing Gerald Quindlen.
De Luca previously held the role for 10 years between 1998 and
2008, a period when revenue rose each year.  Darrell “brings a solid experience with various consumer
oriented companies,”  Michael Foeth , an analyst at Bank Vontobel
wrote in a note to investors. “He will need to build a track
record with Logitech to gain investor confidence.”  The executive will join the company on April 9 and
initially oversee research and development, sales and marketing,
manufacturing, supply chain,  information technology , human
resources and legal functions, reporting to De Luca.  Career History  Before joining Whirlpool in 2008, Darrell was with  Procter
& Gamble Co . for 12 years, most recently as president of the
Braun business. He has also worked for General Electric Co. and
PepsiCo Inc.  In January, Logitech cut full-year forecasts for the third
time. It reduced its sales forecast for the fiscal year ending
March 31 to about $2.3 billion, with operating income predicted
at about $60 million.  “Logitech is still in the process of reshaping its product
portfolio and we see no major trigger until the FY13 guidance in
April and the back-to-school business in August,” Foeth said.  Logitech stock, which has declined 57 percent in the past
year, dropped 0.4 percent to 7.19 Swiss francs as of 10:48 a.m.
in Zurich trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  