-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on Supply; Goldman Sees $130 Brent
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-15T12:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-supply-goldman-sees-130-brent.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
more than a week as signs of rising U.S. stockpiles were
balanced by concern that spare production capacity may be
insufficient to cover any supply disruption in the  Middle East .  Futures were little changed after falling 1.2 percent
yesterday. Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for West Texas Intermediate oil, reached a nine-month high, the
Energy Department said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said global
spare capacity is at “dangerously low levels” and oil-market
fundamentals will tighten this year, pushing  Brent crude  to $130
a barrel in 2013. Saudi Arabia will make up any “perceived or
real” shortfall, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in  Kuwait .  “The market will hold here, or move higher,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
 London , who last month correctly predicted Brent’s rise above
$120 a barrel. “Iran shows every sign of remaining a source of
tension, the struggle in  Syria  looks like it will be a prolonged
stalemate, and the extent to which Saudi can fill the supply
shortfall, and for how long, is unknown.”  Crude for April delivery was at $105.62 a barrel, up 19
cent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:17 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday dropped $1.28
to $105.43 a barrel, the lowest close since March 6. Prices are
7 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $124.93, down 4
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract expires today. The more active May futures were down 6
cents at $124.52. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $19.31, compared
with $19.54 yesterday, the widest gap since Oct. 24.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude supplies nationwide rose 1.8 million barrels
last week to 347.5 million barrels, the highest level in six
months, the Energy Department said yesterday. They were forecast
to gain  1.6 million barrels , according to the median of nine
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The increase was
the seventh in eight weeks.  Gasoline stockpiles fell  1.4 million barrels , the Energy
Department report showed. They were forecast to decline by 1
million. Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, slid 4.7 million barrels, compared with a
projected drop of 1.5 million.  Markets Balanced  Oil markets are balanced and have ample output and refining
capacity,  Saudi Arabia ’s al-Naimi said yesterday at the biennial
International Energy Forum. Market volatility is caused by
speculation, he told the meeting of producers and consumers.
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said he is “enthusiastic”
about Saudi willingness to produce more oil to help offset the
effect of economic sanctions on Iran.  “We expect prices to average $130 in 2013, so we expect
them to rise higher between now and then,” said Goldman Sachs’s
New York-based head of energy research,  David Greely . “On a 12-
month horizon we see Brent prices at $127.50.” Brent averaged
$110.78 a barrel in 2011 and $80.32 in 2010.  Declining production rates at oilfields in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries have “accelerated
precipitously” and will continue to worsen, Bank of America
Corp. said today in an e-mailed report.  The European Union is seeking to ban imports of products
including petroleum oils and natural gas from  Iran  and to bar
global bank-transfer messaging companies from providing services
to entities subject to EU sanctions, according to a draft
regulation obtained by Bloomberg.  ‘Unreasonable Measures’  Iran’s oil exports will probably decline by 50 percent when
the sanctions take full effect in July, according to the
 International Energy Agency . Shipments will fall by at least
800,000 barrels a day,  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s market and
industry division, said by phone from Paris, citing discussions
with market participants.  The “unreasonable measures” will raise costs for
governments pursuing them and bolster Iran’s oil revenue, the
Islamic republic’s oil minister, Rostam Qasemi, said yesterday
at the IEF meeting in Kuwait.  Oil may extend its decline in  New York  after breaching
technical support yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the daily chart, futures settled below a
symmetrical triangle formation going back almost three weeks.
Investors tend to sell contracts on such a so-called downside
breakout. The top of the triangle, representing technical
resistance, was about $107.70 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  