-- Oil Rises on Bets Economy Bolstering U.S. Fuel Demand
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-15T08:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/oil-trades-near-1-week-low-on-u-s-supplies-saudi-pledge.html
Oil rose from the lowest price in
more than a week in  New York  as investors speculated that signs
of a strengthening  U.S. economy  will bolster fuel demand in the
the world’s biggest crude user.  Futures advanced as much as 0.5 percent after a 1.2 percent
drop yesterday. The number of Americans applying for  jobless
benefits  declined last week, according to a Bloomberg News
 survey  before a report today. U.S. petroleum demand climbed 2.2
percent to the highest in a month, Energy Department data showed
yesterday. Global oil-market fundamentals will tighten this year
and push London-traded  Brent crude  toward a 2013 forecast of
$130 a barrel, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “We won’t see aggressive selling of the oil contract while
that U.S. economic data continues to point to a recovery,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia
Pacific Pty in Sydney. “We have jobless claims coming up and
people are looking for further indicators of the health of the
U.S. economy.”  Crude for April delivery climbed as much as 52 cents to
$105.95 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $105.73 at 4:10 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract fell $1.28 to $105.43, the lowest
settlement since March 6. Prices are up 7 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $125.06, up 9 cents. The contract
expires today. The more active May futures were 9 cents higher
at $124.67. The European benchmark contract was at a $19.33
premium to New York futures. The gap was $19.54 yesterday, the
widest since Oct. 24.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. Labor Department may say today that the number of
Americans applying for jobless benefits fell by 5,000 to 357,000
in the week ended March 10, according to the median estimate of
51 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. An index of manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region probably increased to a reading of 12
in March from 10.2 the previous month, another survey shows.  Spare crude-production capacity among members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, responsible for
about a third of global supply, has dropped to “dangerously low
levels,”  David Greely , Goldman’s head of energy research in New
York, said in a report distributed today. Brent rallied 11
percent in February, the most in a year, on concern European
Union and U.S. sanctions on Iran will disrupt Mideast supplies.  “We expect prices to average $130 in 2013, so we expect
them to rise higher between now and then,” Greely said in a
separate e-mail response to questions from Bloomberg News. “On
a 12-month horizon we see Brent prices at $127.50.” Brent
averaged $110.78 a barrel in 2011 and $80.32 in 2010.  Fuel Demand  A measure of U.S.  oil-products consumption  rose to 18.6
million barrels a day in the week to March 9, the highest since
the period ended Feb. 10, the Energy Department said in a report
yesterday.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 1.41 million barrels, the report
showed. They were forecast to decline by 1 million. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes diesel and heating oil,
slid 4.68 million barrels, more than three times a projected
drop of 1.5 million.  Crude supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York contracts, climbed 7 percent to 38.7 million barrels
last week, the highest in nine months, according to the Energy
Department. Stockpiles nationwide rose 1.75 million barrels to
347.5 million, a six-month high. The increase was the seventh in
eight weeks.  Saudi Arabia  Oil markets are balanced and have ample output and refining
capacity,  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said at the
International Energy Forum in  Kuwait  yesterday. Market
volatility is caused by speculation, he told the meeting of
producers and consumers. U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said
he is “enthusiastic” about Saudi willingness to produce more
oil to offset the effect of economic sanctions on  Iran .  The EU is seeking to ban imports of products including
petroleum oils and natural gas from Iran and to bar global bank-
transfer messaging companies from providing services to entities
subject to EU sanctions, according to a draft regulation
obtained by Bloomberg. Iran’s oil exports will probably decline
by 50 percent when the sanctions take full effect in July, the
 International Energy Agency  said in its monthly report
yesterday.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  talked during a meeting yesterday at the White House
about releasing oil from strategic petroleum reserves without
reaching a decision, according to a U.K. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks were confidential.  Democrats in the  U.S. Congress  have called on Obama to use
the oil stockpile to fight an increase in gasoline prices
spurred by tensions with Iran over its nuclear program. Regular
gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.6 cents
yesterday to $3.811 a gallon, according to  data from AAA , the
nation’s biggest motoring organization. Prices are 7.2 percent
higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  