-- Hong Kong ETFs to Start Trading in China ‘Soon,’ Chan Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-15T22:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/hong-kong-etfs-to-start-trading-in-china-soon-chan-says.html
China  will allow exchange-traded
funds of  Hong Kong  shares to trade on the mainland exchanges
“soon,” Hong Kong’s Secretary for Financial Services and the
Treasury K.C. Chan said.  The process of getting Hong Kong stocks to trade on the
Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges as ETFs is “almost near
completion,” Chan said in an interview in  New York  yesterday.
“The final step would be for the regulators in China” to
review companies’ applications to start the funds.  China is seeking to bolster financial markets as growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy cools, foreign investment
moderates and global investors become more risk averse. ETFs of
Hong Kong-traded shares may draw investors into equity markets
after the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 22 percent in 2011.  “That is a very positive step,” Nick Good, head of
Ishares for Asia-Pacific at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, said in an interview in New York. “It’s further
internationalization of the Chinese market and it invites
Chinese investors with access to an asset class” they didn’t
have before.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has rallied 16 percent this
year, compared with a 7.9 percent increase in the Shanghai
benchmark. As of February, 645 mainland companies had raised
$412 billion since 1993 by listing in Hong Kong, Chan said in a
speech at a conference in New York yesterday.  Yuan Deposits  Chan said he isn’t worried about the drop in yuan deposits
in Hong Kong in December and January.  Savings (HKRDTTL)  denominated in the
Chinese currency fell 2.1 percent to 576 billion yuan ($91
billion) in January after dropping 6.2 percent in December,
according to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  The decline reflected less “one-sided” expectations for
the yuan to appreciate against the dollar, Chan said. The
“current amount of yuan deposits is sufficient to support the
trading and interbank liquidity in Hong Kong,” he said.  Financing needs for companies with operations in China will
drive increased sales of yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong
this year, even if yields rise, Chan said. Demand for yuan loans
from the city’s banks has also risen in 2012, he said.  Yuan bond sales in Hong Kong more than quadrupled to 151
billion yuan last year from 35.7 billion yuan in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc, the top underwriter for the notes,
forecast in February that sales may reach 310 billion yuan this
year. The  average yield  on dim sum debt in Hong Kong has risen
1.46 percentage points to 4.86 percent in the past year,
according to a Bank of China Ltd. index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  