-- Optus Judge Weary About Making Copyright Policy
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-15T05:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/optus-judge-weary-about-making-copyright-policy.html
Singtel Optus Ltd. (CWO) ’s dispute with
Australian sports leagues over the streaming of broadcasts to
computers and phones has a judge concerned the courts may be
pushed into making policy decisions, which should be done by the
government.  “You’re asking us to make a policy decision,” Justice
Arthur Emmett, a member of a three-judge panel hearing the
sports leagues’ appeal of a ruling that cleared Optus to show
over-the-air broadcasts on computers and mobile devices, said
today. “Should we not be reticent to do that?”  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  seek to
overturn the lower court ruling to protect broadcasting rights
valued at more than $1 billion. The decision, if upheld, would
also let mobile phone operators stream over-the-air broadcasts
of this year’s  Olympic Games  to customers, with only a slight
delay, and without having to pay for broadcast rights.  The panel reserved its ruling in the case at the hearing in
Sydney, with Emmett saying the judges “hope to have a decision
reasonably expeditiously.”  The main point of dispute is who creates the electronic
files that are streamed to the customer for viewing.  The AFL, NRL and Telstra Corp., Australia’s biggest phone
company, say Optus’s service infringes their copyrights because
it makes the recordings, stores them on its servers, and passes
them on to customers.  Broadcast Deal  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion)
agreement last year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network,
Foxtel,  Australia ’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra
for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in talks
with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from 2013 to
2017.  Optus is covered by an exemption in the copyright law that
allows people to make recordings of copyrighted material for
their own personal use, the company said.  “The customer operates Optus’s equipment,” Richard
Cobden, Optus’s lawyer, told the panel today. “The last human
intervention is the maker.”  ‘Self-serving’  Federal Court Judge Steven Rares last month agreed with
Optus, ruling the user of the phone, computer or tablet made the
recording, much as people used to do with video cassette
recorders or with digital video recorders.  Neil Murray, the NRL’s lawyer, called Optus’s argument
“self-serving.”  A customer who orders a pizza online didn’t make the pie,
Murray said.  “There’s no doubt who the maker is,” he said. “It’s
 Pizza Hut .”  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  