-- Morgan Stanley Targeting Mexico Energy for Private Equity
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-03-15T16:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/morgan-stanley-targeting-mexico-energy-for-private-equity-deals.html
Morgan Stanley is preparing to
invest millions of dollars in Mexican energy companies as the
nation opens up the industry to private capital and state-owned
oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos  boosts spending to a record.  The New York-based bank’s Mexican private equity venture
tapped Jesus Reyes Heroles, a former chief executive officer of
Pemex, to identify promising energy companies. The venture will
invest between $35 million and $110 million in each, he said in
an interview.  “We already have a pipeline of potential projects and
should be able to announce one or two investments in a couple
months,” Reyes Heroles said by telephone from Mexico City.  Domestic energy companies that provide services such as
pipeline maintenance and drilling to Pemex and which need cash
to boost growth are possible targets, he said. The state-owned
company has more than quadrupled investments during the past
decade as it seeks to stem seven years of declining output.  Pemex, based in  Mexico  City, is investing about $269
billion in the ten years through 2019 after output last year
slumped to 2.55 million barrels on average, compared with as
much as 3.38 million barrels a day at its peak in 2004.  Oil reform in 2008 opened exploration and production
projects to private and foreign companies for the first time
since 1938. Last year, Pemex awarded two blocks to  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) 
and one to  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  to produce crude from aging fields.
The state-owned producer is now offering six more developments,
including offshore fields, to private developers.  ‘Well-Kept Secret’  “The large size of Mexico’s private industry in the energy
sector is a very well kept secret, and it’s poised to keep
growing,” Reyes Heroles said.  A second former Pemex CEO, Luis Ramirez Corzo, is also
betting on opportunities for  private equity  in Mexican energy.
Ramirez was named executive president of Integradora de
Servicios Petroleros Oro Negro, aiming to pursue investments in
oilfield services, according to a Feb. 27 statement. That firm
is affiliated with  Temasek (TMSK) ,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company.  “There is a different dynamic now, where some Pemex
contractors can evolve from suppliers to operators,”  George Baker , a Houston-based energy consultant, said in a telephone
interview. Besides funding, what some Mexican companies need is
expertise to offer skills that Pemex doesn’t have, he said.  Reyes Heroles said other global financial institutions have
expressed interest in ‘pigygybacking’ on Morgan Stanley’s
Mexican energy capital investments.  ‘Cover Projects’  “We felt those funds, plus  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s, should be
enough to cover our projects for the first two years,” he said.  “Once we can make a company to grow two to three times its
current size we can eventually consider them for a public
offering,” Heroles said. “It’s a terrible paradox, that
despite the large size of the energy sector in Mexico there is
not a single energy company listed at the Bolsa.”  After the 2008 law changes, Pemex is replacing some service
contracts to prioritize efficiency over price. The company is
opting not to renew the lease of shallow-water drilling rigs in
the  Gulf of Mexico  when it can find newer equipment for the
projects,  Carlos Morales , head of production, said last year.  Some companies providing services to Pemex lack the
financial resources to access state-of-the-art technology, said
Gonzalo Gil, co-chief executive officer of Oro Negro. “Given
the inevitability of Pemex’s investment plan, we see a long-term
demand for many services,” Gil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  