-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on China, India Growth Concern
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-15T21:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-china-india-growth-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated,
following two days of gains in the benchmark index, as concern
that growth in  China  and  India  is slowing dimmed the outlook for
the global economy.  About three shares declined for every two that advanced in
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which fell 0.1 percent to
1,065.45 at the close in  New York . Beef producer  Marfrig
Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  posted its biggest drop this year in Sao Paulo as
the Bovespa slumped. A  gauge  of Chinese property companies lost
2.5 percent, tipping the  Shanghai  Composite Index to its biggest
two-day retreat in since August. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
slid 1.4 percent. Turkish banks contributed the most to the  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100) ’s 0.7 percent increase.  Foreign direct investment in China fell 0.9 percent in
February, its fourth straight decline, as companies reined in
spending amid a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
and the prolonged European debt crisis. The  Reserve Bank  of
India kept the repurchase rate at 8.5 percent for a third
consecutive meeting today. Economic growth may slow to 6.9
percent this year as inflation stays “high,” Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said.  “There’s been some disappointment over the last few days
over the pace of Chinese easing,” John Lomax, an emerging-
markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said by phone from
 London . “India is the BRIC market where we’re a bit less
enthusiastic because we think easing will be a bit delayed.”  Emerging markets stocks are up 16 percent this year, ahead
of the 11 percent advance for developed-market shares. Stocks on
the MSCI World Index of developed countries trade for 13.2 times
earnings, above the 10.9 ratio for developing nations.  Marfrig, Cyrela  The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits fell
to 351,000 last week, matching a four-year low, U.S. Labor
Department data showed today. Manufacturing in the New York
region expanded in March at the fastest pace since June 2010,
according to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Marfrig lost 3.4 percent, its largest fall since Dec. 28.
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index retreated 0.7 percent. Homebuilder
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  lost 3.1
percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent, taking its
two-day decline to 3.3 percent, the most since Aug. 9.  China Vanke Co. (200002) , the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, fell 3.4 percent in Shanghai, and  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048) , the second-largest, slid 2.6 percent. Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday home prices are still far from reasonable
levels, dimming hopes real-estate curbs will be eased.  ‘Hard Landing’  China’s economy  is already in a “hard landing,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said at a conference in  Singapore  yesterday. “It’s
not a debate anymore, it’s a fact.”  State Bank of India Ltd.  lost 2.4 percent as the central
bank held rates steady.  Data yesterday showed India’s  inflation  accelerated for the
first time in five months in February, weakening the case for
lower borrowing costs. The wholesale-price index rose 6.95
percent in February, after rising 6.55 percent in January.  India’s rupee depreciated 1 percent against the dollar, the
most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
gained 2.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 321 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  