-- Hot Weather Ahead for Eastern U.S., Storms for Texas
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-15T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/hot-weather-ahead-for-eastern-u-s-storms-for-texas.html
Temperatures are expected to rise
across the eastern U.S. next week, with New York and  Chicago 
reaching 80, while a threat of severe storms looms for Texas and
Nebraska, forecasters said.  The region from the upper Great Plains to New England may
have temperatures 15 degrees Fahrenheit (8.3 Celsius) above
normal, said MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “Most of the warmth across the Midwest and Northeast is
still on track as projected,” MDA said.  There’s a 30 percent chance severe storms may break out
across an area from Nebraska to west Texas early in the week,
the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma, said.  Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge energy use
and demand. Warm weather will drive up electricity use as people
turn on air conditioners. About 51 percent of U.S. households
use natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  The warm weather in the East is expected to persist through
March 21 to March 25, according to a 6- to 10-day outlook from
 David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Temperatures in New York, Chicago and  Boston  may rise to 18
to 20 degrees above normal, Salmon said. MDA predicts all three
cities will reach 80 degrees next week.  Above-normal temperatures may persist until the end of
March, with some cooling, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  In his 11- to 15-day outlook, Rogers forecasts temperatures
will rise about 3 degrees above normal along the East Coast,
while reaching 8 degrees above normal throughout the Midwest.  “The super-warm pattern is still expected to start
breaking down” early in the 11- to 15-day period, Rogers said
in a note to clients.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on March 21 is
about 44 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 40 in Boston and
Chicago, 48 in  St. Louis , 56 in Atlanta, 59 in Dallas, 64 in
Houston, 48 in Seattle, and 59 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  