-- Ousted Bo’s ‘Chongqing Model’ Outpaced Peers: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ousted-bo-s-chongqing-model-outpaced-peers-chart-of-the-day.html
Bo Xilai, whose policies lured
billions of dollars in foreign investment and thousands of jobs
to  China ’s most-populous municipality, leaves a legacy of
economic growth that outpaced rivals’ after he was sacked as
Chongqing’s highest official.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks growth in per-capita economic
output against the other municipalities -- Beijing, Shanghai and
Tianjin -- and neighboring Sichuan province. The lower panel
shows electricity output gains were also faster in Chongqing,
where Bo, the son of one of the founders of the People’s
Republic, took the helm in December 2007. Figures are based on
government data compiled by Bloomberg in percentages using Dec.
31, 2006 as a starting base.  “Under Bo, Chongqing was really identified as a
destination for investment in western China at a time when lots
of foreign investors were looking for places with cheaper
labor,” said Victor Shih, author of “Factions and Finance in
China: Elite Conflict and Inflation” and a professor at
 Northwestern University  in Illinois.  At the same time, he campaigned to revive the songs and
slogans of  Mao Zedong  and headed a corruption crackdown that
led legal experts including He Wiefang, a professor at Peking
University, to complain of rights violations.   Bo's ouster, reported yesterday, followed an incident 
involving one of his top lieutenants, Chongqing’s former 
police chief, Wang Lijun. Wang is under investigation after he
spent a night last month in the U.S. consulate in neighboring 
Chengdu, prompting speculation that he was seeking asylum.  The so-called ``Chongqing Model'' emphasizes state-led 
investment, with development zones, transportation links and 
incentives to lure businesses.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Ford Motor 
Co. (F)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  have operations there. Economic expansion 
in Chongqing, which is in the center of China, was 16.4 percent 
last year and 17.1 percent in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  