-- Lloyds Unit Said to Sell Commercial Property Loans in Australia
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-03-15T05:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lloyds-unit-said-to-sell-commercial-property-loans-in-australia.html
BOS International, an Australian
unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , plans to exit the market for
commercial property after selling distressed loans with a face
value of A$2.1 billion ($2.2 billion), a person familiar with
the matter said.  The sales began last week and will take several months to
complete, according to the person, asking not to be identified
because the details are private. The loan portfolio is linked to
properties in the states of Queensland, New South Wales,
Canberra and Victoria, the person said.  BOS International sold real-estate loans in  New Zealand  and
Queensland with a face value of A$1.7 billion in November,
another person familiar with the matter said at the time. Buyers
included the Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund and a venture
between Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Brookfield Asset Management
Ltd., that person said.  “BOSI is looking at a number of actions that will help us
to deleverage our non-core business and focus on our ongoing
core businesses,” Peter Shear, Lloyds International’s head of
business support, said by telephone today from Sydney.  Lloyds has cut 42,000 jobs over the past three years,
closed overseas units and pledged a narrower focus on its core
U.K. market as it seeks to wean itself off cheap central bank
loans. The company will maintain corporate lending, project
finance, risk management, treasury and asset-finance businesses
in  Australia , Shear said.  The sale plans for BOS International’s commercial property
portfolio were reported earlier today in the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  