-- Pegas Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss on Currency Swings
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-03-15T10:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/pegas-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-currency-swings.html
Pegas Nonwovens SA (PEGAS) , a Czech maker
of textile products, posted a fourth-quarter loss as currency
swings eroded profitability and the company paid more on a
deferred tax.  The quarterly net loss totaled 2.28 million euros ($3
million), following a profit of 3.45 million euros a year
earlier, the Znojmo, Czech Republic-based company said in a
statement. Revenue rose 2 percent to 39.6 million euros, while
foreign-exchange and other financial expenses more than tripled
to 5.8 million euros and income tax payments totaled 2.5 million
euros from a “significant” increase in deferred tax.  Pegas, which makes non-wovens fabrics mainly for hygiene
products, the construction and medical industries, announced
last year it would open a plant in  Egypt  as it expands
facilities to meet rising demand outside of  Europe .  “In 2012, our object is to stabilize our current
production base and optimize the operation of our newest
production line,” Chief Executive Officer Frantisek Rezac said
in the statement. A project in Egypt is proceeding according to
schedule and without “any major issues.”  The company operates two plants with nine production lines
in the  Czech Republic , supplying 70,000 tons of non-woven
textiles annually. The new production line it added in the
second half of last year should increase an annual production by
20 percent, it said.  Pegas shares fell 9.1 koruna, or 2 percent, to 439 koruna
as of 11:11 in Prague trading.  EBITDA, Expenses  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will probably grow between 5 percent and 15 percent
from 36.1 million euros a year ago, it said. Expenses linked
with the investment will reduce 2012 operating profit by about 1
million euros, Pegas said.  The board will propose a dividend from 2011 earnings to
shareholders in the first half of May, Rezac said at a press
conference. The company, which used to pay dividends from its
share premium, will decide whether it will stick to its
“progressive” dividend policy, Rezac said.  The Egyptian plant should start to generate the first cash
in 2013, Rezac said.  The company’s goods inventories rose on slower demand at
the end of 2011 and stocks have continued to rise in the current
quarter, Pegas said. It expects to start destocking in the
second half of the year.  Pegas expects continued volatility in polymer prices, which
will affect profitability in each quarter of 2012. In contrast
to the end of 2011, price indexes are currently experiencing
“significant” growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  