-- Peru Bond Risk Dips Below Brazil in Region-Beating Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-15T13:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/peru-bond-risk-dips-below-brazil-in-region-beating-rally.html
Peru ’s bond risk fell below
 Brazil ’s for the first time in three months as prospects
President Ollanta Humala will push through record mining
investment spurs the region’s biggest credit-default swap rally.  The cost of insuring Peruvian debt against non-payment for
five years fell 29 basis points, or 19 percent, in the past
month to 122.6 while Brazil slid 19 basis points, or 14 percent,
to 122.8, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets. The last time Peru traded below Brazil was Nov. 28.  Peru outperformed regional peers after Humala, a former
army rebel who once vowed to make the state a partner in all
natural resource projects, took measures to quell protests that
forced  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  to suspend construction of its Minas
Conga gold mine. The swaps traded to a seven-week high on Nov.
25 as the protests threatened a pipeline of $50 billion in
mining investments in the next decade.  “Concerns over whether Conga is going to go ahead or not
have eased somewhat,” said  Francisco Rodriguez , senior Andean
economist at Bank of America in  New York . “That reestablishes
confidence.”  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , won a June 5 runoff election on pledges to boost mining
royalties and enlarge state control of the nation’s energy
industry.  Peru’s stocks and bonds rallied after he asked central bank
President Julio Velarde to remain in his post and appointed a
cabinet of economists and businessmen.  Humala responded to the anti-mining protests by declaring a
state of emergency, bringing in a former military instructor to
lead a revamped cabinet and commissioning a project review to
reassure residents that water resources won’t be depleted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  