-- Peru’s Economic Growth Slowed to an Annual 5.4% in January
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-15T15:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/peru-s-economic-growth-slowed-to-an-annual-5-4-in-january-1-.html
Peru ’s economic growth remained in
a band of 5.1 percent to 6 percent for a fifth consecutive month
in January as retail activity picked up and mining contracted.  Economic (PRGDPYOY)  activity expanded 5.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 6 percent growth in December, the government’s
statistics agency said today in an e-mailed report. The median
estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for 5.5
percent growth.  Peru’s economy has fared better than expected amid a
slowdown in global demand for its metals and manufacturing
exports, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said March 9, lifting
his forecast for 2012 growth to 5.7 percent from 5.5 percent.
Peru, Mexico and  Chile  are expected to keep their benchmark
lending rates on hold as global conditions improve, said  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
 New York .  “We should see growth quicken in the coming months as long
as problems in the global markets keep receding and the recovery
in business confidence strengthens,” Juan Carlos Odar, senior
analyst at  Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1) , said in a telephone
interview from Lima.  Peru’s central bank maintained its key rate at 4.25 percent
for a 10th month on March 8 after exports climbed 35 percent in
January and business  confidence  rose to a one-year high in
February.  Slower Inflation  Inflation, which held at an annual 4.2 percent in February,
will return to the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target
range about mid-year, the central bank said.  Environmental protests in Peru that led  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM)  to halt work on its Minas Conga copper and gold project in
November threaten to crimp growth.  “We need to see whether the government is successful in
dealing with Conga,” Melzi said in a phone interview from New
York. “Social unrest is a medium- to long-term risk that could
affect Peru’s ability to grow at rates of 5 percent to 7
percent.”  The Peruvian sol was unchanged at 2.6710 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:01 a.m. in Lima, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  