-- Philadelphia-Area Factory Index Increases to an 11-Month High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-15T14:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/philadelphia-area-factory-index-increases-to-an-11-month-high.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in March at the fastest pace in almost a year as
factory employment picked up.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index increased to 12.5 this month, in line with projections,
from 10.2 in February. Economists forecast the gauge would rise
to 12, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area
covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Manufacturers are positioned to keep expanding as companies
rebuild stockpiles and invest in new equipment. What’s more,
labor market gains may help bolster  consumer spending , the
biggest part of the economy, and further propel the industry.  “Manufacturing has been leading the economy in recent
quarters,”  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc., said before the report. “Exports bear
watching given the troubles in  Europe .”  Estimates from the 59 economists surveyed for the
Philadelphia Fed index ranged from 6 to 18.5.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, indicating factories are still
driving the expansion, another Fed report showed today.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s  general economic
index  unexpectedly increased to 20.2 this month from 19.5 in
February. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists was 17.5. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  Jobless Claims  Claims for  jobless benefits  dropped more than projected
last week, matching the lowest level in four years. Applications
for  unemployment insurance  declined by 14,000 to 351,000 in the
week ended March 10, the Labor Department said today.  Higher fuel costs drove wholesale prices up in February by
the most in five months, another report showed. The producer
price index climbed 0.4 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in
January, according to the Labor Department. The core measure,
which excludes food and energy, rose 0.2 percent, less than in
the prior month.  Rising energy prices are doing little to stifle consumer
sentiment. The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index climbed to minus
33.7 in the period to March 11, the strongest since March 2008,
from minus 36.7 the previous week. A buying-climate gauge
reached the highest level since November 2007, and a measure of
the state of the economy had its best showing since September
2008.  The Philadelphia Fed’s employment index increased to 6.8 in
March from a reading of 1.1 last month. The new orders measure
fell to 3.3 from 11.7 in February, and the shipments gauge
decreased to 3.5 from 15. A measure of the average workweek fell
to 2.7 this month from 10.1 in February.  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  National Manufacturing  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will release its
report on April 2.  Production of automobiles is contributing to factory
growth. Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years,
led by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 15 million
annual rate, the strongest since February 2008, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group.  “There are a number of factors that are helping release
this pent-up demand,”  Don Johnson , vice president of GM’s U.S.
sales, said on a March 1 conference call with analysts. “They
include stronger employment, good credit availability, and both
of those are leading to improving consumer sentiment.”  While the job market is improving, Federal Reserve policy
makers said the  unemployment rate  is too high.  “Labor market conditions have improved further,” Federal
Open Market Committee members said in a March 13 statement.
“The unemployment rate has declined notably in recent months
but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed
investment have continued to advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  