-- Philippine Stock Valuations Near Peak, Exchange CEO Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-03-15T09:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/philippine-stock-valuations-near-peak-exchange-ceo-says.html
Philippine Stock Exchange Inc. (PSE) 
President and Chief Executive Officer Hans Sicat said stock
valuations at the highest levels since November 2010 are “near
the peak.”  “We are hoping we are not right at the peak, but we are
somewhere building up to the peak,” Sicat said in an interview
in Singapore today. Philippine companies “are still growing
faster than the underlying economy because we are either growing
by introducing more products within the  Philippines  or ASEAN,”
he said, referring to the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (SHCOMP)  has climbed 15 percent
this year as the central bank cut borrowing costs to stimulate
the economy. The gauge closed at a record 5,050.99 yesterday,
driving valuations to 15.5 times estimated profit, the highest
level since November 2010. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is at
10.9 times. The Philippine gauge fell 0.4 percent today.  “In the short term, it’s not too healthy,” said Sicat,
who has run the operator of the nation’s equities market since
January last year. He didn’t say what he regards as a fair
valuation for equities. “The nice thing about having a relative
 bull market  is suddenly people take a look at the stock market
and say it’s good to participate.”  ‘Wrong Address’  The Philippines ranks 16th out of 19 Asia-Pacific countries
measured by Vriens & Partners’ Good Governance for International
Business Index in 2011, ahead of Cambodia,  Laos , Bangladesh and
Myanmar. The Philippines is ranked 129th of 183 countries in
terms of degree of corruption as seen by business people and
country analysts in 2010 and 2011, according to data released by
 Transparency International  in Berlin.  “A lot of fund managers and investors are saying this is
the Philippines and there will always be a noise level,” Sicat
said. “Ten years ago, when I was a banker on road shows, the
investors will say this is an interesting company, but it’s kind
of the wrong address, we can take a huge discount on that. It’s
so frustrating, the wrong address syndrome.”  Sicat, the former chief Philippine representative of a
Citigroup Inc. unit from 2000 to 2008, joined the exchange as
chairman in 2009, and was the third president the exchange had
in a period of less than 12 months.  Smallest Market  The  Philippine stock market  has been left behind by most of
its peers in the region in terms of scale, product offerings and
trading activity. With a market capitalization of $182 billion
as of March 14, it’s the smallest of Southeast  Asia ’s five major
markets, behind  Singapore , Malaysia,  Indonesia  and  Thailand .
 Japan  is Asia’s largest market with a value of $3.75 trillion.  The Philippine economy will grow at least 5 percent in
2012, a “conservative estimate,” driven by infrastructure
spending and expanding trade, Economic Planning Secretary
Cayetano Paderanga said Feb. 28. Economic growth halved to 3.7
percent last year, from a revised 7.6 percent in 2010, as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a faltering recovery in the
U.S. cut demand for exports.  Exchange Merger  The Philippine bourse expects 197 billion pesos ($4.6
billion) to 198 billion pesos to be raised in primary and
secondary equity sales this year, almost double the 107 billion
pesos last year, according to Sicat. The exchange is expecting
around 85 such deals this year, compared with 55 last year,
according to Sicat.  The Philippine Stock Exchange is in discussions with the
Securities and Exchange Commission about the framework for a
potential merger with Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp., which
runs a trading system for bonds, and expects that structure to
be in place this year, Sicat said. Ownerships restrictions are
currently impeding the proposed merger.  “I hope we are able to change things structurally, so we
can catch up with peers like  Malaysia  and Thailand,” Sicat
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  