-- SMAP Pop Star Stays in Toyota Ads After License Suspended
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-03-15T10:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/pop-star-kimutaku-stays-in-toyota-ads-after-license-suspension.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Japan ’s biggest
carmaker, said it will continue using SMAP singer Takuya Kimura
in its advertising even after the pop star was suspended from
driving after speeding offenses.  “It’s unfortunate,” Amiko Tomita, a spokeswoman for the
carmaker, said today. “We strongly hope he follows road
rules,” she said, declining to comment further.  The 39-year-old celebrity known by his fans as Kimutaku
appeared in TV and print ads for the Corolla Fielder and
“ReBorn” campaigns from October, according to Toyota. Kimura
was fined for exceeding the speed limit by 20 kilometers per
hour (12 miles per hour) on a freeway in  Chiba prefecture  last
September, and again on a Tokyo road in January, said Tsugio Yada, a lawyer for Kimura’s agency.  The Toyota City, Japan-based maker of Corollas and Camry
sedans is forecasting its  global auto sales  to increase 21
percent to 9.58 million units this year. Toyota is trying to
regain market share after being outsold by  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  last year.  “Japanese companies tend to be relaxed about the conduct
of celebrities, even if they’re strict on their own company’s
compliance,” Satoru Ashiya, a Tokyo-based economist, said by
phone today. “It’s important for carmakers to promote safe
driving. This may have a negative impact on their reputation.”  Kimura was suspended from driving for either 30 or 60 days,
according to Yada. The lawyer said he didn’t know when the
suspension started or how much the fine was.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  