-- Yen Rebounds From 11-Month Low Versus Dollar; Kiwi, Rand
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-15T21:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/pound-weakens-after-fitch-warning-franc-strengthens-on-growth.html
The yen climbed from an 11-month
low against the dollar as investors wagered that its largest
three-day decline since November may have happened too quickly.  The pound weakened for the first time in three days against
the euro after  Fitch Ratings  said the U.K. risks losing its top
investment grade. New Zealand’s dollar rallied as the nation’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace since 2010.
 Switzerland ’s franc gained against the euro and dollar after the
central bank increased the nation’s growth forecast.  “We may have gotten ahead of ourselves with Japan looking
like they were more willing to ease and the Fed looking less
likely to ease and therefore the move in dollar-yen,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  “Dollar buying has stalled and some
paring back of dollar long positions has prompted the dollar-yen
move.” A long is a bet an asset will strengthen.  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 83.57 per dollar at 5 p.m.  New
York  time. It earlier touched 84.18, the weakest since April
2011. Japan’s currency ended its biggest four-day intraday
decline yesterday in four months as the 14-day relative strength
index for the pair was below the 30 level for a fifth day, which
indicates an asset may have fallen too far too fast.  Japan’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 109.32 versus the
euro. The shared currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.3080.  U.K. Rating  The U.K. currency fell against 11 of its 16 major
counterparts after Fitch changed its rating outlook yesterday on
Britain to negative, citing a weak recovery and high debt
levels.  Sterling declined 0.1 percent to 83.26 pence per euro and
added 0.2 percent to $1.5711.  “The Fitch announcement is news to the market because its
focus had shifted from the U.K.’s fiscal position,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York. “The U.K. has been on an improving trajectory on the
fiscal front. But ever since European risks had subsided, the
market has turned its focus on other fiscally weak countries out
there, the U.K. being one and  Japan  being another one.”  The pound may decline 2.8 percent to $1.5235 should it end
a day’s trading below a key level of $1.5643, said  Karen Jones ,
head of fixed-income, commodity and currency technical analysis
in London Commerzbank AG.  Fitch’s said its decision “reflects the very limited
fiscal space to absorb further economic shocks in light of such
elevated debt levels and a potentially weaker than currently
forecast economic recovery.” The U.K. government is
implementing the biggest squeeze on  government spending  since
World War II as it attempts to reduce the nation’s deficit.  Yen Trades  Japan’s yen has tumbled 5 percent in the past month, the
worst performer in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
tracks 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar climbed 1.1
percent, and the euro gained 0.6 percent.  The Japanese central bank unexpectedly added 10 trillion
yen ($120 billion) to its asset-purchase program at its Feb. 14
meeting and Governor Masaaki Shirakawa indicated the central
bank will keep using monetary policy as a tool to tackle
deflation on March 13. The  Federal Reserve  raised its outlook
for U.S. growth at its meeting the same day, reducing
expectations of a third round of bond purchases.  The  extra yield  investors receive from holding Treasury
two-year notes instead of similar-maturity Japanese debt widened
to 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, the close to the
most since July, increasing the attractiveness of dollar assets
as manufacturing the in New York region expanded in March at the
fastest pace since June 2010, according to the Federal Reserve.  “Looks like dollar-yen is being taken to the woodshed this
morning by people squaring up quite aggressively or trying to
force out the dollar longs,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  “Despite those better U.S.
numbers, the dollar is not really benefiting this morning.”  Dollar Volumes  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. reported record daily volume
in the  Dollar Index (DXY)  yesterday, which it uses to track the
greenback against six major trading partners. Contracts traded
reached 82,689, with a notional value of more than $6.6 billion.
That compares with the average daily in February of 29,073
contracts and the previous volume record of 81,814 set in June
2011.  The gauge, which is weighted 57.6 percent to movements in
the 17-nation euro, fell for the first time in three days,
declining 0.4 percent to 80.244.  The rand strengthened as global stocks and commodity prices
rebounded from losses yesterday, buoying higher-yielding
currencies. MSCI World Index of stocks rose 0.7 percent. Gold,
the nation’s largest export, rose 0.8 percent to $1,657 an ounce
in New York.  The rand rose 1 percent to 7.6280 per dollar.  New Zealand ’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, added 1.2
percent to 81.91 U.S. cents.  The Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand, a
Wellington-based employer group, reported today that the
Performance of Manufacturing  Index (NZPMISA)  rose in February to the
highest since April 2010.  The Swiss franc climbed from a seven-week low against the
dollar as the  Swiss National Bank  predicted the economy will
expand 1 percent this year, twice as much as its previous
estimate.  Policy makers led by interim Chairman Thomas Jordan,
maintained their ceiling for the currency at 1.20 francs per
euro, and pledged to defend the cap with their “utmost
determination.” The SNB forecast that consumer prices will fall
0.6 percent this year, before inflation returns in 2013 with a
rate of 0.3 percent, accelerating to 0.6 percent in 2014.  The franc rose 0.5 percent to 1.20727 per euro, and gained
0.8 percent to 92.30 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  