-- Private Equity Profit on Line as Obama Urges Tax Break Study
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-15T14:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/private-equity-profits-on-line-as-obama-urges-study-of-tax-break.html
The fight over how private equity
managers’ compensation should be taxed obscures other breaks
that are central to the buyout industry’s business model.  President  Barack Obama  and other Democrats have spent
several years arguing for higher  taxes  on the carried interest
earnings of private equity executives. What makes private equity
deals so profitable, though, is the tax deductibility of
interest.  “Part of the so-called value that’s created in private
equity buyouts is really just reshuffling the balance sheet” to
take advantage of the interest deduction and other tax breaks,
said Victor Fleischer, a law professor at the University of
 Colorado  who tracks the private equity industry.  The Obama administration and lawmakers in both parties are
examining the tax code’s debt bias as they seek to lower the
corporate tax rate without expanding the federal budget  deficit .
Any changes to the tax treatment of debt would make it tougher
for private equity firms and other companies that rely on
deductible debt to structure profitable transactions.  “A tax system that is more neutral towards debt and equity
will reduce incentives to over-leverage and produce more stable
business finances,” the Obama administration wrote in its
corporate tax framework released Feb. 22, which called for
lowering the top tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent.  Subtracting Borrowing Costs  The interest deduction, which lets companies subtract
borrowing costs from taxable income, is important for private
equity firms because debt is at the core of their business
model.  The firms, including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and the Carlyle
Group LP, identify companies they want to take over. They revamp
the companies’ operations and then sell to the public or other
private owners. In a typical deal, investment firms have the
target company take on debt during the restructuring process,
amplifying profits and creating  tax deductions  that improve the
bottom line.  U.S. private equity investment totaled $147 billion in
2011, according to PitchBook Data Inc., a Seattle-based provider
of information about the private equity industry. Deals valued
at more than $1 billion used debt for about 61 percent of their
financing, while smaller deals averaged 46 percent.  Oil Unit Acquisition  One example is Apollo Global Management LLC’s acquisition
of  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil-and-gas exploration unit, which was
announced Feb. 24. That $7.15 billion deal included $5.5 billion
of debt financing, with $1 billion of that funded at closing,
four people with knowledge of the transaction told Bloomberg
News last month. They asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Interest payments on that debt will be tax deductible.  Other breaks, such as accelerated depreciation, can magnify
the tax benefits of using debt in transactions. According to the
Obama administration’s report, the effective tax rate on new
equipment financed with equity is 37 percent, while the
comparable rate for a debt-financed purchase is an effective tax
subsidy of 60 percent.  “The ability to deduct interest clearly creates a bias for
using debt,” said  Robert Willens , a New York corporate tax
consultant. “The only thing that limits you is what the market
will permit in terms of a prudent deal.”  In a  regulatory filing  today, Carlyle said the
administration’s framework “reflects a commitment” by Obama to
make tax changes that would negatively affect the company.  Cost of Financing  “A reduction in interest deductions could increase our tax
rate and thereby reduce cash available for distribution to
investors or for other uses by us,” wrote Washington-based
Carlyle, which is preparing for an initial public offering.
“Such a reduction could also increase the effective cost of
financing by companies in which we invest, which could reduce
the value of our carried interest in respect of such
companies.”  Interest deductibility is less important today than it was
in the 1980s when deals often were composed of 90 percent debt,
said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago’s
Booth School of Business who studies the private equity
industry.  Still, he said, if interest weren’t deductible, debt would
be more expensive and private equity firms couldn’t pay as much
for takeover targets to achieve the same after-tax returns.  ‘Slight Negative’  Limits on interest deductibility, if paired with cuts in
the U.S.  corporate tax rate , wouldn’t stop the private equity
business model from being feasible, Kaplan said.  “If you give it back in terms of some lower tax rate
somewhere else,” he said, “it would be a slight negative for
certain deals, but it wouldn’t kill the business.”  It would be difficult for Congress to start curbing the
deductibility of interest, said Jonathan Talisman, a tax
lobbyist in  Washington  whose clients include the industry trade
group, the  Private Equity Growth Capital Council .  “Borrowing costs are a fundamental cost of doing business
and so to the extent there’s borrowing in the mix, you would
think they would get an interest deduction for it,” Talisman
said.  Lawmakers haven’t settled on an approach for limiting the
interest deduction.  The two tax-writing committees in Congress held a joint
hearing last year on economic distortions caused by the interest
deduction. Senators  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and  Dan Coats , an  Indiana  Republican, included limits on debt in their
tax overhaul proposal.  ‘Good Balance’  “At least let’s take away the automatic escalator for
debt,” said Wyden, whose proposal would prevent companies from
receiving a deduction for the portion of interest expense that
reflects inflation. “I think it strikes a good balance.”  Once private equity managers have control of a company,
they often try to minimize tax bills in other ways.  “It sometimes takes time for it to happen, but eventually
they get to be really good at  tax avoidance ,” said Sonja Rego,
an accounting professor at  Indiana University  and co-author of a
working paper on the tax rates of companies owned by private
equity firms.  Lower Tax Rates  Even excluding the effects of debt, Rego and her co-authors
found that U.S.-based companies owned by private equity firms
tended to have lower tax rates and use subsidiaries in low-tax
countries more than similar private companies do. The cash tax
rate is typically 5 to 10 percentage points lower for a company
backed by private equity, said Brad Badertscher, an accounting
professor at the University of  Notre Dame  in Indiana.  Rego said she wasn’t sure exactly what private equity
managers were doing to reduce tax rates other than viewing taxes
as another place to look for efficiencies.  As highlighted in Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s tax returns, private equity firms often set up so-
called blocker corporations in low-tax countries such as the
 Cayman Islands  and  Bermuda .  The blockers often don’t directly benefit the private
equity firms, the managers or the companies they operate.
Instead, they help expand the pool of potential investors.  Blocker corporations allow U.S. tax-exempt investors, such
as pension funds and university endowments, to invest in debt-
financed vehicles without incurring a tax intended to discourage
such investments.  They also give overseas investors access to U.S. private
equity funds without triggering U.S. tax-filing requirements.  “It’s a very tried and true way of sanitizing or cleansing
income,” Willens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  