-- Providence Climbs as Barryroe Oil Tests Exceed Expectations
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-15T13:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/providence-climbs-as-barryroe-oil-tests-exceed-expectations-1-.html
Providence Resources Plc (PRP) , an Irish
oil and gas explorer, climbed to a 2 1/2-year high in Dublin
trading after results from its Barryroe well beat expectations.  Providence rose as much as 20 percent to 6.20 euros, the
highest intraday price since August 2009, after reporting flows
from the well off southern Ireland. The stock traded at 5.85
euros as of 1:27 p.m. local time.  “We had certain expectations and this well far exceeded
those expectations in terms of the quality of the oil, the
thickness of the sands and the lateral extent of the
resources,” Chief Executive Officer Tony O’Reilly said today by
telephone. “It hopefully puts Ireland firmly back on the map in
terms of a destination of oil exploration activities.”  The find is the first potentially commercial oil discovery
off Ireland, according to Providence, which has the biggest
share of permits in the region. The Dublin-based company won
additional Irish exploration licenses last year with overseas
partners including Repsol YPF SA,  Spain ’s largest oil producer.  The Barryroe well tested at a stabilized flow rate of 3,513
barrels of oil a day, almost double its commercial threshold,
Providence said in a statement. John O’Sullivan, the company’s
technical director, said the well may pump oil at “multiples of
that kind” once development begins.  Price Target Raised  Providence also trades in  London (PVR) , where it rose 12 percent
to 481 pence. Numis Securities Ltd. raised its price estimate on
the stock to 637 pence from 460 pence after upgrading Barryroe’s
recoverable resource estimate and increasing the chance of
commercial success at the find to 80 percent from 50 percent.  The data from the well “certainly moves us towards the
development task” and bodes well for the company’s other
potential resources in the Celtic Sea, O’Reilly said. Once
testing is complete and the development approved, oil may be
brought ashore within two years, he said.  The data represent the first “significant” test flows of
oil off Ireland in 12 years, Fergus O’Dowd, a junior minister in
Ireland’s Energy Ministry, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 