-- Rand Climbs From Lowest Level in Three Weeks as Commodities Gain
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-15T13:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/rand-gains-yields-climb-to-two-month-high-as-rate-bets-increase.html
The rand strengthened, rebounding
from a three-week low, as gains in commodity prices boosted
prospects for  South Africa ’s raw material exports.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 7.6552
per dollar by 3:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, after retreating 2.3
percent yesterday, its biggest one-day decline since Dec. 8. The
yield on South Africa’s bonds maturing in 2024 increased.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials gained
as the prices of metals including platinum, copper and gold rose
amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering. Metals and other
commodities account for 65 percent of South Africa’s exports.
The rand declined to its weakest level since Feb. 22 yesterday
as commodities tumbled after the U.S. Federal Reserve damped
expectations of further monetary easing.  The rand was “part of a commodity currency sell-off
yesterday and we’re seeing a rebound across the board,”  Jim Bryson , head of foreign-exchange trading at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Commodity currencies have
recovered somewhat today, although we’re not out of the danger
area for the rand yet.”  The currencies of other commodity-exporting nations
including  New Zealand  and Australia also gained.  U.S. manufacturing expanded and fewer Americans filed for
unemployment benefits, reports said today.  U.S. Treasuries  fell,
with 10-year yields increasing for a seventh day today. Fed
policy makers said this week they expect “moderate economic
growth.”  Clawing Back Gains  “The rand took a sharp knock yesterday, and it is clawing
back some of that loss,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,
said by phone. “But the rand’s moves depend on what happens to
the dollar.”  The U.S. currency weakened today against 12 out of 16 most-
traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 climbed three basis points to 4.30 percent, the highest in
three weeks, tracking the increase in U.S. Treasury yields. The
extra yield investors demand to hold South Africa’s debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries widened by one basis points to 201 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  