-- RBS CEO Says Bank Would Be ‘Delighted’ to Lend More to Business
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-03-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/rbs-ceo-says-bank-would-be-delighted-to-lend-more-to-business.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said he would be
“delighted” if the bank lent more to businesses this year than
last, though in uncertain times borrowers are choosing to pay
off their debts.  “We have the balance sheet, funding and capital to lend,
and indeed the future success of RBS requires that we do lend
more,” Hester said today in a speech at the British Chambers of
Commerce annual conference in London. “Last year under half of
available overdraft lending was used by our customers, 5 percent
less than the prior year.”  RBS, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, Barclays
Plc and Santander U.K. collectively lent 214.9 billion pounds
($336.6 billion) to business under the so-called Project Merlin
deal of 2011, beating a target agreed with the government by 13
percent. They lent 74.9 billion pounds to small and medium-sized
companies, defined as those with revenue of less than 25 million
pounds annually, 98.6 percent of the amount pledged under the
Merlin deal. That was a “disappointing” result, U.K. Treasury
minister Mark Hoban said in February.  Hester also said Britain must “rebalance” where it makes
its money.  There are “specific types of lending where the standards
pre-2008 had become too loose and need to be permanently
tightened -- most property-related lending is a case in point,”
he said. “Too much of Britain’s GDP was tied up in property-
related activities, and we need to rebalance to more exporting,
manufacturing and services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  