-- Report of Agreement on Oil Release Inaccurate, U.S Aide Says
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-15T16:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/report-of-agreement-on-oil-release-inaccurate-obama-aide-says.html
The U.S. and U.K. haven’t agreed on
a release of oil from strategic stocks, according to an Obama
administration official.  A report that the two nations will cooperate in an effort
to cut rising gasoline prices is inaccurate, said the official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private
deliberations between President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  at the White House yesterday.  Obama and Cameron discussed oil supplies and use of the
strategic reserve without reaching any decision, a U.K. official
with knowledge of the talks said.  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 37 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $105.06 a barrel at 12:15 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The price dropped to $103.78 after Reuters
reported that the U.K. has decided to cooperate with the U.S. in
a bilateral agreement to release strategic oil supplies.  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to $3.821 a gallon yesterday,
according to a daily survey by the  American Automobile
Association (3AGSREG) . That’s 7.5 percent higher than a year ago,
according to AAA’s survey.  Rising gasoline prices have opened a line of attack by
Republican presidential candidates, as higher energy costs
overshadow gains elsewhere in the economy, including the
addition of 227,000 new jobs in February.  All Options  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has repeatedly
declined to comment directly on discussions about tapping the
strategic reserve, while saying all options to keep down energy
costs are being considered. Obama has said there are no easy
solutions to rising energy costs.  “There’s no such thing as a quick fix when it comes to
high gas prices,” Obama said in a speech today in Largo,
 Maryland , outside  Washington .  Releasing oil from the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve has
proven no guarantee of lower prices at the pump over the last
eight years.  In four instances, gasoline rose following the
announcements of supplies from emergency inventories. In 2008
and 2011, tapping stockpiles brought down the cost of a fill-up,
according to  data  from AAA.  The strategic reserve was last tapped in July and August
2011 under an International Energy Agency effort to east
shortages in supplies from the  Middle East .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  