-- Republican White House Hopefuls Invade Barack Obama’s Home State
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/republican-white-house-hopefuls-invade-barack-obama-s-home-state.html
The Republican presidential race
descended on President Barack Obama’s home turf yesterday, as a
defiant  Newt Gingrich  arrived in Illinois following dual losses
in Southern states that were supposed to be part of his base.  Gingrich’s arrival followed his second-place finishes in
the March 13 Alabama and Mississippi primaries that have
intensified questions about whether his candidacy is
sustainable.  The former U.S. House speaker said he is “staying in this
race” as he spoke to about 75 supporters in suburban Chicago in
a room that could have easily held three times as many people.
He repeated the exact same language a few hours later at a party
dinner in another suburb.  Gingrich, 68, declined to answer any questions from
reporters following his first event of the day held near O’Hare
International Airport. He has won only two primaries so far,
 South Carolina  and  Georgia , a state he represented in Congress
for 20 years.  Rick Santorum , who strengthened his status as Mitt Romney’s
prime challenger in the Republican race by winning in Alabama
and Mississippi, faces his next major challenge in the March 20
Illinois primary.  Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, wants to drive
Gingrich from the race to consolidate opposition to Romney, who
easily leads in the hunt for delegates to the party’s national
convention in August.  On a conference call with Illinois voters yesterday in-
between fundraisers in the New York City area, Romney criticized
Santorum’s economic credentials.  ‘Economic Lightweight’  “I think you’ll find he’s an economic lightweight,”
Romney said. “Not having ever spent any time in the private
sector, he really doesn’t understand fundamentally what it takes
to make this economy grow and thrive.”  Romney referred to skepticism he arouses among his party’s
most conservative wing, saying, “I know the term
‘establishment’ frightens people.”  To allay such concerns, he pointed to endorsements he’s
gotten from Republican leaders with strong conservative
credentials, including Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  and former Attorney
General John Ashcroft.  ‘The Guy’s OK’  Their backing should “give a pretty good indication that,
‘Perhaps the guy’s OK,’” Romney said of himself.  He brushed aside questions about his ability to appeal to
Southern Republicans in an interview yesterday with Fox News.  “Some who are very conservative may not be yet in my camp,
but they will be when I become the nominee,” he said.  Romney declined to weigh in on whether Gingrich should
exit, saying such judgments were up to each candidate.  Santorum, 53, spent yesterday campaigning in Puerto Rico,
where party caucuses this weekend will help determine the
allocation of 23 delegates.  “If we keep winning races, eventually people are going to
figure out that Governor Romney is not going to be the
nominee,” Santorum told reporters yesterday in San Juan,
according to the  Associated Press .  He is scheduled to visit  Illinois  tomorrow and campaign in
the state over the weekend, after stopping in  Missouri  where
caucuses will also be held this weekend.  Unusual Campaign  The arrival in Illinois of a Republican presidential
campaign for something other than fundraising is unusual.  The state’s primary is typically late enough not to matter
much. It last played a significant role on the Republican side
in 1988, when then-Senator Bob Dole of  Kansas  was dealt a
significant blow when he lost Illinois to then-Vice President
George H.W. Bush.  That year also marked the last general election in which
Illinois backed a Republican for president, so the party
typically doesn’t make a play for the state.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private equity
executive, plans a brief campaign stop in Rosemont, Illinois,
tomorrow morning before flying to Puerto Rico.  A  Chicago  Tribune/WGN-TV  poll  released over the weekend
showed Romney and Santorum locked in a tight race there. Romney
was backed by 35 percent of likely voters and Santorum by 31
percent, within the 4-percentage-point margin of error.  The survey, taken before Santorum’s latest wins, showed 16
percent were undecided and 46 percent said they still might
change their minds. It also revealed that Romney is doing better
in the suburbs around Chicago, while Santorum holds the
advantage outside the state’s largest metropolitan area.  Romney Advantages  Expectations are high for Romney in Illinois, considering
his campaign cash advantage and his backing by many of the
state’s top Republicans, including Senator Mark Kirk and state
Treasurer Dan Rutherford.  Romney, 65, narrowly beat Santorum in two other Midwest
primaries -- in  Michigan  and  Ohio  -- so a victory in Illinois
would be significant for momentum in the race.  Illinois offers 69 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
party’s nomination. The state’s voters will directly elect 54 of
those delegates.  As was the case in Ohio, Santorum failed to file a full
slate of delegates, so he is only qualified for up to 44 of
those chosen.  Romney, Gingrich and Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  qualified for the full contingent.  Delegate Count  Even amid state losses, Romney has continued to bank
delegates in a process his aides say could drag on two more
months. He has 495 delegates, including endorsements from
Republican Party leaders who automatically attend and can vote
for anyone, compared with 252 for Santorum and 131 for Gingrich,
according to Associate Press estimates. Paul has 48.  The Illinois race may have a similar pattern to the one in
Ohio, where Santorum did well in rural areas while Romney won
urban and suburban regions. Unlike Ohio, where the larger cities
are scattered, the majority of the population and Republican
vote is centered in the Chicago metropolitan area.  While the area’s core is deeply Democratic -- home to
Obama, his re-election team, and a father and son with the last
name of Daley who ran Chicago for more than four decades
combined -- many of the suburbs around the city lean Republican.  Illinois’  unemployment rate  of 9.4 percent is higher than
the national average of 8.3 percent, and higher than those in
Ohio and Michigan. The state also has budget and pension
shortfalls even after raising income and corporate taxes last
year, and it has the nation’s lowest general-obligation bond
rating, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Donor Question  Gingrich’s future depends upon the intentions of his major
donors, said Mike George, a Texas entrepreneur who has invested
more than $200,000 in the former speaker’s presidential bid.
George was referring to  Sheldon Adelson , a Las Vegas casino
billionaire who with his family has given at least $11 million
to Winning Our Future, a political action committee backing him.  The key for the candidate is “how long will Sheldon
continue writing these $10 million checks,” George said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “It’s all in his
hands.”  Adelson spokesman  Ron Reese  didn’t return calls or e-mails.  Rick Tyler , a senior adviser for Winning Our Future, said
Adelson’s checks are less important under a new strategy of
making it to the convention rather than winning state-by-state.  “The dynamics have changed, and all four candidates will
arrive in Tampa on equal footing,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Nobody plans to go into the convention in
third, but this is our new reality.”  Divided Voters  Republicans and independents who lean that way are divided
on whether Gingrich and Paul should drop out so that a two-
person contest between Romney and Santorum could emerge,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll published this week.  A political action committee backing Romney is already
active on Illinois television, according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Restore Our Future, a super-PAC, has spent an estimated
$700,830 to air ads 997 times on broadcast television in the
state through March 13. Those figures don’t include advertising
run in television markets on the state’s borders.  Gingrich’s arrival in the state yesterday competed with
something that drew more attention: the last day of freedom for
the state’s former governor, Democrat  Rod Blagojevich , who is
heading to prison following his conviction of federal corruption
charges.  Obama isn’t leaving his home state unattended during the
final days of campaigning before the primary. He plans to attend
two fundraisers tomorrow in Chicago for his re-election bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  