-- Republican Tax-Break Pruning Complicates Extension Plans
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-15T20:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/republican-tax-break-pruning-complicates-extension-plans.html
Senate Republicans are seeking to
shut down some expired tax breaks while they revive others,
complicating prospects for passing a package of miscellaneous
tax provisions that typically advance together through Congress.  Republicans made the first effort this week as part of a
proposal from Senator Pat Roberts that failed on the U.S. Senate
floor. Roberts’s proposal wouldn’t have restarted several lapsed
provisions, such as the deductibility of private mortgage
insurance and tax breaks for some types of investment in
 American Samoa ,  Puerto Rico  and the  District of Columbia .  “We tried to take a look at ones where a tax increase
would be especially damaging, primarily to families and middle-
income folks,” said Roberts, a Kansas Republican, in a March 13
interview. “It’s a tough job to try to go down them and
literally pick and choose, but I think we hit all the ones that
involve families that could not afford a situation which would
amount to a tax increase.”  The debate over more than $30 billion in so-called tax
extenders affects breaks with wide corporate support that
expired at the end of 2011. They include the research and
development tax credit and the ability for financial services
companies to defer taxation on income earned outside the U.S.
Lawmakers disagree on whether and how the cost of the provisions
should be offset to prevent expanding the  budget deficit .  Closer Scrutiny  For several years, members of Congress have called for
closer scrutiny of the extenders list. Those efforts have fallen
short as lawmakers run up against deadlines and the combined
lobbying effort behind dozens of tax breaks.  The Republican proposal is an “opening bid” that should
prompt lobbyists to defend their tax breaks and encourage
Democrats to offer their proposals, said  Dean Zerbe , a former
Republican aide on the Senate Finance Committee.  “It does not suggest that there’s an easy glide path,”
said Zerbe, national managing director at Alliantgroup, a tax
consulting firm.  In a dialogue entered into the Congressional Record, top
Senate leaders and tax writers pledged to work on resolving the
dispute. They disagreed on what the Senate should do.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Congress should act “early in the year” so taxpayers can make
decisions based on the incentives in the  tax code .  No ‘Meaningful’ Review  “Congress has reflexively extended all of these measures
without any meaningful review or oversight,”  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , the Republican leader in the Senate, said in the
dialogue. He urged senators to study the provisions
“carefully” before proceeding.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
Finance Committee, said an overhaul of the tax code is the
appropriate way to review the expired provisions.  “Tax reform, however, will take some time and these
provisions have already expired,” said Baucus in the written
dialogue. “We should provide certainty to taxpayers by
extending them through this year as soon as possible.”  Democrats also want to revive tax provisions from the 2009
stimulus law that benefit the renewable  energy industry . This
includes a provision letting companies receive cash grants
instead of tax credits.  Republicans typically don’t want to restart stimulus
provisions. At the end of 2010, Republicans prevented many
stimulus tax breaks from continuing, while also allowing some
other tax provisions to lapse.  Energy Tax Breaks  Senate Democrats  offered a piecemeal approach on the Senate
floor this week. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat,
failed in an attempt to extend a group of energy tax breaks that
didn’t include other provisions such as the research credit.  Some lawmakers, including Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , want to extend the production tax credit for
 wind energy . Though that provision doesn’t expire until the end
of 2012, he said companies are making investments now based on
their expectation that it might not survive.  “As a practical matter, wind is going to expire really in
the spring of this year, because they’re going to shut down all
the component manufacturing,” Grassley said in an interview.  The package of tax breaks also includes provisions that
benefit motor sports tracks, appliance makers, restaurants,
teachers and residents of states without income taxes.  Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota, a member of the
Republican leadership, said it would be “frustrating” if
Democrats took a piecemeal approach to extending individual tax
breaks.  Thune told reporters March 14 that he didn’t expect broader
action on the tax breaks would occur until the post-election
session, when Congress will be debating expiring individual
income tax cuts.  Rather than an extension of tax credits, Thune said he has
encouraged industry groups to consider a possible phase-out of
tax breaks, similar to one that was discussed for the ethanol
tax credit that also expired Dec. 31.  “Trying to get straight extensions of existing law is
going to be challenging,” Thune said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  