-- Troika Hires Credit Suisse’s Chuprin in Fixed-Income Push
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-15T12:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/troika-hires-credit-suisse-s-chuprin-in-fixed-income-expansion.html
Troika Dialog hired Andrey Chuprin
from Credit Suisse Group AG to lead fixed-income sales as the
 investment banking  arm of  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s largest lender,
boosts staff to challenge VTB Capital.  Chuprin is one of as many as 11 bankers Troika may hire to
almost double its sales team for fixed-income and derivative
products, Maxim Safonov, head of fixed income, currencies and
commodities at the Moscow-based bank, said today by e-mail.  State-run Sberbank merged its fixed-income trading
operations with Troika this week after its bankers moved into
Troika’s offices in central Moscow, Safonov said. Sberbank
completed its acquisition of Russia’s oldest investment bank
Jan. 23, paying at least $1 billion.  “Thanks to the merger we are experiencing an increase in
new business and in order to take full advantage of this we are
looking to add people,” Safonov said. “There will be no
redundancies.”  Sberbank Chief Executive Officer  German Gref , a former
economy minister, is seeking to turn what was once the Soviet
Union’s savings bank into a full-service financial firm that can
compete at home and abroad in areas from bond underwriting to
 stock trading . Troika plans to increase its staff of about 100
bankers by about 40 percent this year, Todd Berman, head of
investment banking, said in a Nov. 29 interview.  Troika Hiring  Troika last month hired mergers and acquisitions
specialists Dirk Werner and Angelo Morganti, who previously
worked for  Renaissance Capital  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
respectively. Safonov, previously a portfolio manager at hedge
fund Finisterre Capital, joined the bank on Jan. 10.  VTB Capital, created from scratch three years ago by VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, was the biggest organizer
of Russian debt sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State-controlled Gazprombank was second, Troika third
and Sberbank fourth.  Sberbank is to start meeting with investors on April 16 to
promote a share sale valued at about $5.7 billion, three people
with knowledge of the process said today, asking not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to comment. Troika is
one of the five organizers of the sale, along with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  