-- Romney Woos Seniors With Clever Medicare Gambit: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/romney-woos-seniors-with-clever-medicare-gambit-jonathan-alter.html
Mitt Romney  looks right now as if
he’s tripping over his shoelaces, but he’s positioning himself
well for the general election fight with President  Barack Obama 
on one big issue: Medicare. Whether he’s positioning himself
honestly is a different question.  The news media often treat Medicare’s many moving parts as
too boring and wonky to cover.  But if the economy stays about
where it is, the head-slapping at the line of scrimmage on
health care for seniors could determine the election.  Medicare was enacted in 1965 under a Democratic president,
 Lyndon Johnson , and opposed as  socialism  by  Ronald Reagan  and
many other Republicans. For years, this partisan divide gave
Democrats a big advantage on what has become one of the most
popular social programs in U.S. history.  But in the 2010 midterms, Republicans figured out how to
turn the tables. With the help of the Koch brothers and  Karl Rove ’s super-PAC, they flooded the airwaves ( outspending 
Democrats by at least 2-to-1) with the message that Obama had
cut $500 billion from your Medicare. The charge wasn’t true,
because Obama was slowing Medicare’s growth not actually cutting
it, but it changed history. According to a new  study  by
Dartmouth political scientist Brendan Nyhan, as many as 25
Democrats lost their House seats because they voted for
“Obamacare.”  Payback for Democrats  Many of the voters who turned out most heavily in 2010 --
senior citizens -- were almost comically hypocritical, selfish
or both. The  Tea Party  found itself arguing that Obama was
simultaneously a socialist for backing health-care reform based
on private insurance for younger Americans and a heartless
budget-cutter for supposedly tampering with their socialist
Medicare. Go figure.  The source of their anger was the part of the Affordable
Care Act that ended inexcusable subsidies to health care
providers from Medicare Advantage (a program for wealthier
seniors). Overall, the new law strengthens Medicare (for
example, by removing the so-called donut hole that had left many
seniors paying eye-popping prescription drug bills) and
introduces cost-saving measures aimed at holding the growth of
Medicare at or below GDP growth plus 1 percent, which is the
only way to prevent it from bankrupting the country.  Democrats are hardly blameless on Medicare. For years, they
pandered to seniors by describing any failure to keep pace with
rampant health-care inflation as a “cut.” This may have been
technically accurate, but when true assaults on the foundations
of Medicare began, as they did last year in the guise of
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s plan, it made Democrats look
disingenuous.  Under Ryan’s plan, future seniors (those under 55) would
get “premium supports” to buy private insurance on exchanges. If
that sounds familiar, it is. Ryan denounced Obamacare, then
essentially adapted it for his own reform of Medicare.  Because the original Ryan plan used billions in Medicare
cuts to pay for more tax cuts for the wealthy, Democrats’ eyes
lit up, and they decided to make opposition to that plan (which
almost every Republican in Congress has voted for) the
centerpiece of their 2012 campaign.  But at the end of 2011, Ryan did something clever. He
joined with Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  on a promising
compromise that would allow future seniors a choice between
traditional Medicare and private insurance -- essentially
Obamacare plus a public option. The bake-off between the two
approaches would give the new system both the purchasing power
of single-payer Medicare and the innovation of private plans.
Wyden-Ryan is far more progressive than the original Ryan plan
because it guarantees that the benefits of those who choose to
buy insurance on the exchanges will be no lower than those who
choose traditional Medicare.  Escape Hatch  So far, though, that guarantee has been missing from many
Republican descriptions of the plan. Will it be in the proposed
budget that Ryan, as chairman of the House Budget Committee,
announces next week?  Romney has repeatedly endorsed Wyden-Ryan, which he thinks
will let him argue in debates with Obama that he favors a
bipartisan plan that won’t make future seniors give up Medicare
if they don’t want to. Naturally, the White House and many
Democrats are furious at Wyden for giving Romney and other
Republicans this escape hatch.  But the Romney embrace of Wyden-Ryan is misleading. “The
Romney campaign says he’s introducing competition and choice to
Medicare ‘along with a bipartisan group of leaders,’ but I’ve
never spoken to the governor on this subject,” Wyden told me.
“If there are folks on the right who use this as a political
shield or cover, they are hurting senior citizens by making it
harder to get to a bipartisan agreement.”  A shield it is. Romney’s economic  plan , outlined last month
in a mostly empty Detroit football stadium, calls for huge new
tax cuts (according to an analysis by the Center for American
Progress,  60 percent  of which would go to the top 1 percent) on
top of the existing Bush tax cuts and for capping spending at 20
percent of GDP. To do this and put us on a path to balancing the
budget, Romney would have to cut non-defense and non-Social
Security spending by an estimated 35 percent, which inevitably
means  cutting  Medicare and gutting Medicaid and food stamps.
There’s nowhere else to get the money from. Should a President
Romney get anywhere close to what he proposes, the social safety
net will be -- no exaggeration -- shredded.  To distract attention from this prospect, the Romney
campaign last week released a  stinging memo  about Obama’s
position on Medicare. The memo cleverly alleged that Obama is
“ending Medicare as we know it” -- a twist on  Bill Clinton ’s
memorable campaign promise, repeated in his first State of the
Union address, to “end welfare as we know it.” It included links
to selective clips alleging that Obamacare “rations” care for
seniors and is “destroying” Medicare Advantage.  Wyden points out that “it’s inaccurate to say the president
has harmed Medicare Advantage when in fact premiums have gone
down and enrollment has gone up.”  Facts are oh so confusing. Getting them through the clatter
will be tough for Obama this fall. By embracing Wyden-Ryan and
attacking the president on the Democrats’ turf, Romney has a
good shot to fuzz up the issue enough to keep seniors firmly in
the Republican column.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 