-- Romney-Santorum Duel Poses Test in Obama’s Home State
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-15T17:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/romney-santorum-duel-poses-republican-test-in-obama-s-state-1-.html
(Corrects with Romney calling Santorum an ‘economic
lightweight’ in third paragraph after ‘Santorum’s Goal’ subhead.
For more stories, see ELECT.)  In Illinois, long a domain for
mainstream Republican politicians,  Mitt Romney  counts on strong
support for his presidential nomination bid.  Yet the former Massachusetts governor, who has won other
Midwest industrial state primaries by 1- and 3-percentage point
margins, faces another close contest with rival Rick Santorum in
the March 20 Illinois primary, a poll shows.  The state presents similar demographic and geographic
challenges for Romney as Ohio, where Santorum, who finished
behind him by about 1 percentage point, did well in rural areas
while Romney won urban and suburban regions. After Santorum won
two Southern primaries on March 13, Romney finds himself
renewing his appeal to his party’s socially conservative base,
voters drawn to Santorum’s more consistent emphasis on issues
such as abortion, contraception and gay marriage.  “I know the term ‘establishment’ frightens people,”
Romney said in a conference call with  Illinois  voters yesterday
between fundraisers in the New York City area. To allay such
concerns, he pointed to his endorsements from Republican leaders
with strong conservative credentials, including Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of
 Virginia  and former Attorney General John Ashcroft.  ‘Perhaps the Guy’s OK’  Their backing should “give a pretty good indication that,
‘Perhaps the guy’s OK,’” Romney said of himself. He brushed
aside questions about his ability to appeal to Southern
Republicans in an interview yesterday with Fox News.  “Some who are very conservative may not be yet in my camp,
but they will be when I become the nominee,” he said.  Unlike Ohio, where the larger cities are scattered, the
majority of the Illinois population and Republican vote is
centered in the  Chicago  metropolitan area. While the area’s
Chicago core is deeply Democratic -- home to President  Barack Obama , his re-election team, and a father and son with the last
name of Daley who ran Chicago for more than four decades
combined -- many of the suburbs around the city lean Republican.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV poll released over the weekend
showed Romney and Santorum locked in a tight race statewide.
Romney was backed by 35 percent of likely voters and Santorum by
31 percent, within the 4-percentage-point margin of error.  Suburban-Rural Split  The survey, taken before Santorum’s latest wins in the
Mississippi and Alabama primaries, showed 16 percent of likely
Republican voters in Illinois were undecided and 46 percent said
they might change their minds. It also revealed that Romney is
doing better in the suburbs around Chicago, while Santorum holds
the advantage outside the state’s largest metropolitan area.  The arrival in Illinois of a Republican presidential
campaign for something other than fundraising is unusual.  The state’s primary is typically late enough not to matter
much. It last played a significant role on the Republican side
in 1988, when then-Senator  Bob Dole  of  Kansas  was dealt a
significant blow by losing Illinois to then-Vice President
George H.W. Bush. That year also marked the last general
election in which Illinois backed a Republican for president, so
the party typically doesn’t make a play for the state.  Senator John McCain of Arizona won the Illinois Republican
primary in 2008 and went on to become the party’s nominee.  High Expectations  Romney, 65, a former private equity executive, plans a
brief campaign stop in Rosemont, Illinois, tomorrow morning
before flying to Puerto Rico, which holds caucuses March 18. New
Jersey Governor Chris Christie also is scheduled to appear on
Romney’s behalf tomorrow in Elmhurst, Illinois.  Expectations are high for Romney in Illinois, considering
his campaign cash advantage and his backing by many of the
state’s top Republicans, including Senator Mark Kirk and state
Treasurer Dan Rutherford. Following the close margins by which
Romney defeated Santorum in Michigan and  Ohio , a victory in
Illinois would be significant for momentum in the race.  Illinois offers 69 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
party’s nomination. The state’s voters will directly elect 54 of
those delegates.  As was the case in Ohio, Santorum failed to file a full
slate of delegates, so he is only qualified for as many as 44 of
those chosen. Romney, former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
and Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  qualified for the full
contingent.  Gingrich Defiance  Romney and Santorum, 53, still must contend with a third
factor here: A defiant Gingrich arrived yesterday in Illinois
following dual second-place finishes in the Southern states that
were supposed to be part of his base.  Gingrich has won only two primaries so far,  South Carolina 
and  Georgia , a state he represented in Congress for 20 years.  Speaking to Illinois high school students today, Gingrich,
68, said the primary race hasn’t even reached its mid-point,
Louisiana’s March 24 primary.  “I’m staying in the race because I want to see if I can in
the second half of the race -- Louisiana is sort of half time --
I want to see if we can’t reset this whole race around the idea
of really big ideas and really big solutions,” he said in
Barrington, Illinois.  Gingrich said he remains optimistic about his campaign and
life in general.  “I love life,” he said. “In my mind, every day is cool.
You know, I’m still here.”  Santorum’s Goal  Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator who strengthened
his status as Romney’s prime challenger with this week’s wins,
wants to drive Gingrich from the race. That could consolidate
opposition to Romney, who leads in the hunt for delegates to the
party’s national convention in August.  “If we keep winning races, eventually people are going to
figure out that Governor Romney is not going to be the
nominee,” Santorum told reporters yesterday in San Juan,
according to the  Associated Press .  Romney took a shot at Santorum in his Illinois conference
call.  “You’ll find he’s an economic lightweight,” Romney said.
“Not having ever spent any time in the private sector, he
really doesn’t understand fundamentally what it takes to make
this economy grow and thrive.”  Santorum is scheduled to visit Illinois tomorrow and
campaign in the state over the weekend, after stopping in
Missouri where caucuses will also be held this weekend.  Delegate Hunt  Even amid state losses, Romney has continued to bank
delegates in a process his aides say could drag on two more
months. He has 495 delegates, including endorsements from
Republican Party leaders who automatically attend and can vote
for anyone, compared with 252 for Santorum and 131 for Gingrich,
according to AP estimates. Paul has 48.  Illinois (BEESIL)  poses economic challenges for the candidates
similar to those in  Michigan  and Ohio.  Illinois’  unemployment rate  of 9.4 percent is higher than
the national average of 8.3 percent, and higher than those in
Ohio and Michigan. The state also has budget and pension
shortfalls even after raising income and corporate taxes last
year, and it has the nation’s lowest general-obligation bond
rating, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Gingrich’s future depends upon the intentions of his major
donors, said Mike George, a Texas entrepreneur who has invested
more than $200,000 in the former speaker’s presidential bid.
George was referring to  Sheldon Adelson , a Las Vegas casino
billionaire who with his family has given at least $11 million
to Winning Our Future, a political action committee backing him.  $10 Million Checks  The key for the candidate is “how long will Sheldon
continue writing these $10 million checks,” George said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “It’s all in his
hands.”  Adelson spokesman  Ron Reese  didn’t return calls or e-mails
seeking comment.  Rick Tyler , a senior adviser for Winning Our Future, said
Adelson’s checks are less important under a new strategy of
making it to the convention rather than winning state-by-state.  “The dynamics have changed, and all four candidates will
arrive in Tampa on equal footing,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Nobody plans to go into the convention in
third, but this is our new reality.”  Republicans and independents who lean that way are divided
over whether Gingrich and Paul should drop out so that a two-
person contest between Romney and Santorum could emerge,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll published this week.  Ad Spending  A political action committee backing Romney is already
active on Illinois television, according to data from New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Restore Our Future, a super-PAC, has spent an estimated
$700,830 to air ads 997 times on broadcast television in the
state through March 13. Those figures don’t include advertising
run in television markets on the state’s borders.  Gingrich’s arrival in the state yesterday competed with
something that drew more attention: the last day of freedom for
the state’s former governor, Democrat  Rod Blagojevich , who is
heading to prison following his conviction of federal corruption
charges.  Obama isn’t leaving his home state unattended during the
final days of campaigning before the primary. He plans to attend
two fundraisers tomorrow in Chicago for his re-election bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  