-- Rowan Excluded Some SAT Scores in Rutgers Merger Fact Sheet
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-15T21:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/rowan-excluded-some-sat-scores-in-fact-sheet-on-rutgers-merger.html
Rowan University, a public college
in southern New Jersey, said it erroneously excluded some SAT
scores in a fact sheet about a proposed merger with the Camden
branch of the state’s flagship Rutgers University.  Governor  Chris Christie  proposed in January folding the
Rutgers-Camden campus into Glassboro-based Rowan, which would
also gain control of Rutgers’s law school in Camden. Rowan
reported its first-time freshman regular-admission students as
having an average SAT score of about 1,170, higher than it would
have been if “special admits students” were included, Joe
Cardona, a Rowan spokesman, said in an interview.  Opponents of the merger have said the Rowan name doesn’t
have the same prestige as Rutgers, and the SAT error underscores
the point, said William FitzGerald, an assistant professor of
English at the Rutgers-Camden campus.  “For the average person not in higher ed, SAT scores seem
to be strong evidence of achieving the highest standards of
academic excellence,” FitzGerald said in an interview. “It
seems like Rowan is trying so desperately to show that it’s
ready to be the new university in South Jersey that’s going to
transform the region.”  Rowan’s “special admit” students, who may be from lower-
income areas of the state and less academically prepared, are
allowed admission to Rowan under  New Jersey ’s Educational
Opportunity Fund program, which allows for lower scores, Cardona
said. Special admissions also include those with “exceptional
talents,” such as musicians or artists, who may not meet
academic standards, he said.  Miscalculated  “It was a junior staffer who miscalculated Rutgers
numbers,” Cardona said. “Whatever we did, we got it wrong.”  The fact sheet, which compared Rowan and Rutgers-Camden,
was presented as part of the merger discussion to legislators
and business people in the past month, Cardona said.  Rowan didn’t send incorrect data to the U.S. Department of
Education or publishers such as  U.S. News & World Report ,
Cardona said. Scores on entrance exams are used in college
rankings, which are influential with students and parents.  “We were pleased to see the error explained by Rowan and
accept the university’s explanation,”  Michael Drewniak , a
spokesman for Christie, said in an e-mail. “It’s certainly not
something that will impact the realignment plan.”  The Save Rutgers-Camden coalition of students, faculty
and alumni are expected to present lawmakers today with a
petition of 11,000 signatures opposing the measure.  Claremont McKenna College , a liberal arts school near  Los
Angeles , disclosed in January that an admissions official had
inflated SAT scores since 2005.  Research University  Christie’s plan would create a broader, research-based
university in southern New Jersey that would consist of the
assets of both Rowan and Rutgers, along with the newly created
Cooper Medical School of Rowan University at Camden’s Cooper
Hospital, Christie said in a statement announcing the plan.  The plan also calls for reshuffling  Rutgers University  in
the northern part of the state and recasting the University of
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey as the New Jersey Health
Sciences University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 