-- Trump Post-Tiger Golf Bottom-Fishing Signals Rebound: Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-15T20:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/trump-post-tiger-golf-bottom-fishing-signals-rebound-mortgages.html
Investors from  Donald Trump  to
luxury homebuilder  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  are wagering there’s money
to be made buying golf courses after a building boom fueled by
 Tiger Woods ’s popularity led to a glut.  Standalone 18-hole golf properties in the U.S. sold for a
median price of $3 million through the third quarter of 2011,
which is about the threshold for a luxury apartment in
 Manhattan . That’s down from $4.5 million in 2006, according to
data from real-estate broker Marcus & Millichap.  “Lack of financing is really causing a discount to value
and investors are taking advantage,” Steven Ekovich, Florida-
based director of  Marcus & Millichap National Golf & Resort
Properties Group , said in a telephone interview. “Golf courses
may never be as cheap as they are today.”  Prices slumped after lenders including  General Electric Co. (GE) 
stopped financing courses and investors in commercial mortgage
backed securities retreated amid losses on deals made at the
height of the property bubble. The number of courses in the U.S.
has declined every year since 2006, according to the National
Golf Foundation. That follows two decades of expansion,
including a surge starting in the late-1990s fueled by
excitement about the emergence and dominance of Woods over the
sport.  “They built too many courses during the Tiger Boom and now
they’re closing and disappearing,” said Trump, who announced
last month he’s purchasing the Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami
for $150 million out of bankruptcy. The resort features five
courses on 800 acres, including the Blue Monster, and about 700
hotel rooms. “At some point enough will disappear that golf
will be a really good business.”  Tiger Wins Masters  There are about 16,000 golf courses in the U.S. and
approximately 1,100 of those opened since 2000, according to the
Jupiter, Florida-based National Golf Foundation.  The sport’s popularity soared after Woods won the 1997
 Masters Tournament  at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,
 Georgia . In 2000, when an unprecedented 400 courses were opened,
Woods captured the  U.S. Open  in  Pebble Beach ,  California , by a
record 15 strokes. When Woods, 36, is in contention to win a
tournament, television ratings typically surge by as much as 50
percent, according to Nielsen Co. figures.  The golfer hasn’t won a U.S. PGA Tour event since September
2009 as his career has been derailed by extramarital affairs and
injuries. He withdrew from the Cadillac Championship at the
Doral Golf Resort in Miami last weekend with a strained left
knee and Achilles.  Building Boom  The number of U.S. courses overall has declined by about
350 since 2006 with closures outpacing new development,
according to National Golf Foundation figures.  The building boom in the 1990s was fueled primarily by
increasing demand for golf, rising American affluence and
entrepreneurs that built thousands of high-end real estate and
premium public courses, Greg Nathan, a senior vice president for
the National Golf Foundation, said in an e-mailed statement.
Woods’s popularity and sporting success “has only marginal
validity,” as an explanation for the building surge, he said.  Peter Nanula, a former corporate lawyer and member of
private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC, has up to $50 million to
buy golf properties that he intends to revamp and sell within
five to seven years.  Nanula Bids  Nanula, the former chief executive officer of Arnold Palmer
Golf Management, started Concert Golf Partners in 2010. The
investment firm made its first course purchase in July when it
bought Heathrow Country Club’s golf course and racquet club for
$4.5 million. The Lake Mary, Florida club, located in Northern
Orlando, was previously sold in 1996 for $20 million, the
Orlando Sentinel reported, citing Seminole County court records.  “Mortgages are gone, so buyers are paying in cash and the
value of properties keeps getting lower and lower,” said
Nanula, who’s currently bidding on four properties.  Declining home values also are pushing the price of golf
courses lower as many are attached to housing developments where
homeowners are delinquent on their loans or in foreclosure,
Marcus & Millichap’s Ekovich said.  Homes values fell 4 percent in December from a year earlier
and are down 34 percent from a July 2006 peak, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities.  Toll Brothers, the largest U.S. luxury homebuilder, is
buying private  golf clubs  as an alternative until the
residential real estate market improves, according to David
Richey, president of Toll Golf, a division of the Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based company.  Toll plans to buy three golf properties in cash at
“distressed prices” between $3 million and $4 million by the
end of this year, Richey said.  The homebuilder rose 49 cents, or 2 percent, to $24.88 as
of 4:02 p.m. in  New York . It’s gained about 22 percent this year
and is at the highest level since October 2008.  Lending Dried Up  Lending to buy the properties has dried up after Textron
Inc.,  GE Capital  and Capmark Financial Group Inc., once “the
go-to financiers” for golf mortgages, pulled out of the
business, according to Don Rhodes, a former manager of Textron’s
golf credit business, and now head of investment at Florida-
based CNL Lifestyle Company LLC, a property group.  CMBS investors, who buy bonds backed by loans tied to
shopping centers, hotels and apartment buildings, are also
shunning debt linked to the sport, after suffering losses from
deals made before 2007.  Trump Buying Doral  Trump is buying the Doral Golf Resort & Spa out of
bankruptcy five years after  Morgan Stanley (MS)  acquired it as part
of the $6.7 billion purchase of CNL Hotels & Resorts Inc.  A $1 billion loan tied to the property was parceled inside
a commercial mortgage bond in 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A lender group including New York-based hedge fund
Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  seized control of the
CNL Hotel & Resort properties including the Doral from  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley last year before putting it into Chapter 11
bankruptcy.  Bundling loans on golf courses into CMBS isn’t “likely”
to be repeated because too many investors realized “huge
losses” and “don’t want to make that bet again,” according to
Chuck Elfsten, president and chief executive officer of
commercial real estate lender  Ocean Pacific Capital .  “Ninety percent of golf CMBS investors will not touch golf
courses with a 10 foot pole, maybe even with a 20 foot pole,”
Elfsten of  Irvine , California-based Ocean Pacific Capital, said
in a telephone interview.  Seller Financing  About 80 percent of golf course deals recorded last year
were paid for in cash or with private equity, according to
Ekovich of Marcus & Millichap. Course purchasing re-emerged in
the other 20 percent in special circumstances such as seller
financing and localized lending, Ekovich said.  Bobby Silva, vice president of business development at
Texas-based Escalante Golf, has acquired eight 18-hole golf
courses since 2008 and said he purchased one course through
seller financing. If sellers give that option, they usually
carry up to 75 percent of loan value with an  interest rate 
between five and seven percent, according to Silva.  “It’s not what you could get from a local institution but
it’s still pretty competitive,” Silva said in a telephone
interview.  Few lenders take this route because they don’t want to
finance their own foreclosed assets, Marcus & Millichap Golf &
Resort Properties wrote in a semi-annual report.  ‘Taken a Hit’  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  has taken back “a dozen or so golf
courses since 2008,” according to Ken Kasten, asset manager
within a bank unit that oversees some real estate. Some of them
have been sold while the others are managed and operated by
Wells Fargo, Kasten said. Whatever the case, the San Francisco-
based lender doesn’t offer any type of seller financing for
golf-course assets, according to Kasten.  “We’ve taken a hit on those properties once so we’re not
going to make that risk again,” Kasten said.  Last year, median gross revenue per course increased by 1.4
percent, according to PGA PerformanceTrak, a golf data
collection service, in cooperation with  National Golf Course
Owners Association .  Golf course investment is also expected to increase this
year, though it’s predicted to be a “cash heavy,” market until
financing returns on a national platform, according to Marcus &
Millichap.  Until then Trump, Nanula and other investors are seeking
out properties.  “I’m only able to do it because I can write a check,”
said Trump, the real-estate investor and reality TV star who
last year said he may run for President of the U.S.  “Banks aren’t so generous these days so if you can’t pay
with cash you might as well forget about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  