-- Rusoro Expects Venezuela Gold Takeover as Talks Fail
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-03-15T18:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/rusoro-expects-venezuela-gold-takeover-as-talks-fail.html
Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , the last
remaining publicly traded gold miner in Venezuela, expects its
gold assets in the South American country to be taken over after
a deadline to negotiate with the government lapsed, Chief
Executive Officer Andre Agapov said. The stock slid 12 percent.  Rusoro is preparing to seek international arbitration to
obtain compensation for the assets as the Venezuelan
government’s joint venture offers undervalue the company’s gold
resources, Agapov said today in a phone interview from  New York .  “As of today, all the assets will be nationalized and they
will take control of operations,” Agapov said.  Rusoro, based in  Vancouver , began talks to form a joint
venture with state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  and
transfer 55 percent of its gold assets to the government in
August after President  Hugo Chavez  nationalized the industry.
Rusoro would be the fifth mining company seeking compensation
from Venezuela through the  World Bank ’s arbitration court
following nationalizations.  The government made two verbal offers, including one
presented two days ago, to compensate Rusoro for a reduced
holding and didn’t put any value on its gold resources or
reserves, said Agapov. Yesterday was the negotiations deadline.  Rejected Offers  “In the past 180 days, we never saw an offer presented to
us in writing,” said Agapov. “There were several meetings and
several proposals from their side and none of them were
acceptable to Rusoro shareholders.”  Rusoro fell  12 percent to 11 Canadian cents in Toronto
trading as of 2:05 p.m. The stock has dropped 65 percent in the
last year.  Rusoro, which has gold reserves of 5.6 million ounces,
operates the Choco 10 mine and the Isidora mine in southeastern
 Venezuela , according to the company’s  website .  The company has the potential to produce a half million
ounces of gold a year in Venezuela, Agapov said.  Rusoro officials met with Venezuela’s Oil and Mining
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  shortly after the gold nationalization
law was passed and he promised to pay the company a fair value
so  capital markets  would see that the Venezuelan government was
willing to seek an adequate level of compensation, said Agapov.  Minister Meeting  “It was a very optimistic start, and then all the people
who started to work with us on the settlement were proposing
completely different things and much lower valuations,” he
said. “There was no way we could have accepted their numbers or
conditions.”  The company has until June 15 to file for arbitration with
the ICSID, as the Washington-based arbitration court is known,
said Agapov.  “If they would like to continue negotiations and reach an
acceptable deal, of course we are willing,” he said. “We have
90 days until we have to file for arbitration.”  President Chavez in January said that Venezuela wouldn’t
accept ICSID rulings. The agency is overseeing about 20 cases
filed since Venezuela in 2006 began nationalizing assets in
industries including oil, mining, cement and telecommunications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  