-- Russian Court Sentences Opposition Activist’s Husband to 5 Years
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-03-15T16:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/russian-court-sentences-opposition-activist-s-husband-to-5-years.html
A Moscow court sentenced a
businessman to five years in jail for money laundering and
fraud, provoking accusations of persecution by his wife, a
prominent opposition activist.  Alexei Kozlov, whose previous conviction for fraud was
overturned by the  Supreme Court  and sent for review, faces
almost another two years in prison, taking into account time
served, the state-run RIA Novosti and Rossiya 24 channel
reported.  His wife Olga Romanova, who has spoken out at protest
rallies over election fraud and heads an advocacy group,  Russia 
Behind Bars, that campaigns against wrongful imprisonment,
denounced the verdict on her Facebook Inc. page. She has said
her husband was targeted because of her activism. Other
campaigners warned of a crackdown against opponents of
President-elect Vladimir Putin.  Kozlov was found guilty in 2009 after a dispute with his
business partner, a former Russian senator. He was freed in
September after the Supreme Court struck down his conviction and
prosecutors opened a new case against him.  President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human rights council “isn’t
ruling out” conducting a review of the decision, the
commission’s head, Mikhail Fedotov, told reporters near the
Volga city of Samara, adding that today’s verdict isn’t
politically motivated.  ‘Rotten System’  “When this all started five years ago, it was just a
corrupt case about a raid to seize assets, and now it’s an
attempt by a rotten system to preserve its face and defend
itself,” Romanova said in a March 11 interview with Dozhd
television channel.  The same Moscow district court that sentenced Kozlov also
today jailed an opposition activist, Sergei Udaltsov, to 10 days
in prison for taking part in an unsanctioned protest in Moscow
on March 10.  Moscow police earlier this week summoned Russian opposition
leader and anti-corruption blogger Alexei Navalny for
questioning. The authorities may try to bring charges of
extremism against Navalny, his lawyer Vadim Kobzyov told Ekho
Moskvy radio.  “We are now witnesses to the fact that the regime is
showing that it has no intention of compromise,” Lev
Ponomaryov, a human rights activist, told the state news service
RIA Novosti.  Mass protests against alleged electoral fraud brought tens
of thousands of people onto the streets in Moscow and other
cities starting in December, sparking the largest unrest in
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s decade in power. While the
demonstrations showed signs of cooling, with 10,000 to 25,000
people taking part in a March 10 rally in Moscow, opposition
leaders are vowing to keep up protests after Putin’s disputed
election to a new Kremlin term on March 4.  One in Six Jailed  A common practice in Russia is raiderstvo, or raiding, in
which state officials prosecute businessmen to seize their
companies, according to Yana Yakovleva, head of Business
Solidarity, a Moscow lobbying group. She estimates that more
than 100,000 businesspeople are in Russian jails, and one in six
entrepreneurs have faced criminal proceedings.  The editor-in-chief of opposition newspaper,  Novaya Gazeta ,
Dmitry Muratov, wrote an open letter to Medvedev asking him to
intervene and warning that Kozlov would be in danger of his life
in prison.  “Alexei Kozlov’s case has become one of the main proofs of
the complete collapse -- professionally and morally -- of the
Russian judicial system,” Muratov said in an editorial.
Medvedev’s spokeswoman, Natalya Timakova, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  