-- Marcus Says South Africa Inflation Becoming More Generalized
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-16T11:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/s-africa-price-pressure-may-be-more-generalized-marcus-says.html
South African Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said it’s possible that inflation is becoming “more
generalized” with demand in the economy picking up, indicating
policy makers may be preparing to raise  interest rates .  The bank will monitor this “very carefully,” Marcus said
in a speech in Johannesburg yesterday, according to a copy
posted on the bank’s website. At the same time, Marcus lowered
the central bank’s forecast for inflation, expecting that it
will return to the 3 percent to 6 percent target band by the end
of this year.  Marcus’s comments are the first to suggest price pressures
in  Africa ’s biggest economy may be spreading since the bank kept
the benchmark interest rate on hold for 16 months.  Inflation (SACPIYOY) 
accelerated to a two-year high of 6.3 percent in January,
staying outside the target band for a third consecutive month.  “This is hawkish,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. This is “probably as sure a sign
as we’re going to get, provided there is no big euro-area
crisis, that the Reserve Bank will tighten interest rates this
year.”  Market Reaction  Until yesterday, policy makers have been saying that
inflation pressures are being driven by exogenous shocks, such
as oil prices. The central bank’s chief economist, Monde Mnyande, said on March 1 that  core inflation , which excludes
food and energy costs, is benign.  “The most recent data seem to suggest that inflation is
becoming more generalized, and may reflect the emergence of
demand pressures,” Marcus said.  Investors increased bets the  Reserve Bank  will raise rates
by the end of the year after Marcus’s comments. The yield on the
forward-rate agreement due in nine months gained 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 6.06 percent today, the
highest since August.  The rand rose 0.1 percent to 7.6318 per dollar at 12:34
p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the benchmark rand bond due
in 2015 rose 2 basis point, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.85
percent.  Europe Recession  Marcus’s comments “are why bond yields are a bit higher,
and why we’re seeing some movement in the forward rate
agreements,” Ian Cruickshanks, head  of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said in a
phone interview.  The central bank has kept its key rate at 5.5 percent since
November 2010, the lowest in more than 30 years, to blunt the
effect of a European recession on the domestic economy. The
Monetary Policy Committee will make its next rate decision on
March 29.  Rising  oil prices  pose an “upside” risk to inflation,
while higher administered costs are still a concern, Marcus
said. The Monetary Policy Committee had forecast on Jan. 19
inflation would remain outside the target band for the rest of
this year.  “We recognize that keeping inflation under control must be
done with due regard to the possible impact on employment and
growth,” Marcus  said . “At the same time, maintaining  price
stability  remains central to our mandate.”  Africa’s largest  economy  will probably expand 2.8 percent
this year, down from 3.1 percent in 2011, according to the
central bank. The jobless rate of 23.9 percent is the highest of
61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  Retail sales, the fastest growing sector of the economy,
expanded 3.9 percent in January, the slowest pace in six months,
the statistics office said on March 14.  The concern about demand-led inflation pressures “strikes
me as rather odd,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at
Nomura Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note to clients. “I
can’t see how she can think about hiking with inflation coming
down into target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  