-- S.Africa Bonds Riskier to Investec Than Russia on Deficit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-16T08:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/s-africa-bonds-riskier-to-investec-than-russia-on-deficit.html
South African debt is losing favor
with  Investec (INL)  Asset Management, the nation’s biggest independent
money manager, to Russian local-currency bonds because of
concerns the  budget deficit  will grow.  South African local-currency bonds have returned 6.4
percent this year for dollar-based investors, less than the 10
percent gain for ruble debt, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. Cape Town-based Investec’s global funds are neutral
South African bonds and overweight  Russia ,  India  and  Indonesia ,
said Andre Roux, head of fixed-income investments. The company’s
local fund is neutral on South African debt.  “We are cautious on South African bonds,” Malcolm Charles, who manages Investec’s 30 billion rand ($3.9 billion)
South Africa bond fund, said in an interview in Cape Town
yesterday. “We’ve seen the high and low for the year. I’d be
very surprised if they trade out of those ranges.”  South Africa ’s budget gap, which the government estimates
at 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in fiscal 2011, is
holding back international investors, Roux said. While the
government has pledged to reduce the gap to 4.6 percent of GDP
in the 2012 fiscal year and 4 percent the year after, economists
predict the deficit will reach 5.2 percent this year and shrink
to 5.05 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Services lowered its outlook on South
Africa’s A3 long-term foreign-currency and local-currency debt
ratings, the fourth-lowest investment-grade level, to negative
from stable in November. Fitch Ratings lowered its outlook on
South Africa’s BBB+ rating to negative from stable in January.  ‘Lightened Up’  The government’s pledge on Feb. 22 to reduce the gap
mitigates the risks, Moody’s said the next week, without
changing its outlook.  “The rating agencies have pointed to the negative outlook
for South Africa’s debt, and they were probably right,” Roux
said. “Foreign investors have lightened up on South African
debt, from overweight to neutral.”  Data from  JSE Ltd. (JSE) , the company that runs the Johannesburg
stock exchange, show foreign investors have been net  buyers  of
18.7 billion rand of South African bonds this year, the most in
a comparable period since 2007. On a relative basis, global fund
holdings of South African debt have declined, Roux said.  The yield of South Africa’s benchmark 6.75 percent bonds
due 2021 rose 1 basis point to 7.97 percent as of 9:34 a.m. in
Johannesburg. The yield on Russian 7.6 percent notes due 2021
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.74
percent.  ‘Completely Compelling’  Emerging-market local-currency debt has returned 5 percent
this year for dollar investors, according to the JPMorgan
Emerging Local Markets  index , compared with a 1.7 percent loss
for U.S. government notes. Demand for developing-nation debt
rose after the  European Central Bank  injected more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) into the region’s banking system in
December and February, providing liquidity for investment in
riskier assets.  “The long-term case for investment in emerging-market debt
is completely compelling,” Roux said. “Compared to developed
economies, they offer more sustainable fiscal positions, the
prospect of long-term currency appreciation, and the yields are
still attractive.”  Demand for local-currency emerging-market debt is set to
grow as money managers in Western Europe, the U.S. and U.K.
shift funds from foreign-currency bonds into domestic notes,
Roux said.  “We like the Russian ruble, the Indian rupee and the
Indonesian rupiah,” he said. “The Turkish lira also still
attractive. We are neutral on the rand.”  Beating Most Rivals  Investec’s London-based emerging-market local-currency  fund 
has returned 7.3 percent this year, beating 75 percent of
similar funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund
is 87 percent invested in  government bonds , with  Brazil ,  Turkey 
and the Czech Republic the biggest holdings.  Investec’s South African bond fund is overweight corporate
debt and government bonds with a maturity of eight years or
less, Charles said. Investec Asset Management is a unit of
Johannesburg-based Investec, which operates investment and
private banks, brokerages and trade finance services in the
U.K., South Africa and  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  