-- Saab CEO Says Chance of Brazil Jet Order Boosted by Switzerland
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-03-15T13:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/saab-ceo-says-chance-of-brazil-jet-order-boosted-by-switzerland.html
Saab AB (SAABB)  has a better shot at
winning Brazil’s pending order of 36 jet fighters after
Switzerland tentatively selected the Swedish company’s Gripen
plane last year, Chief Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe said.  Switzerland’s nod to Saab in November “strengthens our
chances” in Brazil, Buskhe said today in an interview in
Stockholm. “We have a good chance and we’re realistically
optimistic. We have a very strong offer, but in the end this is
a political decision.”  Brazil told Saab the country aims to make a decision during
2012 and probably by mid-year, Buskhe said. South America’s
biggest economy is choosing among the Gripen,  Dassault Aviation
SA (AM) ’s Rafale fighter, and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F/A-18 Super Hornet.  Saab edged out the Rafale and the Eurofighter, partly built
by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , to modernize the Swiss fighter-jet fleet in
a victory for the Swedish manufacturer that had struggled to
secure more export orders for its marquee plane. Switzerland,
which seeks to replace its ageing Northrop F-5 Tigers with 22
new jets, has yet to make a final decision. The political
process, which may include a national referendum, will probably
slip into next year, Buskhe said.  “It’s not done until it’s done, but what’s positive is
that their desire is very strong,” Buskhe said.  India Prospects  Countries beyond Sweden that operate the Gripen are  South
Africa , Thailand, Hungary and the Czech Republic.  The manufacturer, based in Linkoeping, hasn’t given up on
selling Gripens to  India , which tentatively opted to buy 126
Rafales.  “Some people there have reservations, and the decision-
making process is far from complete,” Buskhe said, adding that
Saab is “not campaigning hard.” “It could for example turn
out that we sell parts of technologies,” he said.  Dassault is confident that an accord to supply the Rafale
to India will cross all hurdles as the French company
intensifies negotiations to clinch the first-ever export deal
for the combat plane, Chief Executive Officer Charles Edelstenne
said in an interview last week.  Saab is also pursuing campaigns in Denmark and the
Netherlands, both of which may decide over the next couple years
to replace their ageing F-16s, Buskhe said. Saab’s chances may
be limited as both countries are “very tied” to  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s Joint Strike Fighter program, the executive said.  Buskhe reaffirmed Saab’s forecast that its 2012 sales will
rise “slightly.” Defense spending is being reduced in the U.S.
and  Europe , while it’s gaining in Asia, making it steady on a
global level, he said. Asian growth is mainly driven by Russia
and  China , where Saab is not present, he said.  “There’s been no big change in Europe for some months, but
I feel that it’s starting to bottom out,” Buskhe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  