-- Salesforce Challenges Oracle With New Human-Resource Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-15T22:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/salesforce-unveils-human-resources-software-amid-oracle-contest.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  introduced new
software for human-resources management, stepping up a challenge
to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  in the market for applications that
help businesses run their operations.  The new product, called Rypple, will work in conjunction
with Salesforce’s customer relationship management software and
the Chatter social network for companies, Salesforce said today
at its Cloudforce conference in  San Francisco . Managers will be
able to recognize employees who do standout work using Rypple
features from within those applications, the company said.  Salesforce, the largest maker of online customer-management
software, specializes in programs delivered in installments over
the Internet, in contrast with the kinds of upfront purchases
that have been a mainstay for Oracle and SAP. Rypple, acquired
in December from a company with the same name, will serve as an
alternative to the applications SAP picked up through the $3.4
billion acquisition of  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  and those Oracle
gained in 2005 when it bought PeopleSoft Inc.  “We need to bring the solutions into the workflow people
use in everyday life,” John Wookey, who formerly worked at
Oracle and SAP and was hired by Salesforce in November, said in
an interview. Salesforce also released software called Site.com
to help marketing departments build Web campaigns.  Business Gets Social  “I came on board with a simple mission -- to bring social
media to the way companies operate,” Wookey said. “Part of
this is generational shifts that are happening in the
workplace.”  Wookey spent a dozen years at Oracle and led development of
the company’s new Fusion applications, which compete with
Salesforce’s software. He then worked at SAP from 2008 until
last year.  Salesforce espouses an approach called “software as a
service” that lets customers rent business applications instead
of installing them on their own servers. That means companies
that want to arm employees with new software don’t have to worry
about buying the underlying hardware, databases and application-
connecting middleware. Nor do they have to hire a phalanx of
consultants to make programs work together.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff , speaking at today’s
Cloudforce  conference , said the San Francisco-based company
would release additional HR products next year.  “It’s a big investment area for us,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  