-- Saudi Billionaire’s Gold Find May Double Ethiopian Production
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-03-15T09:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/saudi-billionaire-s-gold-find-may-double-ethiopian-production.html
National Mining Corp., a closely
held company owned by Saudi billionaire Mohammed al-Amoudi, said
it found gold deposits in southern  Ethiopia  that may produce at
least 10 metric tons a year, almost doubling national output.  Exploration conducted over 15 years shows the Okote site in
Ethiopia’s Oromia region has more than 550 tons of gold, of
which 73 tons may be ready for extraction within 24 months,
Chief Executive Officer Melaku Beza in an interview on March 12
in Addis Ababa, the capital. The company plans to invest $150
million in the initial phase of production, he said.  “This area has huge potential,” he said. “The revenue will
be about $4 billion in 20 years’ time” from the 73 tons and the
government will receive $1 billion from tax and royalty payments
over that period.  Ethiopia, the world’s  third-biggest coffee grower , is
diversifying its economy to reduce its reliance on agriculture,
which accounts for 43 percent of the gross domestic product,
according to African Development Bank data. Gold exports surged
75 percent to 11 tons in the fiscal year through July 7, 2011,
generating $485.3 million. Earnings totalled $258.8 million in
the first half of the current fiscal year from $179.2 million a
year earlier, according to Trade Ministry data.  “I think mining development in Ethiopia will be the future
hope of the country for foreign-currency income,” Melaku said.
Last year, coffee shipments earned the country about one-third
of its total foreign-exchange revenue of $2.8 billion.  Gold Survey  Surveys conducted by  South Africa ’s Venmyn Rand Ltd. have
shown deposits of 113 tons of gold in the southern part of
Okote, which is about 600 kilometers (373 miles) south of  Addis
Ababa , Melaku said. The area may contain more than 425 tons,
Melaku said.  Ethiopia’s only commercial producer of the precious metal
is Midroc Gold, another company owned by al-Amoudi that was
formed out of NMC to develop the Legedembi deposit. That mine,
which is about 100 kilometers north of Okote, produces about 4
tons of gold a year, said Melaku.  At peak production, Okote may employ 5,000 workers and earn
the company more than $500 million a year from 10 tons of the
metal, he said.  NMC, which is based in the capital, was formed in 1993 when
al-Amoudi bought the state-owned Ethio-Libyan Joint Mining Co.
The sale was the first of a state-owned company to private
investors by Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s two-decade old
government, according to Melaku.  The state owns 5 percent of all gold operations, levies an
income tax of 35 percent and collects royalties of 8 percent,
according to Melaku.  Australia ’s  Nyota Minerals Ltd. (NYO)  and
Vancouver-based  Tigray Resources Inc. (TIG)  both have discovered gold
deposits in the Horn of Africa nation. NMC also has found 18
tons of gold in the northern Tigray region, said Melaku.  Ethiopian-born Al-Amoudi is the world’s 61st richest man
and is worth $12.5 billion, according to Forbes magazine. His
Ethiopian investments include cement, hotel, soft drink and
agriculture companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 