-- Scene in D.C.: Norquist, Mabus, Raytheon’s Culligan
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-15T19:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/scene-in-d-c-norquist-mabus-raytheon-s-culligan.html
At the cozy Ford’s Theatre last
night,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s senior vice president of business
development, Thomas Culligan, and U.S. Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus took in “1776,” the rollicking musical about the
American Revolution.  The show opened on the same night British Prime Minister
David Cameron was the guest of honor at a state dinner at 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue.  “We need to declare our independence,” said Tony Podesta,
founder and chairman of the Podesta Group. “This is much more
fun than a state dinner.”  The production also brought out Jonathan Jarvis, director
of the U.S. National Park Service, who was just the person to
announce that cherry blossoms were about to bloom in the Tidal
Basin. Also present: David Leiter, president of ML Strategies,
and Tamera Luzzatto, former chief of staff to  Hillary Clinton 
when she was a senator.  The evening had many guests reflecting on American history.  “There’s only one country in the world that we fought a
war not to be a part of,” said  Grover Norquist , president of
Americans for  Tax Reform . “If we were in the Balkans this would
be considered recent history. We don’t do that. We barely
remember World War II.”  U.S. Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat, rattled off
some of his favorite American historians during intermission.
The list included Doris Kearns Goodwin and David McCullough.  Boston as Cradle  The after-party with the cast took place at Old Ebbitt
Grill. Presiding at a table in the corner, Culligan of Raytheon
said his company had decided to sponsor the “1776” production
in part because its headquarters are in  Boston , one of the
cradles of the American rebellion.  Among the other sponsors are  Visa Inc. (V)  (represented last
night by Lisa Nelson, head of global government relations),  The
Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  American Airlines Inc. (ANR1)   As for the statecraft of the prime minister’s visit:  Mabus, a Mississippi native, said he was happy President
Barack Obama had taken Cameron to an NCAA basketball game
featuring Mississippi Valley State. (The team lost to Western
Kentucky, 59-58.)  Meanwhile, the music world was pleased to note that Deborah Borda, the powerful president of the Los Angeles Philharmonic
Association, had attended the White House State Dinner dressed
in a Carolina Herrera gown, and in the company of David C.
Bohnett, the orchestra’s chairman. Others in attendance included
 Anna Wintour  and George Clooney.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 