-- Schools to Choose on Serving ‘Pink Slime’ in Cafeterias
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-15T18:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/schools-to-choose-whether-to-serve-pink-slime-in-cafeterias.html
Schools will be able to order
ground beef without “pink slime” following public pressure to
remove the product made from beef trim from lunches.  Schools will have the choice of ground beef made without
the pink slime, also known as lean finely textured beef,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The product is
made of beef trim and treated with ammonium hydroxide to kill
pathogens.  “USDA continues to affirm the safety of lean finely
textured beef product for all consumers and urges customers to
consult science-based information on the safety and quality of
this product,” the agency said today in a  statement .  The decision was made in response to requests from
districts across the country and takes effect next school year,
according to the agency’s statement.  About 6 percent, or 7 million pounds, of the beef purchased
this year by the USDA for the lunch program is the textured
product, which is sold by Beef Products Inc., a Dakota Dunes,
South Dakota-based manufacturer. More than 220,000 people signed
an online petition calling on the agency to stop using pink
slime in the federal school lunch program, which the agency
administers.  While the agriculture department and the  Food and Drug
Administration  say the product is safe, critics object because
they say it is unappetizing, made of inferior parts and may
harbor pathogens like E. coli.  ‘Awe Inspiring’  The USDA’s decision is “awe inspiring,” Bettina Elias
Siegel, of Houston, and the initiator of the petition, wrote on
her blog  The Lunch Tray .  Still, the substance is in much of the ground beef sold in
the U.S. and should be labeled, she said.  There should be full disclosure of the beef trim product on
labels so consumers can make informed decisions, Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from  Ohio , said today in a statement prior to
the department’s announcement. He sent a letter to the USDA
requesting details on  food-safety  procedures for pink slime.  Several fast-food restaurant chains have stopped using the
product, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, Burger King Holdings Inc. and Yum! Brands
Inc.’s Taco Bell. McDonald’s dropped the ingredient to be
“consistent with our global beef supply chain,” according to a
statement from the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company.  There is no concern about food safety related to the
product, Dirk Fillpot, a spokesman for the USDA, said last week
in an e-mail.  Safety Standards  “All USDA ground beef purchases must meet the highest
standards for food safety,” he said. “USDA has strengthened
ground beef food safety standards in recent years and only
allows products into commerce that we have confidence are
safe.”  The substance is made from trimmings, which are smaller
pieces of fat that contain bits of beef, according to the
 American Meat Institute , a trade group representing meatpackers
including Tyson Foods Inc. and JBS Swift & Co. The trimmings are
heated and spun to separate out the meat, much like cream out of
milk. Ammonia and water is used in processing to control harmful
bacteria by raising PH levels, according to the group. Another
variation uses citric acid and is made by Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc., the second-largest manufacturer.  ‘Media Sensationalists’  “As parents and consumers continue to make important
decisions about the food they and their children eat, we hope
that they listen to credible sources outside media
sensationalists and take note of the overwhelming support from
the government and scientific community” for the product, Eldon Roth, founder of Beef Products Inc., said in a statement.  The lean beef produced from trim is used in hamburger,
sausage, ground beef and is treated with a process also used in
other foods, such as cheeses and chocolates, according to a
March 8 statement from the company.  “The rhetoric has now reached a near hysterical and fever
pitch, even though we’re talking about something that is 100
percent beef, 90-95 percent lean, that has been produced and
consumed for nearly 20 years without concern or consequences,”
 Michael Martin , a spokesman for Cargill, said in an e-mail.  The process used to make the product is USDA-approved and
conducted at agency-inspected facilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  