-- SEC Sues California Executives Over Stock-Lending Fraud Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-15T19:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/sec-sues-california-executives-over-stock-lending-fraud-claims.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued Argyll Investments LLC and two of its executives
over claims they defrauded officers and directors at public
companies in an $8 million stock-lending scheme.  James T. Miceli and Douglas A. McClain Jr. acquired stock
from at least nine corporate officers since 2009 at a discount
as collateral for loans, saying the shares would only be sold if
they defaulted, the SEC said in a statement today. Instead, they
sold shares for full market value to fund the loans and used the
proceeds for their own personal benefit, the SEC said.  The SEC also accused brokerage AmeriFund Capital Finance
LLC and its owner, Jeffrey Spanier, of violating securities laws
by facilitating several transactions for California-based Argyll
without being registered as a broker-dealer.  “Miceli and McClain thought they had devised a foolproof
way to make substantial risk-free profits, but their purported
business model was nothing more than an illegal get-rich-quick
scheme,”  Scott Friestad , an associate director in the SEC’s
enforcement division, said in a statement.  Pat Swan, an attorney for McClain at law firm  Jones Day ,
declined immediate comment, saying he hasn’t yet reviewed the
complaint. Phone calls to Michael Attanasio, an attorney for
Miceli, and  Mark Perry , who represents Spanier and AmeriFund
Capital, weren’t immediately returned.  According to the SEC, Miceli and McClain promised the
borrowers they would return the shares when the loans were
repaid. Rather than retaining the shares as required, they sold
them without the borrowers’ knowledge before or soon after
funding the loans, the SEC said.  Because Argyll typically loaned the borrowers 30 percent to
50 percent less than the current market value of the shares, the
company retained substantial proceeds even after funding the
loans, the SEC said. As a result, Argyll reaped more than $8
million in unlawful gains, according to the agency.  The SEC also accused Miceli, McClain and Argyll of selling
the collateral shares, which were restricted securities, into
the public markets in unregistered transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  