-- SEC-Citigroup Trial Delayed as Appeals Court Reviews Accord
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-16T15:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/sec-s-citigroup-trial-is-delayed-by-federal-appeals-court.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  won a delay in the trial of a
lawsuit the agency brought against the bank while an appeals
court considers a judge’s refusal to approve their $285 million
settlement.  “The SEC and Citigroup have made a strong showing of
likelihood of success in setting aside the district court’s
rejection of their settlement,” the U.S. Court of Appeal in
 Manhattan  wrote yesterday.  In November, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff declined to
approve the accord resolving claims that New York-based
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, misled investors in a
$1 billion financial product linked to risky mortgages. He
ordered them to go to trial, which was scheduled for July 16.  In his decision, Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of
settling without requiring the subject of the allegations to
admit wrongdoing, and said the proposed pact was “neither fair,
nor reasonable, nor adequate, nor in the public interest.” The
agreement didn’t provide him with “any proven or admitted
facts” to inform his judgment, he said.  A clerk for Rakoff said the judge is prohibited by law from
commenting on pending cases. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
Citigroup spokeswoman, said the company was pleased with the
appeals court’s ruling.  ‘Preserves Resources’  “We agree to settlements when the terms reflect what we
reasonably believe we could obtain if we prevailed at trial,
without the risk of delay and uncertainty that comes with
litigation,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement yesterday. “This settlement
approach preserves resources that we can use to stop other
frauds and protect other victims.”  In December, the appeals court halted the lower-court
proceedings until it made the ruling it did yesterday.  The appeals court said yesterday that while it found
likelihood of success on the appeal for the purposes of halting
the lower-court proceedings, that didn’t mean the panel that
hears the merits of the case will do so.  “We continue to believe Judge Rakoff got it right in
rejecting this settlement and are confident that the circuit
court, when it hears the case on the merits, will conclude that
the SEC and settling parties must present significantly more
information to evaluate a proposed settlement,” Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of Washington-based Better
Markets, which seeks to improve financial-market transparency,
said in an e-mail.  Policy Decisions  The three-judge panel said the case raises questions about
responsibilities allocated between the federal government’s
executive and judicial branches and the deference a judge must
give to an agency’s policy decisions.  Rakoff’s complaint that the bank didn’t admit liability
“prejudges the fact that Citigroup had in fact misled
investors” and assumes the SEC would prove that at a trial, the
court wrote.  “We know of no precedent that supports the proposition
that a settlement will not be found to be fair, adequate,
reasonable, or in the public interest unless liability has been
conceded or proved,” it said.  Many factors come into deciding whether to go to trial,
including the likelihood of getting a better deal in a
settlement and the expense of a trial, the court said.  ‘No Basis’  “Based on our preliminary review, and noting that the
settlement called for payment by Citigroup of $285 million,
which would be available for compensation of investors who lost
money, we see no basis to doubt that the SEC’s decision was made
in consideration of all those factors,” it wrote.  The court said Rakoff found both that the settlement amount
was “pocket change” and that it was unfair to Citigroup
because it imposed “substantial relief on the basis of mere
allegations.”  The appeals court said Rakoff had a “substantial
evidentiary record amassed by the SEC over its lengthy
investigation” on which to base his decision.  The appeals court said that because the two parties agree
the settlement should be approved, the adversary is essentially
Rakoff.  At Rakoff’s suggestion, the panel named John R. Wing to
argue the judge's position before the appeals court, according to a
filing. Wing previously represented  Peter Madoff , the brother of
convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff .  Former Prosecutor  Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and civil litigator,
has previously criticized the SEC’s practice of allowing
financial institutions to settle enforcement actions without
admitting or denying the agency’s allegations. In 2009, he
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp.  Rakoff “reluctantly” approved a $150 million
accord in that case in February 2010.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (New York). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  New York  at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  