-- Securitization Risk Rising as Standards Ease, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-03-15T21:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/securitization-risk-rising-as-standards-ease-moody-s-says-1-.html
The riskiness of new securities
backed by assets from  car loans  to commercial mortgages is
rising from the lows seen after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
2008 collapse, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Easing underwriting standards and “untested” issuers and
assets are contributing to the trend, along with structural
features of transactions that can boost risk, the New York-based
ratings firm said today in a report. Greater dangers are likely
to follow, analysts Claire Robinson and Joseph Snailer wrote.  Shoddy securitizations helped fuel a lending bubble last
decade that sparked the worst U.S.  housing slump  and global
financial crisis since the 1930s. Moody’s and competitor
 Standard & Poor’s  drew criticism after awarding top grades to
risky mortgage debt that later experienced record defaults, with
the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission created by lawmakers
calling them “key enablers of the financial meltdown.”  The riskiness of new securitizations “is still low and has
not approached the level it reached in the early to mid-2000s,
much less” 2006 and 2007, the analysts wrote. “However, some
recent cases have come to market for which we believe increased
risk has not been adequately mitigated for the level of ratings
assigned by another agency,” they said.  ‘Inappropriate’  Moody’s described as “inappropriate” the rankings granted
by S&P and DBRS Inc. to a recent subprime auto-debt
securitization by a lender  bought  last year by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , according to the report. S&P rated the bonds AA, noting the
lender’s relatively short track record as a potential risk
factor in a report. DBRS offered its top AAA grade.  The lender, Exeter Finance Corp., “is small and unrated,
with limited experience and little asset-performance history,”
the Moody’s analysts wrote. That creates the “potential for
volatility in asset performance,” they said.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said, “The market benefits
from a diversity of opinions on credit risk.”  Meredith Fletcher, a spokeswoman for Exeter, and Catherine
Chiarot, a spokeswoman for DBRS, declined to comment.  Risk in securitization markets is rising after “tightened
lending criteria contributed to a dramatic improvement in the
performance of securitized assets in many sectors” as new deals
followed the credit crisis, Moody’s said.  Credit-Card Delinquencies  Credit-card delinquencies, for instance, reached an all-
time low 2.9 percent in December, the firm said. In commercial-
mortgage bonds, the size of loans to estimated property values
last year rose to about “mid-90” percent, from “the mid-80s”
early in 2010, still down from a peak of more than 110 percent
before the crisis, according to the report.  “A sign that asset credit quality will continue to loosen
in the subprime auto and mortgage sectors is the influx of non-
traditional private capital into mostly subprime consumer
lenders that will tap the securitization market,” Moody’s said.  The firm cited investments in car and mortgage lenders by
arms of companies including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
 Perella Weinberg  Partners LP and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Kara Findlay, a spokeswoman for Perella Weinberg, declined
to comment. Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, and  Brian Beades , a spokesman for BlackRock, didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  Market Share  Ratings firms have stepped up their criticism of rivals’
grades after the financial crisis, while lenders including Lewis Ranieri’s Shellpoint Partners LLC say the rankers are being too
conservative, crimping credit and harming the U.S. recovery.  S&P said that it saw risks in “jumbo” home-loan bonds
given top grades in 2010 by Moody’s.  Fitch Ratings  criticized a
mortgage-servicing deal ranked by S&P and DBRS last year.  While Moody’s has refused to rate certain deals, it’s been
gaining structured-finance business at the expense of S&P. Last
year, Moody’s share of the market was greater for the first time
since 1997, according to newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert . Moody’s
rated 70 percent of securitizations, while S&P graded 62
percent.  “Increased risk in securitizations in and of itself is not
troubling,” Moody’s said in the report. “In many instances,
credit enhancement or other structural mechanisms can
counterbalance increased risks and support the high credit
ratings securitization sponsors desire.”  Prefunding  Credit enhancement refers to investor protection such as
some bonds tied to pools of loans being paid before others, or
reserve accounts with extra cash.  Structural features that are boosting risk include the
return of prefunding in the subprime auto-bond market, in which
issuers raise cash from bond investors and later buy the assets
that will serve as collateral, Moody’s said.  Some of the loosening of underwriting hasn’t yet reached
the securitization market, as U.S. home lenders begin to again
accept non-prime borrowers, loans to foreigners and alternative
forms of income documentation, Moody’s said.  Credit-card companies are also relaxing underwriting
standards, with mailings soliciting new customers doubling last
year from 2010, Moody’s said. These “lower-quality” accounts
have not affected asset-backed deals because they haven’t been
securitized, though they may be in the future, the firm said.  Issuers including Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Citigroup Inc., American Express Co. and Discover Financial
Services were forced to take steps including removing poorly
performing accounts from pools to thwart ratings cuts and
strengthen credit-card bonds as delinquencies surged in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  