-- Senate’s Highway Bill May Create Some Jobs, Kill Others
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-15T16:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/senate-s-highway-bill-promises-to-create-some-jobs-kill-others.html
For a day at least,  Washington 
lawmakers of both political parties worked together and passed a
bill business groups said is vital to the  U.S. economy .  Yet the Senate’s 74-22 bipartisan vote to approve a $109
billion surface transportation plan belied the difficulties
ahead as a more divided House takes over the debate with 16 days
left until the current highway law expires.  “Our nation’s neglected transportation system has created
bottlenecks and inefficiencies that are getting worse every
day,” said  David French , the  National Retail Federation ’s
senior vice president for government relations. “As bad as
things are, they will only get worse if Congress misses the
deadline we face.”  Spokesmen for construction trade groups and companies
including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest construction and mining
equipment maker, said they will be pressing the House to act by
March 31. The federal government’s authorization to pay for
highway construction and collect an 18.4 cent per gallon gas tax
to pay for it will expire on that date.  “We believe that investing in our nation’s infrastructure
will help keep America competitive in the global economy over
the long run and will help drive employment in the near term,
both of which are positive,” said  Jim Dugan , a Caterpillar
spokesman.  ‘Crumbling of America’  When House leaders tried to bring a different bill to the
floor last month, majority Republicans were so divided over how
to pay for projects and whether mass transit should keep getting
money from U.S. gasoline taxes that it wasn’t taken to a vote.  Members of Congress haven’t effectively made the case that
transportation spending is good for the economy, said former
Representative James Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat, who was
chairman of the House transportation committee from 2007 through
2010.  In a study by a Minnesota group backing a state gas tax,
General Mills Inc. reported that for its truck fleet, every mile
per hour traveled below the speed limit because of congestion or
road work costs the company $2 million in late delivery charges,
driver overtime and maintenance.  “What is at stake for the economy is goods move more
slowly,” Oberstar said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington bureau today. “People spend more time in traffic
than they do at their destination point.”  Investment Impact  Officials in state capitals yesterday were assessing a
last-minute change in the Senate bill that could hamper efforts
to use private financing to build more roads in their states.
That part of the measure was “a vote for the crumbling of
America,”  Indiana  Governor  Mitch Daniels  said in a statement.  “It elevates a big-government ideology over a practical
need to build our roads, bridges and other infrastructure,”
Daniels said. “It is a backward and senseless proposal, and
we’ll urge the House to put it directly in the wastebasket of
bad ideas.”  A provision written by Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico
Democrat, discourages states from leasing roads to private
operators, combining with other parts of the bill that limit tax
breaks for companies such as  Macquarie Infrastructure Co. (MIC)  that
operate highways for states.  Indiana in 2006 leased its turnpike for 75 years to
Macquarie and Cintra, a unit of Madrid-based  Ferrovial SA (FER) , in
the largest U.S. public-private road lease deal to date.  Chilling Effect  Virginia Transportation Secretary Sean Connaughton called
the provision a “job killer” that runs against current U.S.
law and exposes states to delay, uncertainty and potential
litigation.  “Due to the economy, we are getting a lot of projects
moving due to the lower prices,” Connaughton said. “The Senate
action will stop cold those projects and their associated
jobs.”  Paula Chirhart, a spokeswoman for  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
declined to comment.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobbying
group in Washington, worked to get a highway bill passed while
trying to defeat the Bingaman proposal.  The measure will have an “unnecessary chilling effect” on
private investment that will disproportionately harm high-growth
states like  Nevada ,  North Carolina  and  Texas , Alex Herrgott, the
chamber’s director of transportation and infrastructure, wrote
in a March 12 note to Senate offices.  “The enormity of infrastructure needs allow that there
will be room for any and all legitimate funding sources,” said
Paul Yarossi, president of Kansas City-based HNTB Holdings Ltd.
“New and innovative ways to deliver transportation systems can
coexist with the traditional methods of delivery.”  Private Activity Bonds  Other language in the Senate bill will remove a tax break
for private activity bonds. That may restrict their use to only
new construction, said Daniel Matthews, co-chair of Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LP’s energy and infrastructure group in
 New York .  “The intent is to prohibit private activity bonds from
being used on an existing highway system,” Matthews said.  ‘Easy to Demagogue’  At the Capitol yesterday, Democrats and Republicans in the
Senate celebrated a moment of bipartisanship. Senator  Barbara Boxer , the California Democrat who championed the bill, said it
would preserve 1.8 million jobs and create another 1 million.  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, said
conservatives should be big spenders in only two areas:
transportation and national defense.  “This is the kind of bill that’s easy to demagogue,”
Inhofe said of Republican colleagues criticizing the
legislation’s price tag. “But it will go down as one of the
most significant pieces of legislation this year.”  The White House budget released in February proposed $476
billion over six years on surface transportation, with an
immediate $50 billion this year.  “Maintaining a world-class infrastructure system is
critical to creating an economy built to last,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a statement yesterday. The Senate
bill “keeps Americans at work maintaining our nation’s vital
infrastructure and provides states and localities the certainty
they need to plan ahead.”  The most recent comprehensive surface-transportation bill,
passed in 2005, allocated about $286 billion over six years.
Highway programs have operated at the same spending levels since
2009.  “Presidents, Republicans and Democrats have always said
you can’t have a thriving economy if you can’t move goods and
you can’t move people, and you can’t do it efficiently,” Boxer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  