-- Senator Lugar Can’t Vote in Indiana Precinct, Board Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-15T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/senator-lugar-can-t-vote-in-indiana-precinct-board-says.html
Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana
has been ruled ineligible to vote back home, a blow for the six-
term Republican facing a Tea Party-backed primary challenger who
says the senator is out of touch with his state.  The Marion County Election Board voted 2-1 along party
lines today, with two Democratic members finding Lugar and his
wife ineligible to vote in his home precinct. Lugar, the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is
registered to vote with an Indianapolis address of a home he
sold in 1977. He now lives in northern  Virginia .  The board ruled there is “substantial reason” to believe
a non-criminal election violation occurred because the Lugars
“abandoned” their  Indiana  residence, losing their right to
vote there.  In a statement, Lugar spokesman Andy Fisher said the
senator and his wife “scrupulously complied” with state law
and that three Indiana attorneys general have issued opinions
stating that Lugar complied with residency requirements. The
state allows a past residence to be considered Congress members’
home for voting purposes while they are in office, Fisher said.  “The Lugars have also sought and followed the express
direction of every legitimate government authority to have
addressed the question,” Fisher said.  Lugar Can Appeal  A spokeswoman for the Marion County board, Angie Nussmeyer,
said Lugar can appeal the decision to a local court. He could
register to vote from another residence. The Lugar family owns a
farm in the county, although it isn’t clear whether it would
satisfy the requirement for a residence.  The ruling won’t affect Lugar’s ability to seek re-election
in November. State Treasurer Richard Mourdock, a Republican, is
challenging Lugar in his May 8 primary. The deadline to file for
the primary is April 9. The winner will run against Democratic
U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly.  Lugar prevailed in an earlier challenge by Mourdock backers
to his ability to be on the ballot. The Indiana Election
Commission last month ruled Lugar is eligible to seek re-
election.  The residency controversy doesn’t help Lugar, said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg
Political Report.   On the Defensive  “I don’t think this is going to decide the election, but
the senator and his team just can’t shake this residency
story,” Gonzales said. “Constantly being on the defensive
isn’t good for any incumbent.”  Mourdock is a one-time coal-company geologist who in 2010
won re-election as state treasurer. He claims support of most of
the state’s 92 Republican county chairmen and is drawing support
of outside conservative groups. That includes the anti-tax group
Club for Growth and Freedomworks, a group led by former
Republican House Majority Leader Richard Armey that supports the
Tea Party Movement.  FreedomWorks operates a super-PAC that can make unlimited
donations to support or oppose candidates. It has spent more
than $30,000 against Lugar so far and $65,000 to aid Mourdock’s
candidacy, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
which tracks campaign giving. Russ Walker, political director of
the super-PAC, said more money will pour in to defeat Lugar in
coming weeks.  Substantial Advantage  Lugar has a substantial advantage in his campaign war
chest. At the end of December, he reported having more than $4
million in cash on hand for his re-election fund. That compared
with the Mourdock campaign’s $362,699. Donnelly had $846,956.  A former aide to Lugar has established a Super-PAC to
support Lugar’s push for a seventh Senate term. The Indiana
Values Super PAC has raised $10,000 so far. It hasn’t made any
independent expenditures, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  Mourdock’s campaign yesterday aired a TV ad in Indianapolis
saying Lugar is disconnected from Indiana. Lugar left the state
for  Washington  in 1977, “when disco topped the charts and
leisure suits were in style,” the ad said. He went on to vote
against conservatives on immigration, the 2008 bank bailout and
for both of President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominees, the
ad said.  “The fact that Senator Lugar hired a team of high-priced
lawyers to fight for his right to use a legal technicality so
that he doesn’t have to live among Hoosiers just proves our
point about how out of touch he is,” Chris Conner, a Mourdock
spokesman, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  