-- Senate Democrats Aim to Extend Violence Against Women Act
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-16T15:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/senate-democrats-aim-to-extend-violence-against-women-act.html
U.S. Senate Democrats are counting
on a fight over reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act to
give their party’s female Senate candidates an edge in the
November election.  The measure is part of a strategy to brand Republicans as
anti-women and help Democrats retain control of the Senate in
November. To bolster those efforts, Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, wants to bring the Violence Against Women Act
to the floor before the end of the month, said his spokesman,
Adam Jentleson.  “What’s helping Democratic women move forward in their
races is the fact that there has been a pretty strong attack on
women’s rights,” Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat
who first won her Senate seat in 1992 as part of an influx of
women, said yesterday in an interview. “It will help more
Democrats get elected, and not just women.”  Boxer cited Senate Republicans’ unsuccessful effort this
month to let employers and insurers deny coverage for birth
control and other health services that violate their religious
beliefs, as well as a House Republican bid last year to cut off
federal funding for  Planned Parenthood .  Democrats control the Senate by a 53-47 margin, including
two independents who caucus with the party. Democrats are
defending 23 Senate seats in November, compared with 10 for
Republicans.  Politics ‘All Over It’  Republicans say Democrats’ attempt to turn female voters
against them won’t work and is an effort to distract from the
lack of a Democratic strategy for improving the economy.  “It has politics written all over it,” Senator  John Thune 
of  South Dakota , a member of the Republican leadership, said in
a March 14 interview. “Most women, particularly independent
women, want to see us talking about economic issues.”  The measure to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act
would provide services, including transitional housing and legal
assistance, to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault and
stalking. The 1994 law, which has been reauthorized twice
before, expired Sept. 30.  The eight Republicans -- all men -- on the Judiciary
Committee opposed the measure in a 10-8 panel vote last month.
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, said in a
statement it was the first time a reauthorization of the law was
approved by the panel with votes only from one party.
Republicans said they were blocked from offering amendments that
might have won their support for the measure.  Gains Among Women  Democrats are seeking to capitalize on gains they say they
made with women and independent voters when they thwarted Senate
Republicans’  birth control  proposal on March 1.  “When Republicans let the hard right run the show, they
lose out,” Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, told
reporters March 14. He said Missouri Republican Roy Blunt’s
birth control proposal had “no appeal in the middle,
particularly with independent women,” and was “self-
defeating.”  The Violence Against Women Act is “important to women
throughout America,” Schumer told reporters yesterday. He urged
Republicans who might oppose the measure to try to amend it on
the floor.  Female senators yesterday called attention to dangers to
women caused by domestic violence and urged for reauthorization
of the law. Minnesota Democrat Amy Klobuchar, who is seeking re-
election this year, described it as “a landmark bill” that
“started a sea change in attitudes about violence against
women.”  ‘Constant Battering Ram’  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat seeking
another term this year, said opposition to the domestic violence
bill was the latest in a “long litany of attempts to weaken
services to women” that she’d seen from Republicans in her
Senate career. Reproductive rights in particular have been a
“constant battering ram” for Republicans, Feinstein said.  “It is part of the effort to woo women voters and to get
them in their camp,”  Jennifer Duffy , a senior editor at the
Cook Political Report, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Women make up a majority of the electorate and may be a
“pivotal” voting bloc in November, she said.  “If they can fire up Democratic women voters, that helps
them,” Duffy said.  The reauthorization measure has 58 co-sponsors, including
Republican  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts . Brown is running for
re-election again Democrat  Elizabeth Warren .  Murkowski, Snowe, Collins  Three female Republican Senators --  Lisa Murkowski  of
 Alaska  and  Olympia Snowe  and Susan Collins of  Maine  -- also
signed on to the measure. Murkowski was among the women speaking
in favor of the legislation on the Senate floor.  Two other Republican women - Senators  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire (NHTB)  and Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  - said in interviews
yesterday they can support the bill if it is revised on the
Senate floor.  Democrats tried to cast the birth control flap as
Republican attack on women’s health, while Republicans said it
was a religious freedom issue.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11 showed that
Americans overwhelmingly regard the debate over President Barack Obama’s policy on employer-provided contraceptive coverage as a
matter of women’s health, not religious freedom, rejecting
Republicans’ rationale for opposing the rule. More than six in
10 respondents -- including almost 70 percent of women -- said
the issue involves health care and access to birth control.  ‘War on Women’  After the Senate rejected the Republican birth control
proposal, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee released
a Web video highlighting the Republicans’ “war on women” and
urging viewers to “send a Democratic woman to the Senate.” The
campaign committee helped organize a fundraising trip for the
six female Democratic senators and five female candidates last
weekend in California and  Washington .  Snowe was the only Republican to vote against Blunt’s birth
control amendment. Murkowski was quoted by the Anchorage Daily
News as saying she “made a mistake” in supporting it.  Democratic leaders’ emphasis on women shows they are
“worried about Senate Democrats and keeping their majority,”
said Duffy, who focuses on  U.S. Senate  and gubernatorial races.  Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat seeking re-
election this year, said Republican opposition to measures such
as the Violence Against Women Act “sends another very bad
signal to women in this country about where Republicans are in
terms of understanding the lives of women.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  