-- Severe Tropical Cyclone Lua to Hit Australia Coast Tomorrow
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-16T05:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/severe-tropical-cyclone-lua-to-hit-australia-coast-tomorrow.html
 Tropical Cyclone Lua has
strengthened into a severe storm, before it’s expected to cross
into Australia’s northwestern Pilbara region tomorrow, the
world’s biggest source of seaborne  iron ore .  Lua may bring winds of more than 200 kilometers an hour
(124 miles) and heavy rain over the weekend, remaining severe
through landfall, the Bureau of Meteorology said in a notice
posted on its website at 12:17 p.m. local time.  The port of Dampier, used by  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s
second-biggest shipper of iron ore, is shutting down in
anticipation of large swells, according to Gervase Greene, a
spokesman for the company. London-based Rio Tinto has secured
its Dampier Salt operations while iron ore mining further inland
is continuing, he said.  The cyclone has already prompted  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
 Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  to shut output at offshore fields
that account for more than one-quarter of Australia’s oil
output. Port Hedland, the world’s biggest iron ore port used by
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , yesterday
shut in anticipation of the storm.  Lua has strengthened into a severe category 3 storm, the
Bureau of Meteorology said on its  website . The cyclone scale
runs from one to five, with five being the strongest.  The Mutineer-Exeter floating production, storage and
offloading vessel was disconnected yesterday evening, Santos
said today in an e-mail. The Santos-operated oil project in the
Carnarvon Basin produces about 8,000 barrels a day.  Evacuations  Chevron evacuated workers from Barrow Island where it’s
building the $37 billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas project
and the Wheatstone LNG venture, the San Ramon, California-based
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lua has caused 103,800 barrels a day of output to shut,
compared with  Australia ’s daily production of about 393,000
barrels last year. Woodside closed fields at six locations
including Vincent and Enfield. Apache shut its Stag project
while Santos shuttered output at Mutineer-Exeter.  Cyclone season in Australia typically runs from November to
April, and rain associated with the storms can disrupt mining
activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  