-- Sex-Deprived Male Fruit Flies Turn to Alcohol, Research Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-15T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/sex-deprived-male-fruit-flies-turn-to-alcohol-research-shows.html
Male  fruit flies  become barflies
when rejected by females, choosing alcohol-spiked food more
often than their successful brothers in a study that suggests it
may be due to a brain chemical also found in humans.  The spurned flies had lower levels of a molecule in their
brains called neuropeptide F than the males who were allowed to
mate, according to findings published today in the journal
 Science . Neuropeptide Y, the version found in humans, has been
tied to addiction and mental illness, said  Ulrike Heberlein , one
of the researchers.  The molecule may begin to explain how experience and
environment shape human addictions, said Heberlein. About half
of a person’s risk of addiction is genetic, and environment is
known to play a role. The experiment may help explain the
biological triggers that affect certain behavior or cravings and
could help research into treatments for addiction.  “We wanted to really find a molecular mechanism that links
experiences to drug-related behavior,” said Heberlein, who is a
neuroscientist at the University of  California ,  San Francisco ,
in a telephone interview. “We are really hoping that this will
encourage those working with mice and rats and humans to look at
what happens to this neuropeptide in psychiatric conditions.”  Male flies that mated were less likely to drink the alcohol
solution than either virgin or rebuffed ones, and had higher
levels of neuropeptide F in their brains, the research showed.  Mating Sessions  In the experiment, some flies were spurned by already-mated
females for one hour a day, three times a day, for four days.
The successful flies had six-hour mating sessions with multiple
 virgin females  for four days. They were then allowed to choose
food that was either plain or spiked with a 15 percent alcohol
solution.  Another experiment was done to see whether sexual
deprivation or social isolation was the main difference between
the groups. A set of flies, consisting of both virgin and mated
males, were housed in a group. The virgin males showed a higher
preference for alcohol.  Next, the researchers checked to see whether it was lack of
sex or the actual rejection that made the flies likelier to
drink. For that test, researchers put virgin males in with
decapitated females, so they would experience neither rejection
nor copulation. They also preferred alcohol more than mated
flies, suggesting that a lack of sex rather than rejection was
the major factor in their alcohol preference.  The researchers then lowered the amount of neuropeptide F
in the brains of mated flies and found that they acted as though
they had been rejected, drinking more. Conversely, flies that
had been spurned whose neuropeptide F was increased boozed less.  “What we did, in order to establish a causal relationship,
was manipulated the system,” Heberlein said. “We were able to
prove it in both directions, so that’s strong evidence of
causality.”  Levels of  neuropeptide Y  are lower in people who are
depressed and have post-traumatic stress disorder. It’s found
all over the brain and may have roles in eating and sleeping, as
well as addiction and anxiety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 