-- Shell May Build Chemical Plant Near Pittsburgh to Tap Gas
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-15T19:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/shell-may-build-chemical-plant-near-pittsburgh-to-tap-gas-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, selected a site northwest of Pittsburgh for
a chemical complex that may manufacture plastic from a glut of
natural gas produced in the region.  The company’s Shell Chemical LP unit has an option to buy
the site in Potter and Center Townships near Monaca,
Pennsylvania, Shell said today in an e-mailed statement.  Shell last year joined competitors including  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. in proposing an ethane
cracker, which makes raw materials for plastic, that would take
advantage of low gas prices  relative to oil . The plant may also
make polyethylene, the most widely used plastic, and mono-
ethylene glycol, a raw material for polyester, to meet rising
U.S. use, The Hague, Netherlands-based Shell said today.  Shell didn’t disclose a cost or time frame for construction
or operations. The project depends on adequate supply, continued
economic viability and environmental and engineering studies,
Shell said.  The Pennsylvania site is currently used by  Horsehead
Holding Corp. (ZINC) , a zinc producer. Horsehead plans to move its
operations to a plant under construction in  North Carolina , the
Pittsburgh-based company said today in a statement.  The Marcellus Shale, an area of dense rock that includes
Pennsylvania and New York, holds about 141 trillion cubic feet
of recoverable gas, the Energy Information Administration said
on Jan. 23.  Hydraulic fracturing, a method that involves shooting
water, sand and chemicals underground to release trapped gas and
oil, has boosted production in the area and helped reduce prices
to a 10-year low on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Pennsylvania enacted incentives to lure Shell’s cracker
this year. They include 15 years of tax exemptions, deductions,
abatements and credits for any business making a $1 billion
investment and creating 400 jobs in seven years, in any area
designated a  Keystone Opportunity Zone .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  