-- Shire Drops After Pulling U.S. Application for Replagal
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-03-15T17:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/shire-drops-after-pulling-u-s-application-for-replagal.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  fell in London trading
after withdrawing a U.S. application for approval of its
Replagal drug for a rare genetic disorder.  The  Food and Drug Administration , which was scheduled to
make a decision on the drug in May, will probably now require
additional trials of Replagal before approving it as a treatment
for Fabry disease, the Dublin-based company said in a statement
late yesterday.  “An approval of Replagal for U.S. patients would only be
possible in the distant future,” Shire said in the statement.
The decision won’t affect financial forecasts for this year, the
company said.  The decision may allow  Sanofi’s (SAN)  competing treatment,
Fabrazyme, to gain market share, said Peter Welford, an analyst
at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , who cut his peak
sales forecast for Replagal by $95 million. He has a “hold”
recommendation on Shire’s stock.  A 2009 virus contamination at Genzyme Corp.’s plant in
Allston, Massachusetts, led to shortages of Fabrazyme and
Cerezyme for Gaucher disease. Genzyme repeatedly missed its own
targets for fixing the manufacturing snags, which sent the share
price tumbling and opened the door for Sanofi to acquire Genzyme
last year for at least $20.1 billion.  Shire and Sanofi make the majority of treatments for Fabry
disease. Shire took some market share from Sanofi, helped by the
FDA’s allowing Shire to give Replagal away for free pending U.S.
approval. The supply constraints helped double Shire’s share of
the European market for Replagal, which has been available in
 Europe  for more than a decade.  ‘Surprise Setback’  The withdrawal is “a surprise setback for Shire,” Welford
wrote in a report to clients today.  A new trial “would take at
least two years and is probably not economically justifiable.”  Shire fell  3.1 percent to close at 2,158 pence in London.
The stock has returned 23 percent in the past year including
reinvested dividends, giving the company a market value of 12.1
billion pounds ($19.1 billion). Sanofi rose 0.1 percent to 59.33
euros.  “Shire has had a close partnership with the global Fabry
patient community for over 10 years, and we are extremely
disappointed that we feel compelled to make this decision,”
said Sylvie Gregoire, president of the company’s Human Genetic
Therapies unit.  Sanofi’s Outlook  Shire sought approval in the U.S. at the encouragement of
the FDA amid the Fabrazyme supply shortage and the agency didn’t
raise concerns over Replagal’s safety, the company said. The
drugmaker will wind down its program to supply doses for U.S.
patients at no charge, said Jessica Cotrone, a spokeswoman.  “Sanofi believes this situation will provide an upside to
Fabryzyme growth as production recovers,” Jean-Marc Podvin, a
spokesman, said by e-mail. The Paris-based company won approval
from the FDA and the EU’s European Medicines Agency for a new
manufacturing plant in Framingham,  Massachusetts , that will
allow increased production of Fabrazyme.  “With the January approvals from both FDA and EMA of our
Framingham manufacturing facility, we have returned patients in
the U.S. to normal dosing,” Podvin wrote. “We are pleased that
our manufacturing recovery is very much on track, and we are
focusing our efforts on returning all patients to normal,
optimal dosing.”  Fabry and Gaucher diseases, called lysomal storage
disorders, are caused by a low levels of certain enzymes needed
to break down fatty substances that can build up in the body’s
organs. Patients rely on bi-monthly, intravenous infusions of
the drugs to maintain organ function.  For Shire, “it’s a slight disappointment,”  Mark Clark , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in London, said in a report to clients.
“But Sanofi/Genzyme has won the U.S. race.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  