-- Singapore Companies Seek Overseas Growth as Economy Slows
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-03-15T04:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/singapore-companies-seek-overseas-growth-as-economy-slows.html
Singapore companies are
accelerating their push to expand overseas as tighter curbs on
housing and reduced dependence on foreign workers lower growth
prospects for the economy.  Hiring sentiments have softened amid an uncertain economic
outlook and layoffs rose last quarter, the city-state’s
government said today.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  said it’s
offering pilots unpaid leave to cut costs as profit fell for
five straight quarters, while lender DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
plans to boost its China workforce after earnings there doubled
in 2011 and it seeks to reduce reliance on its home market.  Singapore is tightening foreigner inflows to address public
discontent, and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said such
limits will mean forgoing business opportunities and accepting
slower growth. While it was ranked  Asia ’s most competitive city
in efficiency and attracting businesses by the Economist
Intelligence Unit, increased curbs on property purchases may
hurt earnings for lenders and real-estate developers.  “Singapore is becoming more and more expensive and
business and labor costs are rising,” said  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Bank in Singapore. “While Singapore’s strategy
is to internationalize its companies, there are increasingly
more push factors and incentives for companies to expand
overseas and broaden their markets.”  SingTel  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , Southeast Asia’s biggest
phone company, said this month it agreed to buy Redwood,
California-based Amobee Inc. for $321 million in cash to expand
in mobile advertising. SingTel, whose largest shareholder is
Temasek Holdings Pte, set up a S$200 million ($159 million) fund
in 2010 to invest in new ventures to transform itself from a
traditional home and wireless phone supplier to a multimedia and
information-technology services provider.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. said yesterday it will create
derivative trading hubs in London and  Chicago , and offer MSCI
Indonesia futures as it steps up efforts to become the bourse of
choice for Asian trading.  Employers on the island increased payrolls by 37,600 in the
three months through December, the Ministry of Manpower said
today. While the  unemployment rate  averaged a 14-year low of 2
percent last year, productivity and job vacancies fell last
quarter, it said.  The Singapore statistics department may say today retail
sales fell 1.3 percent in January from a year earlier, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Elsewhere in Asia, the
Reserve Bank of  India  is forecast to keep benchmark  interest
rates  unchanged while  Sri Lanka  may say growth slowed last
quarter.  Labor Costs  The European Union statistics office will release fourth-
quarter employment data today, and may say labor costs rose 2.3
percent in the three months through December, a survey showed.
Irish inflation probably slowed in February, economists predict
before a government report today.  In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New York  may say
its general economic index fell to 17.5 this month from 19.5 in
February, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-called
Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey ,
and southern  Connecticut . The Philadelphia Fed may say
manufacturing in the region expanded in March at the fastest
pace in 11 months.  Manufacturing Jobs  Singapore’s manufacturing industry lost 1,400 jobs last
quarter, the government said today. Sales of electronics have
slumped as global demand eases, while pharmaceutical and
chemical exports have supported the industry’s growth. The
government imposed additional taxes on purchases of private
residential property in December.  India Infoline Ltd., a brokerage backed by Carlyle Group
LP, is shutting its securities operations in  Singapore  and
cutting about 11 positions, Bloomberg News reported March 9
citing two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Singapore has diversified its growth drivers by luring
pharmaceutical companies to build plants and ending a four-
decade ban on casinos. The island is ranked by the  World Bank  as
the easiest place to do business.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc, the world’s second-largest
aircraft-engine maker, opened a manufacturing and assembly
factory in Singapore last month. The S$700 million plant created
500 new jobs and the company expects its contribution to the
economy to climb to 0.5 percent of Singapore’s gross domestic
product by 2015 from 0.3 percent now, the company said Feb. 13.  “Lower value-added activities will relocate overseas and
only capital-intensive investments ones will remain here,” Seah
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  