-- Skid Row Misery in ‘On the Bowery’ Caught Scorsese’s Eye: DVD’s
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/skid-row-misery-in-on-the-bowery-caught-scorsese-s-eye-dvd-s.html
Lionel Rogosin’s 1956-57
documentary  “On the Bowery”  isn’t exactly a documentary.  Using real-life denizens of the notorious Skid Row in
improvised and, in some cases, staged situations, the first-time
director was trying to create an American equivalent to Italian
neo-realist classics like  “Bicycle Thieves.”   He succeeded. “On the Bowery,” which copped an Oscar
nomination for best documentary and became the first American
film to receive the Grand Prize for documentary at the Venice
Film Festival, is a kind of accidental masterpiece.  Rogosin graduated from Yale with a degree in chemical
engineering and served in the Navy during WWII. He worked for a
time in his wealthy father’s textile business but the experience
of the Holocaust turned him into a filmmaker, even though he had
no history with cameras.  Believing the apartheid system in  South Africa  to be a
species of fascism, he decided to make a movie there. But to
educate himself first about filmmaking, Rogosin chose the Bowery
as the subject of his debut feature. (Two years later he did
indeed make his South  Africa  film,  “Come Back, Africa,”  which
introduced the world to Miriam Makeba).  James Agee  His first choice for a screenwriter for “On the Bowery”
was James Agee, who had provided the narration and dialogue for
the influential 1948 Sidney Meyers’s documentary  “The Quiet
One.”  Agee’s sudden death forced Rogosin to change course. He
spent six months, without a camera, hanging out in the Bowery
and making friends with the vagrants in the flophouses and bars.  All but one of the “actors” in “On the Bowery” were
already acquaintances of Rogosin by the time he started filming.
The exception, “Ray,” is played by Ray Salyer, an itinerant
playing a character much like himself -- a Southerner just
arrived from a railroad job in  Jersey  who quickly falls into
destitution.  “On the Bowery” can be jarring. The improvised sequences
have a non-actory awkwardness that often clashes with the
breathtakingly sad and powerful Bowery footage caught on the sly
by cinematographer Richard Bagley (a self-professed alcoholic).
The images of people living at the bottom are as eloquent as
anything in the history of American documentary cinema.  Crazed Hope  We see the grizzled men in the sawdust-strewn saloons, in
Salvation Army shelters sleeping on newspapers on the floor, and
passed out in the streets. Rogosin gives us full-on close ups of
their misery and their crazed hope, too, and he does it with the
utmost compassion. This is the least voyeuristic of films, and
seen in the context of today’s Great Recession, it’s also
disturbingly close to home.  The extras on this 2-disc Milestone DVD package (also
available on Blu-Ray) include a long interview with Rogosin from
the late 1990’s, shortly before his death in  Los Angeles .  Perhaps this reissue will help resurrect interest in an
extraordinary career, which also included ownership of the
iconic Bleecker Street Cinema, a hub in the ‘60s and ‘70s for
filmmakers and critics (including the teenage me).  John Cassavetes, who was greatly influenced by “On the
Bowery,” once called Rogosin possibly the greatest documentary
filmmaker of all time.  Martin Scorsese , who provides an
introduction to the Milestone reissue, also says as much.  An interview clip with TV host Dave Garroway, included in
the extras, features not only Rogosin but also Salyer, who
speaks confidently of his ability to handle liquor. Salyer had
movie-star looks and was offered a $40,000 Hollywood contract.
He turned it down, saying “there’s nothing else in life but the
booze,” and later hopped a train.  He was never heard from again.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story: Peter Rainer
at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  