-- SNB Keeps Franc Ceiling at 1.20 Versus Euro
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-03-15T09:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/snb-keeps-franc-ceiling-at-1-20-versus-euro.html
The Swiss central bank pledged to
keep defending its six-month old franc ceiling and said
deflation still threatens the economy even as growth shows signs
of stabilizing.  The  Swiss National Bank , led by interim Chairman Thomas Jordan, maintained the franc ceiling at 1.20 francs per euro, as
forecast by all 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Zurich-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement today
that it also kept its  benchmark interest rate  at zero.  Jordan, 49, has gained some room to keep the limit
unchanged as the economy regains some strength. Swiss gross
domestic product unexpectedly rose in the fourth quarter,
investor confidence increased in March and the government today
raised its 2012 growth forecast, calling the euro-region’s debt
crisis a “considerable” risk. The SNB reiterated it will
defend the cap with the “utmost determination” if needed.  “The SNB stresses risks,” said Caesar Lack, an economist
at UBS AG’s Wealth Management Research in Zurich, who used to
work at the SNB. “They try not to appear too optimistic in
order not to jeopardize the franc ceiling. We think they will
keep the cap on hold for the foreseeable future.”  The franc strengthened against the euro after the decision,
trading at 1.2109 at 10:56 a.m. in Zurich, little changed on the
day. Versus the dollar, it was at 92.72 centimes.  Franc Impact  The SNB lowered its  inflation projections  throughout the
entire forecast horizon. It estimates that consumer prices will
fall 0.6 percent this year, before inflation returns in 2013
with a rate of 0.3 percent, accelerating to 0.6 percent in 2014.
At the December assessment, it forecast prices to drop 0.3
percent this year and increase 0.4 percent next.  “In the short term, inflation will move further into
negative territory,” the central bank said. “Last summer’s
appreciation of the franc had a stronger damping effect on
prices than anticipated. In the longer term, inflation will be
lowered by the worsening growth outlook for the euro area and
the continuing high valuation of the franc.”  The franc, which is considered a haven in times of turmoil,
gained as much as 37 percent against the euro in the 12 months
before the cap was introduced on Sept. 6, undermining exports
and increasing the threat of deflation. It has since traded
between 1.20 and 1.25 per euro.  ‘Moderate’ Pace  Jordan, who was appointed interim chairman after Philipp Hildebrand quit in January, said at an event on Feb. 28 that
“there will be a time when we return to a normal situation,”
and described the franc as still “overvalued.”  “If developments in the international economy are worse
than foreseen, or if the franc does not weaken further, as
expected, downside risks for  price stability  could re-emerge,”
the SNB said, adding that it “stands ready to take further
measures at any time if the economic outlook and the risk of
deflation so require.”  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the  Federal
Reserve  of  New York  may say its general economic index fell to
17.5 this month from 19.5 in February, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The  Reserve Bank  of  India  today is forecast to keep its
interest rates unchanged and the  European Central Bank , which
kept its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent on March 8, said it sees
“signs of stabilization” in the euro-region economy.  ‘Considerable Risks’  The Swiss  economy  may grow at a “moderate” pace close to
1 percent this year, the SNB said today. It previously forecast
an expansion of about 0.5 percent in 2012. On the Swiss mortgage
and real-estate market for residential property, there are
“growing signs of imbalances,” which could lead to
“considerable risks to financial stability,” it said.  “While the high value of the franc continues to present
enormous challenges to the economy, the minimum  exchange rate  is
having an impact,” the SNB said. “It has reduced exchange-rate
volatility and given business leaders a better basis for
planning. There are growing indications that  Switzerland ’s
economy is stabilizing.”  Euro-area finance ministers on March 13 signed off on a
second Greek bailout, clearing the way for the first payment
from the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) package to be made this
month. The agreement caps months of grueling negotiations that
sparked concerns that the nation may default, eroding the value
of the euro against other currencies.  The SNB spent 17.8 billion francs ($19.4 billion) in 2011
to stem what it called the currency’s “massive overvaluation.”
That compares with 144 billion francs it used in the previous
year to buy currencies, a policy that sparked a record loss. The
Swiss government is set to confirm next month whether it will
appoint Jordan as chairman.  Deflation Risks  Even after the introduction of the cap, the Swiss currency
is still about 6 percent stronger against the euro than it was a
year ago, highlighting the risk of deflation as costs of
imported goods drop. The price of foreign goods fell 3.4 percent
in February from a year ago.  The Swiss government said today it expects the economy will
expand 0.8 percent this year instead of a previously projected
0.5 percent. It forecast the economy will grow 1.8 percent in
2013. The slowdown of exports is “less marked than feared some
months ago” and economic growth should gradually strengthen
this year with no risk of a recession, it said.  The SNB’s growth forecast for 2012 “is certainly in the
higher range of what seems achievable,” said Julien Manceaux,
an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “All in all, any rate
change should not be expected before mid-2013, and given both
the European situation and the weakened SNB Governing Board, no
change is to be expected in the current floor policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  