-- U.S.-Korea Free Trade Starts as Seoul Opponents Vow Repeal
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-15T19:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/south-korea-opposition-party-vows-to-scrap-u-s-fta-if-elected.html
The U.S.- South Korea  free-trade
agreement took effect today as an opposition party vowed to
repeal the accord should it win control of parliament in
elections next month. Aides to President  Lee Myung Bak , who
pushed the deal, urged lawmakers to respect the agreement.  The biggest U.S. trade accord in almost two decades will
cut about 80 percent of tariffs between the nations. The deal
may increase U.S. exports as much as $10.9 billion in the first
year it’s in full effect, according to the U.S. International
Trade Commission. It may help South Korea’s economy expand by
5.7 percent within a decade and create 350,000 jobs, Trade
Minister Bark Tae Ho said yesterday.  South  Korea ’s United Progressive Party, which has joined a
coalition with the main opposition group, said in a statement it
will propose a parliamentary agreement to nullify the deal.  “March 15, 2012, will be remembered not as a day that
South Korea lost its dreams but as its first day stepping
forward to a progressive future,” United Progressive Party
legislator Kang Ki Kab told reporters today in Seoul.  President  Barack Obama  spoke with Lee by phone yesterday,
thanking him “for Korea’s close cooperation in getting the
agreement implemented,” according to a White House statement.  ‘Must Be Respected’  The trade deal “must be respected, for the benefit of the
people,” Choi Young-Jin, South Korea’s ambassador to the U.S.,
said today in an interview in  Washington . “It will create a
tremendous problem if this important agreement is revoked. It
would be highly unusual.”  South Korea’s United Progressive Party holds seven of 295
seats at the National Assembly, and last week forged an alliance
with the Democratic United Party, seeking to gain control of the
legislature by tapping into voter discontent over rising
inflation and a widening income gap.  Democratic United, which controls 89 seats, has objected to
terms of the accord without calling for a complete repeal. The
party for months stalled the government’s efforts to put the
bill for the agreement to a vote, on several occasions
physically blocking lawmakers entering subcommittee meetings to
prevent its advance to a plenary session, according to the
majority National Frontier Party.  Tariffs, Duties  The accord will remove duties on almost two-thirds of
American farm exports, and phase out tariffs on more than 95
percent of industrial and consumer exports within five years.
The Obama administration also says free-trade deals with South
Korea, Colombia and Panama, ratified by Congress and the
president in October, will create or support at least 70,000
U.S. jobs.  Tariffs will be lifted on car parts to the U.S. and will
help increase South Korean exports of the products, the  Korea
Automobile (043370)  Manufacturers Association said today in a statement.  South Korean opposition lawmakers say the agreement
benefits U.S. industries and jobs at the expense of South Korean
laborers, farmers and small businesses. The Democratic United
Party also objects to the Investor-State Dispute settlement
clauses, which let foreign investors take legal action against
South Korea, as undermining the country’s sovereignty.  Lee’s National Frontier Party rammed the deal through South
Korea’s parliament in November over the objections of opposition
lawmakers concerned about the impact on agriculture and
investment. The party is striving to overcome a series of
scandals to keep from losing parliamentary control next month
and presidential elections in December.  Approval Ratings  The ruling party’s approval ratings stood at 40.3 percent,
according to a weekly poll by Seoul-based Realmeter conducted
March 5-9, before the opposition coalition was announced. The
survey of 3,758 people had a margin of error of plus or minus
1.6 percentage points. The DUP’s popularity was at 32.7 percent
and the UPP was at 4.8 percent.  Lee’s approval rating was at 27.1 percent, down from 76
percent when his term began in February 2008.  Repealing the accord “won’t jeopardize national
confidence” because under the agreement “any of the two
countries could nullify the deal,” Rhyu Si Min, a leader in of
the United Progressives, said in an interview today with YTN
Radio. “The DUP calls for a renegotiation of the terms, and we
have agreed to respect each other’s difference in opinion.”  Labor Opposition  In the U.S., the deal was opposed by groups including the
AFL-CIO, the largest federation of labor unions and a frequent
ally of Obama’s Democratic party. Senators Robert Casey of
 Pennsylvania  and  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio , both Democrats from
manufacturing states facing re-election this year, opposed the
accord. They said prior trade measures never worked as well as
advertised for U.S. workers.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  in Washington today
called the accord’s implementation “a huge win.”  Obama and Lee “made decisions that on many occasions go
against the ‘political grain,’” Kirk said during a reception at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobbying group. “Our president knew and inherently understood
the power of trade to move our economy forward.”  Kirk thanked the business leaders for lobbying Congress to
pass the agreement.  “It’s sort of my sanctuary,” Kirk said of the Chamber,
which is located across the street from the White House.  “I
know people over here like me and won’t scream at me.”  The U.S. is South Korea’s third-largest trading partner and
bilateral trade totaled $101 billion in 2011, according to data
compiled by the Korea Customs Service. For the U.S., the deal is
the biggest since the  North American Free Trade Agreement  with
Mexico and  Canada  took effect in 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  