-- spain house price updatea
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-03-15T11:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/spanish-home-prices-fall-most-on-record-as-economy-shrinks.html
Spanish  home prices  fell the most
on record in the fourth quarter as the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy shrank and a reduction in mortgage lending
crimped demand for property.  The average price of houses and apartments declined 11.2
percent from a year earlier, the most since the measurement
began in 2008, the  National Statistics Institute  in  Madrid  said
today in an e-mailed statement. Prices dropped 4.2 percent from
the previous quarter and are down 21.7 percent from the market’s
peak in the third quarter of 2007.  “The drop in the fourth quarter is just the start of
things to come,” said Fernando Encinar, co-founder of
Idealista.com,  Spain ’s largest property website. “Legislation
passed by the government in February to push banks to provision
for real estate will mean steeper declines in 2012 as banks
lower prices to offload property.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to turn around a
slump in the real-estate industry as his government forecasts an
economic contraction of 1.7 percent this year that will push the
European Union’s highest unemployment rate to 24.3 percent.
His government passed a decree on Feb. 3 forcing Spanish banks
to make deeper provisions for losses linked to real estate in an
effort to push down prices and boost sales.  Lenders, which have about 175 billion euros of what the
Bank of Spain terms troubled property assets, will have to take
about 50 billion euros in provisioning costs or capital charges
under the government plan.  ‘Banks Hoarding’  “We suspect house prices have fallen by more than 30
percent since they last peaked, but accept that some of the
downward price adjustment may have been delayed by banks
hoarding large portfolios of repossessed properties,” economist
 Raj Badiani  at IHS Global Insight Inc. in  London  said in a note.  Financial institutions have foreclosed on 328,720 homes
since 2007, according to Plataforma de los Afectados por la
Hipoteca. Lenders have also acquired properties from developers
to cancel debt and may have as many as 900,000 finished,
unfinished and foreclosed homes on their books, according to
Borja Mateo, author of “The Truth About the Spanish Real Estate
Market.”  House prices more than doubled in the decade through 2007,
before turning negative in the first quarter of 2008 and have
since fallen by about 18.6 percent, separate data from the
Ministry of Public Works shows.  “The lack of a credible benchmark house price series makes
it difficult to predict the likely fall in  house prices  over the
current slump,” Badiani wrote. “But we expect them to fall by
35 to 40 percent over the whole property market slump.”  Spanish home sales declined in January for an 11th month,
falling by 26.3 percent, and residential mortgages decreased for
a 20th month in December, dropping by 37.2 percent from a year
earlier, according to the statistics agency. The INE started
publishing changes in house prices in 2008 and its index of
prices goes back to the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  