-- Spanish Stocks Miss Rally on Rajoy Budget Gap Skepticism
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-03-15T17:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/spanish-stocks-left-out-of-rally-on-rajoy-budget-gap-skepticism.html
Spanish stocks  are the only
developed market suffering losses this year as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  fails to rein in the  budget deficit  fast enough to
assure investors.  The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  dropped 2.1 percent in 2012 through
yesterday, the only decline among 24 developed markets tracked
by Bloomberg. That compares with an 11 percent rally in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , the best start to a year since 1998. The
Spanish gauge has erased all gains that followed the  European
Central Bank ’s Dec. 8 announcement of unlimited three-year loans
for banks at below-market borrowing costs.  Investors are shunning Spain after Rajoy said the budget
deficit will be higher than forecast while Germany praised
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s “bold” austerity
measures. Spanish benchmark borrowing costs rose above Italy’s
for the first time in almost eight months in March, while
analysts have cut profit estimates for  Spain  this year at the
fastest pace among Europe’s 10 largest markets.  “Since you got Monti in Italy, the market has said, ‘Fine,
Italy is in safe pair of hands,’” said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a
 fund manager  who helps oversee $18 billion at Artemis Investment
Management in London. “It is tough to see in Spain for now what
can resolve the crisis. Things are so bad that as an investor
you ask yourself, ‘Do I need to be there?’”  Deficit Target  Rajoy increased the target for this year’s deficit to 5.8
percent of gross domestic product from 4.4 percent following a
summit of European leaders on March 2, three months after taking
office. The IBEX 35 has dropped 2 percent since the move that
Rajoy called a “sovereign decision” for Spain alone. The index
rose 0.4 percent to 8,426.7 at the close in  Madrid  today.  Spanish lenders are saddled with 175 billion euros ($228
billion) of troubled real-estate assets after a property bubble
burst and the economy contracted. They had the second-highest
capital shortfall in the European Banking Authority’s stress
tests in December, after  Greece . The association reported that
Spanish lenders needed to raise 26.2 billion euros as of the
third quarter of 2011, compared with 15.4 billion euros for
Italian firms.  Spain’s jobless rate is 23 percent, more than double the
euro-region average, while economist projections compiled by
Bloomberg show GDP may shrink 1 percent this year, its third
contraction in four years. That compares with forecasts for a
0.4 percent contraction in the euro area as a whole, Bloomberg
data show.  Home prices  fell the most on record in the fourth
quarter, the government said today.  Merkel Praise  While Italy has announced a 20 billion-euro austerity plan
to balance the budget by 2013, Spain’s 15 billion euros in cuts
are already falling short. Monti has overhauled the Italian
pension system, raised taxes and wants to change  labor laws ,
winning praise this week from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
for his “bold” efforts.  In Portugal, western  Europe ’s poorest economy, Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting spending and raising
taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro bailout plan that
allowed the country to avoid default. He said March 5 he will
not follow Spain in easing deficit targets. Rajoy is due to
present spending plans and additional austerity measures on
March 30.  The IBEX 35 has fallen to the lowest level since June
compared with Italy’s FTSE MIB Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Relative Play  “We tend to look at Spain as a relative play with Italy,”
said Patrick Moonen, who helps oversee $420 billion at ING
Investment Management in The Hague. “We expect Spanish weakness
to continue as the deficit figures are out of line with
estimates.”  The EU forecast in November that Spain would have the
third-highest deficit in the 17-nation euro area this year, at
5.9 percent, trailing only Ireland and Greece. European leaders
called on Spain to prune an additional 0.5 percent of GDP from
the 2012 budget at a March 12 meeting after the Iberian nation
ended last year with a budget gap twice that of  Italy .  Spain’s 10-year bond yields closed higher than similar-
maturity Italian securities on March 5 for the first time since
Aug. 19. Italian debt had yielded 80 basis points more than
Spanish bonds on Dec. 8.  Further Proposals  Spanish stocks may catch up with other markets if the
government unveils further money-saving proposals over coming
months, according to Juan Barriobero, investment manager at DWS
Investment. His company, which oversees $171 billion worldwide,
is underweight Spain, meaning it holds less of the nation’s
shares than represented in global benchmarks, he said.  “Once the reforms are seen through, maybe after the
summer, there is a long way to go for Spanish equities,”
Madrid-based Barriobero said in a phone interview on March 9.
“The Spanish market has an important re-rating potential.”  Forecast  2012 earnings  for the Spanish gauge have dropped
9.9 percent this year to 832 euros a share, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The cuts have pushed the IBEX 35’s valuation to
10 times projected earnings from 9 at the start of the year.  Spain is “struggling in a low-growth economy and not able
to come out of that,” said Mouhammed Choukeir, who helps
oversee $8.1 billion as chief investment officer at  Kleinwort
Benson  in London. “We are trying to establish value but also
the potential to grow earnings. And given the weak economic
backdrop in Spain, that potential is somewhat limited.” He said
his team is underweight Spain, and some funds don’t own any
Spanish stocks at all.  Biggest Drag  The biggest drag on the IBEX 35 this year is  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
Europe’s second-largest phone operator by market value. The
shares have dropped 5.7 percent. The company on Feb. 27
predicted its profit margin will continue to decline this year
after 2011 earnings slumped. Telefonica cut its  dividend  in
December for the first time in a decade.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
the largest banks in the country, have risen on average 1.5
percent even as the  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  jumped 17 percent.
Spanish banks reduced lending at a record pace in December and
defaults mounted as the country’s recession and rising
unemployment took a toll on their ability to make loans to
solvent borrowers.  The Spanish market is hindered by “idiosyncratic” risks
and a lack of economic competitiveness, according to Mark Glazener, who helps oversee $197 billion as leader of the
equities team at Robeco NV in Rotterdam. Robeco sold its last
Spanish holding, Bilbao-based BBVA, in 2011, he said.  “We are not exposed there, and the main reason is we don’t
find any interesting-enough stocks to include in our
portfolios,” he said. “There is still some pain to come before
the value gets that attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  