-- Standard Chartered Private Banker Held by Police in China
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-03-15T08:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/standard-chartered-confirms-employee-detained-by-police-in-china.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
bank whose earnings from  China  doubled last year, said its
private-bank relationship manager Wu Yidian Eden has been
detained by police in the Asian nation.  “We are unable to comment on the reason for her detention
-- this is a matter for the police,” Singapore-based
spokeswoman Melissa Cheah said in an e-mailed response to
queries today. “We can confirm that  Standard Chartered  is not
being investigated.”  Police from the city of Wuxi notified Shanghai-based Wu’s
family of her detention on March 6, the Wall Street Journal
reported today. Chinese authorities are investigating a client
of Wu, a naturalized Singapore citizen, who allegedly fled with
as much as $50 million from  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
according to the report. Wuxi is about 90 miles from Shanghai.  A press officer at state-owned Agricultural Bank declined
to comment and four calls to the Wuxi city government’s
publicity department weren’t answered.  Singapore’s Consulate-General in Shanghai is aware of the
case and will render all necessary consular assistance, attache
Lynn Ho said in an e-mail.  Chinese Millionaires  Standard Chartered, HSBC Holdings Plc and Hong Kong-based
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  are among foreign lenders expanding in
China to tap its growing wealth. Chinese millionaires will hold
$8.76 trillion of assets by 2015 as their number is set to more
than double, according to a study by Julius Baer Group and CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets in September.  Banks in China sold 16.5 trillion yuan ($2.6 trillion) of
higher-yield wealth-management products last year, more than
double the amount a year earlier, according to Benefit Wealth
Co., a Chengdu-based data supplier which tracks the market.  Standard Chartered, the third-largest foreign bank by
branches in China, said Feb. 29 that it planned to expand its
network in the nation to more than 100 outlets, from about 81 at
the end of last year. The London-based bank doubled its pretax
profit in China to more than $220 million last year, according
to a filing that day.  The lender can’t comment further on the detention as it’s
part of an ongoing investigation, spokeswoman Cheah wrote today.  Jason David Tan, Wu’s fiance, said she had been questioned
“repeatedly” since mid-January by police in  Shanghai  about a
client who was a banker with Agricultural Bank’s branch in
Jiangyin, the Journal reported. That client is alleged to have
fled overseas, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  