-- Class Dunce Passes Fed’s Stress Test Without a Sweat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/stress-tests-pass-fed-s-flim-flam-standard-jonathan-weil.html
The most important thing to
understand about the  Federal Reserve ’s latest stress tests is
what they were not intended to do. Their purpose wasn’t to test
whether the nation’s biggest banks could survive a financial
blowup like that of 2008 without government assistance.  Rather, the Fed  designed  its tests to measure the effects a
hypothetical crisis would have on banks’ regulatory capital.
Capital is the financial cushion a company has available to
absorb future losses. While the Fed would like for us to believe
that regulatory capital is the same thing, it’s quite different.
And too often it bears little resemblance to reality.  That’s why the results of the Fed’s “comprehensive capital
analysis” are more about public relations and manufacturing
confidence than they are about disseminating reliable
information on banks’ health.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was deemed well
capitalized under the government’s methodology when it got
bailed out in 2008. So was CIT Group Inc. when it filed for
bankruptcy in 2009.  Of the 19 bank-holding companies tested by the Fed, four
failed: Citigroup,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Ally
Financial Inc., which is majority-owned by the U.S. government.
Nobody would have seen the Fed’s exercise as credible if all 19
had gotten passes.  On the flip side, just because some banks flunked doesn’t
mean the test was credible. Quite the contrary, to buy into
the Fed’s conclusions, you would have to accept the theory that
market values for many types of financial instruments don’t
matter in a crisis. This would be foolhardy.  Standing Apart  How stressful were the Fed’s tests? One anecdote stands
apart:  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , which still hasn’t paid back its
bailout money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, passed.  The footnotes to the company’s latest financial statements
tell the story. There, the Birmingham, Alabama-based lender
 disclosed  that the loans on its books were worth $8.1 billion
less than what its balance sheet said, as of Dec. 31. By
comparison, the company’s tangible common equity, a bare-bones
measure of net worth, was $7.6 billion.  So if it weren’t for the inflated loan values, Regions’
tangible common equity would have been less than zero, with
liabilities exceeding hard assets. In short, the test was a
joke, although it had its intended effect. Shares of Regions and
other large banks soared, and Regions raised $900 million
selling common shares on Wednesday. The company, which hasn’t
reported an annual profit since 2007, plans to use the money to
help repay the $3.5 billion it got from the Treasury Department
in 2008.  Tangible common equity became the capital benchmark of
choice for many investors during the last U.S. banking crisis,
because the government’s main capital measures lost credibility.
It excludes preferred stock, which in substance acts more like
debt than it does equity. It also excludes airy intangible
assets such as customer relationships and goodwill. (Goodwill is
the bookkeeping entry a company records on its balance sheet
when it pays a premium price to buy another.)  To calculate tangible common for Regions, I took the
company’s $16.5 billion of  shareholder equity  and subtracted its
preferred equity and intangibles. That’s how I got $7.6 billion.  Then I went a step further and adjusted Regions’ remaining
net worth to get a more realistic measure. In a crisis, what
matters to investors and counterparties about a company’s assets
is what they are worth, not what they are carried at on the
company's balance sheet. Just ask anyone who got a margin
call back in 2008.  Fortunately, companies are required to provide quarterly
footnotes showing the estimated fair-market values of their
financial assets and liabilities, including loans and other
items that appear on their balance sheets at historical cost.
Factoring in those adjustments, Regions’ tangible common equity
was negative $525 million as of Dec. 31.  Taking Account  The Fed’s analysis, by contrast, didn’t take changes in
liquidity or market conditions into account when estimating the
future losses on banks’ loans or securities, except where the
companies were using fair-value measurements for such assets
already. A company might have large paper losses in its “held
to maturity” or “available for sale” bond portfolios, for
instance. The Fed  said  such losses only counted if they were due
to a bond issuer’s inability to pay its obligations, as if that
were the only factor affecting bond prices.  Similarly, were Regions to sell its loans, it wouldn’t be
able to realize the $73.3 billion it showed as an asset on its
balance sheet. In the footnotes, Regions estimated its loans
were worth $65.2 billion using the values that “a market
participant would use in a hypothetical orderly transaction.”
The Fed ignored these values.  In a press release, Regions Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall said the Fed’s capital review “demonstrates the strength
of our company.” If you want to see how strong Regions really
is, though, the footnotes offer a clearer picture.  Regions probably would have failed years ago if not for its
federal backstop. Instead, it now has a  stock-market value  of
$9.1 billion. Clearly the Fed wanted it to attract new
investors, and those who put fresh capital into Regions this
week believe the government won’t let it die. That about sums up
the company’s value proposition. In other words, we’re all still
on the hook.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  