-- Sumitomo Electric Expects Profit to Rise 50% on Cars, IPad
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-03-15T06:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/sumitomo-electric-expects-2012-profit-to-rise-50-on-cars-ipad.html
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) 
expects operating profit to rise at least 50 percent next fiscal
year as a production rebound by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and sales of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad drive demand for its wiring products.  “The bullish targets by Japanese carmakers will have a
huge impact,” President Masayoshi Matsumoto said this week in
an interview at the company’s  Osaka  headquarters. The profit may
reach 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion) in the year starting April,
he said, compared with a median estimate of 118 billion yen by
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Increased output by Toyota, which expects sales of its
Toyota and Lexus models to jump 21 percent this year, and other
Japanese carmakers is expected to boost Sumitomo’s revenue from
auto parts, a segment that accounts for 69 percent of operating
profit. The release this week of the newest iPad by Apple, which
included Sumitomo in its most recent  list  of suppliers, may also
increase sales, Matsumoto, 67, said.  “My understanding is most of our orders from Apple are for
the new iPad  model ,” he said.  The device, an update of the company’s two-year-old tablet
computer, will be priced starting at $499 and include a chip
that enables better graphics, Apple said last week. The U.S.
company may sell 60 million  iPads  in all of 2012, about 50
percent more than last year, according to ISI Group in  San
Francisco .  ‘No Guarantee’  “There’s no guarantee such demand for cars will
materialize, casting doubt on the target,” Yasushi Mizoue, an
analyst at TIW Inc. who has a neutral rating on Sumitomo, said
today by telephone. Mizoue said Sumitomo received more orders
for iPad components after a competitor lost some production
capacity because of flooding last year in Thailand.  “When that supplier recovers, there should be fierce
competition again,” he said, declining to identify the
competitor.  Sumitomo’s operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, in the year ending this
month may miss its forecast of 100 billion yen, a target
unchanged since May.  “We are now in a very difficult position to achieve the
goal,” he said, citing flooding that damaged supply chains in
 Thailand  and the strength of the yen, which last year gained
more than 5 percent against the  U.S. dollar . “The figure may be
lower than 90 billion yen.”  Quake Rebuilding  Revenue, forecast to be little changed at 2 trillion yen
this year, is expected to surge to 2.5 trillion yen next fiscal
year, buoyed by both sales to automakers and demand for copper
wiring from construction companies in  Japan ’s northeast as the
region rebuilds after last year’s earthquake and tsunami,
Matsumoto said.  “If you exclude the negative effects of the stronger yen,
this shows we are in line to achieve the objectives in our mid-
term plan started in 2007,” he said.  Toyota  said  in February it expects global sales of Toyota
and Lexus brand cars to increase to a record 8.58 million units
this year, while the addition of minicars sold by Daihatsu Motor
Co. and trucks made by  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205) , both subsidiaries of
Japan’s biggest carmaker, will boost the number to 9.58 million.
The Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said in January
 domestic  car sales may increase 19 percent to 5.02 million units
this year.  New Business Search  Sumitomo Electric, which  started  in 1897 as a copper wire
manufacturing unit of the Osaka-centered Sumitomo conglomerate,
is now considering new businesses related to the environment,
health care and energy as it tries to cut dependence on auto
parts. The company failed to meet a target, included in its mid-
term business  plan , of reducing the sector’s proportion of
operating profit to 30 percent from 50 percent because the  auto
industry  continues to be too important, Matsumoto said.  “After a century, there is still no business that compares
with cars in terms of scale,” said Matsumoto, who like Toyota
President  Akio Toyoda  writes his own  blog . “We will continue to
try to reduce our reliance but it will be difficult to achieve
the target.”  Sumitomo Electric rose 1.5 percent to 1,152 yen at the 3
p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has risen 37
percent this year, outperforming the 27 percent increase of its
peers in the 24-member Topix Nonferrous Metals  Index. (TPNMET)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 