-- Supreme Court Seen Influenced by Politics in Health-Care Ruling
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/supreme-court-seen-influenced-by-politics-in-health-care-ruling.html
Three-quarters of Americans say the
U.S. Supreme Court will be influenced by politics when it rules
on the constitutionality of a health-care law signed by
President  Barack Obama  two years ago.  The sentiment crosses party lines and is especially held by
independents, 80 percent of whom say the court will not base its
ruling solely on legal merits, according to a  Bloomberg National
Poll . More Republicans than Democrats, by 74 percent to 67
percent, say politics will play a role in the court’s health-
care decision.  The case is scheduled for arguments March 26-28, pitting
the Obama administration against 26 states that say Congress
overstepped its authority by requiring Americans to obtain
health insurance or pay a penalty.  “The ones that were appointed by Obama are more or less
going to vote the way he would want them to,” said Republican
poll participant Jacqueline Richey, an 86-year-old in  Fort
Myers ,  Florida . “Don’t get me wrong -- I don’t think they’re
crooked. I just think they were appointed because they think
like him.”  The public’s perception of the court comes more than a
decade after its 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, which ended the
Florida vote recount and let Republican  George W. Bush  assume
the presidency. The court will be thrust into the political
debate this year beyond the issue of health care. It also is
scheduled to take up cases dealing with illegal immigration and
race-based admission policies at universities.  Political Peril  “I always worry when the court steps into the political
thicket,” said  Barbara Perry , a Supreme Court scholar and
professor at the  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville. “It
does so at its peril.”  For the first time, the court’s ideological divide reflects
the party of the president who appointed each of the justices.
In the nine-month term that began in October 2010, the justices
divided along party lines in a dozen cases.  Five justices on the court, including Chief Justice  John Roberts , were appointed by Republican presidents. Four were
chosen by Democrats, including two,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , by Obama.  The justices themselves have said they don’t make decisions
for political reasons.  “It is a very serious threat to the independence and
integrity of the courts to politicize them,” Roberts said at
his 2005 Senate confirmation hearing.  Legal Grounds Only  Justice  Stephen Breyer  told Bloomberg News in a 2010
interview that politics doesn’t influence the court, even in
cases with electoral implications. “It would be bad if it were
there,” he said. “And I don’t see it.”  The health-care case has already created some political
maneuvering around the court, with partisans on each side
seeking the disqualification of a justice.  Opponents of the law have called for Kagan to recuse
herself because she previously served as Obama’s top  Supreme
Court  lawyer. Kagan, appointed to the court in 2010, has said
she didn’t play a role in formulating the administration’s legal
defense of the law.  Supporters of the law have said Justice  Clarence Thomas 
should disqualify himself because his wife,  Virginia , previously
worked for groups fighting passage of the measure. Thomas, who
was appointed in 1991 President  George H.W. Bush , is perceived
by outsiders as being a likely vote to strike down the health-
care law.  No Recusals  Neither justice has indicated any intent to step aside in
the case. Roberts came to their defense in December, saying he
has “complete confidence in the capability of my colleagues to
determine when recusal is warranted.” He didn’t mention either
justice by name.  Bloomberg asked the question: “The U.S. Supreme Court will
soon decide the constitutionality of the health-care reform law
signed by President Obama in 2010. Do you expect the court will
make this decision based solely on legal merits, or do you
expect politics will influence how some justices vote?”  Seventy-five percent of the 1,002 respondents said they
expect politics will influence the court’s ruling, 17 percent
said the decision would be based solely on legal merits and 8
percent said they weren’t sure.  ‘Small Modifications’  The  poll  also sought opinions of the health-care law.
Thirty-seven percent of respondents said it should be repealed,
the same percentage as the first time Bloomberg asked the
question in July 2010. Eleven percent said it should be left
alone, the smallest percentage in the four polls during which
the question has been asked. Just under half, 46 percent, said
the law “may need small modifications, but we should see how it
works.”  Health care  ranked fourth on a list of issues that
respondents named as the most important facing the country,
behind unemployment, the federal deficit and gas prices.  The margin of error for the telephone poll conducted March
8-11 is 3.1 percentage points. It was done by  Des Moines , Iowa-
based Selzer & Co.  The Bloomberg poll shows that Tea Party supporters, who
seek a smaller federal government role, are particularly wary of
the Supreme Court’s approach to the health-care case, with 81
percent saying politics will play a role in the decision -- the
highest percentage of any subgroup the poll examined.  Illegal Immigration  In addition to the health-care case, the justices will rule
by June on  Arizona ’s illegal-immigration crackdown, which the
Obama administration is challenging. Late this year, probably
just before the November general election, the justices will
consider whether universities must stop using race-based
admissions, which are designed to help minorities gain access to
higher education.  “There’s a cynicism, particularly among Republicans, about
judges and justices being tools of social engineering by
Democrats and liberals, and that’s linked to a strain of
libertarian thinking, get government off our backs, get courts
of our backs,” said Perry.  “What you’re seeing,” she said, “is something of a
hangover from the anti-Warren court era,”  From 1953 and 1969,  Earl Warren  served as chief justice and
the court expanded federal and judicial power, particularly in
the area of civil rights. Perry could recall seeing “Impeach
Earl Warren” billboards along highways near Louisville,
 Kentucky , where she grew up.  Republican presidents appointed Warren and every chief
justice since. The Supreme Court has typically been held in
higher esteem than Congress or the president, Perry said.  “I just think that justices live in this isolated world
where they surround themselves with academics and the law,”
said poll respondent Jeffrey North, a 36-year-old information
technology employee in Grant,  Michigan . He identified himself as
an independent. “Maybe I’m naive but I hope that at that level
of the judiciary, they’re interpreting the Constitution, not
basing things on politics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  