-- Suzlon Can’t Tap Repower Unit’s Loan to Pay Debt
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-15T14:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/suzlon-energy-can-t-tap-repower-unit-s-loan-to-repay-debt.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , barred from
tapping a 750 million-euro ($980 million) loan raised by its
German unit  Repower Systems SE (RPW)  to reduce debt, may sell assets
in order to repay bondholders this year.  Suzlon can’t use the Repower loan announced on March 1 from
banks led by BayernLB Holdings AG, Commerzbank AG and Deutsche
Bank AG, Repower spokeswoman Caroline Zimmermann said today.
“This is not possible in the contract,” she said in an e-mail
to Bloomberg.  Without access to Repower’s loan, India’s largest wind-
turbine maker will find it difficult to refinance $569 million
in foreign currency convertible notes that mature starting in
June and may be forced to sell assets, said Atul Gharde, a Hong
Kong-based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd.  Suzlon may be willing to sell Repower to  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO) 
for 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion), the Financial Times
Deutschland reported yesterday without saying where it got the
information. Under pressure from creditors, Suzlon Chief
Executive Tulsi Tanti met several potential bidders including
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Alstom, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing unidentified people.  Alstom Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron denied the
reports, saying he won’t harm shareholders with “adventurous
deals” that would require selling shares to raise money in
“unfavorable economic conditions.” Suzlon in an e-mail called
the reports “totally speculative.”  Suzlon Options  Suzlon had its biggest one-day jump in more than a year on
March 1 when Repower announced the loan as investors assumed
that the funds would help cover repayments.  “This is bad for us investors,” said Raj Kothari, a
London-based convertible bond trader at Sun Global Investments
Ltd., which owns Suzlon bonds. “The only way out may be to sell
Repower cheaply.”  Prices on Suzlon’s 5 percent convertible debt due 2016 in
April fell 3.1 percent today, reversing four days of gains,
according to pricing data from Barclays Plc. The yield rose by
5.4 percentage points. Suzlon’s shares slid 3.8 percent today.  SJS Market’s Gharde said Suzlon would probably try other
options first, such as raising money by pledging a stake in
Repower. Suzlon has used a similar strategy to raise loans in
 India  by offering its shares as collateral to banks.  Metals Castings  A more likely asset sale would be Suzlon’s SE Forge Ltd.
unit, which makes metals castings used in the wind industry,
Gharde said.  Repower provides Suzlon with access to technology and
growth in the offshore wind market, especially in  Europe , the
world’s second-largest market for turbines after  China . The
parent business only makes onshore turbines.  It took Suzlon four years to buy Repower, beginning in
April 2007 when it acquired a 7.7 percent stake and gradually
expanded its holding. In October it bought out minority
shareholders’ remaining 4.8 percent stake. Ownership would bring
financial and technological benefits, as well as manufacturing
efficiences, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and CLSA Asia Pacific said at the time in reports to clients.  Repower had  206 million euros  of cash and equivalents at
the end of September before it was taken over by Suzlon,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  