-- Sanctioned Iran Banks Being Cut Off From Global Network
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-15T23:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/swift-will-halt-financial-messaging-for-sanctioned-iranian-banks.html
One of  Iran ’s most important links
to the world financial system will be severed as part of a
stepped-up campaign to pressure Iran’s leaders to abandon any
ambitions to develop nuclear weapons.  The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication, known as Swift, the dominant messaging
service for international financial transactions, said yesterday
it will halt service for some two dozen Iranian banks that have
been sanctioned by the European Union, including Iran’s central
bank.  The cutoff, effective March 17 at 4 p.m. London time (noon
New York time), is a response to EU regulations issued yesterday
that ban financial messaging services for entities subject to an
EU asset freeze.  “This EU decision forces Swift to take action,” Lázaro
Campos, chief executive of Belgium-based Swift, a cooperative of
10,000 member banks and organizations in 210 countries, said in
a statement. “Disconnecting banks is an extraordinary and
unprecedented step for Swift. It is a direct result of
international and multilateral action to intensify financial
sanctions against Iran.”  David Cohen , U.S. undersecretary of Treasury for terrorism
and financial intelligence, said in a statement that Swift’s
decision “reflects the growing international consensus that
substantially increased pressure is needed to convince the
Iranian regime to address the international community’s concerns
about its illicit nuclear activities.”  Government Revenues  Analysts said Swift’s move will complicate Iran’s ability
to make and receive payments, including for its sales of  crude
oil , which account for more than half of the Iranian
government’s revenues, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Booting Iranian banks out of Swift will impact oil
payments at the margin, but the big impact will be on what Iran
buys rather than what it sells,”  Trevor Houser , an energy
analyst and partner at Rhodium Group, a New York-based economic
research firm, said in an interview yesterday.  Houser said Iran probably will “find workarounds for
large, strategically important and government-facilitated oil
payments. But small Iranian businesses that rely on interbank
electronic transfers to pay for everything from food to
electronics imports are going to have a hard time buying from
abroad.”  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Oil Price  Oil fell for the third time in four days on reports that
President  Barack Obama  discussed a release from the U.S.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron . Crude oil for April delivery declined 32 cents to
$105.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
lowest settlement since March 6. Futures are up 6.4 percent this
year.  In January, U.S. lawmakers proposed legislation targeting
Swift and its board, whose chairman is Yawar Shah of Citigroup
Inc. and deputy chairman is Stephan Zimmermann of UBS AG, if it
continued to provide services to sanctioned Iranian banks.  Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican and co-
sponsor of the Senate legislation, said in an interview
yesterday he is encouraged by the actions taken by the EU and
Swift yesterday.  “Without access to Swift, the ability of these banks to
move money through electronic transfers will be significantly
curtailed, moving us all one step closer to blocking terror-
financing and proliferation-supporting institutions from the
global financial system,” he said. “It is my hope that
continued pressure from not only the U.S., but the entire
international community will further hinder the Iranian regime’s
efforts to advance its nuclear program.”  ‘Immense Pressure’  Mark Dubowitz , a sanctions specialist in Washington who
advised U.S. lawmakers on the Swift legislation, said
yesterday’s decision, if strictly implemented, could limit the
ability of Iran’s banks “to move billions of dollars in
financial transactions, and put immense pressure on Iran’s
leaders to reconsider their policies.”  In its 39 years, Swift has never expelled an institution.
Swift transmits an average of 17 million financial messages a
day, facilitating trillions of dollars in cross-border payments,
officials said. According to its annual report, 19 Iranian
member banks and 25 financial institutions sent and received 2
million messages through Swift in 2010.  Swift’s unprecedented action, Dubowitz said in an
interview, underscores “the growing political isolation of Iran
as it becomes the first country to be expelled from what is the
financial equivalent of the  United Nations .”  Further Measures  Swift authorities said last month they were prepared to
comply with any new EU regulations that compelled them to halt
services for EU-sanctioned Iranian entities. Swift’s general
counsel Blanche Petre made a trip to  Washington  to discuss the
issue with aides to U.S. lawmakers.  Representative  Brad Sherman , a California Democrat who co-
sponsored House legislation proposing sanctions on Swift, said
yesterday’s action is “a positive step, but we need to cut off
all Iranian banks from the international system.”  “Sooner or later, the EU will feel compelled by Iranian
intransigence to apply this and similar measures to all of
Iran’s banks, not just the central bank and the designated
banks,” Sherman said in an interview.  Legislation that Sherman introduced last week would punish
those who facilitate transactions and financial messaging
services for any Iranian bank, not just those sanctioned for
illicit activities by the U.S. or the EU. Sherman said he
expects Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, to propose a
similar measure in the Senate.  Nuclear Issue  Swift said yesterday that it complies with all relevant
sanctions and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it
operates, which includes the U.S.  Yesterday’s action is one of dozens of new measures adopted
since November by the U.S. and the EU in an effort to squeeze
Iran’s economy and compel its leaders to abandon any illicit
aspects of the country’s nuclear program.  U.S., European and Israeli officials have accused Iran of
seeking the capability to build a nuclear weapon. United Nations
atomic inspectors, in a report released Nov. 8, raised questions
about possible military dimensions of Iran’s program. Iran says
its program is solely for civilian energy and medical research.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief, said last
week that world powers are ready to resume negotiations with
Iran to address the international community’s concerns about the
Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  