-- Standard Chartered, Kinnucan, Apple, SocGen in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-15T12:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/swiss-banking-kinnucan-apple-stryker-socgen-in-court-news.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
bank whose earnings from China doubled last year, said its
private-bank relationship manager Wu Yidian Eden has been
detained by police in the Asian nation.  “We are unable to comment on the reason for her detention
-- this is a matter for the police,” Singapore-based
spokeswoman Melissa Cheah said in an e-mailed response to
queries today. “We can confirm that Standard Chartered is not
being investigated.”  Police from the city of Wuxi notified Shanghai-based Wu’s
family of her detention on March 6, the Wall Street Journal
reported today. Chinese authorities are investigating a client
of Wu, a naturalized Singapore citizen, who allegedly fled with
as much as $50 million from  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
according to the report. Wuxi is about 90 miles from Shanghai.  A press officer at state-owned Agricultural Bank declined
to comment and four calls to the Wuxi city government’s
publicity department weren’t answered.  Singapore’s Consulate-General in Shanghai is aware of the
case and will render all necessary consular assistance, attache
Lynn Ho said in an e-mail.  Standard Chartered,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Hong Kong-based
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  are among foreign lenders expanding in
China to tap its growing wealth. Chinese millionaires will hold
$8.76 trillion of assets by 2015 as their number is set to more
than double, according to a study by Julius Baer Group and CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets in September.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Two Swiss Advisers Helped Clients Evade Taxes, U.S. Charges  Two Swiss men who acted as “full service tax evasion
advisers” helped U.S. clients hide hundreds of millions of
dollars from tax authorities, while delivering cash in hotels
and through a child courier, prosecutors said.  Hans Thomann and Josef Beck, who worked as independent
financial advisers, conspired to help Americans defraud the
Internal Revenue Service and ran unlicensed businesses that
moved cash for clients, according to charges filed March 13 in
federal court in Manhattan.  Thomann helped clients hide $138 million in assets from the
IRS and Beck helped conceal $129 million, according to
indictments unsealed yesterday. Working separately, they helped
clients move cash, using street corners and hotel rooms to evade
detection, prosecutors said yesterday in a statement. Beck even
used a child “to make a drop,” prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said the men worked with Wegelin & Co., the
270-year-old private bank, which last month became the first
Swiss lender indicted in the U.S. The Justice Department has
charged at least 23 foreign bankers, advisers and attorneys, and
at least 40 U.S. taxpayers in a crackdown on offshore tax
evasion since 2008.  Both Thomann, 61, and Beck, 46, met clients in Manhattan
hotels to hand them cash they couldn’t withdraw without visiting
Switzerland and pick up money to deposit in their undeclared
accounts, according to the indictments.  Beck, who ran the asset-management firm Beck Verwaltungen
AG, also gave addresses to his clients in the U.S. and Israel
where they could pick up or drop off cash, and sometimes they
gave cash to one another, prosecutors said.  Thomann was a banker at  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
from 1993 until 2003, according to his indictment.  U.S. prosecutors charged Zurich-based UBS in 2009 with
helping Americans hide assets from the IRS. UBS avoided
prosecution by admitting it aided tax evasion, paying $780
million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It later
disclosed another 4,450 accounts, causing U.S. customers to seek
new banks.  Thomann helped 33 former UBS clients transfer their
accounts to other banks, including Wegelin and several
unidentified institutions, according to his indictment. They
were referred to as “a Swiss bank,” “the Swiss branch of an
Israeli bank,” “a Swiss cantonal bank” and “Swiss-
Liechtenstein Bank No. 1.”  The cases are U.S. v. Thomann, 12-cr-00212, and U.S. v.
Beck, 12-cr-00211, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Analyst Kinnucan Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan, who
challenged U.S. authorities to arrest him for more than 18
months, pleaded not guilty to federal insider trading charges
and remains in custody because he’s unable to make bail.  Kinnucan was indicted on Feb. 21 by a federal grand jury in
New York, accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients
about  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other
companies. He was arrested at his home in Portland, Oregon, on
Feb. 16 by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public technology
companies, obtained nonpublic information from them and passed
it to his fund manager clients, prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in New York said Kinnucan
could be released on $5 million bond, rejecting the government’s
claims he had engaged in a “campaign” of threats against
prosecutors and agents handling his case.  The judge last week ordered him to be transported by U.S.
marshals to New York to face trial. His lawyer told Batts that
Kinnucan had been unable to raise the $100,000 in cash and
property necessary to secure the bond or obtain the signatures
of four financially responsible people.  Prosecutors said at a hearing after the arrest that
Kinnucan posed a danger to the community and a threat to
authorities handling his case, citing at least 24 menacing
voice-mail messages he left on the office phones of U.S.
prosecutors and FBI agents, as well as at the homes of two
cooperating witnesses.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple Asks Hong Kong Court to Continue IPad Case Against Proview  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , fighting over the rights to the iPad name in
China, asked a Hong Kong court to continue a parallel case
against  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , which says it owns
the trademark.  “Their application was about testimony they wanted to
exclude,” Sun Min, a director of Proview International, said
after a pretrial hearing in the High Court yesterday. Sun didn’t
comment on the content of the testimony after telling the court
that Proview, a failed Hong Kong-listed display maker, opposes
Apple’s request.  Apple is awaiting a ruling by a court in Guangdong
province, China, on whether it or Proview owns the rights to the
iPad trademarks in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
The Cupertino, California-based company also filed a lawsuit in
Hong Kong against Proview founder Rowell Yang and his companies
for conspiring to breach their sale agreement.  Apple’s lawyer, who didn’t identify herself in court, urged
Hong Kong High Court master Reuden Lai to ensure that the case
proceeds to trial on schedule. After the hearing, she declined
to identify herself or elaborate on the pretrial application.  Proview International doesn’t have a lawyer for the Hong
Kong proceedings, Sun told the court yesterday.  A Hong Kong court in July issued an order preventing
Proview from selling the trademarks.  The world’s most-valuable technology company started
 litigation  in 2010 against Proview, the same year it introduced
the iPad tablet. It lost the case last year in the southern
Chinese city of Shenzhen, where a court ruled that Apple hadn’t
properly acquired the trademarks because the Proview entity that
owned them wasn’t involved in the sale agreement.  On Feb. 29, the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong heard
Apple’s appeal. A ruling is expected within three months.  Proview has asked China customs authorities to block
imports and exports of the tablet computer. Roger Xie, Proview’s
lawyer, has said Proview also filed requests to retailers to
halt iPad sales.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stryker, Glaxo Court Losses Mar U.S. Drug-Marketing Crackdown  Former  Stryker Biotech LLC (SYK)  sales manager David Ard waited
more than two years for his trial on charges that he joined a
scheme to market unapproved medical devices to surgeons.  Prosecutors abruptly dropped the case Jan. 17, five days
after opening the trial in which Stryker was also a defendant.
They had told jurors in Boston federal court that Ard and two of
his colleagues were criminals.  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston, who dropped the
charges against the three defendants and later a fourth Stryker
employee, had another drug-marketing prosecution fall apart nine
months earlier. A U.S. judge in Maryland threw out charges last
May against Lauren Stevens, an ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lawyer
accused of obstructing a probe into the marketing for unapproved
uses of Wellbutrin SR, an antidepressant.  The Ard and Stevens cases may illustrate how the Justice
Department has failed at times to prove that health-care
industry executives are criminals, even as their employers admit
criminal charges, write large checks and promise reform,
Bloomberg News’ David Voreacos and Janelle Lawrence report. For
those accused and then cleared, the experience can be scarring.  The cases are U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston); and
U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-00694, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  SAIC to Pay $500 Million to Settle New York CityTime Fraud  Science Applications International Corp. (SAI) , the contractor
hired to overhaul payroll systems for New York City agencies,
agreed to pay $500.4 million under a deferred-prosecution
agreement to resolve claims that it conspired to defraud the
city.  SAIC admitted that it failed to investigate claims that a
manager of the CityTime payroll project directed staffing tasks
to a single subcontractor, Technodyne LLC, in exchange for
kickbacks, according to documents unsealed yesterday by federal
prosecutors. The McLean, Virginia-based company also failed to
notify the city of the claims, according to the agreement.  Payments to Technodyne for the project ballooned to $325
million from $17 million, even as the contract was amended to
transfer cost overruns to the city, according to a statement of
responsibility submitted by SAIC. The total cost of the program
was $693 million, according to  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for
Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The mayor is founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  SAIC agreed to the filing of one count of conspiracy to
commit wire fraud and to disgorge proceeds of the offense,
including $370.4 million in restitution to the city and a $130
million penalty, according to a Justice Department letter
describing the settlement. An independent monitor will be
appointed to ensure compliance with the accord and with
procurement policies.  If SAIC pays the money and cooperates with federal
investigators, the U.S. will seek to have the charges dropped
after three years, according to the agreement.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels approved the agreement
yesterday.  “We welcome this settlement as an important step in our
efforts to move forward as a better, stronger company,” SAIC
Chief Executive Officer John Jumper said in a statement
yesterday. “We have implemented strong improvements to our
compliance program and have new leadership in place. Our
financial position is solid.”  The case is U.S. v. Science Applications International
Corp., 11-cr-00121, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Former Taylor Bean Finance Chief Reaches Plea Agreement  Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s former finance
chief reached a plea agreement with federal prosecutors, almost
a year after the company’s chairman was found guilty of running
a $3 billion fraud.  Delton de Armas is scheduled to appear in court for a plea
hearing on March 20, according to a filing yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, Virginia. The court’s docket
doesn’t say what de Armas is being charged with.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
declined to comment on the filing. De Armas couldn’t be located
for comment.  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of  Taylor Bean , is serving a
30-year sentence after being convicted in April of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.  Six conspirators to the fraud scheme who pleaded guilty and
testified against Farkas at trial were sentenced to prison terms
ranging from three months to eight years.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala, Florida, was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans, when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Securities Suits’ Settlement Value Lowest in Decade, Report Says  The number of securities class action settlements approved
by U.S. courts dropped in a “weak year” to the lowest point in
a decade as the average amount of each accord fell by 42 percent
in 2011, according to a report.  Sixty-five such cases were resolved last year for a total
of $1.4 billion, the fewest settlements and lowest aggregate
dollar value in more than 10 years, Cornerstone Research, an
economics and financial consulting firm, said in a study
released yesterday. The average settlement amount fell from
$36.3 million in 2010 to $21 million last year, according to the
annual report.  “The class action securities fraud market is a business,
just like any other, and the 2011 settlements data indicate that
the plaintiffs and their counsel are coming off a weak year,”
Joseph Grundfest, a Stanford University law professor, said in a
statement accompanying the report’s release.  The settlement value fell 58 percent, from $3.2 billion in
2010 to $1.4 billion last year, according to the report. The
2011 total is half that of 2002, the next lowest year.  The declining numbers reflect the weakness of cases filed
three to five years ago, tougher standards of proof imposed upon
by the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  and market instability that has made
it more difficult for shareholders filing suit to say they
weren’t aware of the inherent risk of investing, Grundfest said.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Kerviel Dropped by Lawyer for SocGen Loss Appeal  Jerome Kerviel’s lawyer,  Olivier Metzner , has dropped him
as a client over a difference in his defense strategy, leaving
the former trader without a lawyer for the June appeal of his
2010 conviction for  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.4
billion) trading loss, Les Echos said yesterday, citing Metzner.  Metzner didn’t immediately return a call for comment by
Bloomberg News.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 