-- Swiss Luxury Watchmakers Put Diamonds on Inside to Stand Out
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-03-15T23:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/swiss-luxury-watchmakers-put-diamonds-on-inside-to-stand-out.html
Luxury watchmakers aren’t content
to cover timepieces with diamonds and gold -- now they’re adding
precious materials to inner workings as well.  Swiss companies including Omega and Hublot are replacing
traditional gold and steel with hi-tech alloys and ceramic
composites.  Patek Philippe SA , the 173-year-old Geneva brand
whose watches have sold for as much as 17 million Swiss francs
($18.4 million) at auction, is making components out of silicon
to improve accuracy and performance, while Ulysse Nardin SA is
coating some parts with diamonds.  The experiments are paying off for watchmakers and buyers.
Manufacturers can reduce the content of the most expensive
materials with alloys and composites as costs climb, while
owners find the watches more accurate, durable and lighter.  “There is something of a revolution,” in watchmaking,
said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets
in Zurich. “They’re starting to look under the bonnet of the
watches, looking at the movements, looking at silicon, looking
at other types of materials.”  Patek showcased the so-called reference 7140, an ultra-thin
ladies timepiece in pink gold encrusted with more than 90
diamonds that includes a perpetual calendar function, at this
year’s  Baselworld  watch fair. The model, which will retail for
82,000 francs, incorporates silicon, as does a complicated
timepiece for men also being introduced this year.  Closing the Gap  “There was a big gap between what we could calculate and
draw and what we could produce,” said Thierry Stern, Patek’s 
president in an interview at Baselworld. “Today with silicon 
we can realize and give life to those parts.”  The material helps watchmakers grapple with a loss of power
from friction in a watch’s movement, or internal mechanism,
avoiding the need for lubrication and boosting accuracy. Rolex
SA, Omega and Hublot, owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC) , have been developing gold alloys that are more durable and
resist scratches.  Gold blends may bring additional benefits by helping
watchmakers cope better with spiraling prices for precious
metals, according to Cox. The price of gold has climbed 19
percent in the past year, cutting into watchmakers’
profitability.  Silicon Parts  Patek plans to expand its use of silicon to about 90
percent of annual output in 10 years from a fifth at present,
according to Stern. It also expects to produce watches that are
more accurate than a type of complicated timepiece known as a
tourbillon. Valued for their precision, tourbillons compensate
for the effect of gravity on a watch’s mechanism by means of a
rotating cage inside the case. Prices for such piece can reach
hundreds of thousands of francs.  “Silicon continues to raise the bar for Patek versus
pretty much any other competitor,” Cox said. “The watch
industry is about standing out from the crowd and if you can
improve the performance of a watch that’s bound to help sales.”  Rolex also has been experimenting with alternative
materials, using ceramics and alloys and decorating the dials of
some models with a new gold alloy to highlight the crystal
structure of the precious metal.  Ulysse Nardin’s Freak timepiece in 2001 was the first watch
with a silicon escapement, the heart of a watch. The industry
took another step forward in 2005, when a collaboration
involving  Patek Philippe  and research bodies including the
Neuchatel, Switzerland-based CSEM led to the creation of a key
watch part made out of a silicon material called silinvar.
Swatch Group AG and Rolex SA also participated in the research
into silicon.  Ceramic-Gold Mix  Swatch’s Breguet and Omega brands now use silicon in some
of their timepieces. Omega watches using silicon parts,
accounting for about half of the watchmaker’s output, carry a
four-year warranty because of their reliability and accuracy.  The brand unveiled a watch encased in an alloy of gold and
ceramic at this year’s Baselworld. Dubbed Ceragold, the material
increases the durability of timepieces because of ceramic’s
hardness and improves a watch’s aesthetic, according to the
 Swatch (UHR)  brand.  The maker of the watches worn by astronauts during the
Apollo 11 lunar landing in 1969 is already using an alloy called
Liquidmetal that can be molded like plastic. Omega plans to use
Ceragold in its Seamaster Planet Ocean range of timepieces,
which will retail for as much as 25,200 francs.  “The aim is not just to make new materials, it’s to use
new materials to make a better product,” said Stephen Urquhart,
Omega’s president.  Hublot, owned by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, is
producing some signature Big Bang watches with its patented
Magic Gold. Jointly developed with the Swiss Federal Institute
of Technology Lausanne, the alloy is scratch-resistant and more
than twice as hard as standard gold, according to Hublot. It can
only be marked by diamond.  The technology used to develop Magic Gold also can be
applied to other metals including silver and platinum, and
Hublot has already used the process to make an aluminum alloy.  “No innovation, no future,” said Jean-Claude Biver,
chairman of the brand set up in 1980. “We only can survive if
every year we bring new innovation, new creativity, either in
the technology or sometimes in the materials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva, Switzerland, via 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  