-- Syrian Armed Forces Desertion Said to Surge to 60,000
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-03-15T22:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/syria-loses-20-000-troops-as-deserters-flee-turkey-says-1-.html
Desertions by members of  Syria ’s
armed forces have swollen to about 60,000 as growing numbers of
troops refuse to join the crackdown on protests by President
Bashar al-Assad’s government, according to a Turkish Foreign
Ministry official.  About 20,000 service personnel have left in less than a
month, said the official, who cited Turkish intelligence reports
and spoke on condition of anonymity in accordance with
government rules. The desertions are in addition to 40,000
military personnel who left before Feb. 20, the official said.
 Turkey ’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Selcuk Unal yesterday said a
seventh Syrian general has defected and is now in Turkey.  Syria’s armed forces have 295,000 active personnel,
according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies’
2012 Military Balance. They have been at the forefront of
Assad’s bid to stamp out the yearlong uprising, which this month
resulted in the seizure of the rebel-held strongholds of Idlib
and Homs. Some of the soldiers are joining the opposition Free
Syrian Army, whose commanders reside in Turkish refugee camps.  “Elite units have demonstrated loyalty to the Assad regime
and ruthlessness in suppressing demonstrators,” according to
this month’s report from the London-based IISS. Even so, “a
growing number of defections, mostly from junior officers and
soldiers, have been recorded, raising questions about the army’s
cohesiveness.”  It’s “not clear that the regime has sufficient loyal
forces to guarantee survival against a sustained campaign of
protest or an active armed insurgency,” according to the
report.  More Than 8,000 Dead  “Well over” 8,000 people have died since protests began,
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday,
while more than 32,000 have fled abroad. At least 46 people died
yesterday, most of them in Idlib, the Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus this
week met Hakan Fidan, head of Turkish intelligence, and Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  in Ankara. The Turkish government
subsequently said they discussed the situation in Syria.  Syria’s allies Russia and  China  should support United
Nations action to halt the “scorched earth methods” of Assad’s
government, according to a Human Rights Watch report.  “City after city, town after town, Syria’s security forces
are using their scorched earth methods while the  Security
Council ’s hands remain tied by Russia and China,”  Sarah Leah Whitson, the group’s  Middle East  director, said in the
statement. “One year on, the Security Council should finally
stand together and send a clear message to Assad that these
attacks should end.”  SANA said millions of Syrians streamed into squares in
cities across the country yesterday in a government-sanctioned
“global march for Syria,” an initiative by the country’s
youth. The march is “uniting all Syrians in affirmation of
their loyalty and affiliation to their homeland,” SANA said,
without providing further details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  