-- U.A.E.’s Fujairah Port Seeks Two-Thirds Boost in Fuel Storage
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-03-15T09:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-a-e-s-fujairah-port-seeks-two-thirds-boost-in-fuel-storage.html
The United Arab Emirates port of
Fujairah, which lies outside the  Strait of Hormuz  oil-shipment
chokepoint, aims to raise fuel storage capacity by about two
thirds as tank operators expand at the site, an official said.  The port, the U.A.E.’s largest outside the  Persian Gulf ,
will raise tank capacity to 10 million cubic meters by 2014 from
about 6 million cubic meters now, General Manager Mousa Murad
said in a March 12 interview. The emirate may also add power
facilities and a natural gas import plant at the site, he said.  Fujairah, one of the U.A.E.’s seven sheikhdoms, is nestled
between the Persian Gulf state’s Indian Ocean coast and the
Hajar Mountains, which provided the rocks for the artificial
islands off the coast of richer neighbor Dubai. The port is
seeking to compete with Singapore and Rotterdam as a hub for
bunker fuel. Traders in Fujairah supply about 24 million metric
tons of the shipping fuel a year, Murad said.  Vitol Group and  Royal Vopak NV (VPK)  lease fuels storage capacity
in Fujairah.  State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan , or Socar, is building
a terminal that will receive its first oil-product shipment
within the next two weeks, it said this week.  Murad said his forecast for growth assumes the completion
of all tank terminal projects planned in the emirate. That
includes the potential addition of tanks on reclaimed land at
the Vitol and Vopak sites, he said.  Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital and its largest emirate, is
building a 1.5 million barrel-a-day oil pipeline to Fujairah
that will allow U.A.E. crude to bypass the Strait of Hormuz once
the $3.3 billion project is completed in the first half.  Abu
Dhabi ’s government-owned International Petroleum Investment Co.
is planning a $3.5 billion refinery at Fujairah to process crude
from the link into motor fuels for sale in local markets.  The plan for a 200,000 barrel-a-day oil refinery may be
expanded to allow for additional production for export, Murad
said. IPIC, as the  investment company  is known, didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the plant, which is scheduled to
be finished by about 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  