-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed; BP, Tesco, Shire Decline
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-15T16:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-as-fitch-reviews-rating.html
U.K. (SXXP)  stocks were little changed as
 Fitch Ratings  said Britain risks losing its top investment-grade
rating, while a report showed U.S. jobless claims fell last
week.  BP Plc (BP/)  led oil and gas shares lower as crude prices fell.
 Shire Plc (SHP)  dropped 3.1 percent after withdrawing a U.S.
application for approval of the its Replagal drug for a rare
genetic disorder. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc retreated 4.3
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised selling the shares.  The FTSE 100 slid 4.71, less than 0.1 percent, to 5,940.72
at the close in  London . The gauge has still rallied 6.6 percent
this year as the  European Central Bank  disbursed 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of loans to the region’s banks. The FTSE
All-Share Index slipped 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index gained 1.2 percent as Elan Corp. soared by the most since
August.  “It’s been a somewhat mixed day for European markets today
with the FTSE lagging behind its European peers, on the back of
weaker defensives as well as a weaker oil and gas sector,” said
 Michael Hewson , a markets analyst at CMC Markets in London.  The number of shares changing hands on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 14
percent higher than the 30-day average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fitch Ratings said Britain risks losing its top investment
grade because of its limited ability to deal with shocks. Fitch
changed the outlook on the  U.K. (SXXP)  to “negative” from “stable,”
indicating a “slightly greater” than 50 percent chance that
the AAA-rating will be reduced within two years, the company
said late yesterday, citing the weak economic recovery, high
debt levels and threats from the euro-area debt crisis.  Jobs, Manufacturing  Claims for  jobless benefits  dropped last week in the U.S.,
matching the lowest level in four years. Applications for
unemployment insurance payments fell by 14,000 to 351,000 in the
week ended March 10, Labor Department figures showed today.
Economists forecast 357,000, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, indicating factories are still
driving the expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index, the so-called  Empire State index , unexpectedly increased
to 20.2 this month from 19.5 in February. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists was 17.5. Readings greater
than zero signal expansion in the gauge, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  An index of manufacturing in the Philadelphia region may
gain to 12 in March, from 10.2 the previous month, another
report may show.  Shire, Hikma  BP fell 1.3 percent to 492.75 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
slid 0.7 percent to 2,264 pence. Crude oil retreated for a
second day in New York.  Shire fell 3.1 percent to 2,158 pence. The Food and Drug
Administration will probably require additional trials to
approve Replagal as a treatment for Fabry disease, leading to a
“significant delay” in clearance, the Dublin-based company
said in a statement late yesterday. The decision won’t affect
Shire’s financial forecasts for this year, the company said.  Hikma declined 4.3 percent to 740.5 pence. JPMorgan
downgraded the shares to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from
overweight.  U.K. Coal, Tesco  U.K. Coal Plc lost 8.2 percent to 19.5 pence, for a second
day of declines, after saying it will restructure its business
and may close the Daw Mill mine.  Tesco retreated 1 percent to 321.75 pence.  Richard Brasher ,
the head of its biggest unit, will step down from the board and
leave the company in July after the U.K.’s largest supermarket
chain saw market share slide to seven-year low.  Premier Farnell slid 3.5 percent to 220.9 pence after
reporting earnings. Chief Executive Officer Harriet Green said
she expects sales growth from the middle of the year.  Game Group Plc (GMG)  soared 64 percent to 3.45 pence as the
computer games retailer whose stock plummeted earlier this week
after suppliers refused to send new products, said it’s in talks
for more funding.  Elan rallied 7.4 percent to 10.44 euros, the most since
August, in Dublin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  