-- U.K. Renewable Energy Push May Prevent Electricity Crisis
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-k-renewable-energy-push-may-prevent-electricity-crisis.html
The U.K. is heading for power
blackouts within five years unless Prime Minister  David Cameron 
devises a better strategy to build new nuclear plants, the
former government’s chief scientific adviser said.  “The risk of the lights going off is very serious,” Sir
 David King , who advised  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown ’s
administrations through 2007, said in an interview. “At the
moment the industry sees an amber light on nuclear new build. We
need a much clearer vision of the long-term future.”  The comments, accompanying a report released today from
Oxford University’s Smith School of Enterprise and Environment,
add to concerns that the government is dragging its feet on
replacing a quarter of its electricity generators that finish
service by the end of the decade.  The energy regulator estimates 200 billion pounds
($320 billion) must be spent by 2020 building new power stations
and upgrading the electricity grid to cope with additional
demand and the plants that retire from service. Electricite de
 France  SA and  Centrica Plc (CNA)  are leading the companies seeking to 
bid for work building new nuclear stations.  King, who heads the Smith school, is aiming to prod the
government into streamlining its decision-making process and 
coax the Treasury into making energy a priority as Chancellor 
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  plans a budget statement on 
March 21.  The professor suggested ministers set up an independent 
“commissioning authority” that would order nuclear, gas and 
renewable power developers to erect plants, cutting through 
existing bureaucratic channels at the national and local 
levels.  Blackouts in Five Years  King said power outages could occur as early as 2017 as old
nuclear, oil and coal-fired power stations are closed because
not enough is being done to replace them. The school's study
shows Britain can’t meet its goal of cutting  carbon emissions  80 
percent by 2050 without ramping up nuclear power and electrifying
both transport and heating.  The comments contrast with findings by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, which last month concluded that growth in renewable
energy will prevent the U.K. from suffering an electricity
crisis. Britain will build more than 30 gigawatts of capacity by
the end of 2016, two-thirds of it in solar, wind and biomass and
the rest largely fired by natural gas, according to the
researcher.  ‘Expensive’ Renewables  King said that switching all generation to renewables would
be “enormously expensive” because everything would need to be
backed up by equivalent gas-fired capacity for when the wind
doesn’t blow. The  power grid  could support a maximum of 20
percent large-scale wind power, alongside smaller turbines,
solar panels and geothermal heat pumps fitted to homes, he said.  The professor also said he thinks the U.S. shale gas bubble
is “hype,” with wells depleting after a year or two of
extraction, and that the U.K.’s “North Sea Oil bonanza is now
over” after production peaked in 1999. Output now is below half
those levels.  “We have lost something like 50 billion pounds a year
worth of oil at $100 a barrel,” King said. “If we’re going to
make ends meet, we need to end up by 2050 switching transport
onto the grid and switching heat onto the grid. We can have a
completely domestic energy production by mid-century.”  The Smith School studied four future supply and demand
scenarios for the U.K., each of which entailed at least 40
gigawatts of nuclear generating capacity in 2050. The U.K.
currently has about 11 gigawatts of nuclear power, with all but
1.2 gigawatts scheduled to close down by 2023, according to the
 World Nuclear Association .  New Nuclear  EDF’s Hinkley Point reactor, due for completion in 2018,
will be the first new atomic plant built in the U.K. in more
than 20 years.  Cameron last month signed a nuclear energy agreement with
France, paving the way for a new wave of plants. France’s Areva
SA, along with Westinghouse Electric Co., in December received
U.K. regulatory approval for their new reactor designs.  Cameron’s Conservatives lead a government that includes the
Liberal Democrats, a party that opposed nuclear power before it
joined the administration. The coalition is now encouraging its
development, and last year introduced a carbon “floor price”
that taxes power from fossil fuels, benefitting nuclear power
and renewables. That’s not enough to spur sufficient nuclear,
King said.  “The basic idea from DECC of setting a floor to the carbon
price is a very good one, but I don’t think you can sit back and
let the market deliver because the market is short-term,” said
King, who served as chief scientific adviser to the government
from 2000 through 2007.  King also suggested the U.K. should consider converting its
plutonium stocks into so-called MOX fuel, and then leasing that
to utilities for electricity generation, retaining the
obligation to dispose of the waste. That would lower the cost of
disposing of current stocks of nuclear waste, it said.  King’s team said that experimental fast reactors would
lower the need for uranium fuel, which may become scarce if
other countries pursue an expansion of nuclear.  “We need a strategy for energy production for the U.K.
that optimizes our development and optimizes the business of
keeping the lights on,” King said. “We’re not there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  