-- U.S. Auto Dealers Who Survived Debacle See Record Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-auto-dealers-who-survived-debacle-see-record-sales.html
Spring Chrysler-Jeep-Dodge-Ram  in
Houston was one of the fortunate U.S. auto dealers to have
survived the industry meltdown of 2008 and 2009.  “It was tough times,” Al Heggs, the dealership’s general
manager, said of the period when sales plunged to less than 135
new cars and trucks a month from 300. “You don’t take any
solace in the fact that everybody else is suffering. You just
got to figure out how to keep yourself above water.”  Beleaguered Spring Chrysler wound up doing that -- and much
more. Today, the dealer is raking in the cash and, as it turns
out, so are plenty of other survivors. Industrywide per-store
dealership profit has almost tripled from 2008.  A 12 percent reduction in the U.S. dealer count since 2008,
spearheaded by Chrysler Group LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 
reorganizations and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s restructuring out of 
bankruptcy, is now translating to record sales and the highest 
profit in at least five years. That’s allowing dealers who 
survived to re-hire salesmen and technicians, spend aggressively 
on store renovations and boost spending on local advertising.  “This was always an excellent business, a resilient
business, and now it’s just about in as good shape as it’s been
in for decades,”  John Casesa , senior managing director at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in  New York  and a former auto dealer,
said in a phone interview. “The businesses are just humming.”  Employment (USRTMOTV)  at vehicle and parts dealers has increased in 19
consecutive months, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics
in  Washington . The industry employed about 1.72 million as of
February, from 1.61 million at the nadir of February 2010.  Adding Employees  Brian Hamilton, principal of  Chevrolet-Buick-Cadillac  and
 Chrysler-Dodge-Jeep  stores in Kearney,  Nebraska , said he’s added
at least 10 new employees recently as technicians and in his
sales and parts departments.  “The real dark times were darker because we were also a
wind-down dealer, meaning we were going to lose our Buick and
Cadillac franchises,” Hamilton said in a phone interview. “We
didn’t have those cars for about nine months.”  Hamilton and hundreds of other dealers went to arbitration
with Detroit-based GM and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.
Some of those dealers were allowed to keep their franchises, and
like Hamilton did with both stores, are now remodeling them.  More than 3,400 GM-brand dealerships in the U.S. are
undergoing upgrades and renovation, investing about $3 billion,
Alan Batey, Chevrolet vice president of sales and service, said
before the National Automobile Dealers Association convention in
February. GM expects dealers will complete the overhauling of
their stores with features like new exterior entrances, brighter
showrooms and free Wi-Fi by 2016, he said.  Dealer’s Investment  Bill Perkins, a Chevrolet dealer with stores in  Eastpointe 
and  Taylor ,  Michigan , said he’s spending about $2.5 million to
upgrade his facilities under GM’s Essential Brand Elements
initiative. Perkins said the most recent major renovation he
made to either of the stores was in 2003.  About half of auto dealers’ costs are variable and can be
pared when sales fall off, said Guggenheim’s Casesa, who was an
analyst covering auto manufacturers and retailers at Wertheim
Schroder & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co. from 1989 to 2006. He
owned three dealerships from his retirement as an analyst until
2009, when he became an investment banker.  “Once these guys were able to catch their breath, they
were able to reduce their cost base,” Casesa said. “Once they
were able to adjust and volumes rebounded, the profitability has
been almost off the charts.”  Per-Dealer Profits  The average U.S. auto dealer earned a pretax profit of
 $785,855  last year on revenue of $34.7 million, according to the
McLean, Virginia-based National Automobile Dealers Association,
which represents 16,000 new-car dealers. Dealers’ average pretax
profit was  $279,685  in 2008.  “Once I got through ’08, I said man, I can really make
some money if the market starts to pick up,” Perkins, the
Michigan dealer, said in a phone interview.  GM and Chrysler’s bankruptcy plans called for eliminating
more than  2,200 dealers  as part of their 2009 reorganizations.
U.S. automakers have shrunk their networks to avoid having their
dealers compete with each another in the same markets and to
boost profitability of remaining outlets.  The dealership closings led to congressional hearings and
drew criticism from the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, which said that the Treasury
Department should have considered the job losses.  ‘Part of the Problem’  The cutting of dealers by GM and Chrysler was necessary,
 Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview.  “The dealer network was part of the problem,” said Zandi,
who  testified  in favor of the government rescuing GM and
Chrysler in the  U.S. Senate  in December 2008. “It was bloated
and had not rationalized to weakening levels of sales. It’s now
rationalized, restructured and meddle-tested. They have gone
through a wrenching process.”  A smaller dealer network is working for GM and Chrysler.
More than 90 percent of GM’s dealers were profitable in 2011, up
from 57 percent in 2008 and the highest since the mid-1970s,
said Tom Henderson, a company spokesman. Chrysler said in a
regulatory filing last week that 86 percent of its dealers in
the U.S. reported being profitable last year, up from 49 percent
in 2008.  U.S. auto sales per dealer may rise about 9.2 percent to
785 vehicles this year, surpassing the record of 784 vehicles in
2005, dealership consultant Urban Science said in its annual
Automotive Franchise Activity Report released last month. The
firm has compiled the report since 1990.  Acquisition Activity  Improved sales and profitability at domestic dealerships
has expanded the number of appealing acquisition targets for
privately held and publicly listed auto retailers, Alan Haig,
managing director at advisory firm  Presidio Automotive  in  Chapel
Hill ,  North Carolina , said in a phone interview.  “If you’re a buyer, your menu of attractive acquisition
targets is much broader than it has been, I would say since the
mid-1990s, before the domestics started to go into their long
slide in market share,” said Haig, who previously oversaw
acquisitions at  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S. dealer group.  Executives at AutoNation,  Penske Automotive Group Inc. (PAG) , and
 Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI)  have all said they’re pursuing
acquisitions. Roger Penske, chief executive officer of Penske
Automotive, has said more dealers are interested in selling
their businesses because of the high cost of facilities upgrades
automakers are seeking.  Retiring Owners  Acquisition activity also will be bolstered by sellers who
have put off transactions during the three-year period ending in
2010, when the number of transactions fell to the lowest in more
than a decade, Presidio’s Haig said.  “For owners who are at  retirement age , the last four years
has been fairly difficult to exit your business,” he said.
“The price that a seller could get today may be about the same
as what they might get in a few years, because the closer we get
to a peak in the economic cycle, the more likely the multiple a
buyer will pay is going to contract a bit.”  Heggs, the Houston dealer, said that in addition to losing
competitors in his store’s vicinity, new product from Chrysler
has helped sales. Chrysler introduced 16 new or refreshed
vehicles in the first 19 months since Turin, Italy-based Fiat
took control of the company.  “For a good 18 months, Chrysler didn’t have any new
product coming down the pipeline that people were eager to get
to,” Heggs said in an interview. “Grand Cherokee used to be
one of the most unrefined vehicles. When it got redesigned, it
blew off the walls. The 300 is a huge, huge vehicle that moves
for us. And trucks --  Texas  is truck land.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  