-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending March 13 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-03-15T12:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-march-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  This U.S. Drought Monitor week saw a number of notable storms.
One dumped copious amounts of precipitation in  Louisiana  leading
to a governor-declared state of emergency.  Parts of the state
saw 15 inches of rain that led to areas of flooding.  Another
notable storm was a slow-moving system affecting the Hawaiian
Islands for nearly a week. This storm dumped over 40 inches of
rain on areas of Kauai and almost that much on parts of Oahu.
The week of wet weather was topped-off by thunderstorms, hail,
and a tornado that formed as a water spout and moved onshore on
Oahu on March 9.  This was Hawaii’s first tornado in four years
and one of only 41 recorded for the state since 1950.  The Southeast: Rains in the Southeast this week generally fell
outside of existing drought areas with the exception of  South
Florida , where rain staved off mounting deficits south and
southwest of Lake Okeechobee.  Mounting deficits through  North
Carolina  led to the expansion of Moderate Drought (D1) and
Abnormal Dryness (D0) there. Likewise, conditions deteriorated
slightly in southern  Alabama .  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Mounting deficits led to
expansion of Abnormal Dryness (D0) from upstate New York east
and south to coastal Connecticut and  Rhode Island , where rain
has been sparse.  The South and Southern Plains:  Another week of above normal
precipitation from  Oklahoma  through central and eastern Texas
and into Louisiana alleviated drought there.  In Louisiana, up
to 15 inches of rain fell on March 12-13, mainly in areas
unaffected by drought. Flooding plagued large areas and a state
of emergency was declared by the governor.  Severe (D2) and
Moderate (D1) Drought and Abnormal Dryness (D0) were alleviated
in the western and southern part of the state.  In  Texas , areas
of Severe (D2) and Moderate (D1) Drought and Abnormal Dryness
(D0) were alleviated in the central and eastern part of the
state while Extreme Drought (D3) expanded slightly in the south.
In Oklahoma, widespread rains led to considerable improvements
in most areas, with the exception of the western Panhandle.
Across Oklahoma Exceptional (D4), Extreme (D3), Severe (D2), and
Moderate (D1) Drought all decreased.  In certain areas, this
left behind lingering Abnormal Dryness (D0).  In  Kansas , areas
of Moderate Drought (D1) and Abnormal Dryness (D0) expanded in
the north and west.  The Central and Northern Plains and Midwest: Conditions improved
slightly in northern  North Dakota  as a result of a multi-day
rain event.  In Nebraska, Abnormal Dryness (D0) expanded over a
large portion of the western part of the state based upon
mounting long-term deficits beginning to be felt as agriculture
ramps up for the year.  The West: A storm moved onshore dumping rain and snow from
northern  California , up the coast and into  Canada .  To the south
of the storm and into the Southwest, conditions generally
degraded.  Severe (D2) and Moderate (D1) Drought expanded in
eastern California through the Las Vegas area and across most of
southern  Arizona , where Extreme Drought (D3) was also
introduced.  Hawaii , Alaska and  Puerto Rico : Drought conditions remained
unchanged in Alaska and Puerto Rico this week. In Hawaii,
Torrential rains slammed the state, according to the National
Weather Service.  Forty-plus inches of rain fell on parts of
Kauai while parts of Oahu received nearly the same amount.
Overall, the rain led to improvements in Exceptional (D4),
Extreme (D3), Severe (D2), and Moderate (D1) Drought and
Abnormal Dryness (D0) on Molokai, Maui, and Oahu.  Looking Ahead: During the March 15-19, 2012 time period, there
is an enhanced probability of precipitation in the Pacific
Northwest throughout the period and in the central part of the
country late in the period.  Temperatures are expected to be
above normal east of the Rockies.  For the ensuing 5 days (March 20-24, 2012), the odds favor
normal to warmer than normal conditions over the entire US, east
of the Rockies. West of that, normal to below-normal
temperatures are expected. Precipitation is expected to be
below-normal along the East Coast and in the Southwest.  Above-
normal precipitation is expected in the Northwest and from the
Southern Plains through the Midwest.  In  Alaska , both
temperatures and precipitation are expected to be normal to
below-normal.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  