-- U.S. May Sanction India Over Level of Iran-Oil Imports
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-03-15T13:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-may-sanction-india-over-level-of-iran-oil-imports.html
India  has failed to reduce its
purchases of  Iranian oil , and if it doesn’t do so, President
 Barack Obama  may be forced to impose sanctions on one of  Asia ’s
most important nations, Obama administration officials said
yesterday.  A decision to levy penalties under a new U.S. law
restricting payments for Iranian oil could come as early as June
28, according to several U.S. officials who spoke on condition
of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  “Given the level of trade, and in particular oil, between
Iran and India, targeting an Indian entity that facilitates
Iran’s access to the international financial market should be
top of mind for the  U.S. Treasury ,” Avi Jorisch, a former
Treasury Department official who is now a Washington-based
consultant on deterring illicit finance, said in an interview.  The U.S. law, which targets oil payments made through
 Iran ’s central bank, applies to any country that doesn’t make a
“significant” reduction in its Iranian crude oil purchases
during the first half of this year. If India fails to  cut
Iranian imports sufficiently, Obama may be compelled to bar
access to the U.S. banking system for any Indian bank processing
oil payments through Iran’s central bank, the U.S. officials
said.  While India hasn’t asked its refiners to stop purchasing
Iranian crude, the government has told processors in the South
Asian nation to seek alternate supplies and gradually reduce
their dependence on the Persian Gulf state due to increasing
pressure from the U.S. in recent weeks, three Indian officials
with direct knowledge of the situation said today.  No Significant Reduction  India hasn’t significantly cut imports this year because
refiners’ annual crude term deals with Iran typically run from
April to March, they said. The planned reductions will start
only when new annual contracts begin next month, the Indian
officials said, declining to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  India bought an average of 328,000 barrels a day of Iranian
crude in the first six months of last year, making it the No. 3
buyer, behind China and Japan and ahead of  South Korea ,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Iran is
the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  The U.S. government may not be aware that India’s biggest
buyer of Iranian oil, state-owned  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , plans to import less from Iran starting
next month, according to two officials with direct knowledge of
the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak.  Unilateral Sanctions  Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  and Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai have said India
will continue to buy Iranian oil to meet its growing energy
needs. While the Indian government has an excellent record of
enforcing United Nations sanctions on Iran, India has objected
to unilateral U.S. sanctions, according to U.S. officials.  “We abide scrupulously by UN authorized sanctions,”
Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said in a
telephone interview. While restrictions imposed by individual
countries “have an impact on commercial interactions, from a
legal perspective there is nothing that binds us to follow
them.”  Oil Purchases Rise  The latest shipping data shows India and South Korea
sharply increased oil purchases from Iran in January, according
to a report released yesterday by the  International Energy
Agency  in Paris.  China  halved its imports from Iran, from
550,000 barrels a day in December to 275,000 barrels a day in
January, following a dispute over pricing terms that has now
been resolved, the report said.  The new U.S. law targeting Iranian petroleum transactions
doesn’t specify by what percentage a nation must reduce its
Iranian oil imports to qualify for an exemption from sanctions.
U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they
are looking for cuts of around 15 percent in volume, though they
might consider whether buyers have extracted significant price
discounts, thereby depriving Iran of revenue.  Mangalore Refinery may cut its contract to 6 million metric
tons, or 120,000 barrels a day, in the year ending March 2013,
which would be a 15 percent cut from the previous year, one of
the people with knowledge of the planned reductions said.  U.S. Offer  The U.S. has offered India help in brokering deals with
alternative suppliers including Iraq and  Saudi Arabia , which has
offered to replace any shortfall, according to U.S. and Indian
officials.  Envoys from the White House, the State Department, the
Treasury Department and the U.S. Embassy in India have had
numerous conversations with Indian counterparts since Congress
began debating the sanctions measure that Obama signed into law
Dec. 31.  Nancy Powell, the Obama administration’s ambassador-
designate to India, testified before Congress last month that if
confirmed, she would be “spending a great deal of time”
working with India on Iran sanctions issues. She quoted Mathai,
who came to  Washington  for meetings last month, as saying India
is working to diversify its sources of petroleum and reduce its
dependence on Iran to no more than 10 percent of its total oil
imports.  “That would be a very good sign,” Powell said.  Disrupting Shipments  U.S. and European Union sanctions are already disrupting
Iranian crude shipments to global refiners, contributing to a 16
percent advance in London-traded Brent this year. Brent oil for
April settlement fell $1.25, or 1 percent, to end the session at
$124.97 yesterday on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The EU decided two months ago to embargo Iranian oil
imports effective July 1. Last year, the 27-member EU was
collectively the No. 2 importer of Iranian oil, taking 18
percent of Iran’s crude exports. Faced with a shrinking pool of
buyers, Iran last month offered India additional crude supplies
on revised terms.  China’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  has criticized
sanctions on Iranian oil. China’s crude imports from Iran hit
their lowest level in five months in January, customs data show,
as the country’s biggest buyer,  China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Co. (0119173D) , known as Unipec, delayed signing a new
contract because of a dispute over payment terms. Unipec cut its
2012 term contract purchases by 15 percent from 2011, though the
payment dispute has since been resolved.  Japan, Korea  For their part, Japan and South Korea are seeking
exemptions from the new U.S. sanctions. If both nations can
demonstrate a significant reduction in their purchases by the
end of June, their banks would escape penalties, according to
two U.S. officials involved in the talks.  Japan is seeking to reduce its  crude  purchases from Iran by
at least 11 percent, according to a Japanese government official
interviewed Feb. 21. The three largest Japanese buyers of
Iranian crude are  Showa Shell Sekiyu KK (5002) , JX Nippon Oil & Energy
Corp. and  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)   The South Korean government has said it will make a
decision on cutting Iranian crude imports by the end of June.
South Korean officials denied reports saying they had already
proposed cutting imports by 15 percent to 20 percent.  The White House doesn’t want to punish Japan, South Korea
or India, critical U.S. partners in trade and security and
important regional counterweights to the rise of China, U.S.
officials said. Still, the president has limited leeway to grant
exemptions under the law, and so far, India hasn’t demonstrated
reductions, they said.  Free Pass  Mark Dubowitz , the executive director of the Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies in Washington and an adviser to the
administration on sanctions, said India shouldn’t assume it will
avoid sanctions unless its refiners demonstrably reduce imports
over the next three months.  There’s no reason “why India should be given a free pass
as the EU,  Japan  and others significantly reduce the scale and
scope of their Iranian trade,” he said in an interview. “No
country should be confident that it will not be the target of
U.S. sanctions.”  Other analysts said Indian officials have responded to U.S.
pressure by quietly pressing state-run refiners to switch to
alternative sources, and they expect the U.S. to reach an
accommodation with the world’s most populous democracy.  “It’s highly unlikely that the U.S. would sanction India
on this issue. The Iran issue is an irritant at best,” Harsh V. Pant, a specialist on India and Iran at King’s College  London ,
said in a telephone interview.  The Iranian central bank sanctions that Obama signed into
law Dec. 31 are part of a larger effort to deprive the Persian
Gulf country of its leading source of revenue and complicate
Iran’s commercial ties with the outside world. The U.S. and the
EU have piled on new sanctions since November in an effort to
pressure Iran to abandon any work it may be conducting to
acquire a nuclear weapons capability. Iran insists that its
nuclear program is strictly for civilian energy and medical
research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  