-- U.S. March Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-03-15T12:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-march-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The March Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity in New York State expanded at a moderate
pace. The general business conditions index was little changed
at 20.2, its fourth consecutive positive reading. The new orders
and shipments indexes were both positive but slightly lower,
indicating continued growth in orders and shipments, though at a
somewhat slower pace than in the last month. The prices paid
index rose a steep 25 points to 50.6, its highest level since
summer 2011, and the prices received index was positive but two
points lower than in February. Employment indexes rose and
indicated continued growth in both employment levels and the
average workweek. Indexes for the six-month outlook, though
generally somewhat lower than they were last month, conveyed a
high degree of optimism, and the capital spending index rose to
its highest level in more than a year.  On a series of supplementary survey questions, respondents were
asked about recent and expected changes in their firms’
borrowing needs and credit availability. Parallel questions were
asked in October 2011, March 2011, and earlier surveys. While a
majority of respondents in the latest survey reported no change
in borrowing needs, a larger proportion than in earlier surveys
indicated a rising need to borrow. Looking ahead, 30 percent of
manufacturers indicated that they expect borrowing needs to be
higher a year from now, whereas just 13 percent anticipated
lower borrowing needs. Respondents were evenly split about both
past and expected changes in credit availability. Firms also
reported little change in borrowing costs, on balance, over the
past three months.  Moderate Pace of Growth Continues  The general business conditions index was little changed in
March and, at 20.2, indicated a continued moderate pace of
growth in business activity for New York State manufacturers.
One-third of respondents reported that conditions had improved,
while just 13 percent reported worsening conditions. The new
orders index inched down three points to 6.8, indicating a
modest growth in orders. The shipments index fell five points to
18.2, revealing a continued increase in shipments, though at a
slower pace than in February. The unfilled orders index rose six
points to -1.2; though negative, this is the highest value for
the index since June 2011. The delivery time index rose six
points to 7.4, indicating that delivery times lengthened. The
inventories index rose to zero, suggesting that inventory levels
held steady.  Input Costs Rise Sharply  The prices paid index rose a steep 25 points to 50.6 in March,
suggesting that manufacturers observed a sharp increase in input
costs. The last time the index was this high was in summer 2011.
The prices received index inched down two points to 13.6,
suggesting a modest increase in selling prices. Employment
indexes were positive and higher than they were last month,
indicating a continued improvement in labor market conditions.
The number of employees index rose two points to 13.6, and the
average workweek index climbed 11 points to 18.5.  Outlook Is Optimistic, with Strong Growth Seen in Capital
Spending  Indexes for the six-month outlook were generally somewhat lower
than they were last month, but held at levels that conveyed a
high degree of optimism. The future general business conditions
index dipped three points to 47.5, the future new orders index
also fell three points, to 42.0, and the future shipments index
was down six points, reaching 43.2. The future prices paid index
rose four points to 66.7, with two-thirds of respondents
expecting to pay higher prices in the months ahead. The future
prices received index fell two points to 32.1. The future number
of employees index rose three points to 32.1, and the future
average workweek index rose two points to 21.0. The capital
spending index was slightly higher at 32.1, its highest level in
more than a year, and the technology spending index rose six
points to 24.7. 