-- U.S. February Producer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-03-15T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-february-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S. producer
price report for February released by the Labor Department.  The  Producer Price Index  for finished goods advanced 0.4 percent in
February, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported
today. Finished goods prices rose 0.1 percent in January and decreased 0.1
percent in December. At the earlier stages of processing, the index for
intermediate goods moved up 0.7 percent and crude goods prices increased 0.4
percent. On an unadjusted basis, the finished goods index rose 3.3 percent for
the 12 months ended February 2012, the smallest year-over-year rise since a
similar 3.3-percent advance in August 2010.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  In February, the increase in finished goods prices was led by the index for
finished energy goods, which moved up 1.3 percent. Prices for finished goods
less foods and energy rose 0.2 percent. By contrast, the finished consumer foods
index edged down 0.1 percent.  Finished energy:  Prices for finished energy goods advanced 1.3 percent in February after
declining in each of the previous two months. A 4.3-percent jump in the gasoline
index accounted for most of the increase. Advances in the indexes for
residential electric power and home heating oil also contributed to the rise in
finished energy goods prices.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and energy moved up 0.2 percent in
February, the third straight monthly increase. A third of the February rise can
be traced to a 0.6-percent advance in prices for pharmaceutical preparations. An
increase in the index for civilian aircraft also contributed to higher finished
core prices.  Finished foods:  In February, the finished consumer foods index inched down 0.1 percent, the
third consecutive monthly decrease. A 2.8-percent drop in prices for dairy
products led the February decline in the finished consumer foods index.  Intermediate goods  The Producer  Price Index  for intermediate materials, supplies, and
components moved up 0.7 percent in February following a 0.4-percent decline in
January. Most of this advance can be attributed to higher prices for
intermediate materials less foods and energy, which climbed 1.0 percent. The
index for intermediate energy goods rose 0.3 percent. By contrast, prices for
intermediate foods and feeds edged down 0.1 percent. For the 12 months ended in
February, the intermediate goods index advanced 3.3 percent, the smallest year-
over-year increase since a 2.9-percent rise in December 2009.  Intermediate core:  The index for intermediate goods less foods and energy moved up 1.0 percent
in February after four consecutive declines. Sixty percent of this increase can
be traced to the index for basic organic chemicals, which jumped 6.4 percent.
Higher prices for nonferrous mill shapes and prepared paint also contributed to
the advance in the intermediate core index.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods advanced 0.3 percent in February after
declining 1.4 percent a month earlier. A major factor in this rise was the index
for  diesel fuel , which increased 4.1 percent. Higher gasoline prices also
contributed significantly to the advance in the intermediate energy goods index.  Intermediate foods:  Prices for intermediate foods and feeds edged down 0.1 percent in February,
the third straight monthly decrease. A 1.6-percent drop in prices for meats was
a significant contributor to the February decline. Lower prices for dairy
products also were a major factor in the decrease in the intermediate foods
index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further processing
advanced 0.4 percent in February. For the 3 months ending in February, crude
goods prices moved up 0.4 percent compared with a 2.3-percent increase for the 3
months ending in November. On a monthly basis, the February index for crude
foodstuffs and feedstuffs climbed 0.6 percent, and prices for crude energy
materials moved up 0.3 percent. By contrast, the index for crude nonfood
materials less energy declined 0.3 percent.  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs increased 0.6 percent in
February. From November to February, prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
fell 0.4 percent, compared with a 1.6-percent decrease from August to November.
Leading the monthly rise in February was the slaughter cattle index, which
climbed 5.4 percent. Higher prices for slaughter poultry and soybeans also were
factors in the advance in the crude foods index.  Crude energy:  The Producer Price Index for crude energy materials moved up 0.3 percent in
February. For the 3 months ending in February, prices for crude energy materials
increased 0.9 percent following an 11.2-percent jump in the previous 3-month
period. The February advance in the crude energy materials index is attributable
to prices for crude petroleum, which rose 5.4 percent.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy fell 0.3 percent in
February. From November to February, crude core prices inched up 0.2 percent
after decreasing 5.7 percent from August to November. In February, most of the
monthly decline can be traced to a 6.4-percent drop in the index for carbon
steel scrap. Lower corn prices also contributed to the decrease in the crude
core index.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total trade industries edged
down 0.1 percent in February after no change in the prior month. (Trade indexes
measure changes in margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) Leading the
February decline was an 11.7-percent decrease in margins received by discount
department stores. Lower margins received by merchant wholesalers of durable
goods and by electronic shopping and mail-order houses also contributed
significantly to the decrease in the total trade industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of transportation and
warehousing industries moved up 0.4 percent in February, the third consecutive
increase. Almost half of the February gain can be attributed to a 2.3-percent
advance in prices received by the U.S. Postal Service. Higher prices received
for long-distance general freight trucking and by line-haul railroads also were
factors in the February increase in the transportation and warehousing
industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total traditional service
industries rose 0.2 percent in February subsequent to a 0.4-percent advance a
month earlier. Accounting for thirty percent of the February increase, prices
received by portfolio managers climbed 2.2 percent. Higher prices received by
investment bankers and securities dealers and by non-casino hotels and motels
also contributed to the February increase in the total traditional service
industries index.  The Producer Price Index for March 2012 is scheduled to be released on Thursday,
April 12, 2012 at 8:30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  