-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for March 15 to June 2012 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-03-15T12:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-march-15-to-june-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for March 15 -
June 30, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the
release of the previous drought outlook issued on March 1, 2012,
drought improvement occurred across parts of the Great Plains
and along the Gulf Coast, while drought intensified across the
Florida peninsula and the West. Since the seasonal precipitation
signals are weak as La Nina is forecast to transition to ENSO-
neutral conditions by the end of April, the outlook is based
primarily on short to medium range forecasts, the CPC April
outlooks, and climatology. During the remainder of March, more
beneficial precipitation can be expected across the Great
Plains, especially across southeast  Kansas , Oklahoma, and
northern/central  Texas . This March precipitation coupled with an
increasingly wet climatology favor improvement across parts of
the Great Plains along with the western Corn Belt and upper
Mississippi Valley. Prospects for improvement diminish across
the central/southern high Plains, while persistence is expected
across the Southwest. After an unseasonably dry winter,
precipitation returned to the Pacific Northwest and  California 
during March. Although improvement is forecast across the
Pacific Northwest and northern California due to a favorable
pattern for continued wetness throughout March, a complete
recovery of the deficient snowpack in the Sierra Nevada is not
expected. Persistence is forecast for much of the Southeast due
to relatively dry conditions expected during late March and
April. Late in the outlook period, improvement may begin in
south  Florida  with the onset of the rainy season. Some
improvement is expected across the lingering drought areas in
 Hawaii .  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for April
2012 and the long lead forecast for April through June 2012,
various medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the
6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 384-hour GFS
total precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools based on
the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate
Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month Palmer
drought termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology,
and initial conditions.  Since the La Niña event of 2010-2011, widespread moderate to
extreme drought remains entrenched across parts of the
Southeast. La Niña conditions returned during fall 2011 but are
expected to transition to ENSO-neutral conditions by the end of
April. Since mid-February, heavy rainfall (5 to 10 inches)
alleviated drought conditions along the central  Gulf Coast  and
the  Florida Panhandle . Meanwhile, the Florida peninsula
experienced near to below normal rainfall during the past 30
days. The average water level at Lake Okeechobee has fallen to
12.84 feet (down from 13.14 feet two weeks ago), and is 1.69
feet below normal as of March 14th (South Florida Water
Management District, www.sfwmd.gov). Since below median
precipitation is favored during the remainder of March and
continuing into April, persistence is favored across Florida.
Although the onset of the convective season during late May and
June could ameliorate drought conditions, widespread improvement
is more likely beyond the outlook period. Meanwhile, across
southern  Georgia  and the coastal plain of the Carolinas, the
odds also favor relatively dry conditions during late March and
April. Therefore, persistence is also expected across these
areas. Prospects for improvement increase across central Georgia
and the piedmont of  South Carolina  due to a weakening dry signal
during April. Forecast confidence for the Southeast is moderate.  Periodic precipitation during the past month reduced drought
coverage and severity across the central and southern Great
Plains. According to the  Oklahoma  Mesonet, precipitation amounts
have generally averaged between 1 to 4 inches across Oklahoma
excluding the Oklahoma Panhandle. Although parts of northern and
central Oklahoma are drought-free, much of the southern Great
Plains continues to suffer from the protracted drought. As an
upper-level trough progresses from the western conus, another
round of beneficial rainfall is expected across the
central/southern Great Plains during latter half of March. Due
to elevated odds for above median precipitation forecast during
the day 6-10 period and a relatively wet climatology during the
outlook period, improvement can be expected across parts of the
central/southern Great Plains. However, across the
central/southern high Plains and south Texas, prospects for
improvement are less likely as the CPC April outlook favors
below median precipitation and above normal temperatures.
Forecast confidence for the central and southern Great Plains is
moderate.  As of March 13, Snow Water Content values (since Oct 1, 2011)
are running 75 to 130 percent of average across southwest
 Colorado  and  New Mexico , 60 to 80 percent of average across
 Utah , and 30 to 50 percent of average in  Arizona . Despite
expected rain and mountain snow during the next week, initial
conditions combined with an increasingly dry climatology and
enhanced odds for below median precipitation during April (per
the CPC monthly outlook), persistence or development is forecast
across the Southwest. Due to the upcoming precipitation in mid
to late March, development is limited to areas currently
designated as abnormally dry (southern Utah and west-central
Colorado) according to the U.S. Drought Monitor as of March 13.
Although not currently depicted, an early onset of the monsoon
could bring some improvement to parts of the Southwest at the
end of the outlook period. Forecast confidence for the Southwest
is moderate to high.  An erratic seasonal precipitation pattern resulted in expansion
of moderate to severe drought across the Pacific Northwest,
California, and the Great Basin during the 2011-12 winter. As of
March 13, Snow Water Content values are running 50-90 percent of
average in the Oregon Cascades and less than 40 percent of
average across the Sierra Nevada of California. Precipitation
deficits from February 12 - March 12 are more than 6 inches
across parts of northern California. After a prolonged dry
period, precipitation has recently returned to the Pacific
Northwest and northern California. From March 14-18, HPC’s 5-day
precipitation graphic indicates 4 to 8 inches (liquid
equivalent) across the Oregon Cascades south to the Sierra
Nevada of California. The CPC 6-10/8-14 day outlooks favor above
median precipitation across this Pacific Northwest and northern
California due to a persistent, upper-level trough. Due to the
expected wetness during the remainder of March, improvement is
forecast across the Pacific Northwest and northern California.
Farther south across the remainder of California, prospects for
widespread precipitation during March diminish. In addition, an
increasingly dry climatology favors persistence across the
southern half of California. Persistence is also forecast for
the northern Great Basin due to initial conditions and weaker
signals for wetness during the remainder of March. Forecast
confidence for California and Oregon Cascades is moderate and
low for the northern Great Basin and  Washington .  Drought coverage and intensity has remained nearly steady across
the western Corn Belt and upper Mississippi Valley during the
past month. A lack of adequate snowfall this winter contributes
to short-term moderate to severe drought. An approaching upper-
level trough is expected to bring widespread precipitation to
this region during late March. Recent operational model runs
indicate 0.5 to 2.0 inches of precipitation. Since the AMJ 2012
seasonal outlook calls for Equal Chances (EC) of below-, near-,
and above-median precipitation, improvement across the western
Corn Belt and upper Mississippi Valley is based on expected
precipitation during late March and an increasingly wet
climatology during the late spring. Forecast confidence for the
western Corn Belt and upper Midwest is moderate.  During early March, heavy to excessive rainfall affected the
Hawaiian Islands. Lihue recorded more than 17 inches of rainfall
since March 1, while more than 5 inches of rainfall recorded at
Honolulu resulted in a precipitation surplus for 2012. According
to the U.S. Drought Monitor on March 13, drought is confined to:
the Big Island, Lanai, Maui, and Molokai. More typical trade
winds showers resumed this week and some improvement is forecast
for any lingering drought areas. Forecast confidence for Hawaii
is moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  