-- U.S. March Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-03-15T14:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/u-s-march-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Mar-12  Manufacturing firms responding to the monthly Business Outlook
Survey suggest that regional manufacturing activity continued to
grow at a moderate pace in March. The survey’s broad indicators
for general activity, new orders, shipments, and employment all
remained positive.   Firms continued to report price pressures,
but responses suggest that pressures have eased from the
previous month.  The survey’s broad indicators of future
activity remained at levels consistent with continued optimism.  Indicators Suggest Continued Expansion  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, edged slightly higher, from
a reading of 10.2 in February to 12.5, its highest reading since
April of last year. Indexes for new orders and shipments
remained positive but weaker than their February levels. The new
orders index decreased 8 points, to 3.3, while the shipments
index declined 12 points, to 3.5. The indexes for both delivery
times and unfilled orders, which recorded slightly positive
readings last month, fell back into negative territory this
month, suggesting faster deliveries and a decline in unfilled
orders.  Firms’ responses suggest a slight pickup in levels of employment
this month. The current employment index, which has been
positive for seven consecutive months, increased 6 points.
Twenty-two percent of the firms reported an increase in
employment, compared to 15 percent in February.  Firms reporting
a longer workweek (20 percent) only narrowly outnumbered those
reporting a shorter one (17 percent), and the current workweek
index decreased 7 points.  Upward Price Pressures Moderate  Indexes for prices paid and prices received both decreased this
month, although positive diffusion indexes for both suggest that
overall price pressures remain. Twenty-four percent of the firms
reported higher prices for inputs this month, down from 42
percent last month. The prices paid index decreased 20 points,
to 18.7, its first monthly decline in five months. On balance,
firms also reported a rise in prices for their own manufactured
goods:  More firms reported price increases (19 percent) than
reported decreases (11 percent). The prices received index,
however, declined 7 points, the first decrease in five months.  Firms’ Outlook Still Optimistic  The future general activity index fell modestly, from a reading
of 33.3 in February to 32.9 this month. The index remains at a
relatively high level (see Chart). The indexes for future new
orders and shipments showed slight improvement, increasing 4
points and 2 points, respectively.  The future employment index
showed little overall change this month. Firms expecting to
increase employment over the next six months (33 percent)
outnumber those expecting to decrease it (11 percent).  In special questions this month, firms were asked about their
expectations for production growth for the upcoming second
quarter (see Special Questions). Fifty-nine percent of the firms
expect increases in production in the second quarter; 23 percent
expect decreases. This is in contrast to the situation in March
of last year, when 75 percent of the firms were expecting growth
and 10 percent were expecting declines in production. The
average growth expected among the reporting firms for the second
quarter was about 1.4 percent. Nearly 58 percent of the firms
said second-quarter production growth would represent an
acceleration in growth.  Summary  According to respondents to the March Business Outlook Survey,
the region’s manufacturing sector showed modest improvement this
month. All of the broad indicators remained positive, but firms
reported only weak growth in new orders and shipments this month.
The reporting firms also added to their payrolls this month,
suggesting continued improvement in business conditions.
Although price pressures remain, they are less widespread than
in recent months. The firms’ outlook and employment plans for
the next six months remain generally optimistic. 