-- UCLA Gifts Make Endowment Biggest Gainer as Harvard Lags Behind
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-03-15T17:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ucla-gifts-make-endowment-biggest-gainer-as-harvard-lags-behind.html
The  University of California , Los
Angeles endowment has grown the fastest among U.S. colleges
since 2008 as markets recovered and gifts from philanthropists
such as casino mogul  Kirk Kerkorian  surged.  UCLA’s endowment size increased an average 12.3 percent
annually to $1.49 billion in the three years through 2011,
almost double the 6.5 percent growth of  Washington  and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia, the next best-performer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By contrast, the
endowment at  Harvard University , the world’s richest college,
shrank 3.7 percent to $31.7 billion.  Private donations to UCLA have rebounded since the
financial crisis amid deep cuts by the state to public
university funding. Gifts and pledges surged last year as
Kerkorian, 94, transferred a $200 million foundation he
controlled to UCLA while Meyer and Renee Luskin donated $100
million. At the same time the school has earned 17 percent and
12 percent in investment returns in the past two years to recoup
a 21 percent loss in 2009, according to the university.  “Because of the strength of the development program we
didn’t have a shortage of cash” after markets collapsed in 2008,
said Steve Gamer, associate vice chancellor for development at
UCLA who is also the executive director of the  foundation 
investing the endowment. “That puts you in a strong position
where you don’t have to sell” securities in the portfolio and
lock in losses.  Still Recovering  Most college endowments are still struggling to recover
from losses triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to an  annual report  by
Commonfund and the National Association of College and
University Business Officers. About 47 percent of the funds
haven’t yet recouped losses from that year, as investments in
 hedge funds  lag traditional strategies such as stocks, the
groups said in the January report.  Hedge funds returned 9.4 percent in the year ended June 30,
the worst-performing portion among endowments’ alternatives
strategies, as U.S. stocks surged 30 percent in that period,
according to the report.  Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut, which under
Chief Investment Officer  David Swensen  pioneered new investment
strategies for endowments, was one of the worst performers, with
its assets dropping an average 4.7 percent a year in the period
to $19.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg study, which looked
at 71 college funds with more than $1 billion of assets under
management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  