-- Lufthansa Vows With BA Not to Let Virgin Gripe Kill BMI D
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-15T14:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lufthansa-says-profit-to-slide-again-this-year-on-fuel-economy.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  Chief
Executive Officer Christoph Franz predicted the sale of its
unprofitable BMI unit to International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA will clear antitrust hurdles at the first attempt.  Franz said a European Commission examination of the deal is
unlikely to trigger an extended probe, and that Lufthansa and
the British Airways parent will work to answer any concerns the
regulator might raise. IAG CEO  Willie Walsh  said he’s “not
looking to walk away” and wants to address issues quickly.  The deadline for a ruling on the takeover was extended to
March 30 after  IAG (IAG)  proposed measures to alleviate competition
concerns, the commission said in a March 12 filing. Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. has said a deal would eliminate passenger
choice by giving BA a monopoly on routes from northern Britain
to  London Heathrow , services through which BMI also supplies the
Richard Branson-controlled carrier with vital feeder traffic.  “I can’t imagine that it will come to a phase two,” Franz
said at a press conference in Frankfurt. “Once the first phase
is over we will see what conditions we, as a seller, and IAG, as
a buyer, are confronted with, and will then try to get the sale
through as soon as possible.”  Reduced Service  Scottish campaigners opposed to the transaction say it will
allow British Airways to raise fares on flights to Heathrow from
Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen in the absence of competition
and erode the number of overall services to  Europe ’s busiest air
hub. The Manchester-Heathrow route would also become a monopoly,
according to Virgin Atlantic, BA’s biggest long-haul competitor.  IAG’s Walsh said in an interview that the London-based
company, formed last year from a merger of BA and  Spain ’s
Iberia, has made proposals regarding competition on some routes,
without revealing which ones or what the suggestions were.  “Our aim is to get clearance in phase one,” he said. “I
believe we’ve made sensible and suitable concessions to address
the concerns that they have highlighted, and I hope that would
be sufficient to get this cleared by the end of March.”  Cologne-based Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline,
agreed in December to sell BMI’s main Heathrow operations to
 IAG, the No. 3 , for 172.5 million pounds ($272 million). Two
bidders have also come forward for the East Midlands airport-
based Bmibaby discount unit, it said March 5, and a draft deal
has been reached for a regional operation located in  Scotland .  Delay Risk  Walsh said a lengthy delay could be potentially damaging in
business terms because of uncertainty created around BMI.  “We believe many of the arguments would be won in a phase-
two investigation, but the question is what happens in the
interim,” he said. “It’s in everybody’s interests that this is
addressed quickly and that’s why, with Lufthansa, we are looking
to see if we can get sensible phase-one clearance.”  Castle Donington , England-based BMI said separately that
there’s no question of the plug being pulled in the event of a
more drawn out antitrust examination.  “Contrary to media reports, we do have funding available
beyond March,” spokeswoman Katherine Hill said in an e-mail.  Franz said today that the terms of Lufthansa’s agreement
with IAG, which wants BMI for its scarce Heathrow slots, ease
the burden of the disposal and antitrust process.  Losing Out  “We have agreed an all-inclusive package with IAG whereby
the restructuring costs, the running losses until the closing of
the deal, and the penalties imposed by the antitrust body are
shared,” he said in answer to questions in Frankfurt.  It’s logical that BA would prefer to use a BMI takeoff and
landing slot to operate an  Airbus SAS A380  superjumbo to
 Singapore  than a “half-empty”  Boeing Co. 737  from Glasgow, said
Scottish National Party politician  Alyn Smith , a member of the
European Parliament, the European Union’s legislative assembly.  “Vast numbers of Scots use Heathrow and I do not believe
their interests are best served by this potential monopoly,”
Smith said in an interview. “This will lead to fewer services
from Scotland to Heathrow and more expensive services as well.”  Lufthansa (LHA)  said today that its board approved a 140 million
euro capital increase for Austrian Airlines aimed at sustaining
a business that’s in a “critical” situation. In return, unions
must compromise on contracts, with “competitive employment
conditions” to be enforced for air crew, according to Franz, who
said the company can no longer tolerate “permanent loss-makers.”  Tyrolean Switch  Austrian Airlines (LHA) , where Lufthansa is seeking 260 million
euros of savings, had a loss of 62 million euros last year,
while discount unit Germanwings suffered a 52 million euro
shortfall. BMI racked up deficits and disposal costs of 285
million euros, pushing the group to a 13 million-euro net loss.  “Whether at Austrian or other units where a profit is not
likely, we will not continue to prop them up or subsidize them,”
Franz said. “That’s simply not possible. We’ve too much respect
for other Lufthansa employees where we are trying to cut costs.”  Should workers in Vienna fail to accept new terms, Franz
said Lufthansa will consider transferring operations to Austrian
regional unit Tyrolean Airways, which has a lower cost base.  Group-wide operating profit will be in the “mid three-
figure million euro range” in 2012, Lufthansa said today in an
earnings statement. That would extend a decline after last
year’s figure fell 18 percent to 820 million euros.  Shares of Lufthansa , which also owns Swiss Air and Brussels
Airlines, fell as much as 3.7 percent and traded 2 percent lower
as of 3:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained 12 percent
this year, valuing the company at 4.72 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  