-- Lukoil Value to Quadruple on $150 Billion Spending, CEO Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-03-15T15:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lukoil-value-to-quadruple-with-150-billion-investment-ceo-says.html
OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ’s market value will
quadruple in the next decade as  Russia ’s second-largest oil
producer invests $150 billion to expand worldwide, said
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov .  Oil and gas production is forecast to grow an annual 3.5
percent to as much as 3.2 million barrels a day in 2021 as
Lukoil focuses on projects in  Iraq , West Africa, Siberia and the
 Caspian Sea . The Moscow-based company, which had its first
production decline in two decades to 2.14 million barrels a day
last year, has a market value of about $56 billion today, the
highest for a Russian company that isn’t state controlled.  “Our investment program, which we are planning now for the
next 10 years, worth $150 billion, plus today’s capitalization,
is the realistic value,” Alekperov, who owns more than 20
percent of Lukoil, said in an interview in London. “The company
fair value should be derived by the market, but it should be a
lot higher than today.”  Lukoil is also expanding projects in  Latin America  and  Asia 
as Alekperov develops Russia’s first private oil company into an
international venture. If successful, its production next decade
will approach  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which pumped 3.2 million
barrels of oil equivalent last year, and has a value of $226
billion.  ‘Gigantically Ambitious’  Dividend payouts will increase to 40 percent of net income
by the end of the period, Alekperov said. That means a 300
percent increase from last year’s level, according to a Lukoil
presentation yesterday.  Lukoil’s plans require highly optimistic assumptions in oil
and gas prices, costs and taxes, Troika Dialog said in a
research note today. “While the long-term targets are
gigantically ambitious, we think that the prize 10 years from
now is equally illusive.”  Lukoil currently holds 10 percent of its own shares, worth
over $5 billion, in treasury after re-purchasing them from
Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Alekperov said. The company has no
plans to sell the shares, which will act as a financial
“cushion” supporting the development plan, he said.  Alekperov said he supported Russian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin victory in the March 4 presidential election because the
leader understands Lukoil’s request to ease laws limiting
private companies’ access to natural resources and can move
quickly to make a decision. Putin is returning to the Kremlin
after holding office from 2000 to 2008.  Lukoil shares rose 0.1 percent to 1,924.90 rubles at the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow. The stock has gained 13 percent so
far this year. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, is
seeking to add $100 billion to its market value via
international expansion, Chief Executive Eduard Khudainatov said
in June. The company has a value of $81 billion now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  