-- Lukoil Said to Spend $1 Billion to Open Diamond Mine Next Year
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-03-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/lukoil-said-to-spend-1-billion-to-open-diamond-mine-next-year.html
OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s largest non-
state oil producer, plans to start a diamond mining project next
year after investing about $1 billion in a possible challenge to
 OAO Alrosa (ALRS) ’s monopoly, said two people familiar with the matter.  Lukoil would emulate BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company and one of the few to produce both diamonds and
oil. The Moscow-based  oil company  may mine as much as 4 million
carats of rough diamonds a year at the Grib pipe in Russia’s
northern Arkhangelsk region, once co-owned by  De Beers , supplier
of about a third of the world’s rough diamonds, the people said.  After the start of production, Lukoil plans to sell the
project to a strategic investor such as state-controlled Alrosa,
the people said. Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond miner by
output, produced more than 34 million carats last year. The oil
producer will invest $1 billion in the project before the first
stone is produced, one of the people said.  “Diamond mining in  Russia  is now more profitable than
oil,” said Denis Gabrielik, an analyst at Otkritie Capital in
Moscow. Alrosa had a 54 percent margin on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the first
nine months of 2011, while  Lukoil (LKOH)  reported an Ebitda margin of
about 14 percent for the full year.  Gleb Ovsyannikov, a Lukoil spokesman, declined to comment.
Andrey Polyakov, Alrosa’s spokesman, said no talks have been
held with Lukoil about the mine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  