-- Ukraine Invokes Greece to Stave Off IMF as S&P Lowers Outlook
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-03-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/ukraine-wants-to-restructure-3-bln-imf-debt-kopylov-says-1-.html
Ukraine invoked  Greece ’s record
debt restructuring in a bid to stave off repaying $3 billion to
the  International Monetary Fund  as  Standard & Poor’s  warned of
funding risks and cut the country’s rating outlook to negative.  First Deputy Economy Minister Vadym Kopylov cited last
week’s “huge” deal between Greece and holders of its bonds,
saying Ukraine may seek a 10-year delay in repaying the IMF
under a $16.4 billion rescue program granted in 2008. The lender
said it hasn’t been asked to reschedule payments.  The former Soviet republic wants to restart a second $15.6
billion loan, frozen last year because the government, which
faces elections this year, refused to raise household utility
costs to balance the budget. Ukraine says higher tariffs would
hurt consumers and damage economic growth. It’s seeking a
discount on the price it pays  Russia  for natural gas instead.  “Ukraine isn’t a solvency issue like Greece -- it’s a
totally different story,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said yesterday by e-
mail. “This is a pure unwillingness to burn political capital
and continue converging domestic energy prices to something more
realistic like they were doing in 2010 and early 2011.”  Yields, Swaps Rise  The yield on Ukraine’s dollar bonds due 2013 jumped 53
basis points to 8.101 percent last night in Kiev, the highest
level since Feb. 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps rose 16 basis points
to 766, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  S&P lowered its outlook on Ukraine’s credit rating to
negative from stable yesterday, citing “significant” funding
risks. It reaffirmed the country’s B+ foreign-currency debt
assessment, which is four steps below investment grade and ahead
of only Belarus and Bosnia-Herzegovina in eastern  Europe .  The outlook reflects “increased risks regarding Ukraine’s
significant fiscal and external refinancing needs,” S&P
analysts Trevor Cullinan and Ivan Morozov said in an e-mailed
statement. Its ratings are constrained by “the government’s
unwillingness to make further structural improvements to the
public finances.”  ‘Why Not?’  Negotiations to restructure Ukraine IMF debt “are on,”
Kopylov told reporters yesterday in the capital, Kiev. “Why
not? If we have Greece and such huge debts.”  Max Alier, who heads the IMF’s office in Ukraine, said
yesterday that the fund has no “mechanisms to restructure or
reschedule payments” and hasn’t received “any requests” from
the government to do so.  Finance Minister Yuriy Kolobov will visit the U.S. this
month to meet the Washington-based lender’s new mission chief
for Ukraine, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said March 13. Ukraine
repaid $575 million of debt to the lender in February and is due
to payoff about $3.1 billion more by year-end.  Talks between Ukraine and the IMF over resuming the latest
bailout have reached a “dead end,” Deputy Premier Sergiy
Tigipko said March 14.  President  Viktor Yanukovych , who plans to increase social
spending by 16 billion hryvnia ($2 billion) or more before
October’s parliamentary elections, has repeatedly refused to
raise household gas tariffs.  Reserves Dwindle  He’s favored efforts to reduce the price his country pays
Russia for the fuel to about $250 per 1,000 cubic meters from
more than $400 now to bolster public finances after the central
bank’s gold and foreign-currency reserves fell $3.3 billion to
$31.8 billion in 2011. They stood at $31 billion as of March 1.  Rescheduling debt payments to the IMF would normally be
possible if Ukraine’s latest rescue program wasn’t frozen,
according to Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  There’s “little real perspective of the program coming
back on track this side of elections,” he said yesterday by e-
mail. Government plans to sell Eurobonds may also be in jeopardy
with “the relationship with the IMF in such a state of flux.”  The  Finance Ministry  picked JP Morgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Russian’s VTB Capital and Troika Dialog, which is
controlled by OAO Sberbank, to lead manage a potential Eurobond
sale as early as this month, according to a Feb. 3 statement.  Market Conditions  Ukraine can wait until market conditions are right for a
planned sale of dollar-denominated bonds as it has sufficient
funds to cover debt payments, First Deputy Prime Minister Valery Khoroshkovskyi said Feb. 28. It’s also in talks to borrow cash
from Russian banks and plans to refinance a $2 billion loan from
VTB Group that matures in June, he added.  Ukraine plans to expand this year’s state-asset sale
program to 16.5 billion hryvnia from 10 billion hryvnia to fund
additional social spending. Companies to be offered under the
plan may include ammonia producer Odeskyi Pryportovyi, Kopylov
said yesterday.  The fact Ukraine is considering delaying its IMF debt
repayments “demonstrates the extent to which it is running out
of options,”  Capital Economics  said yesterday in an e-mailed
note from  London . “The government may be able to avoid a
financing crisis this year but the public finances are on an
unsustainable path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  