-- Hungary Won’t Live by ‘Dictates of Foreigners,’ Orban Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-15T16:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/hungary-won-t-live-by-dictates-of-foreigners-orban-says-1-.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said the country’s sovereignty is at stake and rejected
becoming a “colony” dictated by authorities from abroad, even
as he sought to revive financial aid talks.  “The Hungarian nation’s platform and wish in 2012 is this:
we won’t be a colony,” Orban told a crowd estimated at more
than 200,000 on a national holiday commemorating the 1848
revolution. Hungarians, faced with “international pressure and
dictates,” will defend their independence, freedom,
constitution, and “won’t live by the dictates of foreigners.”  Hungary, which is seeking to revive financial aid talks
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund , is
embroiled in a dispute with the EU over a series of laws passed
by Orban’s government. The government came under international
criticism for adopting a constitution that critics say violate
common European values and for passing a media law that
threatens press freedoms.  “Hungarians write their own constitution and don’t need
unrequested help from foreigners who wish to direct our hands,”
Orban said. “We know very well the nature of unrequested help
from comrades, we recognize it even if it’s not wearing uniforms
but well-trimmed suits.”  At a separate demonstration in the center of Budapest,
organized by a civic group set up on the social website of
Facebook Inc., thousands rallied against Orban, demanding the
restoration of press freedom, constitutional order, and the
republic.  Polish Sympathizers  The pro-government rally, which drew in a much larger
crowd, was attended by a contingent of Polish demonstrators, who
arrived in the capital this morning to express their sympathy
with Orban’s policies.  The EU last week took a formal step toward seeking a court
order to make  Hungary  redraft laws on the judiciary and the
data-protection agency and asked for more information on planned
changes to a new central-bank law.  Orban pledged to address the EU’s concerns on disputed laws
and urged the bloc to start bailout negotiations.  “Financial independence is a precondition to freedom,”
Orban said. Hungarians need to “break out from the prison of
indebtedness” by following “new roads” even if “European
bureaucrats view us with suspicion.”  Orban turned to the IMF and the EU for financial assistance
in November after the forint weakened to a record against the
euro and financing costs soared. Negotiations broke down after
Hungary passed a central bank law that the EU said threatens
monetary policy independence.  Independence Questioned  “Even the revolutionaries of 1848 knew that it isn’t the
central bank that’s independent from its nation, but rather the
one that defends the nation’s economy from foreign interests,”
Orban said.  The government effectively nationalized private pension
funds and levied windfall taxes on several industries to rein in
the  budget deficit  and cut Hungary’s debt level, which stood at
over 80 percent of gross domestic product at the end of last
year.  EU governments partially froze Hungary’s infrastructure
development aid as of 2013 this week, giving the country until
June 22 to take “effective” action to cut its budget deficit
and have the sanction lifted.  Hungarians, who are faced “with a series of injustice,”
demand “equal treatment” as a European nation and refuse to be
“second-rate citizens,” Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  