-- Hungary’s Orban Urges EU to Lift Blocks From Aid Talk Start
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-15T12:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/hungary-s-orban-urges-eu-to-lift-blocks-from-aid-talk-start.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged to address the European Union’s concerns on
disputed laws and urged the bloc to start bailout negotiations.  “I hereby ask your cooperation in taking the measures
necessary to start negotiations on a precautionary financial
agreement with Hungary so as to avoid unnecessary delays,”
Orban wrote in a letter to European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, published by state newswire MTI late yesterday.  Orban’s government, which is seeking to revive bailout
talks with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund , is
embroiled in a dispute with the 27-nation bloc that has blocked
the start of negotiations. The EU last week took a formal step
toward seeking a court order to make  Hungary  redraft laws on the
judiciary and the data-protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central-bank law.  Hungary has started redrafting the law on the central bank
to address “the majority” of the bloc’s concerns and has sent
the draft to the  European Central Bank  and the  Magyar Nemzeti
Bank  for review, Orban wrote in the letter. The Cabinet will
provide relevant EU bodies with requested information concerning
salaries at the central bank within the set deadline, it said.  “I’m aware that the Commission has raised other issues,
which it marked as preconditions to a financial agreement,”
Orban wrote, adding that Hungary will “consider” these issues.  ‘Full Confidence’  “This letter, of course, is receiving due attention by the
president and should be seen in the context of the ongoing
dialog that we are having with Hungary,” Barroso’s spokeswoman
Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told reporters in Brussels today.  The commission has “full confidence” that Hungary will
comply with the deadlines set and “hopefully bring matters
quickly to settlement in the different areas concerned,” she
said.  Bailout talks broke down last year after the government
passed a central bank law that the EU said may threaten
monetary-policy independence. Orban turned to the IMF in
November after the forint weakened to a record against the euro
and debt financing costs surged as the country’s credit rating
was cut to junk at all three major credit-rating assessors.  The forint, the worst-performing currency in the world in
the second half of 2011, has advanced 8 percent against the euro
this year after Orban pledged to reach a swift bailout deal.  The government has started working on the amendment of the
bill on the data protection agency based on EU recommendations
and will send the requested information on the retirement of
judges to the EU before the deadline, according to the letter.  Hungary will submit to parliament bills incorporating the
opinion of the Venice Commission on March 16, Orban wrote. The
changes will probably “give satisfactory answers to the
concerns and questions raised” by Commission Vice-President
Viviane Reding, Orban wrote.  EU governments partially froze Hungary’s infrastructure-
development aid as of 2013 this week, giving the country until
June 22 to take “effective” action to cut its budget  deficit 
and have the sanction lifted.  EU finance ministers suspended 495 million euros ($649
million) in development funds and called on Orban to take the
“necessary corrective action” to rein in the deficit to
unfreeze the grants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  