-- Largest Municipal ETF Falls to Discount
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-03-15T15:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/muni-etf-falls-to-first-nav-discount-in-five-months.html
The  largest exchange-traded fund 
tracking municipal bonds traded at a discount to its underlying
assets for the first time in five months, dragged down after the
 Federal Reserve ’s improved economic assessment reduced the
appeal of government debt.  The iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund traded 0.13
percent below its net asset value yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF, known as the MUB, fell 0.9
percent yesterday to $108.35, the lowest level since Dec. 30,
before rising to $108.60 at 11:32 a.m. New York time today.  Strengthening labor markets spurred the Fed to boost its
outlook for the economy on March 13, driving down U.S.
Treasuries. Last week, municipal borrowers  sold  $10.4 billion of
fixed-rate bonds, the most since November. The  ETF (MUB)  has retreated
since it reached a three-year high versus its per-share net
asset value on Feb. 13.  “A more bearish sentiment is growing,” Matt Fabian, an
analyst at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors, said in a telephone interview today. “Munis had
already weakened last week because of the incremental supply in
the market that pushed prices lower,” he said. “Now you have
the weakness in Treasuries. It’s reasonable prices would fall.”  Municipal debt declined last week, pushing yields up by 17
basis points for the biggest increase since October, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 10-year Treasuries have
risen to 2.27 percent from 2.03 percent on March 12, before the
Fed’s statement on the economy.  Decline Since February  The iShares security fell 4.9 percent through yesterday
since trading at a 3.96 percent premium to its underlying
holdings on Feb. 13. MUB had surged after declining bond sales
by states and local governments made the security one of the
only ways to capture gains in the municipal market. Since MUB
began trading in September 2007, it has traded at an average
premium of 0.38 percent.  “The premium will probably expand a little today as people
try to use MUB to increase exposure to munis at more favorable
levels,” Bart Mosley, the New York-based co-president of
Trident Municipal Research, said in an e-mail today.  The last time the ETF traded at a discount to NAV for more
than a day was July 27 through Aug. 16, a period leading up to
and following the U.S. government’s loss of its AAA credit
rating at  Standard & Poor’s .  ETFs usually track an index while trading on an exchange
like stocks. Certain institutional investors are allowed to
trade directly with a fund, creating or redeeming bundles of
shares in exchange for baskets of a fund’s underlying
securities. The mechanism helps an ETF’s share price stay close
to its per-share net-asset value as investors arbitrage
discrepancies between the fund shares and underlying holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  