-- Municipal Bond Insurer Said to Agree to Talks on Stockton
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/municipal-bond-insurer-said-to-agree-to-talks-on-stockton.html
National Public Finance Guarantee
Corp., which insures municipal bonds against default, will
participate in mediated talks with Stockton,  California , under a
new state law intended to forestall a bankruptcy filing, said a
person with direct knowledge of the decision.  Agreeing to the talks doesn’t mean the company, a unit of
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , will accept a loss on the $224 million in city bonds
it insures, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the
matter. The company also isn’t giving up its right to sue the
city for failing to make payments on $32.8 million in bonds for
parking garages, the person said yesterday.  Stockton , a farming center about 55 miles (90 kilometers)
south of  Sacramento , is trying to avoid becoming the biggest
U.S. city in bankruptcy under pressure from mounting retiree
health-care costs, dwindling tax revenue and accounting errors.
The city council voted Feb. 28 to default on $2 million in bond
payments and pursue negotiations with creditors. State law
prohibits filing for bankruptcy until mediation has been tried.  Connie Cochran, a city spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment on the
company’s decision. Yesterday was the deadline for creditors to
say whether they’d take part in the talks.  David P. Mastagni, attorney for the Stockton Police
Officers Association, said the union would participate in the
mediation. The city hasn’t said whether any other creditors
agreed to the talks.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , trustee on the parking garage bonds
insured by National Public, sued the city March 7, asking a
judge to force Stockton to pay the money it owes or turn over
the facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  