-- Public Unions Send Medical Bills to Taxpayers
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-03-15T23:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/unions-send-doctor-bills-to-taxpayers-steven-greenhut.html
The U.S.  public pension mess , with
its $2 trillion to $3 trillion in unfunded liabilities, is such
a volcano of gloom that it takes a potentially bigger problem to
turn our eyes away from it.  Turn your attention instead to the  size  of the taxpayer-
backed health-care obligations for public employees.  “Frankly, if you want to look at a truly scary set of
unfunded liabilities, health care for retirees is a better
choice than pensions,” said California Treasurer Bill Lockyer in
an October speech meant to play down the pension crisis.  Not that Lockyer or his Democratic and union allies want to
reduce any benefits that are at the heart of the problem. In
their view, the real scourge is “pension envy” or perhaps
“health-care envy” -- the failure of the  private sector  to keep
up with government-benefit levels.  States and localities make their own decisions on how to
finance these health-care policies. Far more government
employees than private workers receive health and dental care --
and those plans cost more, require lower employee contributions
and provide more comprehensive coverage.  Such generosity comes at a cost to taxpayers and municipal
budgets, especially given the “promise now, pay later” approach
of officials. As a recent Bloomberg News  article  noted, while
most public pension plans are 75 percent funded, the figure for
health-care plans is only 4 percent nationwide. So unlike
pensions, governments are setting aside little money in advance
to pay for their future obligations.  Courts Back Unions  Public-sector unions and their allies have foiled even
modest efforts to scale back pensions, and the courts have done
the rest. Now the unions are gearing up to fight changes in
health-care plans, as well -- an issue that has reared its head
after  Stockton, California , announced that it was possibly
headed toward a Chapter 9 bankruptcy driven by $417 million in
liabilities caused by an absurdly generous lifetime medical
plan.  The unions’ job is considerably easier thanks to a
 California  Supreme Court decision in November that will make it
as hard to change health-care benefits as it is to deal with
pensions.  It’s not that leaders in California, which is in the
deepest public-employee-related fiscal hole, don’t understand
the scope of the problem. Controller John Chiang released a
report in February that acknowledges a $62.1 billion unfunded
health-care liability.  “California should pay $4.7 billion in 2011-12 to pay for
present and future retiree health benefits,” according to
 Chiang’s office . “In the 2011-12 budget act, the state provided
$1.71 billion to only cover current retirees’ health and dental
benefits.”  With pensions, government employers and employees
contribute a percentage of income into retirement funds. The
liabilities depend on how well the funds perform, with higher
estimated rates of return leading to a lower predicted debt and
vice versa. But as Bloomberg News reported, “States haven’t
financed almost 96 percent of the $627.4 billion they were
projected to owe for future retiree benefits in 2010.” They try
to pay these health-care costs as they go.  Few governments have the excess cash available to prepay
these already promised benefits. But often there are
straightforward ways to solve the problem. In 2006, Orange
County cut its $1.4 billion health-care liability, in a model
effort touted not just by the Republican board of supervisors
but by the union representing county workers. The  union said  the
deal demonstrated its willingness to help fix the system.  Reforms Overturned  Retirees had been placed in the same medical pool as
current workers. Because retirees are older, their health-care
costs are higher, so the county was subsidizing the rates for
retirees. The county separated the pool, raised the monthly
contributions paid by retirees and reduced the unfunded
liability by $815 million. But the retirees’ group sued the
county and took the case to the state  Supreme Court , which ruled
in a way that has made it far easier to challenge cutbacks of
these benefits.  Pensions are vested, contractual rights. As such, the
California courts have consistently quashed efforts to change
benefits for existing workers, as is frequently done in the
private sector where employers have frozen pension benefits.  Health care typically is different. It has been viewed as a
non-vested benefit that can be changed at the discretion of the
employer. Until now, in California.  “Under California law, a vested right to health benefits
for retired county employees can be implied under certain
circumstances from a county ordinance or resolution,” according
to the state Supreme Court ruling.  The Orange County Register editorial board  opined  that
“much in the way that federal courts have found penumbras in the
Constitution -- i.e., meanings between the lines, or in the
shading or the shadows -- the state Supreme Court found that
certain benefits are the result of ’implied’ contracts.”
Localities now face a high hurdle to change these benefits.  Treasurer Lockyer warned about a health-care “time bomb,”
but threw the problem back to the taxpayer.  “Nothing is more important in providing for retirement
security than preserving the defined-benefit pension for those
who have it,” he said in the October speech. Any changes would
need to be “on our terms,” he added, to preserve “the power of
workers and their unions to be a balancing force to business and
the unregulated marketplace in American life.”  Protected Class  To Lockyer and other representatives of the public sector,
the real retirement problem is not billions of dollars in
unfunded liabilities that are leading to slashed services and
higher taxes, but a stingy private sector that isn’t generous
enough to its workers. Instead of proposing reforms that bring
government benefits down to manageable levels, the state’s
Democratic leaders are proposing a bizarre new mini Social
Security system that provides a few crumbs to private-sector
workers. But their goal is clear.  “In general,”  Voltaire wrote , “the art of government
consists in taking as much money as possible from one party of
the citizens to give to the other.”  In California, this art form has been perfected. It’s
anybody’s guess how the government class continues to get away
with it.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento , California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  