-- United Technologies to Use Unit Sales to Fund Goodrich Deal
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-15T20:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/united-technologies-scraps-stock-issue-in-deal-funding-correct-.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  will use
about $3 billion in divestitures to help pay for its $16.5
billion acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  and scrap a previous plan
to issue new common equity.  Businesses on the block include Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne,
Clipper Windpower and the Hamilton Sundstrand industrial units,
the company said. While the sales won’t be completed until after
the Goodrich deal closes mid-year, final bids for Rocketdyne are
due in coming weeks, Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said.  “We’re getting a very good asset in Goodrich, and we’re
giving up a smaller, very good asset in these businesses,”
Hayes said today at a meeting with investors in New York. “We
feel a lot better about the deal today than we did back in
September, and we felt pretty good about it back in September.”  United Technologies  originally planned to issue as much as
$4 billion in new equity to pay for Goodrich, which adds the
world’s largest maker of aircraft landing gear to  brands  that
include Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters,
along with industrial products such as Otis elevators and
Carrier air conditioners.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook on United
Technologies’ A2 debt  rating  to negative on Feb. 28, saying an
increased reliance on debt and asset sales “entails more
execution risk.”  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the outlook on its
equivalent grade of A to negative in September.  Debt Offerings  United Technologies also plans to sell $6 billion to $7
billion of long-term debt and $2 billion to $3 billion of short-
term debt to finance the deal. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  plans to raise $1.5 billion from a sale of mandatory
convertible instruments, and spend about $3 billion of cash.  “This plan should be sufficient to avert the equity
issuance, and keep the company’s credit rating” if the
divestitures proceed as planned, Robert Stallard, an  analyst  at
 RBC Capital Markets , said today in a note to clients. “This
clarification is a positive for the stock.”  Profits in 2012 will be  $5.30 to $5.50 a share  including
Goodrich, matching a December forecast, United Technologies
said. That’s compared with a $5.40 to $5.60 estimate last month.  United Technologies  climbed  less than 0.1 percent to $86.89
at the New York close. The shares have gained 19 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  