-- Harvard, Connecticut Exit NCAA Tournament as Syracuse Survives
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-03-16T05:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/murray-state-kansas-state-win-in-ncaa-tournament-1st-full-round.html
Syracuse survived a scare, Harvard
made a cameo appearance and defending champion  Connecticut  lost
on a first full day of the men’s college basketball tournament
that featured no overtimes, little drama and two mild upsets.  Favorites won all but two of the 16 games yesterday in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, which
continues today with 16 more games.  Regional No. 1 seeds  Kentucky  and Syracuse advanced to
weekend play. Kentucky (33-2) opened a 32-point lead before
settling for an 81-66 win against  Western Kentucky (28272MF) . Syracuse
trailed with less than 10 minutes remaining before pulling out a
72-65 victory over North Carolina-Asheville.  Harvard made its first appearance in the tournament since
1946, rallying to within five points in the closing minutes
before losing 79-70 to Vanderbilt.  “We felt like we belonged here,”  Kyle Casey , who had 13
points for the Crimson, told reporters. “We got real close but
just couldn’t finish it out.”  Fans accustomed to wild comebacks and late-game heroics in
the 68-team tournament had to settle for  Virginia Commonwealth
University (26131MF) ’s latest display of beating the odds.  VCU pulled off the first upset with a 62-59 victory against
fifth-seeded  Wichita State (41812MF) . VCU reached the Final Four as an
11th seed last year and is ranked 12th in the South Regional
this time. At night, 11th-seeded  Colorado  defeated sixth-seeded
Nevada-Las Vegas.  Connecticut lost 77-64 to Iowa State in a South Regional
game in Louisville, Kentucky.  Defending Champion Gone  “It’s very disappointing to end the season this way,”
said Huskies coach  Jim Calhoun , whose team became the first
defending national champion to lose its opening game since UCLA
in 1996.  The other half of the field plays today, with West Regional
top seed Michigan State taking on  Long Island  and Midwestern
Regional No. 1 seed  North Carolina  playing against  Vermont . Duke
plays Lehigh in the South Regional.  All of yesterday’s winners will play again tomorrow.  In the South, Kentucky will face Iowa State, VCU will play
Indiana and Baylor will meet Colorado. In the West, it will be
 New Mexico  against Louisville and Murray State against Marquette
in the next round.  The East’s games tomorrow will be Syracuse against Kansas
State, Vanderbilt playing Wisconsin and Gonzaga challenging Ohio
State.  The closest to a major upset yesterday came when Syracuse
risked becoming the first No. 1-seeded team to lose to a No. 16
seed. The Orange (32-2) benefited from a controversial ruling in
the final minute to pull out the win.  Syracuse Survives Scare  Syracuse led 68-65 with 21 seconds left when an inbounds
pass went off the hands of Brandon Triche. Officials called a
foul on UNC Asheville’s Chris Stephenson and Triche hit a pair
of free throws to push Syracuse’s lead to five points.  Kris Joseph added two free throws with two seconds left to
seal the win for Syracuse, which had trailed 34-30 at halftime.
UNC Asheville was the seventh No. 16 seed to lead a No. 1-seeded
team at the half of an NCAA tournament game.  Syracuse’s close call came two days after 7-foot center Fab
Melo, the team’s leading rebounder and  Big East conference ’s
Defensive Player of the Year, was ruled ineligible to play in
the tournament.  Harvard Rally Halted  “You have to give Asheville a tremendous amount of
credit,” Syracuse coach  Jim Boeheim  said in a televised
interview. “We made a couple good plays when we needed to. I
think the first game of the tournament sometimes goes like this.
We’re going to have to play a lot better.”  Harvard, in the field for the second time in school history,
held a 20-17 lead against Vanderbilt before getting outscored
20-3 over a six-minute stretch that lasted into the second half.  The  Ivy League  champions trailed by as many as 18 points in
the second half before pulling within five points with less than
two minutes left. Harvard (26-5) couldn’t get any closer against
the Commodores, who last week upset Kentucky to win the
Southeastern Conference tournament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  