-- Mushroom Tonic Joins Golf as Buffett CEOs Expand Domain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/mushroom-tonic-joins-golf-as-buffett-ceos-expand-domain.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK)  used
acquisitions to expand into putting greens and anti-aging  tonic 
derived from mushrooms as  Warren Buffett  empowered subordinates
to build their units while he pursues bigger deals.  Berkshire, which Buffett said is “on the prowl” for large
buyouts, increased the domains of deputies Vance Bell and Tim Kenesey with smaller purchases, adding synthetic-turf maker
Southwest Greens International and a malpractice insurer.
Lubrizol’s  James Hambrick , who sold his engine-additives company
to Buffett for about $9 billion in September, reached agreements
for at least three takeovers, including Active Organics Inc.,
maker of the mushroom extract remedy.  Buffett, 81, praised Berkshire managers in his Feb. 25
 letter  to shareholders for negotiating deals to bolster the size
of a company that already comprises more than 70 operating
businesses selling everything from ice cream to underwear.
Lubrizol will have “many opportunities” to pursue takeovers in
the specialty chemical industry, and investors can expect
acquisitions that expand wine and spirits distribution for
Berkshire’s McLane trucking unit, Buffett wrote.  “It really comes down to Buffett trusting these
managers,” said  David Rolfe , chief investment officer at
Wedgewood Partners Inc., who helps oversee about $1.6 billion
and owns stock of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. “When I read
or hear these things, I applaud. He gives these folks that type
of freedom to allocate capital.”  Electric Components, Candy  Buffett’s letter highlighted the purchase of Princeton
Insurance Co.,  New Jersey ’s largest provider of medical
liability coverage, to bolster Kenesey’s Medical Protective
business. The billionaire chairman and chief executive officer
said he hoped for more deals from managers such as Paul Andrews,
who runs Berkshire’s Fort Worth, Texas-based electric components
distributor TTI Inc.  Berkshire draws profits from operating businesses such as
See’s Candies for Buffett to invest elsewhere. He discourages
deputies from accumulating excess capital at their units, said
Guy Spier, CEO of Aquamarine Capital.  “There’s a clear understanding between him and his
managers that if they’re retaining capital, they’re going to
have to generate a nice return,” Spier, who oversees about $110
million and  owns Berkshire stock , said in a phone interview. “I
have a pretty high degree of trust in that system.”  The financial strength of Berkshire, with  $37.3 billion  in
cash, gives units such as carpetmaker Shaw Industries the
flexibility to pursue takeovers when their markets are slumping
and some of the best opportunities may be available, said James Armstrong of Henry H. Armstrong Associates.  ‘Ready Cash’  Buffett’s five housing-related companies, including Acme
Brick and Shaw, posted pretax profit of $513 million last year,
less than a third of their 2006 earnings.  Home prices  in 20 U.S.
cities dropped more than forecast in December to the lowest
level since the housing crisis began in mid-2006.  “Housing is still flat on its back,” Armstrong, who’s
based in Pittsburgh and owns Berkshire stock, said by phone.
“Most carpet companies don’t have the ready cash or the
confidence to go out and do a lot of acquisitions, but Shaw can
do that because they’re backed by such a Fort Knox of capital.”  Shaw, led by Bell, acquired Sportexe in 2009 to enter the
sports turf market and bought Southwest Greens last year for an
undisclosed amount, the filings show. Kennesaw, Georgia-based
Southwest Greens installs putting greens and  bocce-ball courts .  Acme last year acquired Jenkins Brick Co., the Montgomery,
Alabama-based producer that was started to supply material used
to build a  beehive factory . Berkshire spent  $50 million  on the
leading brick maker in  Alabama  to prepare for an eventual
recovery in construction, Buffett said last year.  ‘Disciplined Buyer’  Lubrizol has already agreed to three acquisitions, costing
$493 million, according to Buffett’s letter. Lubrizol reached a
deal to buy Barcelona-based Merquinsa, the maker of
thermoplastic polyurethanes, which are used in hydraulic hoses
and running shoes; formulated-grease maker Chemtool Inc. and
Active Organics, which sells extracts to cosmetic companies.  Lubrizol’s Hambrick “is a disciplined buyer and a superb
operator,” Buffett said in his letter. Buffett and Vice
Chairman Charles Munger are “eager to expand his managerial
domain.”  Deals by Buffett’s subordinates are often overlooked by
investors because few details are provided and the purchases are
dwarfed by the CEO’s takeovers, said  Whitney Tilson , co-founder
of T2 Partners LLP in  New York . Buffett spent more than $26
billion in 2010 buying railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe .  “We spend almost no time thinking about these small bolt-
on deals,” Tilson, who oversees about $150 million and owns
Berkshire stock, said by phone. Still, “I would bet that if I
went into the details of these acquisitions and saw the price
Berkshire paid for them, I’d think these were perfectly good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  