-- Vale, Newmont Retain Appetite for Indonesia Mines Amid Stake Cut
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-03-15T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/vale-newmont-retain-appetite-for-indonesia-mines-amid-stake-cut.html
Global companies led by  Vale SA (VALE3)  and
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  plan to invest in Indonesia’s mines,
undeterred by a new rule cutting foreign ownership, as they hunt
for resources in the world’s biggest exporter of tin and thermal
coal.  PT Vale Indonesia, a unit of the world’s second-biggest
nickel producer, the Adani Group, controlled by Indian
billionaire Gautam Adani, Hong Kong-based  G-Resources Group Ltd. (1051) 
and Canadian explorer  East Asia Minerals Corp. (EAS)  said this week
they will boost output at their Indonesian operations even as
they need to cut their holdings in local ventures.  The companies are awaiting rules on how to reduce their
stakes to 49 percent after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s
decree last month, aimed at increasing the participation of
local investors in mining.  South Africa  and Mongolia are also
weighing additional measures to gain a greater share of mining
profits.  “Indonesia is, without a doubt, one of the top three
places for current investment in mineral projects,” Edward Rochette, chairman of Vancouver-based East Asia Minerals, said
at a conference in Bali on March 13. There’s a little concern
about what’s happening, he said, adding that companies can’t
dismiss the opportunity for mineralization in the country.  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, also rich in minerals
including nickel, copper and bauxite, relied on mining for about
12 percent of its gross domestic product last year, according to
data from the statistics bureau.  South Africa, Mongolia  South Africa, the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese, is considering proposals from the ruling
 African National Congress  party to increase mining tax and take
over gold and platinum mines to boost employment.  Mongolia’s plan to develop part of the Tavan Tolgoi
deposit, one of the world’s largest sources of coal, has stalled
as a political debate over who should develop the project
intensifies ahead of the June parliamentary elections.  “When you look at what’s happening globally, the resources
sectors are being raped in some places or pushed into paying a
fair proportion of the wealth that’s been generated back into
the country,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in
Sydney. “This rule change won’t make a company go away from
Indonesia, but it will obviously mean they will look over their
shoulders if an opportunity pops out somewhere else.”  The Indonesian regulation, signed in February and announced
this month, requires overseas companies to reduce their stakes
in local ventures to 49 percent within 10 years of starting
production. It extends a 2009 law mandating local ownership of
at least 20 percent in joint ventures by the sixth year of
production.  Local Processing  Ores should be processed locally to boost state revenue,
according to a separate decree by the Energy and Mineral
Resources Ministry last month.  The new law applies to companies with mining business
licenses. Miners, including Vale,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  and Newmont, currently operate under contracts of work and
need to apply for mining business licenses when their permits
expire, according to the rule.  PT Vale Indonesia plans to boost output by 64 percent to
120,000 metric tons in eight years, Vice President Director
Bernardus Irmanto said at the Clariden Global Indonesia Mining
2012 conference on March 12.  Spending Plans  The Adani Group will maintain its investment in Indonesia
and adjust its business accordingly with the new rule, Ganeshan
Varadarajan, president director of local unit PT Adani Global,
said March 13.  East Asia Minerals is developing two gold mines in
Indonesia’s Aceh and North Sulawesi provinces under a mining
business license and a contract-of-work permit, Rochette told
the conference. It has uranium and phosphate assets in Mongolia.  G-Resources spent $464 million of a planned $576 million to
develop the  Martabe  gold project in North Sumatra by the end of
2011, Chief Executive Officer Peter Albert told the conference.  “G-Resources is not really impacted as we are licensed
under an existing contract of work,” Vice Chairman Owen Hegarty
said in an e-mail. “We won’t be changing our business plan or
our overall strategy of getting into production as soon as we
can and looking to grow our business.”  Freeport will cooperate with the Indonesian government in
reviewing its contract as it seeks extension beyond 2021, the
Phoenix-based company said in February.  Freeport operates the Grasberg mine in Papua province,
which accounted for 19 percent of the company’s revenue last
year and contains the world’s largest recoverable copper
reserves, according to the company.  Newmont and its foreign partners, including  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,
own a 56 percent stake in PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara and are
selling 7 percent to the government. Newmont runs the Batu Hijau
copper mine in West Nusa Tenggara province.  ‘Pinch of Salt’  The investment trend will persist, especially for smelting
and processing, which will now be done locally, Alberto
Migliucci, head of mining, energy, oil and gas, Southeast Asia
at Credit Suisse Group AG, told the Bali conference.  Still, the ownership regulation may deter new investors,
especially Indian companies, which can invest in  Australia ,
South Africa and the U.S., said Gurpreet Singh Chugh, head of
natural resources at Crisil Risk & Infrastructure Solutions
Ltd., a unit of Crisil Ltd., a  Standard & Poor’s  company. He
didn’t identify the companies.  “We’ll have to take it with a pinch of salt as there are a
lot of questions that need to be answered,” including whether
the rule applies to new or existing investments, Chugh said.  Foreign and local investment in  Indonesia  rose 21 percent
last year to 251.3 trillion rupiah ($27.3 billion), exceeding
the target of 240 trillion rupiah, as the mining, metals and
telecommunication industries expanded, the Investment
Coordinating Board said in January.  “You go to where the commodity is,” Lennox of Fat
Prophets said. “That’s why globally we’re seeing governments
taking a far greater proportion of interest in the  mining
industry  because they know that mining companies will go to
where the resource is, otherwise where else do you go?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  