-- Veterans Agency Broke Law in Contract Awards, U.S. Watchdog Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-15T17:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/veterans-agency-broke-law-in-contract-awards-u-s-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. Department of  Veterans
Affairs  violated a 2006 law that directs the agency to favor
small businesses led by veterans, a government watchdog agency
ruled for the third time in six months.  Aldevra LLC, a Portage, Michigan-based kitchen supplies
vendor owned by a disabled Gulf War veteran, had protested the
VA’s attempt in December to buy an ice maker from a preselected
group of government contractors.  Attorneys with the Government Accountability Office,
Congress’s investigative arm, agreed with Aldevra owner Rodney
Marshall that VA buyers should have first researched whether
veteran-owned companies were able to provide the device at a
reasonable price before turning to other vendors.  “In sum, we find unreasonable, and inconsistent with the
statute, the agency’s failure” to determine whether a fairly
priced product was available from businesses owned by disabled
veterans, according to the GAO decision released today.  VA officials argued the agency is meeting its goals for
contracting with veterans, and can prioritize spending with
certain groups, including preselected vendors that often offer
volume discounts, before turning to veteran-owned companies,
according to the GAO decision.  If the agency changed its position, it might steer as much
as $3 billion in federal contracts a year toward small companies
owned by veterans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government.  Third Time  Jo Schuda, a VA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail and phone call seeking comment. She has previously
said the agency has requested guidance from other agencies,
including the White House Office of Management and Budget, on
its veterans contracting policies.  Moira Mack, an Office of Management and Budget spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  This is the third time the GAO has sided with a veteran-
owned business that complained the VA wasn’t following the 2006
contracting law.  In October, the agency backed  Marshall after
he contested a VA plan to buy three griddles, a skillet and a
food slicer from preselected vendors.  The GAO also sided with Waldorf, Maryland-based Kingdomware
Technologies Inc. in December after the technology vendor said
the VA had failed to research whether veteran businesses could
provide an IT product and services at a San Francisco VA
facility.  The latest GAO decision won’t help Aldevra and other
veteran-owned companies unless the VA is forced to follow the
2006 law, Marshall said.  “We have multiple GAO decisions,” Marshall said in an  e-
mail yesterday. “Now we just need the White House and Secretary Shinseki to enforce and follow the Vets First law,” referring
to agency chief Eric Shinseki.  Agencies have refused to follow GAO guidance no more than
five times during the past decade, Ralph O. White, the GAO’s
managing associate general counsel for procurement law said at a
joint hearing of two U.S. House of Representatives Veterans’
Affairs subcommittees in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  