-- Viacom’s MTV Starts Web Business That Gives Artists Cut
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/viacom-s-mtv-starts-web-business-that-gives-artists-cut.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  MTV  is creating
artist-focused websites where musicians can sell songs, concert
tickets and merchandise, as the cable network seeks closer
business ties with performers.  Starting in May, MTV will allow musicians to claim their
sites, allowing them to upload music, videos and photos, and to
sync pages with social-media accounts, MTV said yesterday in an
e-mailed  statement . The pages will go public about the time of
MTV’s Video Music Awards in September.  MTV is consolidating the disparate online outlets artists
use to share music, videos and messages with fans, while also
creating a new platform for sales. Piracy and falling CD revenue
tied to a shift toward online retailers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes have decreased the money artists make from
traditional recording, while lower concert-ticket sales have
reduced revenue from touring.  “We felt like the world needed a place that’s
comprehensive and thorough and that allows artists to connect
with fans at scale,”  Shannon Connolly , vice president of
digital-music strategy at the New York-based company’s MTV Music
Group, said in an interview. “The goal is to help artists get
paid.”  Tip Jar  Viacom’s Artists.MTV initiative, which also includes the
VH1 and CMT music channels, will share any advertising revenue
generated on the pages with the artists. Through an agreement
with Topspin Media Inc., an online music merchant, the artists
will receive the majority of revenue from sales of music,
tickets and goods. Artists signed to  record companies  can direct
traffic to other stores. All the money from a tip jar on the
pages will go to the musicians.  Google Inc.’s YouTube and Vevo.com share ad revenue from
music videos, while Spotify Ltd. and other streaming services
are starting to pay royalties.  MTV averages about 60 million monthly visitors, Connolly
said. The new pages will contain videos from MTV, including live
performances and other appearances by the artists, as well as
clips aggregated from sources the network licenses.  Unsigned acts and the biggest stars can create pages,
Connolly said. The network, which currently hosts about 10,000
artist-specific sites, will have more than 1 million pages when
the service becomes publicly available.  Centralizing Messages  “Music fans should be able to search for any artist and
never strike out,” Connolly said. “You should never strike
out, you should always get a result.”  The pages will also allow artists to post once and publish
everywhere, Connolly said. The product is designed to centralize
posts, whether on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, Twitter Inc.’s
microblog site or other online sharing services, she said.  MTV won’t force artists to use its chosen retailers,
Connolly said. Artists can use their MTV pages to direct
visitors to tracks for sale at Apple’s’s iTunes, to tour
promotions at  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  or to ad-supported
music videos at Vevo.com.  “The goal here is to give artists the opportunity to
monetize what they do,” Connolly said. “Artists can get heard,
get promoted and get paid.”  After May, judging on the basis of audience and industry
recommendations, MTV, VH1 and CMT will select an artist each
month to feature on-air in videos, in music for TV shows and in
promos, Van Toffler, president of Viacom’s Music Group, said
yesterday at the South by Southwest festival in Austin,  Texas .  MTV has signed up high-profile artists to start out the
service, Connolly said, declining to offer specifics. MTV will
provide those details when the service goes online, she said.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , fell less
than 1 percent to $47.10 at yesterday’s close in  New York . The
 stock  has climbed 3.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  