-- Viterra Sets Up ‘Process’ After Getting Buyer Interest
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-16T09:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/viterra-says-process-established-after-expressions-of-interest.html
Viterra Inc. (VT) , the Canadian grain
handler that has attracted Glencore International Plc as a
potential suitor, has begun a sales process after third parties
expressed interest in acquiring the company.  The company has entered into confidentiality agreements and
provided due diligence, Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra said
yesterday in a statement. The shares rose 9.8 percent in Toronto
to C$16.09, after the company said press reports of an offer of
at least C$16 a share shouldn’t be relied upon.  Viterra, with a market value of C$5.98 billion $6.02
billion), is drawing suitors after saying profit and market
share will rise after Aug. 1, when wheat and barley farmers in
western Canada can sell to groups other than the Canadian Wheat
Board. Barr, Switzerland-based Glencore, the world’s largest
listed commodities trader, has expressed an interest in Viterra,
a person familiar with the situation said.  “I think 16 dollars is higher than I would have
expected,” Jason Zandberg, a Vancouver-based analyst for PI
Financial Corp. who rates the shares a buy, said in a phone
interview. “But when you have a very strategic asset and
multiple bidders for assets that are difficult to duplicate, the
price can escalate pretty quickly. Their infrastructure is
second to none in Canada.”  ‘Advanced Talks’  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) ,  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) 
are in Viterra’s so-called data room after being told they must
offer at least C$16 a share, dealReporter said yesterday, citing
a person familiar with the situation whom it didn’t identify.
Glencore is in “advanced talks” with  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and
Richardson International Ltd. about a joint bid for Viterra, the
Financial Times said, citing industry executives it didn’t
identify. A formal bid may come next week, the newspaper said.  Viterra’s Australian-traded stock climbed 9.3 percent to
A$15.26 by the close in Sydney. It has gained 47 percent in
Toronto since March 8, the day before Viterra first said it had
received interest from third parties.  Viterra said there’s no assurance of a deal or, if there is
one, at what price it will be concluded.  The company’s grain elevators and port terminals are well
placed in  Canada  and  Australia  to serve growing demand from
 Asia , Zandberg said.  Viterra owns  more than half the grain-
export capacity in Canada and all ports in  South Australia ,
according to the company.  Canada’s Exports  Canada is the fourth-biggest wheat exporter after the U.S.,
Australia and  Russia , according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  David Weintraub, a spokesman for Decatur, Illinois-based
ADM, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.
 Susan Burns , a spokeswoman for  White Plains , New York-based
Bunge, declined to comment. Charles Watenphul, a Glencore
spokesman, declined to comment.  No one was available to comment at Hong Kong-based Noble’s
London office. Todd Coakwell, a spokesman for Calgary-based
Agrium, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment. Tracey
Shelton, a spokeswoman for Richardson, declined to comment.
Richardson is a unit of closely held James Richardson & Sons
Ltd., which is based in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  Canaccord Financial Inc. is advising Viterra on the sale
process, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because that information hasn’t been
made public. Jamie Kokoska, a Canaccord spokeswoman, declined to
comment in an e-mail, citing company policy.  Viterra forecast March 8 “significant” gains next year,
with annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rising by C$50 million annually after 2014 as
market share expands to close to 50 percent from 45 percent.  Takeover Estimates  Cargill Inc., the closely held Minneapolis-based grain
distributor, has also expressed interest in Viterra, the Wall
Street Journal reported March 11, citing people it didn’t
identify.  With estimates for the price of a Viterra takeover ranging
from PI Financial Corp.’s C$14.40 a share, to C$18.50 a share
from Raymond James Financial Inc., buyers still wouldn’t be
paying more than 0.58 times revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Viterra’s (VTG)  price-to-sales ratio of 0.46 on March 12 was
cheaper than 74 percent of North American agricultural product
wholesalers and food manufacturers with market values over $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The group traded at an
average of 1.02 times revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  