-- Viterra Halted After Report Minimum Bids Set at C$16
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-15T15:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/viterra-advances-after-report-minimum-bids-set-at-c-16.html
Viterra Inc. (VT) , the Canadian grain
handler that attracted Glencore International Plc as a potential
suitor, was halted in Toronto after dealReporter said bidders
were told they must offer at least C$16 ($16.13) a share to be
allowed to assess the company’s internal data.  U.S. companies  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG) 
and Hong Kong-based  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  are in the company’s so-
called data room, dealReporter said today, citing a person
familiar with the situation whom it didn’t identify. Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, expressed an interest in Viterra, a person
familiar with the situation said March 11.  Viterra climbed 9.1 percent to C$15.99 today before trading
was suspended in Toronto. The stock has gained 46 percent since
March 8, the day before Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra said
it had received “interest from third parties.”  Viterra,  Canada ’s largest grain handler, reiterated last
week that it will profit as the Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly
on purchasing wheat and barley in the country’s western
provinces ends Aug. 1. Viterra forecast last week
“significant” gains from next year, with annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rising by
C$50 million annually after 2014 as market share expands to
close to 50 percent from 45 percent.  Takeover Estimates  Holly Gibney and Paul Tierney, Viterra spokesmen, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  David Weintraub, an ADM spokesman, said by phone the
company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Susan Burns , a
Bunge spokeswoman, declined to comment in an e-mail. No one was
immediately available to comment at Noble’s London office.  Cargill Inc., the closely held Minneapolis-based grain
distributor, has also expressed interest in Viterra, the Wall
Street Journal reported March 11, citing people it didn’t
identify.  With estimates for the price of a Viterra takeover ranging
from PI Financial Corp.’s C$14.40 a share, to C$18.50 a share
from Raymond James Financial Inc., buyers still wouldn’t be
paying more than 0.58 times revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Viterra’s price-to-sales ratio of 0.46 on March 12 was
cheaper than 74 percent of North American agricultural product
wholesalers and food manufacturers with market values over $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The group traded at an
average of 1.02 times revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  