-- Warmth Expected Across U.S. for Next Three Months, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-15T18:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/warmth-expected-across-u-s-for-next-three-months-u-s-says.html
A streak of above-normal
temperatures that led to the fourth-warmest U.S. winter on
record is expected to continue for the next three months, the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said.  NOAA said the southern states of Louisiana,  Alabama  and
 Mississippi  will have the highest chance of warm weather from
March through May. The forecast was part of a report that said
Texas may get drought relief and that the risk of spring river
flooding will be the lowest in four years.  Temperatures around the U.S. have been as high as 35
degrees Fahrenheit (19.4 Celsius) above normal in the past week,
with 400 record highs set yesterday, said Laura Furgione, deputy
director of the  National Weather Service .  “We’re already feeling May-like warmth in parts of the
country this week,” Furgione said in a conference call by U.S.
weather agencies with reporters.  Warmer temperatures across the U.S. in the last three
months has “decimated the market” for  natural gas , said
 Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , and reduced the need for all types of energy for
heating. The trend is expected to continue through May in the
eastern U.S. as well as the Southwest.  The natural gas market looks for cold air in  Illinois 
during the winter and hot weather in Texas during the summer
when gauging weather impact, said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas in New York.  Watching Natural Gas  Those two areas make good barometers because natural gas is
their primary fuel for heating and cooling, she said. In the
mid-Atlantic region and Northeast, a wider variety of fuels is
used to heat homes.  Natural gas for April delivery fell 0.5 cent, or 0.2
percent, to settle at $2.279 per million British thermal units
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The futures, which are down
24 percent this year, fell to $2.204 on March 13, the lowest
intraday price since Feb. 15, 2002.  “We obviously have a glut in the supply,” said Schork.
“Without any significant cooling demand or air-conditioning
demand, the glut will persist through this summer and will
continue to weigh on price.”  A snowstorm in the Northeast at the end of October
bolstered predictions by some forecasters that the U.S. would be
in for a frigid winter. The cold weather never materialized, and
with increasing production and weak industrial demand, gas
inventories soared.  Warm Winter  This winter in the contiguous U.S. was the warmest since
the record winter of 2000, the climate center said.
Meteorologists designate winter as being from Dec. 1 to Feb. 29.
The calendar start to spring is based on the equinox.  Winter wheat has begun to break out of dormancy across the
Midwest and Plains, and corn planting is ahead of schedule in
the South, said  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Less snow across the contiguous U.S. and drier soil mean
most of the U.S. faces a normal or below-normal risk of spring
flooding, Furgione said.  “This is the first time in four years without a high risk
of major flooding,” Furgione said.  The Ohio River Valley and  Louisiana  have an elevated risk
of high water, Furgione said. They aren’t expected to face
anything close to the record flooding that swept down the Ohio
and Mississippi rivers last year.  The report also said parts of northeastern Texas, Oklahoma
and Kansas may get some relief from a  severe drought . However, a
large part of the southern U.S. from  California  to  Florida  is
still struggling with drought and that is expected to continue,
said  David Brown , director of NOAA’s Southern Regional Climate
Services.  “The historic magnitude means recovery from the drought
will be a very slow process,” Brown said on the conference
call.  Brown said the drought caused $6.5 billion in agricultural
losses in  Texas  and Oklahoma last year and led to wildfires that
burned 4 million acres in Texas alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  