-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Increase by Most in Five Months
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-15T12:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rose-by-most-in-five-months-on-fuel.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
climbed in February by the most in five months, reflecting a
jump in fuel costs that Federal Reserve officials project will
be temporary.  The  producer price index  rose 0.4 percent following a 0.1
percent increase the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.5 percent
gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  core measure  excluding volatile food and energy rose
0.2 percent, less than in the prior month.  Rising energy costs may make it more expensive to
manufacture goods, restraining profits as companies find it
difficult to pass the increases to customers. Fed policy makers
this week projected they’ll keep interest rates low at least
until late 2014, predicting inflation will remain in check.  “There has not been a significant amount of price pressure
at the producer level that would suggest they’ll have to
increase prices anytime soon,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist
at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and the third
most accurate forecaster of wholesale prices.  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from increases
of 0.2 percent to 1 percent.  Core wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.2 percent
following the prior month’s 0.4 percent gain, the Bloomberg
survey showed.  Fewer Claims  Another report from the Labor Department showed claims for
jobless benefits dropped last week, matching the lowest level in
four years, more evidence the labor market is improving.  Applications for  unemployment insurance  payments fell by
14,000 to 351,000 in the week ended March 10, less than
forecast. Claims reached the same level a month ago, the lowest
since March 2008.  Manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, another report showed. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
unexpectedly increased to 20.2 this month from 19.5 in
February. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
climbed 0.2 percent to 1,391.8 at 8:47 a.m. in New York.  Inflations Cools  In the 12 months ended February 2012, companies paid 3.3
percent more for goods, the smallest year-over-year gain since
August 2010. The core index increased 3 percent over the past
year, the same as in January.  The gain in wholesale costs was led by a 1.3 percent
increase in energy. Food prices dropped 0.1 percent, led by a
7.3 percent decline in vegetable expenses, the report showed.  About 30 percent of the increase in core prices in February
was attributable to a 0.6 percent gain in the cost of
pharmaceuticals, the report said. Higher costs for civilian
aircraft and for medical supplies also contributed.  The price pressure businesses face from more expensive
energy will probably fade, according to the Fed.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement following a
March 13 meeting. Oil will “push up inflation temporarily, but
the committee anticipates that subsequently inflation will run
at or below the rate that it judges most consistent with its
dual mandate” of stable prices and maximum employment.  Fed Policy  The central bank didn’t change its statement that economic
conditions probably warrant “exceptionally low” lending rates
at least through late 2014. In December 2008, the Fed lowered
its target overnight  interest rate  to a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  “While we saw some favorability in wax prices in the
latter part of 2011 given the recent moves in the price of oil,
we remain cautious of the potential for further wax inflation,
and continue to work aggressively on various cost containment,”
Harlan Kent, chief executive officer of Yankee Candle Co. Inc.,
which sells its products to retailers like Macy’s and Target
Corp., said on March 1 conference call. “We have no current
plans to take additional price.”  Less Inflation  Price pressures cooled all the way down the  production
line , according to today’s data. The cost of intermediate goods
rose 3.3 percent over the past 12 months, down from 4.2 percent
in January. Crude prices climbed 0.7 percent since February
2011, compared with a 4.5 percent increase in the 12 months to
January.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, rose 0.4 percent in February after a 0.2 percent gain
the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  The cost of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.4 percent
last month, reflecting more expensive fuel costs, Labor
Department data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  