-- Wise Up on Goldman: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-03-15T20:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/wise-up-on-goldman-sachs-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was once a
punch line.  During the Great Depression, the then-small partnership on
Pine Street became a target of national ridicule because of a
scandal involving the Goldman Sachs Trading Corp., a publicly
traded investment trust that blew up after the stock market
 crash of 1929 .  For years, comedian Eddie Cantor, who had lost $100,000 and
sued Goldman Sachs for $100 million, made the firm a running
joke in his stand-up routines. In one of his bits, Cantor would
appear onstage with a stooge who tried to squeeze juice from a
dry lemon.  “Who are you?” Cantor would ask. Without missing a beat,
the stooge would say, “The margin clerk for Goldman Sachs.”  Ever since being subjected to Cantor’s barbs, Goldman Sachs
has cultivated an image not just as  Wall Street ’s preeminent
firm but also as a paragon of financial virtue. But Goldman’s
supposedly pristine reputation has always been more invented
than earned, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 19
issue.  In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Goldman
Sachs’s principal regulator at the time, sued the company for
failing to make adequate disclosures regarding a synthetic
collateralized debt obligation it manufactured and sold at the
height of the housing bubble. Rather than fight the SEC, Goldman
Sachs settled the charges for $550 million, the largest fine
ever extracted from a Wall Street firm.  Financial Crisis  Around the same time, Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein received a public flogging
from U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman
of the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which
also released 900 pages of internal company documents that
exposed the role the firm played in fomenting and exacerbating
the 2008 financial crisis.  Goldman Sachs subsequently convened a group of its powerful
insiders to review the firm’s “Business Standards.” The
committee’s report, issued in January 2011, rehashed the bank’s
mantras about putting its clients’ interests before its own.  “Conflicts of interest and the firm’s approach to dealing
with them are fundamental to our client relationships, our
reputation and our long-term success,” Goldman Sachs boasted.  Is this true? Has being dragged through the proverbial mud
time and time again -- most recently yesterday in a New York
Times op-ed by Greg Smith, a departing Goldman Sachs executive
director -- made the firm any more responsive to the criticism
directed its way? In a place as secretive as Goldman Sachs,
what’s really going on inside its sleek, new $2.4 billion
downtown Manhattan headquarters is difficult to discern.  Heads I Win  But a blistering opinion handed down Feb. 29 by a Delaware
judge makes a convincing case that Goldman Sachs’s heads-I-win,
tails-you-lose approach to business hasn’t changed at all. And
it goes a long way toward explaining why, almost four years
after the financial crisis, the system is still rigged.  In 2011,  El Paso Corp. (EP) , a leading producer and transporter
of natural gas, which Goldman Sachs was advising, agreed to a
$38 billion merger with  Kinder Morgan  Inc., a pipeline and
storage company in which Goldman Sachs owns a big chunk of
equity. In response, a group of El Paso shareholders asked Leo Strine, chancellor of the Delaware Court of Chancery, to block
the merger, in part because of Goldman Sachs’s conflicts.  Private-Equity Funds  Strine’s opinion detailed the labyrinthine history of the
El Paso-Kinder merger and Goldman Sachs’s role in it. Bear with
me here. Through one of its private-equity funds, Goldman Sachs
owned a 19 percent stake in Kinder Morgan -- valued at
$4 billion -- and controlled two seats on the company’s board.
Goldman Sachs didn’t serve as an M&A adviser to Kinder Morgan --
that fell to Evercore Partners Inc. and  Barclays Capital  -- but
Goldman Sachs possessed considerable influence inside the Kinder
Morgan boardroom, even though Goldman board members recused
themselves during the El Paso negotiations.  Goldman Sachs had another role, as M&A adviser to El Paso,
and this is where things got tricky. Goldman Sachs’s involvement
with El Paso began around the time the firm released the
“Business Standards” report. El Paso hired Steve Daniel, a
senior oil-and-gas banker at Goldman Sachs with an undisclosed
$340,000 stake in Kinder Morgan, to advise El Paso on the
spinoff of its oil- and natural-gas exploration business.  Last May 24, El Paso announced a planned spinoff of the
exploration assets, which Goldman Sachs valued at between
$8 billion and $10 billion. If the spinoff was successfully
completed, Goldman Sachs would receive a $25 million fee.  Pipeline Business  Then, on Aug. 30, Kinder Morgan informed El Paso that it
was interested in buying the company for $25.50 in cash and
stock, so that it could get its hands on El Paso’s pipeline
business, which it wanted to keep. In essence, Kinder Morgan was
bidding to buy all of El Paso and then continue with the sale of
the exploration business.  The  El Paso board  rejected the first Kinder Morgan offer as
too low. A week later, Kinder Morgan threatened to launch a
hostile deal against El Paso. Given the obvious Goldman Sachs
conflict, El Paso decided to add  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as an adviser
but, according to Strine, Goldman Sachs refused to amend its
engagement letter with El Paso to allow Morgan Stanley to get a
fee if the exploration business was spun off but the merger
didn’t take place. Morgan Stanley would receive its $35 million
fee only if El Paso agreed to merge with Kinder Morgan. (Goldman
would receive $20 million.) If the spinoff alone occurred, only
Goldman Sachs would get paid ($25 million). Heads-I-win, tails-
you-lose.  Merger Agreement  On Sept. 18, El Paso CEO Douglas Foshee reached a deal with
 Richard Kinder , co-founder of Kinder Morgan, to sell El Paso for
$27.55 a share in cash and stock. But then Kinder reneged,
claiming the projections used were too optimistic. Instead of
walking away, Foshee agreed to a lower deal at $26.87 per share.  The merger agreement, signed on Oct. 16, included a $650
million break-up fee and a no-shop provision that prevented El
Paso from actively seeking higher offers. Meanwhile, Goldman
Sachs lowered its estimate of the value of the spinoff of the
exploration business by $2 billion, making the merger appear
better than that alternative. The merger also worked to the
benefit of Goldman Sachs’s $4 billion principal position in
Kinder Morgan.  After agreeing to sell his company to Kinder Morgan for the
lower price, Foshee asked Kinder Morgan for permission to pursue
a management buyout of the exploration business.  The “reality is that Foshee was interested in being a
buyer of a key part of El Paso at the same time he was charged
with getting the highest possible price as a seller of that same
asset,” according to Strine. “At no time did Foshee come clean
to his board about his self-interest.”  Apollo, Riverstone  On Feb. 24, El Paso’s management, along with Apollo Global
Management LLC and Riverstone Holdings LLC -- founded by two
former senior Goldman Sachs executives -- announced that it was
buying El Paso’s exploration business for $7.15 billion.  Larry Pierce , a Kinder Morgan spokesman, said El Paso’s
management isn’t buying any of these assets. Instead, El Paso
“entered into a definitive agreement to sell its exploration
and production business to Apollo Global, Riverstone and
others.” Management is working out its equity arrangement with
the buying group.  Double-Dealing  Despite all this evidence of double-dealing, the
transaction went through. Strine decided not to enjoin the
merger since no other offer for El Paso was on the table. El
Paso shareholders approved it on March 9.  Upon closing, Goldman Sachs will get its $20 million fee
for advising on the El Paso merger and, presumably, its $25
million fee for advising on the sale of the exploration assets
to Foshee, Apollo, and Riverstone. Morgan Stanley will get its
$35 million fee for advising El Paso. Foshee will get his chance
to make a fortune, beyond the $90 million he’s getting in the
Kinder Morgan merger, as a principal in the Apollo/Riverstone
deal.  El Paso disputes Strine’s opinion, saying that Foshee isn’t
a principal in the Apollo/Riverstone deal and that he stands to
earn about $34.5 million in the merger, according to Richard Wheatley, an El Paso spokesman.  Foshee also got, according to Strine, an “obsequious”
thank-you call from Blankfein. And Goldman’s $4 billion
investment in Kinder Morgan will continue to grow because it was
able to buy the El Paso assets it wanted on the cheap, without a
true market test.  ‘Concern and Distrust’  “This kind of furtive behavior engenders legitimate
concern and distrust,” Strine concluded.  Some at Goldman Sachs will retort that the conflicts were
disclosed -- except for Steve Daniel’s stake in Kinder Morgan--
and accepted by all parties. El Paso’s shareholders received a
37 percent premium to the closing price of the stock the day
before the deal was announced.  So who was harmed? The short answer is that El Paso’s
shareholders deserved a CEO and M&A adviser who were free of
entanglements with Kinder Morgan and could be trusted to work
solely in the best interests of the company’s investors, rather
than themselves. The longer answer is that the behavior of
Goldman Sachs and Foshee is a serious affront to our collective
sense of fair play.  Greg Smith  In his extraordinarily public resignation letter,  Greg
Smith , who had spent time recruiting the best and the brightest
to Goldman Sachs, wrote, “I knew it was time to leave when I
realized I could no longer look students in the eye and tell
them what a great place this was to work.”  The proper functioning of Wall Street is too vital to the
economy to tolerate the duplicitous practices of Goldman Sachs
and firms like it, especially after what the American people did
to rescue these businesses in their darkest hours. The country’s
political class appears to lack the power or will to hold large
financial institutions to account.  There is a massive leadership vacuum at the top of Wall
Street today; and it’s quite possible that only continued,
relentless public shaming will force the leaders of these firms
to make the kinds of cultural changes necessary to bring their
actions in line with normative behavior.  Where have you gone, Eddie Cantor?  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  