-- Women Over 30 Urged to Get HPV Screen With Pap Test, Panel Says
-- B y   A d r i e l   B e t t e l h e i m
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/women-over-30-urged-to-get-hpv-screen-with-pap-test-panel-says.html
Women older than 30 should be
screened for human papillomavirus every five years with a Pap
test to detect cervical cancer though the results may lead to
“significant” harm, a U.S. advisory panel said.  The findings of the  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force 
update a 2003 recommendation that encouraged cervical cancer
screening in sexually active women. A draft report the panel
issued in October concluded “more complete evidence is needed”
before HPV screening is widely adopted for the age group.  “Screening should fit the ideal of doing no harm, yet
providing substantial benefit,” according to an editorial
accompanying the guidelines, published yesterday in the  Annals
of  Internal Medicine . “False positive test results can lead to
over diagnosis, misdiagnosis and the potential for unnecessary
diagnostic testing, procedures, treatments and their inherent
risks.”  The findings largely agree with the recommendations of
three cancer groups also issued yesterday that discourage
screening in women younger than 21 and older than 65. The  task
force  and cancer groups recommend Pap tests alone every three
years for women 21 to 30 years old.  “Pap tests have been done yearly in the past, but we now
know that annual screening is not needed and in fact can lead to
harm from treatment of cell changes that would never go on to
cause cancer,” said Debbie Saslow, director of breast and
gynecologic cancer for the American Cancer Society, in a
statement.  Cancer Cases  About 12,700 new cases of cervical cancer will be diagnosed
in the U.S. this year, resulting in 4,290 deaths, according to
the  National Cancer Institute . Most cases of cervical cancer are
caused by papillomavirus, a sexually transmitted infection. From
2004 to 2008, the median age for a positive diagnosis was 48,
according to the cancer institute.  The panel last October issued a report that prostate-cancer
screening doesn’t save enough lives to justify exposing men to
the risks of death, incontinence and impotence. The group also
drew criticism during debate over the U.S. health-care overhaul
when it recommended in 2009 that women should start regular
breast cancer screening at age 50, not 40.  The task force is a government supported group of doctors
formed in 1984 to provide advice on screening, counseling and
preventive medicines based on an impartial assessment of
scientific evidence. Recommendations may prompt insurers to
change their coverage guidelines.  The  American Cancer Society ,  American Society for
Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology  and American Society for
Clinical Pathology jointly issued their recommendations
yesterday on HPV screening and Pap tests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  