-- WTC Investor Lloyd Goldman Buys Co-Op for $13.8 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-03-15T18:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/wtc-investor-lloyd-goldman-buys-co-op-for-13-8-million.html
Lloyd Goldman, a partner with  Larry Silverstein  on the redevelopment of offices at the  World Trade
Center site , bought a Manhattan penthouse for $13.8 million, 7.7
percent less than its seller first sought.  Goldman’s purchase of the three-story co-operative
apartment at 941 Park Ave. was disclosed today in New York City
Department of Finance records. The four-bedroom Upper East Side
apartment was listed for sale in October with an asking price of
$14.9 million, according to property website  StreetEasy.com . The
seller is listed as Peter Frelinghuysen.  “This fabulous three-story penthouse apartment feels like
a house set on the top of a full-service prewar building,”
according to a property listing by Mary Rutherfurd and Leslie
Coleman, brokers at Brown Harris Stevens. “From the elevator
landing, one enters the front hall which is graced with a
staircase sweeping up to the bedroom level, and is lit from
above by a domed skylight in the roof.”  Goldman declined to comment on the purchase through an
assistant. Rutherfurd and Coleman declined to comment through
Amy Gotzler, a spokeswoman for Brown Harris Stevens.
Frelinghuysen didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Goldman is president and founder of BLDG Management Co., a
New York-based commercial real estate investment company. He and
Joseph Cayre helped to finance Silverstein’s initial $3.2
billion purchase of a 99-year lease of the trade center, six
weeks before it was destroyed by terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001.
Goldman is heir to a real estate fortune amassed by his father,
Irving, and an uncle, Sol Goldman, once a partner in the
Chrysler Building.  Blankfein, Brokaw  Goldman already owns an apartment on a lower floor of the
co-op building, located at Park Avenue and 81st Street, where
neighbors have included  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and Tom Brokaw, the television newsman,
according to public records.  The co-op Goldman purchased spans the building’s 15th and
16th floors and includes two staff bedrooms, a library and a
rooftop terrace  with “open city views down Park Avenue,”
according to the listing.  Purchases of Manhattan luxury apartments, defined as the
top 10 percent of all sales by price, declined 13 percent in the
fourth quarter to 201 deals, according to a Jan. 4 report by New
York appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and broker Prudential Douglas
Elliman. The median price of those transactions fell 4.6 percent
to $4.15 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  