-- TMX Rises on Quebec Regulator Approval: Toronto Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-15T21:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/tmx-rises-on-quebec-regulator-approval-toronto-mover.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  rose to its highest
level since June after Quebec’s financial markets authority said
it plans to approve the proposed C$3.73 billion ($3.76 billion)
takeover of the exchange operator by Maple Group Acquisition
Inc., a group of pension funds and banks.  “We’re satisfied with the results of discussions to date
with Maple and with the scope of the undertakings that Maple
will be required to provide,” Mario Albert, chief executive
officer of Autorité des Marchés Financiers, said today in a
statement.  TMX, which owns the Toronto Stock Exchange, the Montreal
Exchange and the  TSX Venture Exchange , rose 3.1 percent to
C$45.09 in Toronto, its highest close since June 24. Earlier,
the stock advanced as much as 4.6 percent, its biggest intraday
gain since Aug. 11.  Maple said today it was in discussions to extend its offer
for Toronto-based TMX beyond the planned April 30 completion
date as it pursues regulatory approval from provincial
authorities and  Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  Maple’s 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan ,  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and Caisse de
Depot et Placement du Quebec, the country’s largest pension-fund
manager.  Plans for Integration  The Ontario Securities Commission, Canada’s main stock
market regulator, “has requested that its staff develop draft
recognition orders with detailed terms and conditions,” Maple
said in today’s statement. The OSC will publish the draft orders
for a 30-day public comment period before making a final
decision, Maple said.  “This is normal course in a regulatory process,”  Luc Bertrand , a vice chairman at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  who acts as
spokesman for Maple, said in a telephone interview. “The OSC
conducted a thorough analysis. If they are satisfied with the
framework of the transaction, the next step would be to get the
drafting of recognition orders.”  Canada’s Competition Bureau reiterated today it has
“serious concerns” about the plan in connection with equities
trading and clearing settlement. The Competition Bureau has no
new developments to report on its review, spokeswoman Alexa
Keating said in an e-mail.  Maple intends to buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate it
with clearing house Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd., and
Alpha Group, a bank-owned alternative trading venue that
competes with TMX.  Conditions To Address Issues  Montreal-based Autorité said the conditions it intends to
impose on Maple and its subsidiaries will adequately address
issues that have been raised by the proposed transaction,
including corporate governance,  market access , fees, the
framework for Maple’s proposed operations and the continuity of
derivatives operations in Québec.  The conditions will be incorporated into the decisions that
the Quebec regulator plans to issue in the coming weeks.  Maple first proposed to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  