-- Dollar Weakens as Inflation Data Back Fed Stance
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-16T21:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/yen-poised-for-weekly-loss-against-most-peers-on-u-s-data-boj.html
The dollar weakened against most of
its major peers after U.S. inflation data fueled speculation
 Federal Reserve  policy makers will maintain economic stimulus.  The U.S. currency fell against the 17-nation euro as a
gauge of consumer prices excluding food and energy rose less
than forecast. Norway’s krone advanced with crude oil even as
the central bank warned this week the currency may weaken. The
yen headed for its sixth weekly drop against the dollar. The
pound rallied as 10-year gilts yields were poised for the
biggest weekly advance in more than three years.  “We’re seeing a correction in the dollar today as yields
wilt a little bit on disappointing CPI data and little bit
weaker consumer confidence,” said Boris Schlossberg, director
of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in  New York .
“The krone is becoming the ultimate oil-growth play and they
are concerned about the unnatural strength.”  The dollar fell 0.7 percent to $1.3175 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time, losing 0.4 percent this week. The U.S. currency
declined 0.2 percent to 83.43 yen, paring a 1.2 percent weekly
increase.  Yen Tumble  The yen has dropped 5.6 percent in the past month, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Australia’s dollar has
fallen 1.3 percent in that time, the second-worst performance.  Norway’s krone rose 0.9 percent to 5.7296 per dollar even
as central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said investors should be
aware that the krone may weaken and that it’s a riskier
investment than the Swiss franc.  “At some point there is a risk for investors that the
krone weakens,” Olsen said in an interview in Oslo today. “We
still have some room for maneuver in the interest-rate policy in
both directions,” he said. “We have no certain level of the
krone that we steer toward.”  Olsen sent the krone down to a five-week low against the
euro this week when he cut the bank’s benchmark deposit rate to
target the currency. The bank has stepped up its efforts to
contain the commodity-backed krone’s ascent after it touched a
nine-year high this month.  Golden Cross  Australia ’s dollar may rise to 90 yen in one month after
the 20-day moving average rose above the 200-day average,
creating a  golden-cross  formation, said Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd.  The currency rose 0.4 percent to 88.35 yen and advanced 0.6
percent to $1.0590.  The U.S. consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
the Labor Department reported today in  Washington . The core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
climbed 0.1 percent, less than projected.  “This confirms the Fed’s view that inflation remains
subdued and may alter investor’s perceptions about the
possibility of further accommodation from the Fed in the next
few months,” said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The month-over-month CPI print was
enough of a miss to shake out some of the short-term dollar
longs in the market.” A long position is a bet that an asset
will increase in value.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.5 percent to 79.778.  Futures traders decreased their long dollar positions in
the week ended March 13. The difference in the number of wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on an appreciation in
the dollar compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs
-- was 12,770, compared with net longs of 21,521 a week earlier.
The gauge measures the dollar against the yen, euro, Swiss
franc, pound, Mexican peso and the Australian, Canadian and New
Zealand dollars.  The Fed left unchanged March 13 its statement that economic
conditions would probably warrant “exceptionally low” interest
rates at least through late 2014. It has held its target rate to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Inflation “has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
Fed said. The increase in oil will “push up inflation
temporarily, but the committee anticipates that subsequently
inflation will run at or below the rate that it judges most
consistent with its dual mandate.”  Economic Data  U.S. industrial production was little changed last month,
compared to a predicted 0.4 percent expansion, the Federal
Reserve reported today, and  consumer confidence  decreased in
March. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  fell to 74.3 in March from 75.3 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to rise to 76.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its forecast for the dollar
against the euro and the yen this year. The euro will drop to
$1.36 from $1.38. Against the Japanese currency, the dollar will
strengthen to as high as 86 by mid-June before ending the year
at 83.  Sterling rose against all its major counterparts as 10-year
gilt yields headed for the biggest weekly gain since January
2009, increasing the appeal of pound-denominated assets.  The currency gained 0.9 percent to $1.5844 and 0.1 percent
to 83.16 pence per euro as the benchmark 10-year gilt yields
headed for a 29 basis point advance, or 0.29 percentage point,
on the week.  The  yield premium  that investors receive in gilts versus
similar maturity U.S. debt widened to 15 basis points from nine
basis points yesterday.  Sterling was also supported against the 17-nation euro amid
speculation the  European Central Bank  may not take further
action to fight  Europe ’s debt turmoil as inflation nears its 2
percent limit even as the economy contracts.  “We’ve done a lot,” European Central Bank Governing
Council member Erkki Liikanen said in a Bloomberg News interview
in Helsinki yesterday, citing the central bank’s record-low
 interest rates  and three-year loans. “We must also decide how
and when we exit in a controlled and timely manner,” he said,
declining to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  