-- Myer First-Half Profit Drops 18% as Spending Stalls
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-03-15T09:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/myer-first-half-profit-drops-18-as-spending-stalls.html
Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,  Australia ’s
largest department store chain, posted an 18 percent drop in
first-half profit as sales fell on stalling  consumer spending .  Net income sank to A$87.3 million ($91 million), or 14.9
Australian cents a share, in the six months to Jan. 28 from
A$106.8 million, or 18.2 cents, a year earlier, Melbourne-based
Myer said today in a statement. That missed the A$94.2 million
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Myer said annual sales may drop for a second straight year,
or be “at best flat,” affirming its forecast for profit to
decline by as much as 10 percent. Australia’s A$250 billion
retail sector is facing slowing spending and weak  consumer
confidence .  “There’s no signs that we’re seeing any reversal of
fortunes from the consumer sentiment point of view,” Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said in a conference call after
the earnings announcement.  A measure of Australian consumer sentiment showed a decline
for the seventh time in nine months yesterday, squeezing
retailers already facing downward pressure on sale prices as the
strength of the Australian dollar cuts the cost of imported
goods.  Myer  shares  fell 3.4 percent to A$2.29 at close in Sydney,
the biggest drop since March 6. The shares have declined 26
percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 5.5 percent fall
in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Struggling to Grow  “Myer continues to struggle to grow sales at a time when
costs are rising,” Silvia Spadea, an analyst at Merrill Lynch &
Co., wrote in a March 13 note to clients, adding that the
company’s current profit margins may not be sustainable.  Sales for the first half fell 1.7 percent to A$1.7 billion,
with revenue from outlets open at least a year dropping 3
percent, Myer said. General business costs rose 3.2 percent to
A$515 million due to increased spending on wages, rent and
utilities, and the acquisition of Sass & Bide, a womenswear
retailer.  Australian households are saving money at the highest rate
in two decades, with the household savings ratio in the December
quarter  standing  at 9 percent, nearly double the U.S.
 equivalent . The higher ratio means a smaller proportion of
income is being spent on  consumer goods , particularly the more
expensive discretionary items such as clothes and electronics
sold by department stores.  ‘Challenging Conditions’  Second-ranked chain  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  last month said it
expects “current challenging retail conditions” to continue
for the rest of the year.  Myer’s  sales  fell 3.5 percent in the first quarter and 0.4
percent in the most recent period.  “We have seen improvement in trading between the first and
second quarters with a continuation of the second quarter
trend” into the current half, Brookes said in the statement.  Myer plans to shut a store in the national capital of
Canberra and has closed another one in  Melbourne , Brookes said.  The company, which operates 67 stores, cut its target for
store expansion. It now aims to have 75 outlets in the next few
years, compared with an earlier target of 80, according to
Brookes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  