-- Yuan Unlikely to See 5%-6% Annual Gains, China Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-15T05:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-15/yuan-unlikely-to-see-5-6-annual-gains-china-researcher-says.html
China ’s currency is unlikely to
rise 5 percent or more a year against the dollar as the
economy’s long-term growth rate declines, according to a
researcher at a government-backed institute.  Apart from a February trade deficit that may ease pressure
for the yuan to rise, the long-term return investors can reap
from China’s economic expansion is falling, reducing potential
gains in the currency,  Liu Yuhui , director of the financial
experimental-research office at the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences  in Beijing, said in a telephone interview today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday that the yuan may be near
an equilibrium value and that policy makers will allow greater
two-way movement in the  exchange rate . Wen earlier this month
set China’s economic-growth target at 7.5 percent for 2012,
below an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, as the nation
shifts the focus of its expansion away from exports to domestic
consumption.  “The possibility for the yuan to gain 5 to 6 percent a
year has dropped significantly,” Liu said. The currency
probably won’t maintain a fast pace of appreciation until a new
economic model is “well established and generates stable
returns,” he said. How long that takes “depends on how the
reforms are carried out,” Liu said.  China’s economy  grew 9.2 percent in 2011 after a 10.4
percent expansion in 2010. The yuan appreciated 4.7 percent
against the dollar in 2011 and has dropped about 0.6 percent
since the beginning of this year. It was little changed at
6.3328 per dollar at 1 p.m. in  Shanghai .  Releasing Funds  At the same time, “it may also be difficult for investors
such as  hedge funds  to bet on yuan depreciation in the near
term,” Liu said. The  People’s Bank of China  can release funds
from its $3 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves to meet any
rise in demand for U.S. dollars and stabilize the yuan, he said.  The odds the Chinese government will keep offering
“significant subsidies to boost the economy” are shrinking and
its capability to do so is “increasingly limited,” Liu said.  The government is targeting average economic growth of 7
percent a year during the so-called 12th five-year plan period,
which covers 2011 through 2015. The goal has been routinely
exceeded and growth reached 14 percent as recently as 2007, when
the target was 8 percent, according to statistics bureau data.  The world’s second-largest economy had the biggest trade
deficit in at least 22 years last month, the weakest January-
February factory-production gain since 2009 and retail sales
below the median economist estimate, government data showed
March 9 and 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  