-- LaBeouf Turns Gangster, Cotillard Meets Killer Whales
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/labeouf-turns-gangster-cotillard-meets-killer-whales-in-cannes.html
In “ Wall Street : Money Never
Sleeps,”  Shia LaBeouf  played a trader hankering for cash.  “Lawless,” which premiered at the weekend at the  Cannes
Film Festival , casts him as the no-less-greedy Jack -- the
youngest of three bootlegging brothers in Prohibition-era
Virginia who fend off rivals and crooked law enforcers.  A coming-of-age tale directed by John Hillcoat and scripted
by Nick Cave, “Lawless” plots Jake’s mutation to moonshine
mogul from frightened farmboy, as he bypasses his knucklehead
brothers to market the booze. The Western-cum-gangster movie
features shootouts, stabbings and even an emasculation.  In Cannes for the premiere, bearded and baby-faced LaBeouf,
25, said he got no training for the fight scenes.  “It’s messy, it’s dirty and it’s realistic,” he said of
the improvised scuffles. “It’s not rehearsed like a ballet.”  Funnily enough, the violence helps turn this initially
predictable true story into a compelling drama. So does the
acting. LaBeouf delivers his best performance yet; the quivering
cub turns cocky, buying cashmere coats and driving his girl
around in a jalopy.  Tom Hardy  is another standout as his gruff brother Forrest
-- afraid of no man, yet terrified to court a woman. Jessica Chastain (the talented star of “The Tree of Life”) plays the
ex-dancer who catches Forrest’s eye. Only Guy Pearce, the scary
Special Deputy Charlie Rakes, overacts in his role as the dandy
official on the take. Rating: ***.  ‘Rust and Bone’  Marion Cotillard , who shot to fame as Edith Piaf in “La
Vie en Rose” (2007), proves she’s no one-hit wonder with “Rust
and Bone.”  Directed by Jacques Audiard (“A Prophet”), it’s about a
killer-whale trainer (Cotillard) whose legs are amputated after
an accident at the film’s start, and a big-hearted bouncer-boxer
(the impressive Matthias Schoenaerts) she meets shortly before.  First-rate acting can’t stop “Rust and Bone” from tipping
into melodrama, mostly because of a clumsy script. “I won’t
need these,” says the amputee as she gives away her shoes. The
plot has so many jolts and twists that it feels like a
storyboard. No surprise there: It’s actually a mash-up of short
stories by Craig Davidson.  On the plus side, Audiard delivers searing shots that blur
the boundaries between animal and human. Outdoor boxing matches
are filmed like cockfights. Sex is quick and feral. Boxer Ali is
always a twitch or two away from getting violent, even with his
five-year-old son.  The prettiest scenes involve the killer whales. They do
magnificent slow-motion forward flips -- accompanied by crashing
sound effects -- and engage in a brief ballet of water
movements. Too bad Audiard didn’t give us more whale shots and
fewer doses of stark social realism. Rating: **1/2.  ‘Reality’  If  Italy ’s courts had allowed it, a Neapolitan jailbird
would have walked up the Cannes red carpet.  Aniello Arena -- a prisoner for close to two decades, and
part of a theatre troupe -- is the lead actor in “Reality.”
It’s about a Naples fishmonger who tries out for Italy’s version
of the “Big Brother” TV show and gets hooked on its intoxicating
promise of fame and fortune.  Based on a true story, “Reality” is a tragicomic fable on
the hopes placed by working-class families in television.
Luciano the fishmonger interrupts a life of seafood and petty
scams to join legions of coiffed, numbered and surgically
boosted Big Brother wannabes. The audition alone makes him a
local hero.  Fellini Farce  Director Matteo Garrone -- whose 2008 organized-crime movie
“Gomorrah” was a stunner -- delivers a skillful blend of Greek
tragedy and Fellini-esque farce. His camera lovingly scans
Naples in all its decadent splendor.  Garrone locates the Big Brother house in Federico Fellini’s
favorite Cinecitta studios, and peoples the movie with the kind
of full-figured women the late master adored. TV personalities
are portrayed as modern-day saints, pawed by the faithful, and
worshiped from below as they soar in their private helicopters.  Where “Reality” disappoints is in its heavy handling of
morality. Luciano is racked with guilt in the film’s latter
half, and Garrone spends too many scenes showing it.  Luckily, actor-convict Arena brings unusual authenticity
and, well, reality to the role. If he wins the best-actor trophy
at Cannes, it would definitely be a first. Rating: ***1/2.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela
Hoelterhoff , Scott Reyburn on  auctions ,  Robert Heller  on  music 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 