-- Afghanistan Commitment Tests Obama’s Influence in NATO
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-20T17:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/afghanistan-commitment-tests-obama-s-influence-in-nato.html
President  Barack Obama  faces the task
of persuading financially pressed European governments and their
war-weary citizens to back Afghanistan’s security over the next
decade.  Obama met this morning in Chicago with Afghan President
Hamid Karzai, who is sometimes harshly critical of his NATO
allies. Obama is seeking to prevent a rush to withdraw from
Afghanistan by U.S. allies ahead of 2014, when Afghan forces are
to take over full security. The U.S. also wants allies, many
enduring budget cuts, to help cover the $4.1 billion a year
needed to finance Afghan security forces after 2014.  “What this NATO summit reflects is that the world is
behind this strategy we’ve laid out,” Obama said after his
talks with the Afghan leader. The alliance has a “vision
post-2014 in which we have ended our combat role, the Afghan war
as we understand it is over, but our commitment to friendship
and partnership with  Afghanistan  continues.”  As the 28 members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and partner nations gathered in Chicago, the effort to reach
consensus on the way ahead in Afghanistan will test Obama’s
diplomatic skills and also the political cohesion and staying
power of the 63-year-old group.  “It’s important to reaffirm the relevance of the
alliance,” said Stephen Larrabee of Rand Corp., a policy
institute based in Santa Monica,  California .  Sticking Together  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen today affirmed the timetable set by the
allies for handing over full security responsibility to Afghan
forces by 2014.  Allies that entered Afghanistan together should withdraw
together and Germany will “resolutely defend” that stance,
Merkel told reporters in  Chicago .  “There will be no rush for the exits,” Rasmussen said at
a briefing. “Our goal, our strategy, our timetable remain
unchanged.”  The summit takes place as Europeans and the U.S. are
cutting defense spending and as NATO has avoided being drawn
into the crisis in  Syria , which borders alliance-member  Turkey .  While last year’s military actions in  Libya  were proclaimed
an alliance success, they exposed the Europeans’ reliance on
U.S. military equipment such Tomahawk cruise missiles and
airborne reconnaissance and refueling.  The NATO leaders in Chicago are expected to agree on a
“smart defense” initiative, which calls for sharing
technologies and weapons systems. The goal is to pool resources
to acquire capabilities that may be too costly for a single
country, such as airlift, intelligence and surveillance, missile
defense and cybersecurity.  Recast Alliance  Born in 1949 as a Cold-War alliance to defend Western
Europe from the  Soviet Union , NATO has sought to recast itself
by expanding membership, partnering with nations in Eastern and
Central Europe and deploying its military power in places such
as the Balkans, Libya and Afghanistan.  Between 2008 and 2010, at least 16 European NATO members
have cut defense spending, according to the International
Institute for Strategic Studies. Total defense spending by
European NATO members in 2011 was 10 percent below their
combined spending in 2008, according to alliance data.  Because of austerity-driven cuts in Europe and the U.S.,
NATO may be constrained in its ability to carry out some future
missions, said Larrabee, who was a U.S. National Security
Council staff member during the Carter administration. Such
constraints “will intensify the debate” on what security NATO
will provide beyond  Europe  to where most future threats lie,
Larrabee said during a teleconference on May 18.  Expensive Operations  Many alliance members “are not very comfortable” with
operations such as Afghanistan “in which they do not see a
strong national interest and which are expensive and which
involve in many cases casualties,” he said.  France ’s new President  Francois Hollande  said May 18 that
he is sticking to his campaign pledge to withdraw French combat
troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year.  “At what pace combat troop will withdraw is France’s
business,” he said yesterday, while attending the Group of
Eight summit at Camp David,  Maryland . He said a “few remaining
troops” will work on training and equipping Afghan forces.  France now has 3,308 troops in Afghanistan, according to
information provided by the International Security Assistance
Force on its website. Hollande said May 18 that France would
support Afghanistan in a “different way.” NATO members will
discuss during the summit whether that may entail trainers or
other forms of assistance.  Rasmussen said he was “not surprised” that Hollande is
planning to keep his campaign promise. He said France can
support the alliance in other ways.  $4.1 Billion Annual Cost  Hollande’s position may frustrate U.S. efforts to keep
European combat forces in place through 2014, and to get NATO
partners to help underwrite an estimated $4.1 billion a year in
assistance to Afghan security forces over the following decade.  Financing the stand-alone Afghan force has taken on greater
urgency as Western allies start departing after more than a
decade of warfare, the longest combat operation in NATO’s
history.  Afghan soldiers and police officers totaled about 337,000
in mid-March and are scheduled to reach 352,000 this year. The
coalition has agreed with Afghan leaders to begin paring the
force after 2014 to about 230,000.  Maintaining those numbers of Afghan security forces would
cost about $4 billion, with the U.S. seeking $1.3 billion from
allies and with the Afghanistan government contributing about
$500 million annually, Assistant Secretary of State Philip Gordon told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on May 10.  ‘Under Strain’  Over the past month, since defense and foreign ministers
met at NATO headquarters in Brussels in preparation for the
summit, several countries have announced financial pledges for
Afghan security forces, including Britain with 70 million pounds
($112 million) and  Germany  with $190 million a year.  NATO nations are reducing their military budgets, including
the U.S. which is slated to cut $487 billion over the next ten
years. The U.S. military may face another $500 billion in cuts
if Congress and the White House do not agree by the end of this
year on other ways to reduce the  budget deficit .  “The cohesion of the Atlantic community is under strain
from economic crisis, political paralysis and the emergence of
new global powers in  Asia ,” said R. Nicholas Burns, former
undersecretary of state for political affairs during the George W. Bush administration, who co-authored an Atlantic Council
report on the future of NATO.  Testing Time  In the past year, NATO nations have faced two major tests -
- a debt crisis and declining military budgets, said Burns, who
is a board director at the Atlantic Council in  Washington  and a
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  At the summit, NATO allies will also discuss NATO’s long
standing Baltic air policing missions over the air space of
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and progress on NATO’s missile
defense system.  Russian opposition to the new NATO ballistic missile
defense capability is considered a key obstacle to
implementation, according to a May 14 Congressional Research
Service analysis by Paul Belkin.  “Rhetoric from Russian policy makers has become
increasingly hostile to the NATO plan,” Belkin said. Russian
leaders have also asked for legal guarantees that the NATO
system will not be aimed at  Russia , Belkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Chicago at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  