-- Manufacturing, Housing Probably Improved: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-20T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/manufacturing-housing-probably-improved-u-s-economy-preview.html
Manufacturers probably received more
orders in April and home sales rose, a sign the U.S. expansion
is still on track, economists said before reports this week.  Factory bookings for long-lasting goods  rose  0.3 percent
last month after falling 3.9 percent in March, according to the
median forecasts of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a May 24 Commerce Department report. Other figures may
show purchases of  existing  and  new  houses also climbed.  Manufacturers may keep forging ahead as automakers crank
out more cars and trucks, while housing will probably benefit
from record-low  mortgage rates  that are making properties more
affordable. Nonetheless, those industries alone will fail to
spur a pickup in growth without bigger increases in employment
throughout the economy that will propel  consumer spending .  “The economy is growing, but it’s just not growing at an
inspiring pace,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at
 Societe Generale  in  New York . “The production numbers look OK,
the housing market looks OK, the thing we’re more concerned
about is the labor market.”  A Federal Reserve report last week showed factory
production rose 0.6 percent in April. About half the gain came
from auto making, which jumped 3.9 percent following a 1.2
percent increase in the prior month.  Another measure of strength, the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index,  climbed  to 54.8 in April, the
highest level in almost a year, as orders picked up. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  ‘Doing Very Well’  “There’s lots of good things going on from an industrial
perspective,” Art Beattie, chief financial officer of Southern
Co., the largest U.S. power company by market value, said during
a May 15 investor conference. “A lot of our chemical
manufacturers are doing very well. Our steel manufacturers are
near full capacity. Automotive production and the suppliers for
those automotive plants are doing very well.”  Factory production helped sustain the expansion while the
housing market stabilized.  Existing-home sales  rose  3.1 percent to a 4.62 million
annual rate, economists project a report from the National
Association of Realtors will show May 22. A day later, figures
from the Commerce Department may show sales of newly built
houses rose 2.1 percent to a 335,000 pace, according to the
survey median.  Housing  starts  increased to a 717,000 annual rate in April,
more than anticipated, a report showed last week.  Gaining Confidence  Homebuilders have grown more optimistic as a result of the
improvement in sales. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index jumped to a five-year high
in May, the Washington-based group reported last week.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
 advanced  27 percent so far this year, outpacing a 3 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 .  A more stable housing market may help lift consumers’
moods. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
sentiment index for May is projected to come in at 77.8, the
same as the preliminary reading and the highest since January
2008. It would mark the first time since monthly data began in
1978 that the index advanced for a nine consecutive months.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  