-- Asia Currencies to Extend Slide on Growth, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-05-21T08:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/asia-currencies-to-extend-slide-as-slump-deepens-citigroup-says.html
Asian currencies are poised to keep
falling after the biggest decline in eight months as the
region’s economy slumps more than investors expect, spurring
more interest-rate cuts, according to Citigroup Inc.  Volatility will increase as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts
demand for Asian exports and prompts global money managers to
favor the dollar’s safety over riskier assets, said Nadir Mahmud,
the head of Asia-Pacific markets at Citigroup in Singapore,
which ranked second in worldwide currency trading volume after
Deutsche Bank AG in a  Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc (ERM) 
survey. He has spent 26 years in the industry and oversees a
team of more than 1,500 staff in 17 countries.  “The slowdown in Asia which we’ll see in the very near
term will catch the markets off guard,” Mahmud said in a May 16
interview. “What you will see is an up move in the dollar and a
down move in  interest rates  which most people are not
expecting.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index lost 1.8 percent
so far in May and is headed for the steepest monthly drop since
September. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares tumbled 10
percent, set for the worst drop since October 2008. The  Dollar
Index (DXY) , which measures the U.S. currency against those of six
major trader partners, advanced 3 percent.  India’s rupee, the region’s worst-performing currency this
month with a 3.5 percent decline, touched a record low of 54.91
per dollar on May 18. South  Korea ’s won slid 3.3 percent. The
rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, jumped 350 basis points, or 3.5
percentage points, this month to 13 percent. International
investors pulled $6.2 billion from the stock markets of  India ,
 Indonesia , South Korea, Taiwan and  Thailand  this month,
according to exchange data.  ‘Some Turbulence’  “You might see some turbulence in local foreign-exchange
markets, bond markets and equity markets,” Mahmud said. “In
the short term, in a risk-averse environment, the dollar still
looks like the king.”  Mahmud said increased volatility will help the bank achieve
“double-digit” growth in Asian trading this year. Asian
foreign-exchange trading at the New York-based lender, including
trades on its electronic Citi FXVelocity system, grew in the
past year to $4.3 trillion from $2.5 trillion, boosting its
market share to 17 percent, the Euromoney survey showed. The
actual volume was “significantly higher,” Mahmud said.  Citigroup’s securities and banking operations, which
includes Mahmud’s division, reported a 17 percent increase in
first-quarter revenue to $1.2 billion from a year earlier,
boosting net income by 46 percent to $307 million.  Economic Slowdown  China ’s exports, factory output and inflows of foreign
direct investment fell short of economists’ estimates in April,
according to government data released this month. Overseas
shipments from South Korea,  Malaysia  and the  Philippines  shrank,
separate reports showed. Central banks of Korea and Indonesia
left interest rates unchanged in May.  Policy makers in  Asia  will probably shift focus to reviving
growth from containing inflation, injecting funds into the
region’s economies, said Mahmud.  “The policy reaction in the U.S. has been very
aggressive,” he said. In Asia, “there are certain central
banks that are behind the curve, but slowing economic growth may
force them to react,” he said.  ‘Fundamentals Positive’  Asian currencies will rebound in the longer term as
current-account balances and government finances improve, Mahmud
said. China had a current-account surplus of $24.7 billion in
the first quarter and a similar measure in Korea climbed to a
four-month high of $3 billion in March.  “The fundamentals of Asia are positive,” Mahmud said.
“Most countries run current-account surpluses and they don’t
have huge public debt issues like in Europe. Asia may possibly
have some hiccups near term but in the long run, the outlook
continues to be very positive.”  Barclays Capital  also predicts Asian emerging currencies
will weaken over the next month, strategists Olivier DesBarres
and Nick Verdi wrote in May 17 research note. The bank cut its
forecast on the rupee to 56 from 52 for one month.  “Asian currencies will be forced to weaken against a
broadly stronger dollar,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior
strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank of Nova
Scotia. “When Europe goes through financial strain, it bleeds
into the real economy and eventually hits Asian economic
growth.”  An economic recovery in China may be delayed without strong
policy support, according to Mahmud. The world’s second-largest
economy is forecast to expand 8.3 percent this year, the slowest
pace since 2001, according to the median forecast of analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  “We haven’t seen a bottom yet” in China’s growth rate,
Mahmud said. “You might see a quarter or two of even slower
growth than you’ve got now.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  