-- Australian Budget Prices Contracting Euro Economy, Swan Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-20T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/australian-budget-prices-contracting-euro-economy-swan-says.html
Australia’s  federal budget , targeting
a return to surplus next fiscal year, is taking a conservative
view of Europe’s economic outlook, forecasting a 0.75 percent
contraction this year, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Determined, consistent and continuing action will be
required by European policy makers to deal with the sovereign
debt crisis, get their budgets back on a sustainable footing,
and restore growth,” Swan said in his weekly economic note
yesterday. Australia’s “budget takes a conservative view of
Europe’s economic outlook, with the euro area forecast to
contract by 3/4 of a percent in 2012.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority government, seeking
to impress voters as a sound  economic manager , this month
promised to achieve a budget surplus of A$1.54 billion ($1.52
billion) for fiscal 2012-13, ending four years of deficits. Her
Labor Party faces a general election next year.  “Australia is not immune from events in  Europe ,” Swan
said in the note. “But it’s important we don’t lose sight of
the fact that our economic credentials are among the strongest
in the world: we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in
the developed world, we have sturdy public finances with very
low public debt.”  The economy of the 17 member-states euro area will contract
0.3 percent this year, the median forecast of 41 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg shows. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said May 19 turmoil in the financial markets caused by
Europe’s debt crisis may last two more years, as Group of Eight
leaders prepared to discuss  Greece  and its impact on the global
economy.  Equity Markets  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and fellow European leaders
face pressure from their G-8 counterparts to do more to quell
the crisis after almost $4 trillion was wiped from global equity
markets this month amid speculation that Greece will exit the
euro.  Australia, whose biggest trading partner  China  is driving
demand for the nation’s minerals and energy  exports , is well
equipped to withstand outside shocks as investment in the mining
projects continues, Swan said.  “We have contained inflation, we have a huge pipeline of
mining investment, and we have a budget returning to surplus
next financial year ahead of every single major advanced
economy,” he said.  Gillard, the nation’s first female prime minister, is being
buffeted by scandals that have weakened her control of
parliament. Support for her  Labor party  is at 30 percent for the
primary vote with the opposition Liberal-National coalition at
45 percent, according to a May 15 Newspoll released in the
Australian newspaper.  At the Queensland state election in March, the Labor-led
government suffered a landslide defeat, ending its 14 years of
rule. The Liberal National Party won 79 of the 89 parliamentary
seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  