-- Banking Burnouts Blow Away Myths of Wall Street Glamour
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-05-20T22:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/banking-burnouts-blow-away-myths-of-wall-street-glamour.html
Ever since March, when the  New York 
Times decided to make a  cause celebre  out of the resignation of
 Greg Smith , a vice president at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a
cottage industry of first-person Wall Street departure stories
has sprung up across the print media and blogosphere.  For instance, the Guardian in  London  has run a series of 60
columns -- titled  “Voices of Finance”  -- that give current and
former Wall Street bankers and traders a chance to anonymously
describe what their jobs are really like or why they decided to
leave. One London-based equity derivatives salesman, who had a
job similar to Greg Smith’s but not at Goldman Sachs, wrote on
the Guardian blog that doing the right thing on  Wall Street  is a
directive that must come from the top.  “For me,”  he wrote , “it goes back to the values in an
organization. If you could sell your product for double the
price, would you do it? I would say, in business, that’s
legitimate, provided your clients have adequate information.” He
continued: “This is an important rule with structured
derivatives that clients ignore at their peril. You have got to
read the small print. You need to bring in a lawyer who explains
it to you before you buy these things -- otherwise there is
information asymmetry.”  These anonymous postings are valuable insomuch as they give
a reader a healthy dose of the flavor of what it is like to work
on Wall Street. But they can’t hold a candle to a full-throated,
no-holds-barred repudiation of an industry that is expert at
seducing the world’s best and brightest with promises of glamour
and riches.  Banking’s Black Hole  Such is the power of the prose of former banker Stephen
Ridley, who survived as a junior investment banker at a “top
tier” European investment bank for all of 16 months before
throwing in the towel on his finance career in October 2011.
Having since been reconstituted as a singer/songwriter and
pianist -- and a damn fine one at that -- in the mold of
Coldplay’s  Chris Martin , Ridley decided last month to  go public 
with his tale of  investment-banking  woe. He tells a powerful
story that anyone considering a Wall Street career would do well
to read before falling into the investment-banking black hole.  Ridley writes that he graduated from a top British
university -- he doesn’t say which one -- in 2010 with a degree
in philosophy, politics and economics. The summer before
graduation, he interned in the “European” bank he joined a year
later (despite knowing firsthand from his internship just how
“brutal” the life of an investment banker was). His sole
motivation was to make as much money as possible. He assumed
having a lot of money would make him happy and earn him the
respect of the people around him.  “I wanted to be a somebody in the eyes of myself and
others,” he wrote on the blog Wall Street Oasis. “But most of
all, I wanted money. Why? Because money is freedom. Money means
I can wear what I want, live where I want, go where I want, eat
what I want, be who I want. Money would make me happy. Right?”  Wrong. Ridley explains: “In fact, money didn’t seem to make
any of the bankers happy. Not one person in the roughly 200 I
got to know in banking were happy. Yet all earned multiples of
the national average salary.”  He then explained why he was so unhappy. “Like everyone
there, I worked my ass to the bone, working mind-numbingly
boring work,” he continued. “15 hour days were a minimum, 16-17
were normal, 20+ were frequent and once or twice a month there
would be the dreaded all-nighter. I worked around 2 out of every
4 weekends in some form. I was never free, I always had my
blackberry with me, and thus I could never truly detach myself
from the job.”  Just Staying Awake  What about the perks, the lavish lifestyle? “These are the
objective facts, contrary to what any ’baller’ wants to tell
you,” writes Ridley. “The only models were Excel models, the
only bottles were Coca Cola, which I drank a lot of to stay
awake.” Once Ridley realized that he was happier “backpacking
around  South America  on a shoestring” than he was in the
supposedly glamorous world of investment banking, he gave it up
to pursue his passion for singing.  Given the shrinking investment-banking pie and dramatic
changes to the way the industry is going to be regulated, we
have come to an important, paradigm-shifting moment for Wall
Street. As Stephen Ridley, and many others, have discovered,
Wall Street is no longer a fun -- or necessarily lucrative --
place to work.  And guess what? This is the best news to come around in a
generation. Now, instead of being sucked into Wall Street by
default or after digesting a fantasy about fame and untold
riches, maybe our best and brightest graduates will pursue their
passions. If they do, we will all be better off.  As Ridley says: “Life is short -- you’re young, you’re old,
you’re dead. React to that knowledge. You have nothing to lose!”  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author
of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,”
is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt’s shaky elections 
and  curbing adult obesity ;  Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of
Mormonism ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay vote in 2012 ; Catherine
Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech” ;  Mark Taylor  on how  academic
specialization harms the economy.   To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  