-- Bank of Korea Should Hold Rates as Europe Woes Deepen, KDI Says
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-05-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/bank-of-korea-should-hold-rates-as-europe-woes-deepen-kdi-says.html
The  Bank of Korea  should hold its
benchmark rate at 3.25 percent as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens
and inflation remains a threat, a state-run South Korean
research institute said.  “The recent economic slowdown and stabilizing prices have
reduced the need for tightening,” the  Korea Development
Institute  said in its biannual outlook report released in  Seoul 
today. “The central bank is better off staying put for the time
being so that it can cope with either the possibility of a
recession caused by Europe or a possible pick-up in inflation.”  South  Korea ’s won dropped last week by the most in almost
eight months as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
prompted investors to favor the relative safety of the dollar.
The Kospi Index of stocks slid 3.4 percent on May 18 as equities
sank in  emerging markets .  The Bank of Korea highlighted concerns over Europe on May
10, when it held rates for an 11th straight meeting. Downside
growth risks remain “significant” in light of a slowdown in
the euro area, the bank’s statement said.  While South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded at the
fastest pace in a year last quarter, the Bank of Korea reduced
its 2012 growth forecast for the country to 3.5 percent from 3.7
percent on April 16 as the outlook for Europe worsened.  “Exports to Europe and most other regions are decreasing,
with the exception of shipments to the U.S.,” KDI said. “We
expect exports to contribute less to overall growth this year
than last, and growth will remain moderate over coming
quarters.”  KDI forecasts  South Korea ’s economy to grow 3.6 percent
this year and 4.1 percent in 2013 as domestic demand and  exports 
recover. Inflation will likely ease to 2.6 percent this year,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  