-- Base Pay for 9 of 10 U.K. Investment Bankers Frozen, Study Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-05-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/base-pay-for-9-of-10-u-k-investment-bankers-frozen-study-says.html
Fixed pay for nine out of ten
investment-banking jobs in the U.K. has been frozen over the
past year as financial job opportunities continue to shrink,
according to recruitment firm  Astbury Marsden .  Approximately 92 percent of investment banking jobs didn’t
see an increase in their base salaries for the year to March 31,
the recruiter said in a statement today. Demand for staff in
compliance and risk will improve as banks deal with increased
regulatory pressures, London-based Astbury Marsden said.  “Institutions have not been implementing formal pay
freezes as part of their human-resources strategy, but that has
been the effect,”  Mark Cameron , chief operating officer at
Astbury Marsden, said in the statement. “Even after a good
round of results from the banks, profitability is still seen as
too low to justify big headcount expansions at any of the
biggest investment banks.”  Financial firms have been under pressure from regulators
and governments to cut pay due to public anger about taxpayer
assistance to banks, including the U.K.’s Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   RBS (RBS)  Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester  this year waived his 963,000-pound ($1.52
million) bonus after the U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party  said it
would ask Parliament to vote on the award.  The Centre for Economics & Business Research said this
month that jobs in the capital’s financial districts, the City
and  Canary Wharf , may fall to a revised estimate of 255,000 in
2012 compared with 288,000 predicted six months ago. That would
be the lowest number since the first quarter of 1996, the CEBR
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  