-- Bayern Munich Second in Brand Value After Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-20T23:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/bayern-munich-second-in-brand-value-after-champions-league-final.html
Bayern Munich ’s trip to the  Champions
League  final lifted the European runner-up above Real Madrid
into second place in a survey of soccer’s top teams by brand
value.  The report published by  Brand Finance Plc  gives Bayern a
brand valuation of $786 million, up 59 percent from last year.
 Manchester United , which has won a record 19 English league
titles, tops the list with a brand estimated at $853 million.  “Shrewd commercial management and commanding Champions
League performances by Bayern Munich could see United unseated
from the top spot in the near future,” Brand Finance, which
advises companies including brewer SABMiller Plc and bank
Standard Chartered Plc, said.  Bayern was beaten 4-3 in a penalty shootout by Chelsea two
days ago in the final of  Europe ’s elite club competition.  While many of the major clubs concentrate on the
international market, Bayern has focused on  Germany , according
to Brand Finance. Its commercial revenue of $254 million is the
highest of any club.  Spanish champion Real  Madrid , which lost the top spot to
United last year, drops to third at $600 million with Barcelona
fourth at $580 million.  Even after winning the Champions League and the F.A. Cup,
Chelsea remained in fifth place at $398 million because of its
poor performance in the Premier League, where it finished sixth.  Premier League champion  Manchester City  continues its
growth under billionaire Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who
has spent more than $1 billion to win the club’s first league
title since 1968. City ranks eighth with a value of $302
million, up 77 percent from last year.  The huge investment of Sheikh Mansour “is beginning to pay
off for City both on and off the field,” the report said.  The report defined brand value as the trademark value and
all associated intellectual property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 