-- Boehner Urges Republicans to Focus on Economy, Not Wright
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/boehner-urges-republicans-to-focus-on-economy-not-wright.html
Republicans should focus on the  U.S.
economy  and not waste time and money attacking President  Barack Obama  over his ties to his former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday.  Interviewed on ABC’s “This Week,” Boehner joined
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in
decrying a Republican strategist’s aborted plan to air racially
tinged ads against Obama. Racially incendiary sermons by Wright
became an issue in 2008 when Obama won the presidency.  “The issue is not Reverend Wright,” Boehner said. “The
issue is the economy. This kind of nonsense shouldn’t happen.
The election’s going to be about the economy and getting
Americans back to work.”  Boehner reiterated that Congress shouldn’t wait until after
the November elections to pass legislation aimed at reducing the
federal debt. He acknowledged he faces a challenge corralling
 House Republicans .  “It is hard to keep 218 frogs in a wheelbarrow long enough
to get a bill passed,” he said, referring to the number of
lawmakers needed to pass most bills in the House.  Boehner, who previously said there is a one-in-three chance
Republicans could lose control of the House in November, said,
“If the election were held today, I feel good about it.”  Balanced Deficit Reduction  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
challenged Boehner on the ABC program to bring legislation to
the House floor to cut taxes for middle-income earners.  “We all know we have to reduce the deficit,” she said.
“We have to do it in a balanced way.”  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, both
Republicans, said on the Sunday talk shows that Obama’s economic
policies aren’t succeeding.  “We have a president who just this weekend at Camp David
was advocating a position to the left of the  European Central
Bank , which has been resisting doing an American-type stimulus
to solve their problems,” McConnell said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” referring to the Group of Eight summit at the
presidential retreat in rural Maryland that ended May 19.  Ryan said the European debt crisis should serve as “a
cautionary tale” for the U.S. government.  European Austerity  “We can avoid the European-style austerity if we get the
right leadership in place,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “We’ll prevent a debt crisis and we’ll grow the
economy.”  Uncertainty on taxes, regulations,  interest rates ,
inflation and the debt crisis are having a chilling effect on
economic growth, Ryan said on a separate appearance on “Fox
News Sunday.”  Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat
appearing on “Meet the Press,” criticized Boehner for saying
in a May 15 speech that he would draw “a line in the sand”
requiring that any increase in the debt limit be offset by
spending cuts.  “We saw what happened when the speaker last year played,
in effect, debt-ceiling roulette,” Senator Mark Warner, a
Virginia Democrat, said on the CBS “Face the Nation” program.
“He almost blew up the whole economy.”  Both Democrats were referring to last year’s political
standoff over increasing the U.S. debt limit.  Compromise Legislation  Obama signed compromise legislation to lift the debt
ceiling on Aug. 2, the day the Treasury had warned the nation’s
borrowing authority would expire. One of the three major ratings
companies,  Standard & Poor’s , on Aug. 5 cut its rating on
federal debt to AA+ from AAA, the first-ever downgrade of U.S.
credit.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
on the CBS program that he wouldn’t vote to raise the debt
ceiling “until you show me we’re serious about getting out of
debt.”  Obama’s approach is to address the deficit in a balanced
way,  Austan Goolsbee , former chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  The approach of the Republicans and the Romney campaign
“is let us have massive cuts twice as big so that we can pay
for the  deficit reduction  and multi-trillion dollars of
additional tax cuts that are predominantly going to high-income
people,” said Goolsbee, an economist at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business.  Main Concern  Romney’s business record shows his main concern was to
amass wealth “by any means possible,” Democratic political
strategist  David Axelrod  said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”
As head of Bain Capital LLC, Romney sacrificed benefits for
workers while he and his partners at the private-equity company
“always walked away with money,” he said.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus,
speaking on the same program, said November’s general election
will be “a referendum” on whether Obama “fulfilled his
promises” to improve the economy.  “People can’t fill up the gas tank and buy a full set of
groceries,” he said, adding that Obama “hasn’t done a thing
about getting the deficit under control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington a 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  