-- Boehner Urges Republicans to Focus on Economy, Not Wright
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-05-20T14:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/boehner-says-republicans-to-focus-on-economy-not-reverend-wright.html
Republicans should focus on the  U.S.
economy  and not waste time and money attacking President  Barack Obama  over his ties to his former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., House Speaker  John Boehner  said today.  Interviewed on ABC’s “This Week,” Boehner joined
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in
decrying a Republican strategist’s aborted plan to air racially
tinged ads against Obama. Racially incendiary sermons by Wright
became an issue in 2008 when Obama won the presidency.  “The issue is not Reverend Wright,” Boehner said. “The
issue is the economy. This kind of nonsense shouldn’t happen.
The election’s going be about the economy and getting Americans
back to work.”  Boehner reiterated that Congress shouldn’t wait until after
the November elections to pass legislation aimed at reducing the
federal debt. He acknowledged he faces a challenge corralling
 House Republicans .  “It is hard to keep 218 frogs in a wheelbarrow long enough
to get a bill passed,” he said, referring to the number of
lawmakers needed to pass bills in the House.  Boehner, who previously said there is a one-in-three chance
Republicans could lose control of the House in November, said,
“If the election were held today, I feel good about it.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
also appeared on the ABC program and challenged Boehner to bring
legislation to the House floor to cut taxes for middle-income
earners.  “We all know we have to reduce the deficit,” she said.
“We have to do it in a balanced way.”  ‘Debt Crisis’  “The big thing hurting our economy is a debt crisis, and
the president’s done absolutely nothing to prevent this from
happening, only to put more uncertainty on businesses,” House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
said in an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”  Uncertainty on taxes, regulations,  interest rates ,
inflation and the debt crisis are having a chilling effect on
economic growth, he said.  Obama’s approach is to address the deficit in a balanced
way,  Austan Goolsbee , former chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  “The counter coming from the Romney campaign, and even in
the Ryan plan itself, is let us have massive cuts twice as big
so that we can pay for the deficit reduction and multi-trillion
dollars of additional tax cuts that are predominantly going to
high-income people,” said Goolsbee, an economist at the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business.  Romney’s Record  In separate appearances on CNN’s “ State of the Union ,”
Democratic political strategist  David Axelrod  and Republican
National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus traded charges over
which candidate is better suited to manage the economy.  Romney’s business record shows his main concern was to
amass wealth “by any means possible,” Axelrod said. As head of
Bain Capital LLC, Romney sacrificed benefits for workers while
he and his partners at the private-equity company “always
walked away with money,” he said.  Priebus said the general election will be “a referendum”
on whether Obama “fulfilled his promises” to improve the
economy.  “People can’t fill up the gas tank and buy a full set of
groceries,” he said, adding that Obama “hasn’t done a thing
about getting the deficit under control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington a 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  