-- Britain’s Nuclear Push Won’t Add to Power Bills, Davey Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-05-20T13:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/britain-s-nuclear-push-won-t-add-to-power-bills-davey-says.html
U.K. Energy Secretary Ed Davey denied
that consumers face increases in their power bills to help pay
for new nuclear reactors.  “There is no public subsidy for new nuclear,” he told BBC
television’s “Sunday Politics” show. “I am determined to make
sure we negotiate hard. Because I am really worried about
consumer bills, I’m not going to allow the negotiations on
nuclear to add to bills.”  The U.K. is aiming to revive the nuclear industry after
 Germany ’s largest utilities scrapped a British project in March,
saying the investment would take too long to pay off. Earlier
this month, the government announced long-term contracts that
give power producers guarantees to help them attract as much as
60 billion pounds ($95 billion) in finance for nuclear plants.  Electricite de France SA , the company furthest along in its
plans to build a new nuclear plant in Britain, is unlikely to
complete a reactor before 2020, according to Alistair Buchanan,
chief executive officer of the U.K. energy markets regulator.
EDF has said it will make a final  investment decision  on its
project at Hinkley Point in southwestern  England  by the end of
this year.  “I believe if we can get a deal that involves no public
subsidy we could see that project proceeding,” Davey said.
“EDF says if we can reach agreement, we’re talking about
electricity from that power plant by the end of the decade.”  About half of Britain’s coal-fired plants are scheduled to
close by 2016 and all the nation’s nuclear stations are due to
shut by 2035. Britain gets about 20 percent of its power from 10
nuclear stations. All except one reactor are owned by EDF and
 Centrica Plc. (CNA)   Shale Gas  The cost of a new generation of reactors may reach 60
billion pounds if all the proposed plants get built, according
to the U.K.’s Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Center.  According to today’s Independent on Sunday newspaper, the
government has been told by energy companies that shale-gas
technology may do little to solve the energy crisis as reserves
are smaller than first thought and could be uneconomical to
extract.  “Shale gas is an opportunity but I wouldn’t agree we
should go hell-for-leather for it,” Davey said. Without a
“strong regulatory framework” there is a risk of “significant
environmental damage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  