-- Cameron Urges EU to Prepare for Greek Exit From Euro
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-20T21:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/cameron-urges-eu-to-prepare-for-greek-exit-from-euro.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said European leaders should make contingency plans for a Greek
exit from the European single currency.  Greeks will go to the polls again next month after their
political leaders failed to form a governing coalition following
the last election. Cameron, speaking to reporters in Chicago at
a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting following a Group
of Eight summit, said the voting could decide whether the
country keeps the euro.  “They can vote to stay in the euro-zone and meet their
commitments, or they can vote to give up on their commitments
and, in effect, give up on the euro-zone,” Cameron said. “I
think the point that was very clear from the G-8 was that the
euro-zone has to put in place the most robust contingency plans
for both eventualities.”  Speaking during the G-8 at Camp David, European Council
President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Union President  Jose Barroso  refused to discuss such plans. Barroso said “Plan A”
was for  Greece  to stay in.  Cameron denied he is turning the Greek election into a
referendum on the euro. “It’s up the Greeks how they arrange
their election, what they do and don’t say, how people do and
don’t vote but we’ve got to make sure it’s a moment of clarity
and decisiveness for the euro-zone,” he said.  The prime minister warned against putting off decisions.
“What would be bad for Greece, bad for  Europe  and bad for the
world is if we just allowed the can to be kicked further down
the road with an inconclusive outcome,” he said. “What’s
required is decisiveness. There needs to be a resolution because
it’s the lack of resolution that’s leading to a lack of
confidence.”  Cameron denied the G-8 meeting had been a failure, saying
it had “helped to crystallize the thinking.”  There’s no mechanism for a country to leave the euro, and a
Greek exit would increase market pressure on other European
countries deemed to be vulnerable.  The yield on a benchmark Spanish 10-year government bond
closed at 6.2 percent on May 18, near a five-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  Chicago  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  