-- Canadian Pacific Workers Threaten Strike Days After CEO Ouster
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-20T14:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/canadian-pacific-workers-threaten-strike-days-after-ceo-ouster.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  workers
have told the company they may strike as soon as May 23, raising
the prospect of fresh turmoil for the country’s second-largest
railway days after its chief executive officer resigned under
pressure from activist shareholder  Bill Ackman .  The Teamsters  Canada Rail (CP)  Conference, representing 4,800
engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers, told
Canadian Pacific a strike could come at 12:01 a.m. May 23 even
as both sides meet with a federal mediator, the Calgary-based
company said late yesterday by e-mail.  The threat of a strike comes after CEO  Fred Green  resigned
hours before the company’s May 17 shareholder meeting after it
became apparent that Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management
LP wouldn’t back Green and other board members for re-election.
Pershing, which became the company’s largest investor in
October, had been pushing for an alternative to Green, who
presided over a slide that left  Canadian Pacific  as the least-
efficient of its North American peers.  Pensions are at the heart of the dispute between the
company and its workers. CP said it needs to make changes to
post-retirement benefits to bring them into line with its
railway peers.  The company said it has made C$1.9 billion ($1.86 billion)
of solvency-deficit contributions to its pension plan over the
past three years. CP said its proposed changes would still leave
workers with guaranteed pension payments that exceed what the
union has already agreed to for the majority of its members at
another major Canadian railway.  The Teamsters said in a  statement  on its website the same
day that at issue are “work rules, fatigue management, and the
 pension plan , which the employer wants to cut by 40%.”  The railway said its offer is fair and it’s willing to
enter binding arbitration with the union. Should a strike occur,
Canadian Pacific said it will “proceed with a safe and
structured shut down” of train operations across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  