-- Chelsea’s Veterans Prove Age Is No Barrier to Success
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-20T23:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/chelsea-s-veterans-prove-age-is-no-barrier-to-soccer-success.html
In what may have been his last game
for Chelsea,  Didier Drogba  struck a blow for the oldies.  The 34-year-old hit the winning penalty in a 4-3 shootout
to deliver the Blues their first  Champions League  title, against
 Bayern Munich  two days ago. He’d also scored the tying goal for
1-1 in Bayern’s  Allianz Arena  before 30 minutes’ extra time
failed to separate the sides.  The Ivory Coast striker was signed in July 2004, a year
after Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the team. Six
months ago, Drogba and  Frank Lampard , 33, who captained the team
in the final, were on the substitutes’ bench as Chelsea’s former
manager Andre Villas-Boas promoted younger players.  “They’ve proven everyone wrong, you know,” Ryan Bertrand,
a 22-year-old whose appearance in the final was his first in
 Europe ’s top-tier competition, said in an interview. “It’s
crazy for people to say they’re old players and they’re past it.
They proved it tonight: They’ve gone and won the biggest club
football trophy there is to win.”  Villas-Boas lasted just eight months in the Chelsea post as
his project to revitalize an aging squad was ruined by poor
results. In February, U.K. news media including the  Daily
Telegraph  said he’d be allowed to “clear out” the likes of
Drogba, Lampard and Florent Malouda, 31, if he kept his job.  He didn’t survive and was dismissed in March. Interim
manager Roberto Di Matteo then turned to the old guard and they
didn’t let him down. Under  Di Matteo , Chelsea lost only three
out of 21 matches in all competitions and added the European Cup
to the F.A. Cup won against Liverpool earlier this month.  Stunned Bayern  Drogba powered in a header just before the end of the
regulation 90 minutes to stun Bayern’s red-shirted fans, who
were singing victory songs after Thomas Mueller’s 83rd-minute
goal looked like ensuring a win. The Chelsea man has now scored
nine goals in the nine major finals he’s played with the Blues,
including the second in the 2-1 win over Liverpool. His contract
is about to expire and he’s refused to say whether the winning
penalty would be his last kick for the team.  Drogba is likely to discuss his future with management
later this month. His teammates say they want him to stay.  “I think every player involved in the football club hopes
that he stays but he’s obviously got his own decisions to
make,” defender  Gary Cahill  said in an interview. “It’s
befitting he took the penalty that’s won us the cup. He got us
back in the game late, and he does seem to turn up in these big
games.”  Abramovich has spent $1 billion to get Chelsea to compete
against Europe’s most successful teams, and it has won three
domestic league titles and four F.A. Cups. Lampard, who
collected the latest trophy from UEFA President Michel Platini
alongside suspended captain  John Terry , 31, said it’s too early
to know whether the Russian will keep faith with the older
players.  Relief and Joy  “Chelsea moves forward,” he said in an interview.
“Whether the team stays together, individuals stay, who knows?
No one lasts forever.”  Previously, the closest Chelsea went to winning the
Champions League was in Moscow in 2008 when Terry missed a
penalty in a shootout that would have given the Blues victory
against  Manchester United . They’ve reached the semifinals or
final six times during the Russian’s ownership.  The players’ celebrations reflected relief as much as joy.  “We were an hour on the pitch after the game because we’ve
been waiting such a long time for this,” Lampard said. “It
means even more. We could have won it five times and maybe get
bored of winning it. It seems even more special when you haven’t
won it before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Allianz Arena in Munich via the London
newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 