-- Chen’s Arrival in Manhattan Ends Strain in U.S.-China Ties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T09:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/chen-s-arrival-in-manhattan-ends-flashpoint-in-u-s-china-ties.html
Blind Chinese legal activist Chen Guangcheng’s arrival in New York over the weekend ended a
standoff between the U.S. and China that strained ties for the
world’s two biggest economies.  Chen, whose stay at the U.S. embassy in Beijing
overshadowed a bilateral summit earlier this month, moved into a
 Manhattan  apartment after leaving Beijing May 19 on a United
Airlines flight with his wife and two children. He has a
fellowship to study law at  New York University .  His departure marked the end to an incident that saw China
demand an apology from the U.S., whose diplomats shepherded Chen
into the embassy after his escape from more than a year of
extrajudicial house arrest. With Chen now in New York, the two
sides can return to nurturing a relationship that has progressed
to a point that a case like his can be handled without a serious
rupture, said  Douglas Paal , vice president for studies at the
Carnegie  Endowment for International Peace in Washington.  “It reinforces the trend since late 2010 for the two
leaderships to find a way to steer around sensitive subjects and
promote pragmatic near-term relations,” Paal said.  Along with longstanding disputes over intellectual property
rights and the  yuan   exchange rate , China and the U.S. are
grappling with diplomatic issues such as nuclear programs in
 Iran  and  North Korea , and territorial disputes in the  South
China Sea . On May 17, the U.S. imposed tariffs on Chinese-made
solar cells to aid domestic manufacturers, a move that China’s
Ministry of Commerce said was “unfair.”  ‘Cool Heads’  Chen expressed gratitude for the encouragement he received
from supporters around the world at a brief news conference on
May 19 at  New York University . He also said he appreciated the
“cool heads” in the Chinese government.  “I hope the Chinese government will continue the course of
reform and earn the respect of its people,” Chen said, while
adding that he was concerned about further reprisals against
supporters and other family members by local authorities.  For President  Barack Obama , running for re-election, it
puts to rest an issue over which he has been berated by
Republicans for not being tough enough on China. Chinese leaders
have their own domestic issues to confront, with a once-a-decade
leadership transition to begin later this year.  Matter Closed  “I think this brings the matter to a close,”  Bonnie
Glaser , an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “Both countries will
focus on their domestic politics, upcoming elections in the U.S.
and the 18th Party Congress in China later this year.”  Chen and his family will now live in  Greenwich Village  in
Manhattan while he studies law. NYU law professor Jerome Cohen,
a friend and supporter, arranged the fellowship to enable Chen
to study there.  The U.S. expressed its “appreciation” to the Chinese
government “for the manner in which we were able to resolve
this matter and support Mr. Chen’s desire to study in the U.S.
and pursue his goals,” according to a statement from State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  Representative  Chris Smith , a New Jersey Republican who has
publicized Chen’s case, told reporters not to forget that
members of Chen’s family remain in China and are in danger.  “Just because  Chen Guangcheng  is free, not all of the
Chens are free,” he told reporters at Newark airport. “There
are a large number of family members, his brother and nephew,
who now remain at great risk of retaliation.”  Rights Violations  After Chen left the U.S. embassy, China demanded an apology
for his seeking shelter there. Asked Monday whether China was
still seeking that apology, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
said China noted the U.S. has said it will pay attention to
Chinese concerns.  China hopes the U.S. “learns lessons from this incident,
changes its relevant policies and practices, and maintains the
big picture of China-U.S. relations,” Hong said.  Negotiations over Chen’s future drew attention to human
rights violations in  China  and threatened to derail the Sino-
U.S. Strategic and Economic Dialogue earlier this month. After
initially departing the embassy on the eve of the summit with a
Chinese promise that he would be allowed to live freely in
China, Chen said he had changed his mind and wanted to go to the
U.S.  Study Law  A deal was reached for Chen to apply for a passport and
accept an offer to study law at NYU.  The agreement “highlights that each can be sensitive to
the needs of the other in order to resolve tough and emotional
issues, even at a time of very tough domestic politics in both
countries,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the John L.
Thornton China Center at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  Cohen, co-director of the U.S.-Asia Law Institute at the
NYU School of Law, stood alongside Chen during his remarks.  “I will continue to work to promote justice and equality
in China,” Chen said. “Justice has no borders. The promise by
the Chinese government to protect my citizen rights has not
ended with my departure. This is a long-term promise with no
time limits.”  The next test may occur if Chen decides to return to China,
which may not want to have him back, or if he seeks to stay in
the U.S. as a political refugee, according to Glaser.  “The challenge will come when Chen decides he wants one,
to go back to China; or two, to apply for political asylum in
the US,” Glaser said. “I expect that he will focus on learning
English and studying law, with periodic statements and
commentary on domestic developments in China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  