-- China Will Quicken Approvals for Qualified Foreign Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T02:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/china-will-speed-up-approvals-for-qualified-foreign-investors.html
China  will work to  speed up  approvals
of qualified foreign institutional investors looking to buy into
its domestic securities, as part of reforms to add depth to the
country’s capital markets.  The foreign exchange regulator has already accelerated
approvals for long-term foreign investors such as pension funds,
raising their initial investment quotas and simplifying
procedures after the government last month more than doubled
quotas for QFIIs to $80 billion from $30 billion, according to a
statement on the State Administration of Foreign Exchange's
website yesterday.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad will help
improve market confidence, promote stable growth in China’s
capital markets and provide “robust” investment returns to
domestic investors, the China Securities Regulatory Commission
said in a statement on its website on May 18. The CSRC is
mulling amendments to QFII rules to lower entry requirements,
broaden the types of investors and relax restrictions on quota
and investment scope, the securities regulator said.  “SAFE has been working closely with China Securities
Regulatory Commission to facilitate the capital market
reforms,” Sun Lujun, head of the capital-account management
department at the foreign exchange regulator, said in
yesterday’s statement. “We’ll look to speed up the QFII
approval process and enlarge the size of investment.”  Slumping Stocks  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has dropped 4.6
percent from this year’s high, set on March 2, amid concerns
over the country’s slowing economic growth. It has lost nearly
two-thirds of its value since its peak in October 2007, a period
when Chinese investors widely suffered losses and smaller
investors “in general” made no profit, the CSRC said in a Feb.
22 statement.  China has granted $26 billion in QFII quotas for 138
qualified investors as of May 16, according to SAFE. Approvals
have reached $4.37 billion so far this year, almost the total
for the past two years, it said in yesterday’s statement.  QFIIs had combined profit of 151.6 billion  yuan  ($23.9
billion) over the past 10 years, the  China Securities Journal 
reported today without saying where it got the information.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  