-- Clal Industries Surges On Stake Sale To Access: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-20T12:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/clal-industries-surges-on-stake-sale-to-access-tel-aviv-mover.html
Clal Industries and Investments Ltd. 
advanced the most in more than two months after IDB Development
Corp. signed an accord to sell a stake in the  investment
company .  The shares of Clal Industries  increased  4.6 percent, the
most since March 18, to 11.96 shekels at 2:54 p.m in  Tel Aviv .
 IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH)  gained as much as 18 percent, and was trading
0.1 percent higher. The yield on IDB Holding’s 5.1 percent bond
due December 2020 fell for the first time in more than a week,
dropping 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, to 34.97
percent. The TA-25 benchmark index dropped 1.2 percent.  IDB Development Corp. signed an accord to sell 49.9 percent
of Clal Industries in an all-cash transaction that values the
company at 2.55 billion shekels to Access Industries Holdings
Inc.  “This is a great deal for all sides concerned,” said Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot Investment House
Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by phone today. “It is a breath of air
for IDB and the buyer is buying a quality asset.”  Last week Standard & Poor’s Maalot cut its ratings on IDB
Holding and IDB Development Corp. to the lowest and third-lowest
investment grades, respectively, citing “weak” funding levels.
IDB Holding shares plunged 21 percent last week, also as shares
of  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , a unit of  Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) ,
dropped 27 percent amid growing competition in the wireless
market.  “The purchase price of Clal represents a 41.7 percent
premium to the current price of the shares and a 15.6 percent
premium based on a three month average closing prices for the
shares,” IDB Development said in a PR Newswire statement today.  “The price is a premium to the current market value of
Clal but well below the historic value of the company,” Herzog
said. At the end of 2005 the market value of Clal was 3.8
billion shekels.  Israeli billionaire Nochi Dankner, who controls IDB
Holding, Discount Investment and several other companies, said
he will honor all his debts to investors and is not considering
the option of asking them to accept a so-called “haircut” debt
arrangement, in an interview broadcast last night on Channel 2
news. In the interview Dankner said he would be willing to sell
some of the companies under his control provided the offer was
sufficiently attractive.  “The deal gives Dankner cash he desperately needs to pay
off his bondholders and injects some calm into the market around
both equities and bonds,” Herzog said. He added that IDB
Holding’s  Clal Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  is probably
the company to be sold next, in light of the expected law
requiring the simplification of corporate structures in  Israel .  The Israeli cabinet on April 22 approved the
recommendations of the committee on economic concentration that
includes limiting pyramid structures to three public layers and
also also include reducing cross-holdings in financial and
industrial businesses. The cabinet appointed its own committee
to prepare the legislation necessary to implement the
recommendations.  Discount Investment Corp., in which IDB Development has a
73.64 percent stake, dropped 3.1 percent to 8.625 shekels, the
lowest level since Jan. 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  