-- Libya Keeps Lockerbie File Open After Al-Megrahi Dies
-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n ,   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-05-21T07:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/convicted-lockerbie-bomber-al-megrahi-dies-in-tripoli-at-60.html
Libya ’s interim government said it
would keep open the file on the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight
103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, even after death of the sole
person convicted of the attack.  Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, whose return to a hero’s
welcome almost three years ago after his release from a Scottish
prison rekindled anger over the bombing that killed 270 people,
died at his home yesterday in Tripoli. His sister, Amna, said he
was to be buried today.  The bombing, which followed a number of other attacks
blamed on Libya including a 1986 blast at a Berlin disco,
largely cemented Libya’s pariah status in the world community.
Al-Megrahi’s release on compassionate grounds by Scottish
authorities on Aug. 20, 2009 was seen as a slap in the face by
many of the families of the U.S. victims even as some of the
Scottish victims’ families remained unconvinced of his guilt.  “I would feel a lot happier if Megrahi had died in prison
where he should have died, rather than dying at home with his
family around him,” Susan Cohen, whose 20-year-old daughter was
killed in the bombing, said in a telephone interview from her
home in Cape May Court House,  New Jersey . She said her daughter,
“with her whole life ahead of her, died a horrible death due to
what Megrahi did.”  “This is a lot longer than the three months he was
expected to live when they released him on this compassionate
release, if that was the real reason,” Cohen said. “I
personally think it had more to do with business deals.”  Further Investigation  The bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 as it flew at about 31,000
feet killed all 259 aboard, plus 11 on the ground. Investigators
said the explosive had been hidden in a cassette recorder packed
with clothes in a suitcase in the cargo hold.  Cohen said what is important now is for the U.S. to try to
get more details from the new authorities in Libya about the
bombing and to see if there is anyone else who could be
indicted.  Al-Megrahi’s death does not close the Lockerbie file,
Mohamed al-Harizi, the spokesman for Libya’s National
Transitional Council, said yesterday in comments reported on the
Libya News Agency. He said Libya was committed to investigating
all crimes committed under the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi , who was
ousted and killed after a popular uprising last year backed by
North Atlantic Treaty Organization air strikes.  ‘Political Hostage’  A former Libyan intelligence officer, al-Megrahi had always
 maintained  his innocence. He returned from Scotland after
serving eight years of a 27-year sentence, arriving on a private
Afriqiya Airways flight escorted by Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, who
at the time was the heir-apparent of his father. After he limped
off the flight leaning heavily on a cane, state-run television
showed footage of the then-Libyan leader embracing him.  At the time of the release, local media described al-
Megrahi as a “political hostage” and listed his release among
Qaddafi’s achievements during his rule since 1969.  The U.S. and U.K. strongly criticized Libya for the
reception it gave al-Megrahi. The Libyan ambassador in
 Washington , Ali Suleiman Aujali, had defended the welcome.
Rather than a terrorist cheered for killing civilians, “Libyans
saw a dying man -- believed to be innocent by his countrymen and
many others worldwide -- being embraced by his family,” Aujali
wrote in the Wall Street Journal.  His family echoed that sentiment again yesterday, with his
nephew, who only gave his first name, Abdelsalam, saying that he
was “an innocent man.” He was among a group of men keeping
journalists away from the walled villa in which al-Megrahi lived
in Tripoli’s upscale Damascus neighborhood.  Guilty Verdict  “He’s dead. That’s it,” al-Megrahi’s brother, Abdelnaser,
said in a telephone interview. “Now is not the time for
talking.”  Indicted in the U.S. and  Scotland , al-Megrahi and a second
defendant were tried in the Netherlands, a neutral site, under a
compromise with Qaddafi. Al-Megrahi was convicted in 2001. His
co-defendant was found not guilty.  The case symbolized an era when Qaddafi sought to impose
his self-styled revolution through militancy, regional fighters
and efforts to obtain nuclear weapons. The bombing of Pan Am 103
was among the reasons that led to U.S. and United Nations
sanctions on Libya for sponsoring terrorism in the 1980s and
1990s.  Qaddafi Compensation  Al-Megrahi was born on April 1, 1952, in Tripoli, according
to documents released by the Scottish government. His work as
director of Libya’s Center for Strategic Studies gave him the
cover to spy on behalf of Libyan intelligence services,
according to a profile in the U.K.’s Sunday Express. He was also
chief of security for  Libyan Arab Airlines , and prosecutors said
that job gave him the opening to carry out the bombing, the
Sunday Express said.  Libya’s turnaround in relations with the West began in 1999
when Qaddafi agreed to handover the two men suspected of
organizing the bombing. Relations improved steadily between 2002
and 2005, when Qaddafi abandoned a nuclear-arms development
effort, pledged to destroy a chemical-weapons stockpile and
renounced terrorism.  In 2003, he offered $2.7 billion to compensate families of
those killed in the Pan Am bombing. The actions led to an easing
of sanctions, improved ties with the U.S. and European nations,
and Western investments to expand Libyan oil production.  End of Chapter  Al-Megrahi’s release from prison stirred protests in
Scotland and in  London , where then-Prime Minister  Gordon Brown 
denied reports that his government had supported releasing him
to improve relations with Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest
oil reserves.  Scottish Justice Minister Kenneth MacAskill said at the
time that the government in Edinburgh followed “due process”
according to local law in releasing al-Megrahi because medical
evidence showed the Libyan had less than three months to live.
The decision was attacked in the U.S. and by British opposition
parties.  His death “ends one chapter of the Lockerbie case, but it
does not close the book.” Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond 
said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. “However, all
information which comes forward will confirm that the decisions
of this administration have been in accordance with the due
process of law.”  “The Lockerbie case remains a live investigation, and
Scotland’s criminal justice authorities have made clear that
they will rigorously pursue any new lines of inquiry,” Salmond
said. “It has always been the Crown’s position that Mr. Megrahi
did not act alone but with others.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , asked about al-Megrahi
as he attended a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization in  Chicago , told reporters, “I’ve always been
clear he should never have been released from prison.”  He said he saw no reason for any further official inquiry
into the al-Megrahi case. “I’m very clear that the court case
was properly done and properly dealt with,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 