-- Coyotes Halt Kings’ Win Streak, Avoid NHL Playoff Elimination
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/coyotes-beat-kings-2-0-to-avoid-elimination-from-nhl-playoffs.html
The  Phoenix Coyotes  avoided being
swept out of the National Hockey League playoffs with a 2-0
victory that ended the  Los Angeles  Kings’ eight-game win streak.  Shane Doan  scored two goals and  Mike Smith  made 36 saves
for the Coyotes, who now trail three-games-to-one in the best-
of-seven Western Conference finals after yesterday’s road win at
the Staples Center in Los Angeles.  “We had nothing to lose,” Smith, who recorded his third
shutout of the postseason, said at a news conference. “We had
to make sure we played our best game and that would give us a
chance to win. We had a huge game from Doaner and that trickled
down through our lineup.”  Phoenix hosts Game 5 tomorrow. Only three NHL teams have
won a best-of-seven playoff series after losing the first three
games, the last being Philadelphia against  Boston  in the 2010
Eastern Conference semifinals.  “We recognize we’ve put ourselves in a tough position, but
we also do know it has been done,” Doan said. “Nobody wants to
be in the position we’re in, but everybody wants to answer that
call.”  The New Jersey Devils host the New York Rangers tonight in
Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals. The Rangers hold a 2-1
lead in the best-of-seven series.  The Kings were denied their second trip to the Stanley Cup
Final and first since 1993. Los Angeles entered the game with an
11-1 record in the playoffs and their winning streak included a
sweep of the  St. Louis Blues  in the previous round.  Doan’s Double  Doan, who is the Coyotes’ captain and has spent his entire
16-year NHL career with the franchise, gave Phoenix a 1-0 lead
on a power play 14 minutes, 19 seconds into the first period.
The goal came 26 seconds after Kings right wing Justin Williams
got a two-minute penalty for interfering with Smith.  Doan pushed the Coyotes’ lead to 2-0 at the 11:10 mark of
the second period, beating Los Angeles goaltender Jonathan Quick
with a 42-foot snap shot for his fifth goal of the postseason.
Quick had limited Phoenix to one goal in the previous two games.  The Kings get another chance to return to the Stanley Cup
Final tomorrow in Phoenix, where they will try to improve on
their 7-0 road playoff record.  “Two ways to look at it: they’re either due to lose or we
got to find a way to stop them,” Doan said. “Law of averages
says you’re going to lose eventually on the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  