-- Oil Gains First Day in Seven; Goldman Sees Tighter Market
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-05-21T06:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/crude-oil-falls-for-a-seventh-day-in-longest-decline-since-2009.html
Oil rose for the first time in seven
days in New York after  China  pledged to boost the nation’s
economy and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the balance between
supply and demand of crude is tightening.  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent after settling at the
lowest level in almost seven months on May 18. The extent of
oil’s decline was unwarranted, Goldman said in a report. China
will focus more on bolstering economic growth, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao . Prices slid earlier after Saudi Arabia’s output in March
climbed to the second-highest level in at least 31 years before
a European embargo on Iran that starts in July. Crude’s relative
strength index remained below 30, signaling it may be oversold.  “We’ve gone through downside technical targets and could
be near a bottom,” said  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for
risk management at  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in  Tokyo . “Inventories have
been building worldwide, basically preparing for the contingency
if Iran production should drop after the import ban in July.”  Crude for June delivery rose as much as 56 cents to $92.04
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.92 at 2:23 p.m. Singapore time. It fell
1.2 percent on May 18 to $91.48, the lowest close since Oct. 26
and expires today. The more-actively traded July contract
climbed 41 cents to $92.21. Front-month prices are 7 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 69 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $107.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The front-month price for the European
benchmark contract was at a premium to West Texas Intermediate
of $15.61.  Technical Support  “Despite concerns over the softening economic data, oil
demand continues to improve,”  David Greely , head of energy
research at Goldman Sachs in  New York , said in the report e-
mailed today. “The supply of oil actually available to the
market is increasingly constrained by the inability of Iran to
market its oil owing to the effects of US and European
sanctions.”  Oil in New York has long-term technical support at $89.83 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
intraday decline to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high
of $147.27 in July that year. Futures last traded at that price
in November 2011.  Crude’s 14-day RSI has been below 30 since May 11,
signaling further losses may not be sustainable. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels. The RSI was at 23
today.  Saudi Supplies  Brent, the benchmark price for more than half the world’s
petroleum, has dropped about 4 percent since May 13, when  Saudi
Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said it should fall to $100 a
barrel because global supply is outweighing demand.  Prices have fallen as Saudi Arabia’s output in March
climbed to the second-highest level in at least 31 years before
a European Union embargo on Iran that starts in July.  “With Saudi ramping up production to meet the need for oil
once sanctions against Iran come into full effect, the oil
market was pushed into surplus this year,” Greely said.
“However, as Iranian supplies are increasingly shut out from
the market as the sanctions take effect, that surplus is
disappearing.”  Saudi Arabia increased daily output to 9.923 million
barrels in March, according to the Joint Organization Data
Initiative. That surpassed  Russia , which pumped 9.92 million
barrels a day, for the first time in six years. JODI is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data provided by member governments.  Iran, Stockpiles  Oil has also fallen this month amid speculation the U.S.
and its allies will use strategic supplies to protect the global
economy as they prepare for the EU ban on imports from  Iran . The
 International Energy Agency  has no definite plan to release fuel
from its emergency reserves,  David Fyfe , head of its oil
industry and markets division, said in  London  on May 18.  Negotiations about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
program have made “good progress,” Yukiya Amano, director
general of the  International Atomic Energy Agency , said
yesterday before departing on a flight to Tehran. Amano will
meet with the country’s top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili.  Money managers cut net-long positions on New York crude by
6 percent to 139,182 contracts, the lowest since September 2010,
in the seven days ended May 15, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
May 18.  The U.S. accounted for about 21 percent of the world’s oil
consumption in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. China accounted for 11 percent.  The average price for regular gasoline at U.S. filling
stations fell 6.19 cents in the past two weeks to $3.7833 a
gallon, according to Lundberg Survey Inc. The survey is based on
information received from about 2,500 stations by the Camarillo,
California-based company. The price is 12.41 cents lower than a
year earlier, when the average was $3.9074. The highest average
this year was $3.9671, during the two weeks ended April 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  