-- ‘Avengers’ Is No. 1, Becomes Disney’s Highest-Grossing Movie
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-21T23:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/disney-s-avengers-tops-box-office-for-third-straight-weekend.html
“Marvel’s The Avengers” was the No.
1 movie at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada  for a third straight
weekend, taking in $55.6 million for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , and making
it the studio’s highest-grossing film ever.  “Battleship” was second with sales of $25.5 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Sacha Baron Cohen’s “The Dictator” opened in third
place with $17.4 million and “What to Expect When You’re
Expecting” was fifth in its debut with $10.5 million.  “The Avengers” is benefiting from positive word-of-mouth
among moviegoers after Disney’s major marketing push ended,  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit,
said in an interview. Since its first weekend, the movie has
overcome challenges from two major releases, “Battleship,”
from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures, and  Warner Bros .’s
“Dark Shadows.”  “Great marketing can buy you a big opening weekend, but
only a crowd-pleasing and solid movie can get you to where ‘The
Avengers’ has gone,” Dergarabedian said in an interview.  “The Avengers” opened over the weekend of May 4 with a
record $207.4 million in sales and set another record a week
later with $103.1 million, the most ever for a film in its
second weekend. It has become the highest-grossing film in
Disney’s history with $1.18 billion in global sales, surpassing
“Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest,” which had $1.07
billion in worldwide sales, according to Hollywood.com.  ‘Battleship’  “The Avengers,” made for $220 million, has helped
generate a 16 percent increase in 2012 domestic sales,
Hollywood.com said. Attendance is up 18 percent this year.  In the film, a collection of Marvel heroes, including  Iron
Man , the Norse god Thor and The Hulk, band together to fight an
army of aliens led by Loki, also a character from Norse
mythology. The movie stars Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man, Chris
Hemsworth as Thor and  Mark Ruffalo  as The Hulk.  “Battleship” missed projections and may lose as much as
$150 million for Universal, according to  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst with Wunderlich Securities in Denver. Kori Bernards, a
Universal Pictures spokeswoman, said the studio had no comment.  The movie stars Taylor Kitsch as a U.S. Navy officer who
helps lead a sea battle against invading aliens. Brooklyn
Decker, Alexander Skarsgard and Rihanna also are featured. The
film, made for about $209 million, according to tracker Box
Office Mojo. It has taken in $226.8 million in overseas sales,
according to  Rentrak Corp. (RENT) , another industry researcher.  ‘Dark Shadows’  “The Dictator,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures ,
features Cohen as the oppressive, all-powerful ruler of a North
African nation who is replaced by an impostor during a visit to
the U.S. Penniless, he is forced to adjust to life in  New York 
City among poor immigrants, some of them exiles from his
country. Ben Kingsley co-stars.  “Dark Shadows” fell to fourth from second with $12.6
million. The film, starring  Johnny Depp  and directed by  Tim Burton , is inspired by the 1960s daytime TV show about a New
England family entangled with vampires, ghosts and werewolves.  “What to Expect When You’re Expecting,” based on the
advice book, features an ensemble cast portraying five couples
whose lives are disrupted by impending parenthood. The cast
includes  Cameron Diaz ,  Jennifer Lopez ,  Chris Rock  and  Dennis Quaid .  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  is distributing the film.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 14 percent to
$135.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May 18 to
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  