-- Dufner Makes It Two Wins Out of Three Following PGA Breakthrough
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/dufner-birdies-last-hole-to-win-byron-nelson-on-golf-s-pga-tour.html
Jason Dufner  played 164 tournaments
before getting his breakthrough win on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour. It
only took two more starts to chalk up his second career title.  Dufner sank a 25-foot (7.6 meter) birdie putt at the final
hole yesterday to win the Byron Nelson Championship by one shot
from Dicky Pride, who was denied a second victory 18 years after
his only tour success.  Dufner won a playoff against Ernie Els at the Zurich
Classic of  New Orleans  on April 29. A week later he married
Amanda Boyd before finishing in a tie for 68th place at the
Players Championship May 13. His latest success takes him to the
top of the FedEx Cup playoff standings and to third on the  PGA
Tour  money list with a career-best $3.11 million this year.  “Two wins in a month and to get married on top of it
all,” Dufner, who got $1.17 million for yesterday’s win, said
in a televised interview. “You couldn’t really ask for much
more, personally or professionally.”  The only other player to win twice on the PGA Tour this
year is  Hunter Mahan , at the World Golf Championships Match Play
event and the Houston Open.  “Everything that happened last year has propelled me into
playing well this year,” said Dufner, who had two runner-up
finishes in 2011, including a playoff loss to Keegan Bradley at
the  PGA Championship . “I feel like I’m in good control of my
game, getting better emotionally with dealing with the pressures
of trying to win out here.  Final-Round 67s  Dufner, 35, shot a 3-under-par 67 yesterday for a four-
round total of 11-under-par 269.  Pride, who got his only tour win at the 1994 St. Jude
Classic, also finished with a 67 at the TPC Four Seasons in
Irving,  Texas .  Americans J.J. Henry and Joe Durant tied with  Australia ’s
Marc Leishman and Jonas Blixt of  Sweden  for third place at 9-
under.  Phil Mickelson  finished in a tie for seventh at 6-under,
while Bradley, the defending champion, was four shots further
back in a tie for 24th.  Henry had a hole-in-one at the 153-yard fifth hole
yesterday to move to 9-under, giving him a two-shot lead. It was
his third ace on tour and his second this year -- he also had
one at the sixth hole in the final round of the  Puerto Rico  Open
on March 12 -- and the first at the Byron Nelson since Ken Duke
achieved the feat in the second round in 2010.  Henry had back-to-back birdies at the 15th and 16th holes
to take a one-shot lead at 11-under. He made a double bogey at
the next to drop to 9-under, one shot behind Pride and Dufner.  Pride looked to have forced a playoff by sinking a 22-foot
put for par at the 18th to remain at 10-under par. Dufner,
playing in the last group, then won it with his own birdie.  The tour now moves about 32 miles (51 kilometers) west to
 Fort Worth , Texas, for the Crowne Plaza Invitational at the
Colonial Country Club from May 24-27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 