-- Hedge Funds Rebuild Euro Bear Bets on Greek Exit Banks Weigh
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-05-21T15:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/hedge-funds-rebuild-bearish-euro-bets-for-greek-exit-banks-weigh.html
The euro has weathered the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, bailouts of Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, and falling interest rates. Now, investors
are betting like never before that a Greek exit would be too
much to keep the 17-nation currency above its long-term average.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators, which pared trades
that would profit from a drop in the euro to the lowest levels
since November, rebuilt them to a  record high  last week, figures
released May 18 by the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. The premium for options that grant
the right to sell the euro has more than doubled since March.  Through most of the financial and political turmoil in
Europe, the euro held above the average since its January 1999
start as investors put their faith in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to keep the monetary union in place. While they currently
forecast little change in the euro versus the dollar, a majority
of the world’s biggest foreign-exchange trading firms surveyed
by Bloomberg News say the loss of even a weak member such as
Greece would risk more departures and send the currency lower.  “Financial markets’ great fear is that if one country
left, it would not necessarily be the last,”  Alan Ruskin , the
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy in New York at
Deutsche Bank AG, the largest currency dealer as ranked by
Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, said in a May 14 telephone
interview. “Removing one country, however weak, would not be a
route to a stronger common currency.”  Average Estimate  The average year-end estimate for the euro among the
biggest trading firms is $1.28, ranging from as low as $1.15 at
UBS AG to as high as $1.44 at HSBC Holdings Plc. Deutsche Bank
forecasts a drop to $1.25 next month before rising to $1.30 by
the end of December.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24, and has depreciated about 1 percent since March against a
basket of nine developed-market peers. It slipped 0.1 percent to
$1.2765 as of 4:22 p.m. London time after weakening 1.1 percent
in the five days ended May 18 to $1.2780 as post-election
attempts to form a ruling coalition in  Greece  broke down.  “Having the history of an exit would make the market think
it can happen again,”  Greg Anderson , the North American head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy at New York-based Citigroup Inc.,
the second-largest dealer, said in a May 14 telephone interview.
“That would lead to endemic weakness.”  Merkel Resolve  Citigroup forecasts the euro will end the year at $1.25.  Over the past five years the euro has ranged from as high
as $1.6038 in July 2008 to as low as $1.1877 in June 2010. Even
with the recent declines, it’s above the average of about $1.21
since the start of 1999.  For much of the past five years, speculating on a weaker
euro meant betting against the ability of Merkel and then-French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to keep the currency union together.
They said in a September statement that “it is more than ever
indispensable” to “assure the stability of the euro zone.”  Sarkozy since became the first French president in 30 years
to not win re-election. Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union had
its worst-ever result in an election this month in Germany’s
most populous state.  In Greece, post-election attempts to form a ruling
coalition broke down last week, sending Greeks back to the polls
next month with surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout party
that would tear up the conditions attached to 240 billion euros
($307 billion) of aid.  Referendum Request  A spokesman for Greece’s caretaker government, Dimitris
Tsiodras, said Merkel suggested in a May 18 conversation with
President Karolos Papoulias that the nation hold a referendum on
whether it wants to remain in the euro. Merkel’s office later
said reports she called for such a move were untrue.  “If Greece, and this is the will of the great majority,
wants to stay in the euro, then they have to accept the
conditions” of its bailout, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters after a meeting of European Union
finance ministers in Brussels May 15. “Otherwise it isn’t
possible.”  A day later, the  European Central Bank  said it would
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks. ECB president
 Mario Draghi  said while the bank’s “strong preference” is that
Greece stays in the euro area, it wouldn’t support the nation at
the expense of “the integrity of our balance sheet.”  Record Net Shorts  “It may be a bit of brinkmanship that we are seeing these
kinds of comments”  Ian Stannard , Morgan Stanley’s head of
 Europe  currency strategy, said in a May 15 telephone interview.
“We are still in a situation where things are going to struggle
on and there’s going to be high levels of uncertainty, so that
suggests the euro will remain under pressure.”  Stannard, who is based in London, sees the euro trading at
$1.19 by year-end.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a drop in the euro against the dollar
versus those on an advance -- so-called net shorts -- rose to
173,869 contracts on May 15 from 79,480 in April and exceeding
the previous high of 171,347 in January, CFTC figures show.  In addition, so-called leveraged funds have a dollar
equivalent $19.5 billion net short, Citigroup’s Anderson wrote
in a report after the figures were released. A leveraged fund
may be a mutual fund that borrows money to increase the number
of securities it can buy so it can increase its returns.  Export Boost  Premiums for three-month options granting the right to sell
the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases was 3.34 percentage points at the end of last week,
the most since December and up from a low this year of 1.41
percentage points on March 21.  The most probable outcome is that the euro will evolve into
a smaller union centered on France, Germany, Italy and Spain,
and underpinned by stronger coordination and financing, Pacific
Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El- Erian wrote in a May 15 report outlining the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s medium-term economic outlook.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.77 trillion as of March 31, including the $258.7
billion Total Return Fund, according to the company’s website.  ‘Market has Changed’  A weaker euro could help nations in the bloc as exports
would become more competitive. Spain succumbed to its second
recession since 2009, first quarter data showed. Gross domestic
product fell 0.3 percent from the previous quarter, when it
declined by the same amount, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said on May 17. Exports of goods and
services fell 0.9 percent in the period, the report showed.  “The market has changed its mind from the idea that if
Greece leaves the euro is going to break apart, to if Greece
leaves what’s left is still going to be a euro,”  David Bloom ,
global head of currency strategy at HSBC in London, said in a
May 17 interview. “You are not going to wake up the next
morning and there is no euro. A lot of people were worrying
about that a year ago and now they realize that’s not going to
happen.”  HSBC forecasts that the euro will rise to $1.44 by year-end
and $1.45 in the first quarter of 2013 as the Greek crisis moves
toward a resolution and the U.S. holds presidential elections
amid political disputes about its own fiscal position.  Most Bullish  The firm is the most bullish of the 10-largest currency
dealing firms, and also in a survey by Bloomberg where the
median of more than 50 estimates is for the euro to strengthen
to $1.30 by year-end.  Greece’s central bank denied a newspaper report that the
institution was planning to impose  capital controls .  “The  Bank of Greece  categorically denies a report in a
Sunday newspaper which relates to supposed plans to place a cap
on withdrawals and to restrict the movement of capital abroad,”
the Athens-based bank said in an e-mailed statement on May 19.
It didn’t say where the report came from.  “It would be difficult for the Greeks to announce ahead of
time that they are leaving on a specific date because that
almost guarantees a bank run,” Shahab Jalinoos, a senior
currency strategist in  Stamford , Connecticut, at UBS, said in a
May 15 telephone interview. “How do you know Spain or Italy or
 Portugal  won’t panic when they see that happening?”  ECB officials decided earlier this year to deal with any
Greek exit on an ad-hoc basis rather than devising a set of
responses because the fallout would be unpredictable, said three
euro-area central bank officials, who declined to be identified
because the ECB’s deliberations on the matter are confidential.  G-8 Meeting  Merkel and new French President  Francois Hollande  said
after their first official meeting on May 15 that they wanted
Greece to stay part of the currency bloc. Leaders of the Group
of Eight nations meeting at President  Barack Obama ’s retreat
outside Washington pushed for Greece to remain and supported
boosting growth.  “We agree on the importance of a strong and cohesive euro
zone for global stability and recovery, and we affirm our
interest in Greece remaining in the euro zone while respecting
its commitments,” according to a G-8 statement on May 19.  Yields on  Spain’s 10-year government bonds  climbed to 6.51
percent on May 16, the highest level November, while Italy’s 10-
year yields rose to a more than three-month high after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the credit ratings on 26 of the nation’s
banks on May 14.  “It may be that if you see Greece going out that the
Germans and the ECB ring fence Spain and Italy and come up with
an entire plan that brings market confidence back,” Jose Wynne,
the head of North America foreign-exchange research at the
investment banking unit of Barclays Plc in  New York , said in a
May 14 telephone interview. “But the market isn’t trading like
they believe that will happen.”  Below is a list of year-end forecasts for the euro versus
the  U.S. dollar  by the top 10 currency trading firms, according
to an annual survey by Euromoney. The rankings, published on May
9, are by market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  