-- Medina Counts on Continuity Against Mejia in Dominican Election
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/medina-counts-on-continuity-against-mejia-in-dominican-election.html
Dominican Republic  ruling party
candidate Danilo Medina’s promise to continue the economic
policies of President Leonel Fernandez has given him the lead in
opinion polls heading into today’s presidential election.  The latest voter surveys show Medina, 60, of the Dominican
Liberation Party holding an edge over former President Hipolito Mejia, 71, of the Dominican Revolutionary Party going into
today’s first-round vote. To win and avoid a June run-off vote,
one candidate must garner over 50 percent of the ballots cast.  Medina, who lost the 2000 election to Mejia and later
served as Fernandez’s chief of staff, says that he represents
“safe change” and that electing Mejia will result in slower
growth. During Mejia’s 2000-2004 presidency, the  economy shrank 
in 2003 for the only time in the last 20 years, public debt
surged and the country’s second-biggest bank collapsed. Since
Fernandez’s election in 2004, the Dominican economy has averaged
7 percent annual growth.  “We are going to maintain the stability and growth and an
appropriate investment climate to continue to develop,” Medina
said in a May 10 interview posted on his website. “We are the
safe choice that assures the people continued growth. The other
option is uncertainty and adventure.”  Medina had 51 percent support compared with 46 percent for
Mejia in a survey of 1,022 people taken May 2-7 by pollster
 Greenberg Quinlan Rosener  and Santo Domingo-based newspaper
Diario Libre. The remaining support was spread among the four
other candidates, according to the poll whose margin of error
was 3.1 percentage points.  Expat Voters  Heavy rains pounded the country much of the week and
additional showers are expected today, according to the  national
meteorology institute .  National polls open at 6 a.m. and close at 6 p.m., and the
national electoral committee expects to be able to announce
final results from 14,470 voting stations tonight.  Roughly 300,000 ballots will be cast by Dominicans living
abroad, or about 5 percent of the country’s aproximately 6.2
million registered voters. About two-thirds of the Dominicans
voting from abroad reside in the U.S.  Both candidates have urged voters to abstain from violence
after two people were killed during campaign events, including a
bystander in a shooting at a parade last month. Medina and Mejia
signed a pact with the Catholic Church in March to mute
combative campaign rhetoric.  Economy  While growth in the $57 billion economy slowed to 4.5
percent last year from 7.8 percent in 2010, the mining sector
expanded 80 percent, according to the  central bank .  Fernandez said further growth is expected in 2012 due to
continued extraction of nickel at the Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata Plc Falcondo mine and the beginning of gold production
at the Pueblo Viejo mine by Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp.  Mejia has tried to capitalize on frustration with
 unemployment  that, while having fallen from 18.4 percent since
Fernandez took office, remains among the highest in  Latin
America  at 14.6 percent.  He has vowed to create over 400,000 jobs in the nation of
10 million and invest 4 percent of gross domestic product in
education.  “To resolve the problems of the people of the country, it
is imperative that our government rests on two fundamental
pillars: macroeconomic stability and a social policy that
provides equal benefits to all Dominicans,” he said in a May 9
campaign address posted on his website.  Press officials from the Medina and Mejia campaigns didn’t
respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment.  Whoever wins the election will have to rein in electricity
subsidies that contributed to the deficit before interest of 0.4
percent of gross domestic product last year.  “It seems that people are still pretty divided over who to
vote for,” said Heather Berkman of Eurasia Group, a political
risk consulting group. “The numbers and the trends all seem to
be in Medina’s favor, but it’s still too close to call. National
polls aren’t always accurate, so I think Mejia still has a
chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  