-- Schaeuble Seeks Crisis Resolution With Moscovici
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-21T09:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/euro-crisis-resolution-sought-by-france-germany-following-g-8.html
German and French leaders meet this
week to map out a revised plan for the euro as the Group of
Eight exposed disagreement on a rescue strategy, Greece lurched
toward a possible exit and Spain’s budget deficit widened.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will for the
first time discuss the 17-nation currency with his newly
installed French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today
as European Union leaders prepare for a summit meeting in
Brussels on May 23. After three shorter meetings in the last
week,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  will seek to balance  France ’s desire to jump-start
growth with  Germany ’s preference for spending cuts.  “We’re all very pleased that France wants to offer new
initiatives with its newly elected president,” Schaeuble told
the  Bild am Sonntag  newspaper in an interview yesterday. “The
German government is ready to talk about anything,” Schaeuble
said, though he ruled out measures that would raise debt.  G-8 leaders on May 19 urged  Greece  to stay within the euro
area as polls in the country showed a close race between parties
supporting and opposing the EU’s bailout deal. The country is
preparing for June 17 elections, following an inconclusive May 6
ballot. Spain revised its 2011 deficit upward -- even as its
borrowing costs approached levels that prompted bailouts in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  Two More Years  The euro has lost 3.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this
month and almost $4 trillion has been wiped from equity markets
amid concerns over Greece. Schaeuble said May 18 the turmoil
could last another two years. Yields on  Spanish 10-year bonds 
climbed to close at 6.27 percent last week. That figure slid to
6.26 percent at 10:56 a.m. Madrid time, while the euro traded
down 0.01 percent to $1.2769 in  Frankfurt .  President  Barack Obama  joined G-8 leaders including
Hollande and Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  in embracing
a renewed focus on growth, underlining the isolation of Merkel,
who maintained resistance to new spending. At the president’s
Camp David retreat in  Maryland , G-8 leaders said in their final
statement that “the right measures are not the same for each of
us.”  As EU leaders prepare for their informal dinner, French
Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault told Liberation that no
potential solutions involving Greece should be rejected. Leaders
shouldn’t rule out measures such as state borrowing from the
European Central Bank, he said.  Greek Polls  Two weeks after elections in Greece yielded political
deadlock and forced the once-taboo notion of leaving the
monetary union into political discussion, euro leaders grappled
with the possible fallout of such a scenario. Caretaker Prime
Minister Panagiotis Pikrammenos will oversee a government that
will prepare for a new election.  Opinion polls over the weekend gave a split message on the
outcome, with two pointing to victory for New Democracy, which
backs the international bailout program, and two favoring
Syriza, which opposes it.  Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras said yesterday in a
speech in Athens that his faction’s opposition to the terms of
Greece’s financial-aid program doesn’t mean the country would
have to abandon the euro if the party forms a government.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads a
group of European finance ministers, said a majority of his
peers have doubts about Greece’s membership of the euro,  Der
Spiegel  reported, without saying where it got the information.  Tsipras, who travels to Paris and Berlin beginning today,
denounced such talk, saying it would involve “huge costs.”  ‘Clear Message’  “We now have to send a very clear message to people in
Greece,” Cameron said yesterday as he attended a NATO summit in
 Chicago . “You can either vote to stay in the euro, with all the
commitments you’ve made, or, if you vote another way, you’re
effectively voting to leave.”  European Central Bank  Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, speaking in Berlin today, said that policy makers
should stick to “plan A,” keeping Greece in the euro. He said
he didn’t want to speculate on a “plan B.”  “What’s the alternative? My preference is that Greece stay
in the euro,” Asmussen said today.  The sensitivities surrounding an exit were illustrated May
19, when Merkel’s office dismissed a claim by the Greek
government that the chancellor had called for a referendum to
decide on the country’s membership in the monetary union.  Greek party leaders united in condemning any interference
by the German chancellor on such an issue, with New Democracy
leader Antonis Samaras, who heads the largest party, calling her
reported comments “unfortunate.”  In  Spain , the growth-versus-austerity debate took on a new
dimension with the country’s revision of its 2011 deficit,
undermining Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s battle to stave off a
bailout and maintain access to  capital markets .  ‘Serious Risk’  Rajoy, who on May 16 asked for EU help to access capital
markets even as he said the country faced a “serious risk” of
being shut out, is struggling to convince investors he can cut
the deficit during a recession while shielding public finances
from banks’ real-estate losses.  The deficit amounted to 8.9 percent last year, 0.4
percentage point more than previously estimated, Spain’s Budget
Ministry announced at 10 p.m. local time Friday. That’s down
from 9.3 percent in 2010, following government austerity
measures including cuts to public workers’ wages, a freeze on
pensions and a tax increase.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos rejected EU
pressure this week to take an International Monetary Fund credit
line to help shore up the nation’s lenders, the Madrid-based ABC
newspaper reported. A ministry spokesman in  Madrid  declined to
comment on the report in ABC, which cited people present at a
meeting of EU finance ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  