-- Yen Drops Versus Peers on Prospects BOJ to Add Stimulus
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-21T21:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/euro-falls-as-confidence-set-to-drop-on-contagion-concern.html
The yen declined against most of its
major counterparts on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will add to
stimulus measures this week to support growth and weaken the
nation’s foreign-exchange rates.  The euro erased losses against the dollar as German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Germany  and  France  will do
“everything necessary” to keep  Greece  in the shared currency.
Brazil’s real sank as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a
weaker currency is helping to reignite the economy.  India ’s
rupee plunged to a record against the dollar, spurring the
central bank to impose curbs on trading in the foreign-currency
futures market.  “If they do surprise and expand their asset-purchase
program again, I think that the reaction will be relatively
subdued and short lasting,” Andrew Cox, a currency strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said of  Japan ’s central bank.
“The broad expectation is for an unchanged policy stance from
the BOJ this week.”  The yen fell 0.7 percent to 101.65 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York after dropping 0.3 percent on May 18. Japan’s currency
declined 0.4 percent to 79.31 per dollar. The euro rose 0.3
percent to $1.2818 after earlier depreciating more than 0.4
percent. It slid 1.1 percent last week and reached $1.2642 on
May 18, the least since Jan. 16.  Real, Rupee  Brazil’s real is the worst performing major currency this
year and has declined 8.6 percent against the dollar. Mantega
said GDP growth this year will be higher than the 2.7 percent
expansion in 2011, adding the economy will expand at a 4.5
percent annual pace in the second half.  The  Brazil ’s real fell 0.9 percent against the dollar to
2.0419. It touched a three-year low on May 18.  India’s central bank cut the amount of overseas income
companies can hold in foreign currency this month to 50 percent
from 100 percent, in a bid to boost dollar inflows and stem the
rupee’s slide.  The rupee declined 1.1 percent to 55.0350 per dollar,
touching an all-time low of 55.0550, and has fallen 3.6 percent
this year.  The implied volatility of three-month options on Group of
Seven nations’ currencies fell for the first time in six days,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index . The measure dropped
to 11.02 percent, after reaching 11.59 percent on May 18, the
highest level since Jan. 6.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark lending rates more attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Rand Breaks Streak  South Africa ’s rand rose against most of its major
counterparts, advancing 1.4 percent to 8.2251 per dollar,
breaking a nine-day decline versus the dollar that was longest
losing streak for the currency since June 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent and the
MSCI World Index advanced 1.1 percent. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials gained 0.7 percent.  BOJ officials will gather for a two-day meeting starting
tomorrow. The central bank expanded its asset-purchase program
in February and April. Last week, two bond-buying operations
failed to attract the central bank’s target for sell offers.  “As long as dollar-yen remains above 76 or 77, we won’t
see anything else besides verbal intervention,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online currency trader
GFT Forex, in  New York .  The yen has strengthened more than 5 percent against the
dollar in the past two months, sparking Vice Finance Minister
for International Affairs Nakao to say that the recent gain is a
“speculative excessive movement” and they would “take action
if necessary.”  Technical Indicators  There is support for dollar-yen at the 200-day moving
average of 78.52, according to date compiled by Bloomberg. While
technical indicators show the greenback is oversold against the
Japanese currency, there could be further appreciation spurred
by events among euro member states, according to Bloomberg
analyst TJ Marta.  The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil. Japan’s historical trade surplus
makes the currency attractive because it means the nation
doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  The yen has weakened 2.6 percent this year against the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 0.8 percent and the
pound is the best performer with a 2.9 percent advance.  ‘Close Cooperation’  Germany’s Schaeuble met with his newly installed French
counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today as European Union
leaders prepare for a summit meeting in Brussels on May 23.  “We need close cooperation during this critical time,”
Schaeuble said today in Berlin alongside Moscovici. “I’m sure
we can do that exactly as we have in the past.” Moscovici, who
said that Schaeuble was the first official he called as finance
minister, said that Franco-German relations will “continue
independent of political or governmental change.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators boosted wagers to a
record that the euro will weaken against the dollar amid
speculation Greece will exit the currency bloc.  Bearish bets, so-called  net shorts , totaled 173,869 in the
week ended May 15, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. That was up from 143,984 a week earlier and compares
with a previous record of 171,347 reached on Jan. 27.  “It’s pretty clear the EU is starting to shift its focus
over to growth and that is going to come through,” said GFT’s
Lien.  An index of  consumer sentiment  in  Europe  dropped to minus
20.5 this month from minus 19.9 in April, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before the European Commission reports the
figure tomorrow. That would be the lowest level since January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  