-- Fighting Climate Change With Low-Tech Tools
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   W o l f r a m
-- 2012-05-20T22:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/fighting-climate-change-with-low-tech-tools.html
In the late 1990s, regulators in some
U.S. states began to make electric utilities sell their nuclear
reactors to private operators. They weren’t trying to help head
off  climate change , yet they managed to do just that.  Deregulation was supposed to bring down power prices. The
sale of nuclear plants to nonutility owners, such as  Exelon
Corp. (EXC) , was part of the process and was intended to serve that
goal. But it also helped offset more greenhouse gas emissions in
the 2000s than all of the wind and solar generation in the
country combined.  Increased nuclear output is an example of what I call “low-tech cleantech,” or the intelligent management of our energy
infrastructure to make it more efficient. A small improvement in
nuclear operations can have a much bigger impact than double-digit growth in renewable power sources for a simple reason:
Nuclear reactors today generate far more of the U.S.’s
electricity than  wind turbines  and solar panels.  When nuclear reactors were sold to nonutility buyers, the
new owners faced strong incentives to increase output. They
wanted to make a profit, and, unlike utilities, they weren’t
compensated by electricity rates set by the public-utilities
commissions. Rather, they earned wholesale market prices for
every kilowatt-hour of power they sold to the grid. My Haas
School colleague Lucas Davis and I found that these divested
nuclear power plants increased their electricity output by about
 10 percent  compared with plants that remained with utility
owners. One way they did this was shortening the down time for
the reactors’ refueling.  Nuclear Share  A 10 percent improvement might seem inconsequential. But
multiply that small change by the country’s large base of
reactors: Nuclear power accounted for more than 20 percent of
total electricity generated in the U.S. in 2000, while wind and
solar accounted for less than 0.2 percent.  After the Fukushima disaster in  Japan , nuclear power once
again is making people skittish. However one might feel about
it, these facts are plain: It’s carbon free and widely
available, produced by more than 100 U.S. reactors.  Getting more power from these plants can offset electricity
production from  carbon-emitting coal  and natural-gas plants. The
additional power from the nonutility reactors was almost enough
to meet electricity demand for all households in  New England .  Low-tech cleantech solutions won’t revolutionize the  energy
industry . They won’t make venture capitalists rich. And they
won’t, by themselves, lead to the 80 percent reduction in
greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 that many climate scientists
suggest we need. But they can offset a lot of carbon in the
short run. In an industry where plants routinely last more than
50 years, small adjustments have lasting impacts.  Improved efficiency at coal plants provides another example
of low-tech cleantech. My  University of California , Davis
colleague Jim Bushnell and I showed that the fuel efficiency of
the Southeastern coal plant we  studied  was 3 percent higher when
particular operators were at the controls. This is comparable to
a car getting better gas mileage when a “coaster” is at the
wheel than when a lead foot is driving. With a coal-fired power
plant, the potential savings in fuel and forgone emissions of
having a “coaster” in charge are big.  Imagine the greenhouse-gas savings if efficient operators
controlled every U.S. coal plant. A 3 percent gain may sound
puny, but, when applied to the more than 600 coal plants in the
U.S., it could offset more carbon than the nuclear improvements
I discussed above.  Chinese Coal  The results would be even more dramatic in India and  China ,
where almost 70 percent and 80 percent, respectively, of
electricity is generated from burning coal. Back-of-the-envelope
calculations suggest that improving the fuel efficiency of
 Chinese coal plants  by about 5 percent would offset more  carbon
emissions  than all of the non-hydro renewable energy in the
world.  So why aren’t utilities already seizing these
opportunities? The problem is, at least partly, bad incentives.
In most of the world, electricity-sector managers don’t have to
fight for profits and share in a free market. In U.S. states
that haven’t deregulated, utilities can pass along their fuel
costs to customers. In China, too, many plants receive coal at
heavily subsidized prices.  Removing bad incentives and encouraging managers to improve
the efficiency of existing power plants may be the most
immediate low cost, large-scale solution we have in the battle
against climate change.  ( Catherine Wolfram  is associate professor of business
administration at the Haas School of Business at the University
of  California , Berkeley, where she is co-director of the Energy
Institute. She is a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt’s shaky elections 
and  curbing adult obesity ;  Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of
Mormonism ; William D. Cohan on the  dimming luster of Wall
Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay vote in 2012 ;  Mark Taylor  on
how  academic specialization harms the economy.   To contact the writer of this article:
 Catherine Wolfram  at  wolfram@haas.berkeley.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 