-- Grain-Pit Traders Squeezed Out as CME Expands to Match ICE Hours
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-21T16:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/grain-pit-traders-squeezed-out-as-cme-expands-to-match-ice-hours.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, extended grain-trading hours today in response
to the threat of competitors seeking a share of the electronic
transactions that now dominate the market.  Access to the CME’s Chicago Board of Trade, which first
offered  corn futures  in 1877, is rising to 21 hours a day from
17, a week after the 12-year-old  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ,
or ICE, introduced a 22-hour session and its first-ever grain
contracts. The  Kansas City  Board of Trade and  Minneapolis Grain
Exchange  also start expanded hours today.  While CBOT corn, wheat and soybean trading rose more than
15 percent to 182.8 million contracts last year, 93 percent of
the volume was electronic rather than through open outcry in its
 Chicago  trading pits, exchange data show. That compares with 63
percent in 2007. ICE had sought to lure speculators by allowing
transactions to continue when market-moving U.S. government crop
reports are issued and CBOT markets were closed.  “The electronic platform is a big, giant liquidity pool
that is sometimes an inch deep and other times a mile deep,”
said Douglas Carper, the principal of Omaha, Nebraska-based DEC
Capital Inc., a commodity trading adviser and hedge-fund
consultant. “Grains will become more or less an institutional
and professional market, just like it is already in stocks,
foreign exchange and global bond markets.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said May 18 CME
could open markets from 5 p.m. to 2 p.m. Sunday to Friday, the
first expansion of its Globex electronic exchange since January
2008. Hours for the CBOT pits in Chicago, where traders shout
orders at each other and use hand signals, are unchanged at 9:30
a.m. to 1:15 p.m. Monday to Friday.  ICE Competes  Wheat futures advanced 1.2 percent to $7.035 a bushel at
11:02 a.m. on the CBOT, heading for the sixth straight gain and
the longest rally since late January.  CME, led by Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder S. Gill, initially sought expanded trading
after Atlanta-based ICE announced plans April 12 to compete
directly with the Chicago grain markets. Trading in ICE’s corn
futures was 595 contracts on May 17, compared with the CBOT’s
232,706 futures  contracts , exchange data show.  More access to the CBOT, where holdings in the five biggest
grain contracts were valued at $131 billion in March, will be
appealing to big institutional investors who prefer the ease and
liquidity of electronic markets, said Jeff Hainline of Advance
Trading Inc. in Bloomington,  Illinois . It may create more stress
for independent pit traders, farmers and grain elevators who use
CBOT markets to hedge price risks, he said.  Opportunity and Threat  “It’s an opportunity and a threat,” said Hainline, the
president of the risk-management company for grain processors
and farmers who’s been in the commercial grain business for 35
years. “People who survive will adapt. You have to be a
cockroach and not a dinosaur.”  Trading now will be open during the release of most of the
USDA’s supply and demand reports, which will increase volatility
and decrease the ability of traders to make informed decisions,
said DEC Capital’s Carper.  “I see only increased risk,” Carper said. “A lot of
trading will be based on reactions rather than orderly decision
making. It will cause too many people to make decisions in a
millisecond without any thinking. That can only cause a lot of
trouble from a risk management perspective.”  The price of corn, the biggest U.S. crop and the most-
actively traded agricultural product, rose or fell by the
maximum allowed on the CBOT 12 times in the past year, exchange
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Eight of those occurred after
government reports that were issued while trading on the
exchange was halted, between 7:15 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. in Chicago,
or from 1:15 p.m. to 6 p.m.  Reviewing Reports  The USDA’s  National Agricultural Statistics Service  and
Agricultural Statistics Board are discussing the implications of
extended trading, Hubert Hamer, the chairman of the Agricultural
Statistics Board, said in an e-mail. Any change to the report
release schedule “is complex, has far-reaching impacts, and
would be made very deliberatively,” he said.  Longer hours probably will accelerate the shift to
electronic trading as institutional buyers and sellers avoid
small hedgers, retail traders and advisers, according to DEC
Capital’s Carper.  Electronic trading of CBOT corn, soybean, soybean meal,
soybean oil and wheat futures was 169.45 million contracts last
year, more than double the 82.21 million that changed hands in
2007, exchange data show. During the same period, pit trading
tumbled 73 percent to 13.3 million contracts.  Spread Liquidity  Longer exchange hours may spread liquidity too thin in
grain markets accustomed to the bulk of the buyers and sellers
operating during pit trading from 9:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m., which
may make futures less useful as hedging tools, said  Jason Britt ,
the president of Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City,
 Missouri .  “Is it stretching the liquidity out over too many hours?”
Britt said by telephone from his office at the Livestock
Exchange Building in Kansas City. “It felt like a knee-jerk
reaction to ICE instead of people’s need to do business for 22
hours.”  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , in an e-mail on May 18,
said he was a “reluctant supporter” of the longer trading
hours. “We need to look more in-depth at how markets have
morphed to guarantee that price discovery and risk management
remain the uppermost of priorities,” he said.  Will Adapt  Scott Irwin, an agricultural economist at the  University of
Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign, said he is “100 percent”
confident traders will adapt to the expanded hours.  “It’s not like this doesn’t happen in other commodity
markets like oil or in the financial or currency markets,”
Irwin said. “It opens up the opportunity for greater
participation in the market.”  The amount of electronic trading probably will increase as
more people have access to the grain markets globally, meaning
brokers who already work long hours will need to work more, said
Britt of Central Commodities, who starts work before 6 a.m. and
“sleeps with the computer right next to the bed.” In their
quest to increase profits, exchanges need to remember their
purpose, he said.  “As forecasts come out, or whenever there is a potential
supply issue, it does mean that trade will be spread out across
the day rather than being reflected at the open of the U.S.
market,” said  David Johnson , general manager of risk and
pricing at Emerald Group Australia Pty. “It probably allows
more volume to be traded during Australian hours.” The country
is the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  