-- Grimaldi Finds German Ifo Secrets Buried in Google Translate
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/grimaldi-finds-german-ifo-secrets-buried-in-google-translate.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA economist
Annamaria Grimaldi has never lived in  Germany  and doesn’t speak
the language, yet she’s still the top forecaster of the
country’s most-watched economic indicator.  The Ifo institute’s business confidence index has
confounded economists since September, exceeding the median
estimate in Bloomberg News surveys each month. Milan-based
Grimaldi, the most accurate forecaster in a Bloomberg ranking,
said economists are getting it wrong because they’ve
underestimated German exporters’ knack of finding markets for
their products.  “The resilience of the German economy has been
underestimated,” Grimaldi said. “The manufacturing sector is
becoming increasingly more reliant on countries outside the euro
zone, which are healthier and still growing.”  That’s helped keep Germany out of recession even as the
debt crisis pushes major economies across Europe into protracted
slumps. In March, German  industrial production  rose more than
three times as much as economists had forecast and exports
unexpectedly increased. Unemployment at a two-decade low has
also helped insulate Germany by fueling domestic demand.  The European Commission this month increased its forecast
for 2012 German economic growth to 0.7 percent from 0.6 percent
and projected a 1.7 percent expansion in 2013. That compares
with a 0.3 percent contraction this year in the euro area as a
whole, followed by 1 percent growth next year.  Ifo’s business climate indicator, due for release on May
24, probably fell to 109.4 this month from 109.9 in April,
according to the median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Grimaldi predicts a decline to 109.2.  Google Translate  Grimaldi, who uses Google Translate to research Germany, is
an avid reader of Bundesbank research as well as German news
outlets. She said surveys of purchasing managers outside  Europe 
have also been good indicators of what Ifo will do.  “A lot of it is really digging into the numbers and trying
to square up the different pieces of information, and it also
needs a bit of luck sometimes,” said Grimaldi, 39.  Economists’ inability to model Ifo correctly is costing
investors. The euro ended the day higher after every Ifo release
since September, and surged by more than a quarter of a cent
immediately after the report last month.  It also rose after data on May 15 showed Germany’s economy
grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter, well above economists’
0.1 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. That
resilience helped to keep the euro area out of recession,
commonly defined as two straight quarters of contraction.  German Reforms  Carsten Brzeski, a former European Commission official who
now works as a senior economist for ING Group in Brussels, said
some forecasters may have underestimated the positive effects of
the reforms carried out by Germany last decade, such as moves to
make its labor market more flexible.  Another reason why the economy has outperformed
expectations is that German companies have developed highly
specialized products, he said. “German exporters don’t compete
on price,” Brzeski said. “They are so specialized that there
is much less competition globally, which has helped them crack
 emerging markets  such as  Asia .”  Even as demand waned in the euro region, Germany’s biggest
export market, first-quarter profits at Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, Volkswagen AG and Daimler AG all beat analyst estimates.
VW’s Audi unit will create 2,000 new jobs in Germany this year
to meet demand in  North America  and Asia.  Brzeski, who underestimated Ifo on five of his last six
predictions, expects a reading of 109.4 this month.  Economic Outlook  Kai Carstensen, who oversees the compilation of the Ifo
business climate index, said Germany’s economy may continue to
improve.  “The business climate is determined by more than just
production,” Carstensen said. “Profit, margins, order books
and the situation on the labor market play important roles.
Hence, one shouldn’t be surprised that confidence has been
better than many people thought.”  Bloomberg’s rankings require economists to submit forecasts
for 15 of the 24 previous reports, two predictions in the last
six months and one in the past three months. Ifo’s business
climate is based on sub-indexes measuring companies’ assessment
of current conditions and their expectations for the coming six
months.  Kramer’s Analysis  Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover who placed
second in Bloomberg’s Ifo ranking, uses factory orders, terms of
trade and other indicators to predict companies’ present
situation. Kramer, who predicts Ifo will fall to 109.1 this
month, looks at the 564-member Composite DAX to gauge what may
happen in the next six months.  The index, which includes the shares of all companies
listed on the stock exchange in Germany, gained 18 percent in
the first quarter of this year. Since then, it has shed 6
percent, which may suggest growth will slow in the second
quarter.  “In 90 percent of the cases our model works; the rest is
gut feeling,” said Kramer, 50. To guide his intuition, he
speaks directly to companies to assess their health.  “It’s anecdotal, but I place a lot of weight on it,” he
said. “You get a feeling for how they’re doing, and since the
debt crisis started, they’ve never sounded like they’re in a
recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  