-- Romney Is Mormons’ Path to the Christian Mainstream
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-05-20T22:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/in-romney-mormons-see-path-to-christian-mainstream.html
During the 2008 presidential primary
race, evangelical stalwart  Mike Huckabee  darkly hinted that  Mitt Romney  might believe that Jesus and the devil are brothers. This
time around, Romney is the featured graduation speaker at  Jerry Falwell ’s Liberty University. What changed?  In the short-term world of party politics, the answer is
that everybody loves a winner -- even the people who tried to
beat him in the first place. Evangelicals will have to vote for
the presumptive Republican nominee unless they want to stay home
and effectively cast their votes for President  Barack Obama .
Romney may be a Mormon, but Obama is worse, even for those who
acknowledge that he is not (gasp) a Muslim.  What is more, evangelicals had a disastrously bad primary
season. At least since 1980, they have been an important, indeed
crucial, bloc in Republican electoral politics -- motivated,
activist and effective. Now the moving force on the right wing
of the  Republican Party  is the  Tea Party .  No doubt there are Tea Party evangelicals, too. Overlap is
perfectly possible. But what is motivating the Tea Party is
patriotic faith, not the religious kind.  Government spending  is
the enemy, not secular humanism.  In this environment of reduced power, evangelicals must
count themselves fortunate that the presumptive nominee is
bothering to pander to them at all. Having been spurned by the
values voters on theological terms four years ago, Romney could
have felt bitter, the way  John McCain  did in 2008 remembering
that evangelicals had handed his head to  George W. Bush  in  South
Carolina  in 2000.  Equivalent Moral Values  But Romney is a different kettle of fish. Unlike McCain,
Romney was always mystified by evangelicals’ rejection. As a
deeply believing Mormon, he actually, sincerely (yes, sincerely)
believes that his moral values are equivalent to those of
evangelicals.  And as a Mormon, Romney is a participant -- indeed, he is
the most important participant -- in the long-term project of
convincing mainstream American Protestants that Mormonism is a
normal denomination like all the others. Given this historic
opportunity to “normalize” Mormonism, Romney is acting not
opportunistically but on deeply felt principle. By embracing
evangelicals and being embraced by them, he is bringing
Mormonism into the denominational scheme that characterizes
mainstream American Christianity.  Short-term politics is therefore making a long-term
historic difference. Evangelical Protestants who once believed
that Mormonism was a deviant sect, not a legitimate
denomination, may come to believe something very different as
they prepare to cast their votes for a Romney. The practice of
pluralism can come first. The beliefs can come later.  There is nothing unique about this cart-pulling-the-horse
version of tolerance. The modern doctrine of religious
toleration grew out of the wars of religion of the 17th century.
When enough people had died, practical people -- especially
politicians -- begin to see the benefits of leaving well enough
alone. Once the government has dictated toleration, the citizens
who must practice it need to find a good reason for doing so.
Tolerance is the theory that justifies practical coexistence.  As Americans, we can pat ourselves on the back in
celebration of increased toleration. The fact that it comes from
a historically less-tolerant strand of American life just makes
the victory for coexistence all the sweeter.  In historical terms, this change is business as usual.
Catholics came to be seen as a legitimate Christian denomination
only after years of oppression. Then came the acceptance of
Jews. Mormons are the latest beneficiaries. Eventually, Muslims
and Hindus will have their day as well.  Price of Normalization  Yet the consequences of turning Mormonism into just another
denomination are epochal for Mormons. The doctrine of “be
careful what you wish for” certainly applies.  On the one hand, Mormons no doubt believe, with reason,
that their evangelizing efforts will be enhanced by a broad
public perception that they are Christian. After all, American
Protestants change denominations with little frictional effect.
If all are worshipping Christ, the mode of worship seems
altogether secondary.  On the other hand, seen through the lens of history,
entering the mainstream poses major risks. If Mormons think of
themselves as another Christian denomination, the risk of
defection rises. The distinctive Mormon beliefs in a new
scripture and in the possibility of joining the supernal realm
for eternal life will come into jeopardy precisely because they
mark differences with the Protestant mainstream. If you believe
you are not that different from others, there will be a tendency
to downplay those practices and beliefs that suggest otherwise.  The great model for this assimilationist danger is the
German political emancipation of the Jews, which directly led to
Reform Judaism. Removing the perception that Jews were
fundamentally outside Christian society was a tremendous
sociological boon to the German Jewish community in the early
1800s. Entering the mainstream, however, encouraged Jews to
adopt practices and beliefs that corresponded to the very
“modern” world that was welcoming them.  That wasn’t in and of itself a bad thing. But for many,
something was lost. Today, Reform Judaism has in many ways
returned to the traditional practices that long made Judaism
different when measured against liberal Christianity. Mormonism
will face a similar challenge in its impending acceptance by
non-Mormons.  The death of bigotry is a good thing. Romney’s embrace by
evangelicals is a great day for the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-day Saints. Yet great days have unexpected consequences.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt’s shaky elections 
and  curbing adult obesity ; William D. Cohan on the  dimming
luster of Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay vote in 2012 ;
Catherine Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech” ;  Mark Taylor  on how
 academic specialization harms the economy.   To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 