-- Investors Least Bullish in 2012 as Crisis Escalates: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-05-21T20:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/investors-least-bullish-in-2012-as-crisis-escalates-commodities.html
Hedge funds  reduced wagers on a rally
in commodities to the lowest this year on mounting speculation
that  Greece  will leave the euro, slowing global growth and
curbing demand for everything from copper to soybeans.  Money managers reduced net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 15 percent to 616,841  contracts  in the
week ended May 15, the lowest since Dec. 27, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Gold bets fell for a second week
and to the lowest since December 2008, while copper holdings
tumbled 69 percent, the most in five weeks. Cotton wagers
dropped to the lowest in five years.  About $4 trillion was erased from the value of global
equity markets this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis escalated.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt ratings on 16 Spanish
banks on May 17, while Fitch Ratings cut Greece’s credit rating
on concern that the country may be the first to exit the 17-
nation currency bloc.  Home prices  in China, the biggest metals
consumer, fell in a record number of cities last month,
government data showed.  “The outlook for commodities is not good,” said  Eric Sprott , who runs Toronto-based Sprott Asset Management LP, which
manages $9 billion of assets. “The world economies are slowing
down. China’s growth rate is softening, and it’s not even
debatable whether there will be a recession in Europe.”  China Speculation  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
fell for a third consecutive week, losing 2 percent and capping
the longest slump since September. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities dropped 5.3 percent, and the dollar climbed
1.3 percent against a basket of six major currencies. Treasuries
returned 0.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The GSCI gained 0.7 percent to settle at 633.68 today.
Copper rallied as much as 1.9 percent in New York on speculation
that  China  will ease monetary policy to spur economic growth.
Oil gained for the first time in seven days in New York,
climbing as much as 1.7 percent.  Thirteen of the raw materials tracked by S&P declined last
week. Copper tumbled 4.9 percent, the most in 2012, and erased
its gains for the year during after-hours electronic trading on
May 18.  Orange juice  fell to the lowest since October 2009 last
week, posting a 17 percent slump.  Turmoil in financial markets caused by Europe’s debt crisis
may last another two years, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a recorded interview broadcast on May 18 on
 France ’s Europe 1 radio station.  Greece Concerns  Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s ranking to CCC from B-,
saying the strong showing of “anti-austerity” parties in
elections on May 6 and subsequent failure to form a government
underscored the lack of public and political support for the
country’s bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund .  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, climbed for 14
consecutive sessions through May 17, the longest winning streak
since its inception in 1973. It fell 0.1 percent on May 18 and
dropped as much as 0.5 percent today.  Global stimulus programs, especially in China, may help
commodities to rebound, said  James Paulsen , the chief investment
strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which
manages $335 billion of assets.  China Easing  The People’s Bank of China cut lenders’ reserve
 requirements  by 50 basis points from May 18. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on April 25 said he was prepared to
take further action to aid the economy if necessary, even as he
signaled that he didn’t see an immediate need to add stimulus
with inflation near the Fed’s goal and unemployment falling.  “We are seeing easing moves in China, and that will
increase demand for commodities, but investors want to see the
actual momentum on main streets before they come back,” Paulsen
said. “In the second half, we will see more data that will
support bottoming out of prices.”  Investors pulled $611 million from commodity funds in the
week ended May 16, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. That
was the fourth consecutive week of outflows, the longest slide
since October, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research. Gold and precious-metals funds accounted for $143
million of the outflow, he said.  Commodity Outflows  Total commodity outflows were $1 billion in April and
assets under management fell to $429 billion from $435 billion
the month before, Barclays Plc said May 17. Tiberius Asset
Management AG said its two Commodity Alpha funds were down about
2 percent each in April, lagging behind their respective
benchmarks. Losses in agriculture and platinum spurred the
declines, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said May 18.  Copper wagers fell for a second consecutive week to 4,833
futures and options, a three-week low. Holdings plunged 74
percent from this year’s peak on April 3. Prices dropped to as
low as $3.4315 a pound on May 18. The metal ended last year down
23 percent at $3.436 on the Comex in  New York .  Europe uses about 18 percent of the world’s copper, and
demand from the region will probably decline 2 percent this
year, Barclays estimates.  Funds cut their gold  holdings  by 15 percent to 78,619
contracts, the lowest since Dec. 9, 2008, CFTC data show. Prices
slumped 17 percent since reaching a record $1,923.70 an ounce in
New York on Sept. 6 as investors favored the dollar as a haven.  ‘Realistic’ Levels  “People were beginning to believe that gold can stand up
against all crises, but the last six months proved that theory
wrong,” said  Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief market
strategist at National Securities Corp., which manages about $3
billion of assets. “Gold needs to come back to more realistic
levels, which is about $1,100.”  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods dropped 18
percent to 358,940 contracts, the biggest slide since mid-
January. Cotton speculators increased their net-short position,
or bet on a decline, by 79 percent to 13,068 contracts, the most
bearish since May 2007.  “Commodities are headed lower and sending us a signal that
global economies are slowing much more than the optimists had
expected,” said Clark Yingst, the chief market analyst at New
York-based Joseph Gunnar & Co. “Investors should employ
caution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  