-- Iran Strike Gains Support in Some Nations, Russia Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-21T06:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/iran-military-strike-gains-support-in-some-nations-russia-says.html
(Corrects to show that talks will be held in  Baghdad  in
fifth paragraph in a story originally published May 20.)  Some countries favor more than ever
using a military strike to stem Iran’s nuclear ambitions,
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  Talks this month in Baghdad must show progress on reaching
an agreement over the Persian nation’s nuclear program to
placate the international community, he said today on a flight
as he returned from the Group of Eight meeting in the U.S.  “ Russia  is concerned that an attempt to resolve this
problem with military methods is still a possibility,” Ryabkov
told reporters. “We periodically get signals publicly and via
private channels that certain capitals favor this option much
more than they did up to this point.”  The U.S. and European Union allege  Iran  is seeking to build
a bomb, not just make fuel for electricity production and
medical research, as the country maintains. The U.S. and EU have
imposed financial sanctions on Iran and are pressuring nations
including  China  to buy less of its oil as they seek to curtail
its nuclear activities.  The so-called 5+1 group comprising the U.S., U.K., China,
Russia and  France , with  Germany , will meet on May 23 in the
Iraqi capital.  Russia opposes an EU embargo on Iranian oil due to take
effect July 1 and will seek for it to be “deferred into the
future,” Ryabkov said, adding that the sanction will put
pressure on oil markets.  “When we have this euro-zone crisis, when we have doubts
over the tempo of recovery in many places, I think it’s really
irresponsible to introduce such a dramatic measure as an oil
embargo,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  