-- Iran Finds Its First Caspian Sea Oil for More Than a Century
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-20T12:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/iran-finds-first-caspian-sea-oilfield-in-104-years-fars-reports.html
Iran  has discovered oil in its
Caspian Sea waters for the first time in more than a century,
the state-run Fars news agency reported.  The deposit was found at a depth of 2.5 kilometers (1.5
miles) during drilling on a natural-gas field and may contain 10
billion barrels of crude,  Fars  said, citing the National Iranian
Oil Co. That’s equal to 7 percent of Iran’s known reserves.  While Iran is the second-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, most existing
fields are in the south and the  Persian Gulf . Hampered by
sanctions over nuclear ambitions, it doesn’t yet extract crude
in the Caspian, where nations including  Azerbaijan  are tapping
deposits and demarcation lines over territory are disputed.  “Iran has never found anything in its section of the
Caspian because it’s deep water, so these would be the first
wells ever drilled,” said Robin Mills, head of consulting at
Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management.
“Ten billion barrels is certainly something to talk about. The
question is whether Iran has the technology to develop it.”  The oil strike is Iran’s first in the  Caspian Sea  for 104
years, Fars cited  Khazar Exploration and Production Co.  Managing
Director Ali Osouli as saying.  Iran has proven reserves of 151 billion barrels, according
to figures on the  OPEC website  based on 2010 data. The maximum
estimated deposit at the Caspian Sea site would be slightly less
than in the whole of  Algeria , with 12.2 billion, the data shows.  Sanctions Hurdle  The Caspian basin may hold 17 billion to 33 billion barrels
of oil, compared with the North Sea’s 17 billion, the Iranian
oil ministry news website, Shana, said in 2009. It may also hold
8,000 billion cubic meters of gas, Shana said.  International oil and gas companies such as  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP)  have exited Iran to comply with U.S.
sanctions over its nuclear program, forcing the Islamic state to
rely on its own technology for exploration and production.  As a result, Iran risks becoming a less important global
oil supplier, with its share of production likely to slip from
4.9 percent in 2010 to 4.5 percent in 2015, according to the
 International Energy Agency . Output dropped below 3.3 million
barrels a day last month, compared with 4.1 million barrels a
day in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Iranian Oil said last year that more than $500
million would be spent installing a semi-floating drilling
platform in the Caspian and that the first exploration well
would be completed by the end of March, helping Iran to catch up
with neighboring countries already developing crude deposits.  Kazakhstan aims to begin production in 2013 at Kashagan in
the northern Caspian, the world’s fifth-largest oil field, with
partners including Shell, Total,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   In neighboring Azerbaijan,  BP Plc (BP/)  leads a group pumping oil
at the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli project, the largest field under
development in its sector of the sea, according to BP’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at   adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  