-- Is College’s Stone Age About to End?
-- B y   M a r k   C .   T a y l o r
-- 2012-05-20T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/is-the-college-cave-age-about-to-end-part-2-.html
Excessive specialization has created
a culture of expertise that has distorted higher education and
had a negative impact on faculty members, students and the
broader society.  While global transportation, communications and information
technologies have created interconnection, academic disciplines
and fields have, paradoxically, become more fragmented and
isolated. Universities boast of their global expansion and
vision, but they are mostly siloed institutions ill-adapted to a
networked world.  While academic specialization has  long been decried  and
ridiculed, insufficient attention has been paid to the influence
that narrowly defined research has had on undergraduate teaching
and the structure of colleges and universities. With  online
education taking off  at traditional institutions, the hope is
that learning breaks out of these cocoons. But as we have
already discovered in the political arena, increased
connectivity can create new divisions that deepen social
discord. The rise of online learning may create more rifts in
fields and curricula, or it may reorganize higher education for
the better.  Hyper-specialization has both natural and external causes.
As knowledge evolves and expands, it diversifies and in some
cases leads to beneficial results, as with innovations and
discoveries in medical research, engineering, information and
communications technology, for example.  Subfields Hurt Learning  But the downside is that as disciplines divide and
subdivide, the curriculum expands without planning or oversight.
In the  department  where I teach, there are 11 faculty members
and eight subfields, some of which are further divided into as
many as four sub-subfields. Until recently, the entire education
of a graduate student from admission through comprehensive
examinations to thesis was restricted to a single subfield or
subfield within a subfield. This situation is not unique.  An important contributor to academic fragmentation is the
pressure on faculty members to produce and publish original
research, a development that took off in the 1970s. The pressure
is greatest at research universities but is felt at all
universities and colleges. When I started teaching at  Williams
College  in 1972, many of my senior colleagues who were superb
teachers and genuine intellectuals had never published a single
word. By the time I came up for tenure a few years later, I was
expected to have published a book and several articles.  What changed was the job market, which suddenly dried up in
1970. With fewer jobs and increasing competition among
candidates, colleges and universities needed new ways to
evaluate faculty members. Research and publication became the
gold standard for hiring and promotion and spawned specialized
conferences, journals and book series intended to encourage
communication among people with the same interests. More people
started publishing because they had to, rather than because they
had something to say.  The system of  peer review  -- in which articles and books
are evaluated exclusively by other specialists in the field --
has also worsened the over-specialization problem. The same
procedure is used for promotion and tenure. The tenure process
at Columbia, for example, requires letters of assessment from 20
to 25 experts in the candidate’s field or subfield. It is
standard in academia that someone from another subfield or
discipline is regarded as unqualified to judge a person’s work.
While nominal attention is paid to teaching ability and other
qualities, the judgment of these specialized scholars is
critical in making personnel decisions.  Echo Chambers  Life in the intellectual silos makes it more difficult for
people working in different fields and disciplines to
communicate with each other. There are always exceptions, but
for the most part scholars remain in echo chambers talking to
themselves. This system is self-perpetuating and resistant to
change.  A familiar complaint is that as the importance of research
and publication has increased, the value of teaching has tended
to decrease. At research universities, prestige is often
measured by how little you teach. This creates an incentive for
faculty members to design courses that are closely related to
their research. Many fine teachers are devoted to the needs and
interests of their students, but too many courses are based on
what the professor wants to teach rather than what the student
needs to learn.  Facing professional pressure, faculty members are not able
or eager to guide and advise undergraduate students to craft a
coherent education.  When education is more and more about less and less, it
becomes counterproductive. Universities have moved at a glacial
pace but change is now occurring at warp speed. The way
knowledge and institutions are structured is not set in stone
but changes with new technologies of production and
reproduction.  Just as a networked infrastructure transformed financial
markets for better and worse, so the networking of higher
education will transform how teachers teach and what students
learn. Disciplines will need to be reconfigured. Departments can
be transformed or abolished. Research and teaching that
encourage faculty members and students to approach problems from
multiple perspectives must be encouraged and rewarded. The wall
separating the university from the world has to be torn down to
produce students with the knowledge and skills they need in the
rest of the 21st century.  In the final article in this series, I will consider the
implications of these changes and describe what wired higher
education will do to colleges and learning.  (Mark C. Taylor is chairman of the department of religion
at  Columbia University , professor of philosophy of religion at
Union Theological Seminary and professor emeritus at  Williams
College . He is the author of “Crisis on Campus: A Bold Plan for
Reforming Our Colleges and Universities,” among other books.
The opinions expressed are his own. This is the second of three
articles on how online education may revolutionize learning and
college life. Read  Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt ’s shaky elections
and  curbing adult obesity ;  Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of
Mormonism ; William D. Cohan on the  dimming luster of Wall
Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay vote in 2012 ; Catherine
Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech.”   To contact the writer of this article:
Mark C. Taylor at  mct22@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 