-- Jay-Z, Kanye West Duel for Rap Crown
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-05-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/jay-z-kanye-west-duel-for-rap-crown-on-watch-the-throne-tour.html
Rappers Jay-Z and  Kanye West  have
notoriously big egos. Now they have a stage show to match.  The pair’s Watch the Throne tour sets a new standard for
live hip hop and arena gigs: you’re unlikely to see anything
this year as exciting and physically direct.  Anyone who doubts that hip hop is one of America’s great
cultural exports should see the Watch the Throne live. The
European leg of the tour has started with five dates at London’s
O2 Arena. The rappers will be playing there tonight and
tomorrow; more European concerts follow.  It’s a big-budget show. A battery of lasers that would make
a Death Star commander proud and repeated balls of fire warm the
sun-starved  London  audience. The rapping is hotter.  Jay-Z and West start by swapping rhymes from opposite sides
of the arena. Each is atop a giant cube, the sides of which show
footage of snarling dogs and circling sharks.  Jay-Z’s rhymes are a thicket of words, ripe with razor-
sharp barbs. West is lighter, his awkward honesty adding moments
of unexpected electro-pop tenderness. The combination, and the
interplay between them, is electric.  Unlike most hip-hop shows, there are no tedious interludes.
Unlike most arena events, there are no dancers, props or high-
concept staging just in case the crowd gets bored.  Rhyming Torrent  Instead, there are just two guys, their beats (apparently
triggered by three anonymous keyboard players) and a non-stop
torrent of rhymes. Sometimes the giant screens show spectacular
footage of various big cats. Mostly they display close-ups of
West and Jay-Z rapping.  The set is a two-hour blast of hits from both rapper’s
catalogs as well as much of “Watch the Throne,” the pair’s
recent collaborative album.  “Who Gon Stop Me” peacocks their achievements and “Otis,”
performed in front of a giant Stars and Stripes, glows with
soulful pride.  West, dressed in a black shirt, leather pants and what
looks like a black leather skirt, throws in some dance-pop with
“Stronger” and revels in the Shirley Bassey sample of “Diamonds
From  Sierra Leone .” Jay-Z wears nondescript black sportswear,
shades and a baseball-cap and keeps the rhymes tight through
classics like “U Don’t Know” and “99 Problems.”  Both prowl through West’s ludicrous “Monster.” Just as the
beats and braggadocio threaten to overwhelm, the pair sit
center-stage for an intimate rendition of “New Day,” dedicated
to “all the fathers in the house.”  Puerile Profanities  A central component of hip hop is the battle in which
rappers compete to show off their skills and put down their
rivals. Where the boasts bristle with machismo, the insults
inevitably will be scurrilous and puerile. Hip hop’s favorite
compound oedipal profanity is always going to sound far better
than “nincompoop.”  The lyrics reference Rothko and Socrates, crime,  blood
diamonds , religion and romance. There’s still plenty of bad
language and arrogant macho swagger. Jay-Z boasts “what’s fifty
grand to a m**** f*** like me?” and West rejoins “You know how
many hot b**** I own?”  Hip hop started out as party music. It was how the show
ended, with repeated plays of “N****s In Paris,” a celebratory
frenzy of bouncing electro and luxurious high-living.  Rating: ****.  The Watch the Throne tour continues in  Europe  through June
22. There are shows in  Switzerland , Denmark,  Norway ,  Sweden ,
 France ,  Belgium ,  Germany , Ireland, the U.K. and the Netherlands.  Information:  http://watchthethrone.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela
Hoelterhoff , Scott Reyburn on  auctions ,  John Mariani  on  wine  and
Farah Nayeri on  film  from Cannes.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 