-- JPMorgan CIO Risk Chief Said to Have Trading-Loss History
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-21T03:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/jpmorgan-cio-risk-overseer-said-to-have-record-of-trading-losses.html
Irvin Goldman, who oversaw risks in
the  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit that suffered more than $2 billion
in trading losses, was fired by another Wall Street firm in 2007
for money-losing bets that prompted a regulatory sanction at the
firm, Cantor Fitzgerald LP, three people with direct knowledge
of the matter said.  JPMorgan appointed Goldman in February as the top risk
official in its chief investment office while the unit was
managing trades that later spiraled into what Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  called “egregious,” self-inflicted
mistakes. The bank knew when it picked Goldman that his earlier
work at Cantor led regulators to penalize that company,
according to a person briefed on the situation.  JPMorgan’s oversight of risk in its chief investment office
has become a focal point as U.S. authorities examine the
incident and lawmakers debate how to prevent banks from making
wagers that might endanger depositors. Goldman was given the
risk-oversight job after his brother-in-law, Barry Zubrow, 59,
stepped down in January as JPMorgan’s top risk official to
become head of corporate and regulatory affairs, according to a
person briefed on the matter.  Less than a week after the loss became public, the bank
stripped Goldman of his duties, though he remains at the firm,
according to a person familiar with the situation. Chetan
Bhargiri was named to succeed him.  No Admission  The Cantor case culminated in 2010 when the enforcement arm
of NYSE Arca Inc. fined Cantor $250,000 after finding it failed
to supervise Goldman, 51, who was buying and selling the same
stocks in personal accounts that he traded in a proprietary
account at the New York-based brokerage. His stock investments,
one of which plunged in December of 2006, presented a conflict
of interest that could have affected his investment decisions,
NYSE Arca found, according to a  settlement document  on its
website.  Cantor settled the case without admitting or denying
wrongdoing. The NYSE document identified Goldman only by his
former title as CEO of debt capital markets at Cantor, and he
wasn’t directly accused by the watchdog of misconduct. People
with knowledge of his dismissal spoke on condition of anonymity
because the reasons for his departure were private.  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on Goldman’s actions at Cantor or the bank’s decision to
put him in charge of risk management. Goldman didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  Administrative Leave  JPMorgan is investigating whether anyone at the firm sought
to hide trading risks, people familiar with the matter have
said. It hasn’t found that Goldman did anything improper, one
person said.  Goldman’s resume lists more than a decade of work in
trading and investments before he was appointed to be risk
chief. He spent 13 years at  Credit Suisse First Boston  and ran
sales and trading for interest-rate products, according to a
2003  statement  on Cantor’s website.  That year, he joined Cantor as president of debt capital
markets and asset management as the firm sought to rebuild from
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, which
killed 658 of its 960 New York-based employees.  After leaving Cantor, he joined JPMorgan’s chief investment
office as a trader, according to two people. As the NYSE inquiry
at Cantor progressed, he went on administrative leave at
JPMorgan, one person said. His trading book was down around that
time and his departure helped result in a loss of about $10
million to $15 million, the person said. The Wall Street Journal
reported that loss yesterday on its website.  London Trades  Ina Drew, then head of JPMorgan’s chief investment office,
reenlisted Goldman to help with strategy at her unit after
Cantor settled the NYSE’s inquiry in 2010, according to two
people. He was head of risk strategy before his appointment in
February, when the company’s main risk officer,  John Hogan ,
named Goldman the unit’s head of risk, one of the people said.
While others at the bank knew about Goldman’s firing from
Cantor, Hogan wasn’t aware when he appointed him to the job, the
person said.  Drew retired four days after Dimon announced the CIO loss
on May 10. For years, Dimon had sought to transform the unit and
increase the size of its speculative bets, former employees have
said. The firm hired Achilles Macris, 50, in 2006 to oversee
trading in  London  and lead an expansion into corporate and
mortgage-debt investments with a mandate to generate profits,
three former employees have said. One London trader, Bruno Iksil, amassed positions so big he began driving price moves in
the $10 trillion market for derivatives linked to the financial
health of corporations, Bloomberg News reported on April 5.  Criminal Investigation  On April 13, Dimon called news about the London trades a
“complete tempest in a teapot.” As the positions fueled losses
in the following days, Hogan removed Goldman from much of his
duties, one of the people said.  The  Justice Department  and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York have begun a criminal probe of the
trading loss, a person familiar with the matter has said. The
Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing the transactions
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted May 18 to
open an investigation, according to two people briefed on the
matter. The U.K. Financial Services Authority, which regulates
banks, is examining the role played by employees in London,
where the trading occurred, people familiar with the talks have
said.  NYSE investigators focused on Goldman’s trading in shares
of Forbes Medi-Tech Inc. and Immunicon Corp. In October 2005, he
bought Forbes Medi-Tech, a Vancouver-based biotech firm, for his
retirement account, a joint account with his wife and trust
accounts for his two children, according to Cantor’s settlement.
Goldman also started buying the shares for a Cantor proprietary
account in January 2006, accumulating more than 3.4 million by
March 2 of that year, the document shows.  ‘Dozens’ of Orders  In December 2006 the biotech company announced
disappointing results for a clinical trial of its cholesterol-
reducing drug, prompting the shares to drop. Goldman sold the
stake in the proprietary account over the next several days,
continuing to trade in personal accounts for another nine
months.  He accumulated more than 2 million shares of Immunicon, a
Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania-based maker of cancer diagnostic
tests, for Cantor in 2006, while buying as many as 367,000
shares for his personal account, according to the NYSE. On some
days, Goldman placed “dozens of buy and sell orders,” often
“within minutes of each other,” according to the settlement
document. Immunicon filed for  bankruptcy protection  in June
2008, agreeing to sell most of its assets to a unit of Johnson &
Johnson, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based maker of health-
care products.  The NYSE found that Cantor failed to monitor Goldman’s
personal bets. The firm’s own policies also barred traders from
making personal wagers on the same stocks they bought for
proprietary accounts, and it required them to hold their
personal investments for at least 10 days, the settlement shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  