-- JPMorgan Europe Home-Loan Debt Raises Anxiety: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-21T12:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/jpmorgan-s-home-loan-debt-in-europe-increases-anxiety-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s holdings of
home-loan bonds from outside the U.S. soared 35-fold in the past
three years. Now, with its chief investment office facing
scrutiny after a $2 billion trading loss, investors are raising
concern the European market’s biggest buyer will pull back.  The largest U.S. bank by assets accelerated its purchases
last quarter, adding $8.5 billion to lift its total to $74.5
billion, according to regulatory filings. The New York-based
company’s investments approached 9 percent of the size of the
Dutch and U.K. mortgage-bond markets it’s been focusing on.  “If they stop buying, it would be pretty bad as they are
one of the major buyers at the moment,” said Frank Erik Meijer,
head of asset-backed securities at The Hague-based Aegon Asset
Management, which manages 220 billion euros ($280 billion). “If
they need to sell, that would certainly give rise to quite
some” increases in yields relative to benchmark rates.  JPMorgan bolstered prices and issuance when Europe’s
lenders were forced to shrink and other potential buyers shunned
asset-backed notes after U.S. subprime mortgage debt sparked a
global credit crisis, according to six people at banks and
investment firms active in the home-loan  bond market  who
declined to be identified because they were speaking about a
competitor. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, last month
described the securities as part of the chief investment
office’s “very conservative” holdings, four weeks before
announcing an unrelated $2 billion derivative loss that
highlighted the division’s influence in certain credit markets.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan in  London ,
declined to comment.  Deposits Increased  As the global economic slump limited loan demand and
 increased deposits  across the banking industry, securities held
in JPMorgan’s chief investment office and treasury more than
tripled to $374 billion as of March 31, from $76.5 billion since
2007, filings show. The European mortgage investments began to
jump in 2009, starting that year at $2.1 billion and rising to
$47.1 billion by the end of 2010.  The bank has been the lead investor, or among the biggest
buyers, of deals backed by loans from banks including  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  in the Netherlands.
Transactions, particularly in 2009 and 2010, often began with
potential issuers calling the bank, three of the people said.  Revived Market  Lloyds revived the European securitization market in
September, 2009, after a more than yearlong freeze. JPMorgan
bought or committed to buy 2.25 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) of
notes issued by Lloyds vehicles and Nationwide Building Society
issuance entities.  JPMorgan approached Lloyds to issue the bonds and
“provided the catalyst for us to start work on a new
transaction as we then knew there was a deal to be done,”
Robert Plehn, the London-based head of securitization at
Lloyds’s Bank of Scotland unit, said at the time. The  U.S.
bank ’s order “probably provided other investors with some
confidence” to buy, he said.  JPMorgan has also bought outstanding securities tied to
home loans originated by Northern Rock Plc, the British lender
rescued by the  Bank of England  in 2007, two of the people said.
Those purchases meant it was bolstering the market even more
than the volume of its buying suggested because the debt, among
the most liquid of its type, is used as a market benchmark.  ‘Large Player’  “They have been since the crash a very large player in the
market,” said Ronald Thompson Jr., a Greenwich, Connecticut-
based consultant on asset-backed securities, and former head of
strategy on the debt at Knight Libertas LLC. “You’ve always got
to be concerned if there’s a large player that it’s a potential
problem if they go away.”  JPMorgan’s chief investment office, which invests its
excess cash and hedges its risks, failed in using synthetic
credit bets to protect against a “stressed credit
environment,” the bank says, such as a deepening of Europe’s
debt crisis. Dimon announced its loss on May 10, describing the
handling of the positions as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed,
poorly executed and poorly monitored.”  The disclosure has prompted investigations by the  U.S.
Department of Justice , the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Dimon has been asked to testify before a U.S. Senate
committee on the loss, which has prompted the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York  to examine how banks across its district are
managing a wave of deposits that has flooded the financial
system since the credit crisis, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  ‘Renewed Focus’  At JPMorgan, Ina Drew, 55, the chief investment officer
starting in 2005 who reported directly to Dimon, retired this
month. Matt Zames, 41, replaced her, shaking up the division’s
leadership and announcing in a May 14 memo a “sharp, renewed
focus on our hedging strategies, risk management and
execution.”  The cost to protect JPMorgan’s debt against losses with
credit-default swaps rose 21.7 basis points last week to 154.1
basis points, at about the highest level since November,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That means it costs
$154,100 annually to protect $10 million of debt for five years.  Dimon has sought to allay investor concern that the bank
will do something “stupid” as a result of the upheaval.  “We will do what we have to do to maximize the  shareholder
value ,” Dimon said on a May 10 conference call, talking about
unwinding the derivative bets. “We’ve got staying power and we
are going to use it.”  Unlike the company’s derivatives positions, gains and
losses on the securities holdings typically don’t affect its
earnings because of accounting rules.  Unrealized Gains  While it had about $8 billion in unrealized gains within
its bond portfolio at the end of March, and sold debt to reap $1
billion of those this quarter, sales are usually “tax-
inefficient, so we’re very careful about taking gains,” Dimon
said.  JPMorgan may at least test the liquidity of its European
mortgage bonds with sales, even if it doesn’t otherwise shift
its strategy, one of the people said.  The chief investment office’s push into risk-taking was led
by Achilles Macris, 50, according to three former employees,
Bloomberg News reported on April 13. He was hired in 2006 as its
top executive in London and led an expansion into corporate and
mortgage-debt investments to generate profits, they said. The
bank said May 14 that Macris would hand off his duties.  Those in London given the task of adding European mortgage-
backed securities include Anthony Brown, Francois Brochard and
Swen Nicolaus according to two of the people.  Unrealized Losses  Analysts such as Morningstar Inc.’s Jim Leonard and
investors including John Kerschner, Janus Capital Group Inc.’s
head of securitized products, said when Bloomberg News reported
the expanded holdings on Feb. 23 that the types of bonds
JPMorgan targeted represent generally safe long-term bets, since
they are among the most senior-ranked in deals.  The bank had unrealized losses of $273 million on the bonds
as of March 31, down from $530 million on Sept. 30, according to
its filings. “Substantially all of these securities” carry
ratings of AAA, AA or A, and they are “primarily” from the
U.K. and Netherlands, it said in the filings. Those figures were
“gross” amounts, meaning similar holdings could be worth more
than purchase prices. Unrealized gains totaled $657 million.  Its portions of deals can withstand losses of about 10
percent on the underlying mortgages because other classes will
take writedowns first. JPMorgan said it projects lifetime losses
of 1 percent. The so-called credit enhancement on U.K. bonds it
bought in October was 22.4 percent of losses.  U.K., Dutch Markets  The market for U.K and Dutch home-loan bonds totals 691
billion euros, according to the data from the bank’s analysts.
The broader European market’s size is 1.2 trillion euros.  Homeowners from the U.K. and Netherlands are considered the
most creditworthy in Europe by bond investors, even with the
U.K. returning to recession in the first quarter and Dutch  home
prices  set to drop about 5 percent this year because of the
region’s debt crisis and stricter mortgage lending rules,
according to a January forecast by Nederlandse Vereniging van
Makelaars, which represents property brokers.  Investors are demanding 138 basis points more than
benchmark rates to hold Dutch mortgage notes and 132 basis
points extra for British securities. That compares with a spread
of 600 basis points for Spanish bonds. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  While JPMorgan remains important to issuance, a shift to
structuring U.K. deals with U.S. dollar-dominated classes
through the use of currency swaps may mitigate the impact of any
retreat by the bank, one of the investors said.  Citigroup Emerging  “Reliance on JPMorgan has been declining since the
investor base is expanding especially in the U.S. but still it’s
a big player,” Aegon’s Meijer said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is emerging as a bigger buyer from the U.S.,
increasing its holdings of residential-mortgage securities from
elsewhere by $1.7 billion in the first three months of this year
to $9.8 billion, according to a company filing.  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based, declined to comment.  The market got a test with a May 16 sale of about $3.6
billion of securities by Santander’s U.K. unit, with slices in
pounds, yen and U.S. and Australian dollars. The lender’s Fosse
Master Issuer’s $700 million portion with an average life of 5
years was priced at 150 basis points above the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, according to Bloomberg data.  That was in line with marketing guidance from underwriters
and compares with a spread of 155 basis points on $1.25 billion
of bonds with a similar expected duration sold in April by the
lender from its Holmes program.  ‘Anchor Investor’  The transaction “shows that it is possible to sell a deal
without one particular anchor investor,” said Patrick Janssen,
a  fund manager  at M&G Investments in London, which manages 20
billion euros of asset-backed securities. Top-rated “U.K and
Dutch RMBS are perceived as a safe haven with a yield pickup so
the investor base is growing.”  Bob Paterson, head of asset-backed securities syndication
at Lloyds, said the market has been “rather stable in terms of
performance and pricing. With strong structural support and
sound asset quality we don’t anticipate this changing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net :
Paul Armstrong at o
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  