-- Nasdaq Chief Blames Software for Delayed Facebook Debut
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-21T22:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/nasdaq-ceo-says-poor-design-in-ipo-software-delayed-facebook.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , under scrutiny
after shares of  Facebook  Inc. were hit by delays and mishandled
orders on its first day, blamed “poor design” in the software
it uses for driving auctions in initial public offerings.  Computer systems used to establish the opening price were
overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates during the
“biggest IPO cross in the history of mankind,” Nasdaq Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld , 54, said yesterday in a
conference call with reporters. Nasdaq’s systems fell into a
“loop” that kept the second-largest U.S. stock venue operator
from opening the  shares  on time following the $16 billion deal.  While the errors were resolved and Facebook completed its
offering, the day was another setback for equity exchanges
trying to erase the memory of the botched IPO in March by Bats
Global Markets Inc., another bourse owner. Nasdaq’s issues
contributed to disappointment among investors as  Facebook (FB) ’s
stock plunged as much as 14 percent today.  “It’s amazing that both Bats and Nasdaq unfortunately
failed in an inglorious way,” William Karsh, the former chief
operating officer at Direct Edge Holdings LLC, an exchange
operator that competes with Nasdaq, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It proves that technology isn’t
infallible. There are so many moving parts that things can go
wrong. That’s the lesson we learn.”  SEC Reviewing  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
review the trading. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,
 California-based Facebook , declined to comment.  “This was not our finest hour,” Greifeld said yesterday,
a day after Nasdaq’s board convened to discuss the offering.
Asked if his job is secure, he said, “I certainly hope so.”  Nasdaq will use an “accommodation pool” that may total
$13 million to pay back investors that should have received
executions in the opening auction, based on the decisions of a
third-party reviewer, Greifeld said. Nasdaq said today in a
 notice  that the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority would be
the organization handling the review.  Media reports that brokers may lose $100 million repaying
investors whose orders were mishandled are credible, Thomas Joyce, the CEO of  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , said today on CNBC.  Under Water  Facebook slumped 11 percent to $34.03 today, slipping below
its offering price of $38 after advancing as high as $45 on the
day of its debut.  The controversy is a black eye for Greifeld, whose venue
won out over the  New York  Stock Exchange in the battle to list
Facebook’s offering. While the market capitalization of NYSE
shares is about triple the value of Nasdaq companies, the latter
market operator has about twice as many technology companies
trading for $1 billion or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show  Problems surfaced on May 18 at 11:11 a.m. New York time
after  Morgan Stanley (MS) , one of the underwriters that sold 421
million shares, completed its role in setting the price for the
trade in  Nasdaq ’s opening auction, Greifeld said.  Nasdaq’s software for IPOs allows investors to cancel or
update details of orders until the auction runs. Trade requests
received during the 5 milliseconds it took to operate the
auction disturbed the process, leading to an imbalance of buys
and sells and sending the program into a loop.  Manual Intervention  Exchange officials manually intervened to allow the auction
to occur at 11:30 a.m. The IPO software “didn’t work” even
after thousands of hours of testing for “a hundred scenarios”
aimed at anticipating problems, Greifeld said. “We’re not happy
with our performance,” he said on the call.  Volume during the auction amounted to 75.7 million shares,
or almost 1 percent of trading during the entire day on all U.S.
exchanges, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We saw on a real-time basis, obviously with the pressure
of the world upon us, that this was happening,” Greifeld said.
“We then manually intercepted this cross,” he said. “That
manual intervention said we had to ignore the cancels that came
in between the raindrops as we were processing the trade.”  Responding to the malfunction, Nasdaq altered its IPO
procedures today. The exchange operator said it will no longer
accept “cross-eligible” order modifications after the
auction’s final price calculation has begun, according to an e-
mailed  statement .  Facebook Stake  Nasdaq wound up selling 3 million shares of Facebook
because of its intervention, according to two people familiar
with the events. A broker was used to unwind the position that
had been placed in the exchange’s so-called error account for
$10.7 million, the people said. Greifeld mentioned the $10
million proceeds yesterday, though he gave a lower share total.  Nasdaq will ask the SEC for permission to add the money it
received to the $3 million available from the exchange,
according to its rules, to repay investors that should have
received trades, Greifeld said on yesterday’s call.  Orders totaling 30 million shares were submitted into the
opening auction between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m., Greifeld
said. About half of them may involve “some level of dispute,”
he said. Greifeld said he didn’t think the delay in starting
trading affected the price of Facebook shares.  Finra Report  Finra will provide a report to Nasdaq OMX about the total
value of all “valid claims,” Nasdaq said today. One of the two
people said $13.7 million would be a minimum amount that Nasdaq
would pay and that Finra’s review process would take one to
three weeks.  Adding to the confusion after the IPO started trading,
Nasdaq reported an issue with confirming transactions from the
opening auction with the brokerages that placed them. The
exchange said in a statement posted to its website at 11:59 a.m.
New York time that it was having a problem delivering the
messages. An update at about 1:57 p.m. said they had been sent.  Nasdaq  said  today that trading delays in  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  on May
18 were caused by the Facebook malfunction. The stock was halted
twice by marketwide volatility circuit breakers that normally
last five minutes. One went for about 50 minutes and another was
more than an hour.  ‘Bizarre Ways’  “When you have a complex market system that gets
overwhelmed, it fails in bizarre ways,” James Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in a
phone interview on May 18. “If you don’t know whether you got
filled, you don’t know your position. If you’re buying you might
buy more shares and then suddenly you’ve got twice as many
shares as you wanted. It makes it hard to do your risk
management and hard for brokers to know how much credit to
extend to customers.”  Facebook was originally scheduled to open at 11 a.m. At
about 11:07 a.m., a Nasdaq official told market participants on
a conference call that the exchange was delaying the opening.
Aside from assurances that an update was coming, the phone line
went silent until just before the first trade at about 11:30
a.m., according to two people who were on the call and asked not
to be identified because the discussions were private.  Buy and sell requests that should have been filled in the
opening auction, based on the exchange’s rules, weren’t, while
cancellations for other trade requests were ignored, they said.
Their employers plan to appeal some of the results they received
for orders sent to Nasdaq.  Bid and Offer  Nasdaq began experiencing problems with its bid and offer
quotes after the opening auction trade. By 11:31 a.m., the
exchange’s highest bid, or price at which market participants
were willing to purchase shares, was $42.99, and its lowest
offer to sell was $42.50, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The quotes produced a so-called crossed market, where
sellers appear to be asking less than buyers are willing to pay.  Other markets continued trading, usually with a difference
of a few cents between their best bid and lowest offer. Nasdaq’s
quotes were marked as manual and not electronically accessible,
which allowed brokers and other exchanges to ignore the venue’s
prices. Its offer price later dropped to $38.01 and remained at
that level, almost $4 below the highest bid, until 1:49 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Clearly investors would hit the ‘don’t like’ button,”
 Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor
Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.  The IPO price valued the company at 107 times trailing 12-
month earnings, more than all Standard & Poor’s 500 Index stocks
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential. The valuation
also made Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by a then-teenage  Mark
Zuckerberg , the largest company to go public in the U.S.  Customers of London-based Fidessa Group Plc, which helps
asset managers track transactions, weren’t receiving
confirmation of Facebook trades, according to an e-mailed
statement. Michael Cianfrocca, a spokesman for Charles Schwab
Corp. in  San Francisco , wrote in an e-mail: “There are
currently industrywide delays in reporting trade executions.
These issues do not appear to be unique to Schwab.”  TD Ameritrade  Uncertainty about whether orders received executions in the
opening auction affected some clients of online broker TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp., according to Steve Quirk, senior vice
president of the trader group at the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company. Facebook accounted for 22 percent of equities volume at
the firm, he said by e-mail.  Nasdaq shares climbed 3.6 percent to $22.78 today after
losing as much as 4.4 percent, the most since October, to $21.99
on May 18.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  rose 2.6 percent to $25.26 today.  A total of 582.5 million Facebook shares traded on May 18,
or about 6.6 percent of total volume on U.S. exchanges,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think you’ll see a long-term downturn of volume
on Nasdaq,” Karsh said. “Nasdaq will pick up a couple
percentage points because it’s the primary listing venue for
Facebook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  