-- NATO’s Missile Shield to Keep Nations’ Nuclear Weapons
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-20T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/nato-s-missile-shield-to-keep-nations-nuclear-weapons.html
France  and the U.K. will get NATO’s
assurance that the European missile defense shield isn’t
intended to take the place of their nuclear weapons, according
to a European official with knowledge of the discussions.  NATO’s final statement will say the European missile
defense shield, a project pressed by the U.S., will complement
nations’ existing nuclear deterrence capabilities, the official,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the issue while the talks are
under way, said today.  France, the U.K. and the U.S. are the three NATO-member
countries that have nuclear deterrence as a defense strategy.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization statement will include a
sentence that will take note of the compatability of nuclear
deterrence and the missile-shield system, said the official.  New French President  Francois Hollande , who warned in March
that he was “reticent” about the defense shield, put the
protection of the nation’s nuclear deterrence as a condition for
the missile shield program.  Hollande said today he would continue the discussion at the
NATO meeting in  Chicago  to ensure that “all the precautions
will be taken and the conditions respected” in the project. He
was speaking to reporters in Chicago before heading to the NATO
conference.  Laurent Fabius, France’s new foreign minister, said today
four conditions were required for France to sign off on the
project including the protection of French nuclear deterrent,
balanced political conditions on the command of the project, no
budgetary overrun and equal access for French and European
companies to the industrial project along with U.S. companies.  Russian Objections  Fabius said France would “not be an obstacle but these
four conditions are absolutely decisive.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the
Kremlin for a third term this month, opposes the U.S. plans to
house parts of a missile shield in eastern  Europe . He said the
shield would undermine  Russia ’s nuclear deterrent.  Russian threats to counter a proposed missile-defense
system in eastern Europe are “completely pointless,” said NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen. He spoke today as the
28 members of the NATO and partner nations gathered for their
summit in Chicago today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Chicago at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net  