-- On Gay Marriage, Obama and Romney Agree
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-05-20T15:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/obama-romney-both-want-to-play-down-gay-marriage.html
Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama  concur
on how to deal with the politics of gay marriage: Keep it below
the radar.  Both the president and his Republican challenger believe
their focus in the fall campaign has to be on the economy and
jobs. To spend much time on any other issue -- foreign policy,
abortion or gay marriage -- would be a distraction.  This is the message both campaigns told surrogates to
deliver over the past week. Neither side believes many votes
will be changed by the president’s recent support for gay
marriage, a reversal of his previous stances, or by former
Governor Romney’s reassertion of his opposition. Yet the topic
makes both camps nervous, and the Democrats slightly more so.  There are two contextual realities. One is that public
opinion is moving inexorably toward greater tolerance. An NBC
News/ Wall Street  Journal poll is instructive: In the middle of
the 2004 presidential election, the public, by better than a 2-
to-1 margin, opposed same-sex marriages. This year, in the same
poll, on the same question, a plurality favored it.  Younger voters in particular strongly support same-sex
marriage; older voters don’t. That trend line favors proponents.  Ballot Initiatives  It’s equally true that almost every time the issue of
allowing gay marriage is on a ballot, it loses, most recently
this month in  North Carolina . That suggests that opponents are
more fervent in their feelings.  Over the weekend, the Obama campaign website highlighted
his view on same-sex marriage, after playing it down last week
and stressing the economy, instead. On Romney’s site, the issue
was buried under a “values” subheading.  The same dynamic is apparent on the congressional level.
Just look at two incumbents facing tough challenges: the Brown
boys. Massachusetts Republican Senator  Scott Brown , who opposes
same-sex marriage, doesn’t mention it on his website. Neither
does Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat who favors
legalization.  The president’s camp believes the issue is a wash. Already
generous funding from the gay and lesbian community is likely to
only increase; and the hope is that’ll include contributions to
the resource-starved outside groups that back the president.  Gays and lesbians account for about 5 percent of the
electorate; since most already are Democrats, there isn’t likely
to be any added advantage. African-Americans, meanwhile, are
more strongly opposed to same-sex marriage than are whites;
nonetheless, few expect that even a marginal number will stiff
the first black president as a result of his position.  The most important gains from Obama’s announcement,
Democrats believe, may come from shaking young voters out of
their lethargy. The renowned Democratic pollster Peter Hart, in
an election memorandum in which he puts the president’s chances
of re-election at no better than 50-50, says same-sex marriage
“could prove to be exceptionally important in mobilizing
volunteer activity with young people.”  On the other side, Romney’s backers believe their candidate
doesn’t need to emphasize the issue; Obama’s action mobilized
evangelical and cultural conservatives and lessens the
Republican’s need to cater to this constituency over the next
several months.  These energized cultural conservatives now may turn out in
larger numbers this fall. The gay-marriage issue makes less
urgent the need to pacify the base, giving the Republican
nominee more flexibility on agenda priorities and selecting a
vice president.  Biden’s Slip  The negatives, or downside, for both candidates also were
on display. The president and top Democrats sought to portray
his action as motivated by conscience and conviction. But at the
same time, there were anonymous White House and Obama campaign
attacks on Vice President  Joe Biden  for embracing same-sex
marriage a few weeks ago and forcing the president to show his
hand.  No wonder voters, in a  New York  Times poll last week, said
they believe the president’s action was driven more by politics
than principle. This is yet another example of self-inflicted
damage by the clumsy Obama messaging team.  Romney’s hope to stay above the fray was dashed with the
disclosure that he had bullied a gay schoolmate as an
adolescent. It seems petty to hold a candidate’s actions of
almost a half-century ago against him; Romney apologized if he
offended anyone, then insisted he couldn’t remember the
incident. That’s not credible.  The hypocrisy of both candidates surfaces in their
positions on whether same-sex marriage is principally a federal
or a state question.  Obama, while supporting gay marriage as the last moral
civil-right issue, also says it remains up to the states to
decide. Would he have said the same of  voting rights  or equal
accommodations for people of color in the 1960s? That position
is exactly what made the civil-rights movement necessary.  When convenient, Romney invokes states rights on matters
such as health care, mainly to soften the opposition of
conservatives to his signature achievement as governor of
 Massachusetts , a mandate for health insurance. He sings a
different tune on same-sex marriage: He favors the federal
defense of marriage act that would supersede all state laws.  These contortions help explain why Romney and Obama want to
minimize discussion of same-sex marriage and leave it to the
activists to deliver evangelicals and young voters. The model,
conventional wisdom says, is the 2004 presidential race, when 11
states had initiatives to block gay marriage on the ballot. Ohio
was the most prominent and there were 500,000 more Republican
votes than four years earlier, supposedly because the turnout
among cultural conservatives was sparked by their opposition to
same-sex marriage.  Yet  Matthew Dowd , a chief strategist and pollster for
President  George W. Bush  in that campaign, says that’s a myth.
Turnout was up 5 percent in  Ohio ; it was up by about the same
amount in comparable places with no gay-marriage initiative.  “Gay marriage initiatives in 2004 did not affect the
turnout among conservative voters in any way,” he says.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt’s shaky elections 
and  curbing adult obesity ;  Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of
Mormonism ; William D. Cohan on the  dimming luster of Wall
Street ; Catherine Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech” ;  Mark Taylor 
on how  academic specialization harms the economy.   To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 