-- Obama Says NATO Focused on Strategy to Support Afghans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-20T20:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/obama-says-nato-focused-on-strategy-to-support-afghanistan-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  and other NATO
leaders sought to demonstrate that the coalition in Afghanistan
isn’t unraveling following a pledge by newly elected French
President  Francois Hollande  to withdraw from Afghanistan ahead
of the previously set timetable.  “The world is behind this strategy that we’ve laid out,”
Obama said after meeting with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and
before the opening of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
summit in Chicago. “Now it’s our task to implement it
effectively.”  With public support for the war waning after more than a
decade and defense budgets being strained in the U.S. and
 Europe , Obama plans to have the U.S. and its partners switch
from the lead combat force in  Afghanistan  to supporting Afghan
units by next year. Under the president’s strategy, Afghanistan
will take responsibility for the country’s security by 2014.  The president’s emphasis on solidarity reinforced remarks
made earlier today by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen that coalition forces in
Afghanistan wouldn’t leave prematurely.  Strategy Unchanged  “There will be no rush for the exits,” Rasmussen told
reporters today. “Our goal, our strategy, our timetable remain
unchanged.” He said he was “not surprised” Hollande is vowing
to keep a pledge he made while campaigning for office.  “We very firmly support the idea of ’in together, out
together,”’ Merkel said. “We and the United States share that
philosophy,” she said, adding that she expected Hollande will
“make it clear” how  France  will stay engaged in Afghanistan.  Hollande said on May 18 that France would support
Afghanistan in a “different way” and he would abide by his
campaign pledge to withdraw French combat troops from
Afghanistan by the end of this year.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  of the U.K., which has the
second biggest contingent of troops in Afghanistan after the
U.S., said the goal remains preventing the country from becoming
a haven for terrorist training camps.  “I’m very confident that one way or the other our troops
will come home and Afghanistan will be looked after by Afghan
security forces,” Cameron said.  Fight Remains  Even with the withdrawal date set, Obama, who visited
Afghanistan on May 2 to sign an agreement with Karzai on the
transition, warned there are still “hard days ahead.”  General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO commander in
Afghanistan, said the Taliban remain “a resilient and capable
opponent” that will keep fighting Afghan forces after the U.S.
and allied front-line role shrinks.  “We fully expect that combat is going to continue,” he
said at a briefing in  Chicago . Even as Afghan forces take more
of a lead role in counterinsurgency operations next year, he
said any notion that U.S. combat operations will stop in 2013
“is not in fact correct.”  Karzai said that transition to Afghan-led security forces
would mean that his country is “no longer a burden” on the
international community. He said he wanted to express “the
gratitude of the Afghan people for the support that your
taxpayers’ money has provided us over the past decade.”  Financial Support  At the two-day summit, Obama will work to persuade
financially pressed European governments and their war-weary
citizens to back Afghanistan’s security over the next decade.
The U.S. wants allies, many of which are cutting budgets, to
help cover the $4.1 billion a year needed to finance Afghan
security forces after 2014.  Obama said that, for the alliance in Afghanistan, there is
“a vision post-2014 in which we have ended our combat role, the
Afghan war as we understand it is over, but our commitment to
friendship and partnership with Afghanistan continues.”  The U.S. also is trying to smooth friction with
Afghanistan’s neighbor,  Pakistan . Obama probably will leave
Chicago without an agreement to reopen NATO supply lines through
Pakistan.  Pakistan closed Afghan supply routes from its Karachi port
in retaliation for a U.S. airstrike that killed its soldiers
instead of the intended militant targets. The U.S. said it was
an accident. Tensions also were heightened by the U.S. raid on
the compound in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was hiding.  Some 30 percent of NATO supplies went through Pakistan
before the suspension, according to the Pentagon. NATO has
switched to northern routes.  While Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari is at the
summit, there are no plans for Obama to have a separate meeting
with him while the issue is unresolved.  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser, said
the U.S. doesn’t expect to complete negotiations this weekend.
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with Zardari today
and Rhodes said it’s a “positive sign” that talks on the
dispute are continuing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Chicago at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Chicago at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  