-- Monti Returns to Italy to Respond to Earthquake, Bombing
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-05-21T07:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/monti-returns-to-italy-to-respond-to-earthquake-bombing.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  abandoned
a NATO summit and returned to  Italy  yesterday to lead his
government’s response to a fatal earthquake and attend the
funeral of a 16-year-old victim of a terror bombing.  “I want to offer my support and condolences and that of my
government to all the families of the victims and all the people
that have been affected by this quake that is once again testing
the region of Emilia-Romagna,” Monti told journalists in
Chicago.  Monti left the summit of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization following the opening session after being informed
of a 5.9-magnitude earthquake in the northern region of Emilia-
Romagna that killed seven people and forced 3,400 people
to evacuate their homes, according to the country’s civil
protection agency. The quake came a day after a bomb was
detonated outside a school in Brindisi, in the south of the
country.  Monti plans to attend the funeral today of Melissa Bassi,
the high-school student killed in the blast. Investigators said
yesterday they don’t think the bombing was linked to organized
crime. No one has claimed the attack. Newspapers today carried
photos from a surveillance video that allegedly shows the bomber
who was watching the children enter the school when he pushed
the detonator.  Aftershocks  Before leaving  Chicago , Monti said his Cabinet would meet
today to declare a state of emergency in the earthquake zone,
which has been hit by a series of aftershocks since the initial
temblor at 4 a.m. yesterday. The government gave Franco Gabrielli, head of the civil protection agency, the power to
coordinate the rescue operation.  Four of the victims were killed when the factory buildings
they were working in collapsed in the provinces of Ferrara and
Bologna, the civil protection agency said, adding that 50 people
were injured. One worker died at Tecopress, a company that
produces castings and has Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
Volkswagen AG among its clients, while three workers died when
the plant of Ceramice Sant’Agostino collapsed, newspaper
 Corriere della Sera  reported. Three women were also killed by
the quake.  Ferrari SpA, whose headquarters are 60 kilometers (38
miles) away from the epicenter of the quake, didn’t suffer any
damage, a spokesman for the luxury carmaker said.  Historic Buildings  The earthquake struck in Finale Emilia, near Bologna, at a
depth of 6.3 kilometers, the civil protection agency said on its
website. The quake, which was felt from Milan to  Venice , damaged
historic buildings, including the cathedral of  Mirandola , the
roof of which collapsed. The Castello Estense in Ferrara was
also damaged. There have been more than 100 aftershocks,
including a 5.1 magnitude tremor that caused the collapse of the
Torre dei Modenesi, the medieval stone tower that forms part of
the  city hall  in the town of Finale Emilia.  A 6.3-magnitude quake in 2009 killed more than 300 people
and damaged or destroyed thousands of buildings across the
region of Abruzzo in central Italy.  Yesterday’s earthquake caused damage estimated at more than
50 million euros ($64 million) for agricultural companies in the
region, trade association Coldiretti said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Bologna-Verona rail line was temporarily shut while
checks were made, Italy’s state railway company Trenitalia said
on its website. Trains are now running regularly on the Padova-
Bologna line. No damage was reported on highways, Autostrade per
l’Italia said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  