-- Montpellier Secures First French Title; Napoli Wins Italian Cup
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-20T23:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/montpellier-secures-first-french-title-napoli-wins-italian-cup.html
Montpellier claimed its first French
league soccer title after winning 2-1 at Auxerre in a game that
was twice delayed by protests from the home fans. Napoli won the
Coppa Italia to deny Juventus an unbeaten season.  John Utaka got both Montpellier’s goals yesterday in the
final round of matches after Olivier Kapo scored for already-
relegated Auxerre, which will be joined in Ligue 2 next season
by Dijon and Caen.  Montpellier, which returned to  France ’s elite Ligue 1 in
2009 and was 14th last season, finished with 82 points, three
clear of Paris Saint-Germain. The club’s last major trophies
were the French Cup in 1990 and the Coupe d’Ete, a precursor to
the League Cup, two years later.  “It was a huge fight right until the end,” Montpellier
coach Rene Girard said in a televised interview. “Looking at
the number of points, you have to say that the three teams at
the top have had extraordinary seasons.”  Utaka scored the winning goal with 14 minutes remaining
last night after earlier tying Kapo’s 20th-minute opener.
Auxerre fans threw tennis balls onto the pitch in protest in the
second-half, holding up play for about 10 minutes, according to
the Ligue 1 website. Further disturbances meant the final 20
minutes were played after the other games had already finished.  PSG won 2-1 at Lorient. The club, without a French league
title since 1994, was bought a year ago by Qatar Sports
Investments, an investment arm of the Qatari government, which
said it would build PSG into one of  Europe ’s strongest teams.  Hazard’s Hat Trick  Eden Hazard, who was linked with a 30 million-pound ($47.4
million) move to Chelsea in the Sunday Mirror, scored three
goals as last season’s champion Lille beat Nancy 4-1 to finish
another five points back in third spot.  Eight clubs went into the final round of matches with a
chance of dropping out of France’s top league, with only Auxerre
already demoted.  Dijon finished 19th in the 20-team standings after a 5-0
defeat at Rennes, while Caen filled the last relegation spot in
18th following its 3-1 defeat at Valenciennes.  Napoli upset Serie A champion Juventus 2-0 in the Coppa
Italia final at  Rome ’s Stadio Olimpico to win the competition
for a first time since 1987 and fourth time overall. Juventus,
which hadn’t lost any of its 38 league games or four previous
cup matches this season, remains tied with Roma on a record nine
Italian Cup wins.  Edinson Cavani opened the scoring from the penalty spot in
the 62nd minute and Marek Hamsik sealed the victory with seven
minutes remaining on a counterattack.  “Winning the Coppa Italia by defeating a team like Juve
makes it even more special,” said Napoli coach Walter Mazzarri.
“They have been unbeatable for the whole season but we came
here and defeated them 2-0. It’s a great achievement.”  In  Scotland , Hearts routed Hibernian 5-1 two days ago in
the first all-Edinburgh Scottish Cup final since 1896.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 