-- Osborne’s Scope to Reshape Bank of England Widens on Posen Exit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/osborne-s-scope-to-reshape-bank-of-england-widens-on-posen-exit.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s scope to reshape the  Bank of England  just got wider as
the departure of policy maker  Adam Posen  lengthens the list of
key staff to appoint as he also redesigns the institution.  Posen, 45, will leave the central bank at the end of August
before becoming president of the Washington-based Peterson
Institute, according to a statement released May 18 in London.
That will further pile up Osborne’s Bank of England inbox as he
drives through legislation to revamp its role and considers how
to fill multiple vacancies in its leadership.  Posen’s exit will remove one of the most vocal policy
makers at the Bank of England, whose pronouncements often
presaged shifts in officials’ stance. With decisions also due on
the successor to Governor  Mervyn King  and Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean , Osborne’s personnel choices may have as important
a legacy on the central bank as his plans to return financial
regulation to the institution.  “He’s got to be careful,” said  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. The Monetary Policy
Committee “has got to be seen to be independent and if there
was a perception that Osborne was really shaping it to fit his
desires, there would be a threat to the bank’s credibility.”  The government has been counting on the central bank to
adopt loose monetary policy as it pursues the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said on
Feb. 9 that “it’s the right stance to have that, as we have a
tight and robust fiscal policy of getting our deficit down.” He
said last week that the central bank “is able to do more to
support the economy if necessary.”  Stimulus Program  The central bank held its  bond-purchase program  at 325
billion pounds ($514 billion) this month, and left the key
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Posen will leave on Aug. 31 at the end of his current
three-year term, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement
last week. He will replace Peterson Institute founder Fred Bergsten on Jan. 1, 2013, the research institution said.  The terms of King and Bean, the deputy governor for
monetary policy, finish on June 30, 2013. Hector Sants, chief
executive officer of Britain’s Financial Services Authority,
will step down at the end of June this year.  As a so-called external member of the Bank of England’s
nine-person MPC, Posen is one of four part-time appointees who
vote on the quantitative easing plan and set  interest rates .
King and Bean are among the five full-time bank staff setting
policy.  Someone to Trust  “For the governor, the chancellor will want someone he
feels he can work with and trust,” said Grant Lewis, head of
research at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  and a former Treasury
official. “For external members they’re not necessarily looking
for someone who thinks in a particular way.”  The governor is appointed by the queen following a
recommendation by the government. Osborne has said he’ll start
the formal search for King’s replacement in the fall. The
Treasury said last week it will advertise for a replacement for
Posen “as soon as possible.”  Paul Tucker , deputy governor for financial stability at the
central bank, is the favorite to replace King as governor. While
his term doesn’t finish until the end of February 2014, a
decision by Osborne to award the top post to someone else may
spur Tucker to leave the bank, leaving the chancellor with
another position to fill, said Richard Barwell, an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and a former Bank of  England 
official.  If Tucker were to be appointed governor, Osborne would then
have to find a replacement deputy.  Stimulus Calls  Posen led calls to expand stimulus from September 2010 and
spent the next year pushing alone to increase the size of the
central bank’s bond-buying plan. His colleagues joined him in
voting unanimously to restart asset purchases in October 2011 as
the economy headed into two consecutive quarters of contraction
that marked Britain’s first  double-dip recession  since 1975.  In September, Posen proposed the creation of a new public
institution that would increase credit to small- and medium-
sized companies as banks continued to curtail lending after the
financial crisis.  “It’s a real headache because most people would say that
Posen has done a phenomenal job,” Barwell said. “He called the
economy right and he stood his ground. You need to have brains
and you need to be courageous. He’s going to be difficult to
replace.”  Financial Regulation  The Bank of England vacancies come as it prepares to absorb
new powers to regulate financial institutions to prevent another
financial crisis.  Ed Balls , the opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker
who speaks on Treasury affairs, said last month that the
arrangements, outlined in a banking bill being considered in
Parliament, give the governor so many responsibilities that
King’s replacement “will face a near-impossible task.”  The Treasury Select Committee, whose role is to scrutinize
the central bank, has also conducted an inquiry into its
accountability. In a report published in November, the panel
said that “the independence of the governor from political
control must be upheld.”  “You don’t want to be seen as putting in your own man,”
Daiwa’s Lewis said. “It’s such a sensitive job. It’s very
difficult to put a ‘yes man’ in because it would damage the
bank’s credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  