-- Pernod Remixes Ricard to Reverse Drop at Flagship Brand: Retail
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-05-20T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/pernod-remixes-ricard-to-reverse-drop-at-flagship-brand-retail.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ’s 80-year-old pastis
brand is feeling its age.  Ricard, the French aniseed liquor created in Marseille in
1932, is falling out of favor with younger drinkers who prefer
beer or cocktails. The serving style hasn’t changed: mix one
part Ricard with five of water to create a pale yellow, opaque
concoction traditionally drunk as an aperitif.  “It’s an iconic brand, like Coke,” Philippe Savinel, head
of the company’s Ricard unit, said just after visiting an
exhibition of Ricard advertising and design at the Musée des
Beaux Arts in Paris. “But we have to consider some new way of
drinking it.” That may include cocktails, mixes and even
flavored Ricard, he said.  Updating the brand risks upsetting loyal, though aging,
customers. The Ricard name is well-known in  France , adorning
ashtrays, mirrors and water jugs in thousands of bars, and the
brand has been instrumental in helping the company  reach  a
market value of 20 billion euros ($26 billion). As sales of
anise drinks slide, though, particularly in its home market, the
company says it needs to reinvent Ricard.  The anise category has fallen 1.1 percent over the last
five years in France, compared with a 1.6 percent gain in
spirits, and is set to decline further, according to Euromonitor
International. Pernod says Ricard sales have dropped 8 percent
this  year  after a French tax increase on spirits that hit drinks
over 40 percent alcohol by volume, like Ricard, more than lower-
alcohol beverages. Overall, the French spirits market fell 4
percent, the company said when releasing its first-quarter
results in April.  Generation Gap  “It’s a declining category,” said  Trevor Stirling , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London. “It’s a generational
thing -- older people drink a lot more pastis.”  While Savinel says 66 percent of Ricard customers regularly
choose it over alternatives, younger people often find it old-
fashioned.  “When I go out with my friends I drink beer or whiskey and
coke,” said Mathieu Camilleri, 27, who works in a high school
in Sollies-Pont, France. “I remember my granddad drinking
Ricard when I was a kid. I associate Ricard with the south of
France and the traditions of the region.”  Paul Ricard created the Marseille pastis, made from star
anise and licorice extracts, in his kitchen. The company, which
ranks behind  Diageo Plc (DGE)  as the biggest distiller by market
value, made 7.6 billion euros ($9.7 billion) of  revenue  last
year from global brands such as Absolut vodka, Chivas Regal
whisky and Martell cognac. It competes with Beam Inc., Brown-
Forman Corp. and  India ’s United Spirits Ltd.  Tomato and Mint  “Some years ago, we said ‘Ricard -- only Ricard,”’
Savinel said, referring to the classic serving recommendation.
Some French drinkers already blend the spirit with tomato juice
or mint syrup, and Canadians occasionally pep up their Ricard
with cranberry juice. Still, Ricard’s strong aniseed taste could
dominate a cocktail more than neutral spirits.  Competitors have benefited from suggesting new ways to
consume their drinks.  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) , for instance,
has rejuvenated the Aperol brand by promoting cocktails such as
the “Aperol Spritz,” a mélange of the bitter liquor, prosecco,
orange juice, and soda water. That has helped boost the brand’s
revenue to about 152 million euros from 23 million euros since
Campari bought it in 2003,  analysts  at Nomura estimate. Aperol
is a “more accessible, lighter alternative to the stronger and
more bitter Campari brand,” they said in a note to investors.  Medicinal Taste  Countries with a taste for anise drinks already produce
their own varieties, such as raki in Turkey and ouzo in  Greece ,
and taxes make importing Ricard to those countries costly,
Savinel said. Those drinks are also mostly seen as “old-
fashioned,” according to Stirling.  Consumers in fast-growing  emerging markets  such as China
and India find the taste of aniseed medicinal, ruling out the
prospect of piggybacking on the demand for other Western-style
spirits. International expansion could also dilute Ricard’s
 profitability ; the brand has extremely high margins, according
to Stirling. Pernod doesn’t disclose the details.  Pernod  shares  have risen 6.3 percent this year on strong
sales of its cognac and whisky. Campari is up by 2.7 percent and
the Bloomberg World Beverages Index has jumped by 6.6 percent.  Ricard has outperformed competitors in France, its biggest
market by far, where it’s the bestselling anise brand, according
to Stirling. A strategy of raising prices to offset volume
declines has worked for the distiller, which also produces the
smaller Pernod pastis brand in France.  Bottle Design  Pernod Ricard also claims success from the changing the
brand’s bottle last year, squaring the bottom and embossing the
Ricard name on the sides. This sets it apart from supermarket-
brand competitors, the company says.  Though Ricard has retained the yellow and blue primary
colors it has always used, it has brought in new versions of its
iconic water glasses and jugs, historically used as marketing
materials since a ban on direct print promotion in the brand’s
early days.  The imagery and packaging are key to marketing the drink,
according to Chairman Patrick Ricard. “You’re more able to
communicate the spirit of the brand if you refer to the roots,”
he said at the Paris exhibition marking the 80th anniversary of
the brand his father created.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  