-- Premier Wen Says China Will Focus on Growth, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-20T13:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/premier-wen-says-china-to-focus-more-on-growth-xinhua-reports.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
government will focus more on bolstering economic growth,
indicating policies may be loosened further as inflation
moderates.  “The country should properly handle the relationship
between maintaining growth, adjusting economic structures and
managing inflationary expectations,” Wen said during a tour of
Wuhan, the capital of  China ’s Hubei province, from Friday to
Sunday.  “We should continue to implement a proactive fiscal policy
and a prudent monetary policy, while giving more priority to
maintaining growth,” Wen said.  Wen’s remarks cited in the report, which didn’t mention
concern about inflation, indicate the government might take more
aggressive steps to support the economy after April data showed
the slowdown may be sharper than expected. The central bank this
month cut banks’ reserve requirement  ratio  for the third time
since November to boost liquidity.  “Going forward, we expect a clearer easing in macro policy
and a pickup in sequential growth,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists said in a research note on May 18, adding liquidity
conditions will probably be loosened while approvals on new
infrastructure projects could be accelerated.  Forecast Lowered  Goldman Sachs lowered its forecast for China’s 2012
economic growth to 8.1 percent from a previously estimated 8.6
percent, joining similar moves by banks including Citigroup Inc.
and UBS AG after April’s data trailed expectations.  China’s exports and imports in April expanded the least
since the global financial crisis.  Industrial output  rose at the
slowest pace since 2009, after the government tightened credit
since last year to cool the property market and inflation.  Wen said the central government will continue to strengthen
and improve macro control efforts, boost domestic consumption
and stabilize external demand to promote steady and relatively
fast economic growth, according to Xinhua.  More signs of weakening demand have emerged as  home prices 
fell in a record number of Chinese cities last month and car
dealers posted inventories that foreshadowed deeper price cuts.  The country may expand at the slowest pace in 13 years in
2012, a Bloomberg News survey showed, with analysts forecasting
a further 100 basis-point reduction in the reserves ratio by
year-end.  At the same time, the government’s concern about inflation
may be eased as  consumer prices  climbed 3.4 percent from a year
earlier in April, after surging to three-year high of 6.5
percent in July.  The government will continue to implement structural tax
reductions to ease companies’ financial burdens, Wen said. Wen
also asked local authorities to carry out property tightening
measures and increase affordable housing for low-income earners
to ensure a healthy  property market , according to the Xinhua
report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  