-- Rajapaksa Approves Release of Former Sri Lankan Army Chief
-- B y   M a r k   W i l l i a m s   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2012-05-20T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/rajapaska-approves-release-of-jailed-former-sri-lanka-army-chief.html
Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa approved the early release from a three-year jail
sentence of Sarath Fonseka, the former army chief who became a
leading political opponent.  The authorization will be sent to the Ministry of Justice
today, Bandula Jayasekara, a presidential spokesman, said in a
phone text message yesterday.  Fonseka, 61, led the island nation’s military as it ended a
26-year war with Tamil guerrillas in May 2009. The order to free
the man the U.S.  named in 2010  as a political prisoner came as
Sri Lanka’s foreign minister met with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in  Washington  on May 18.  Fonseka’s release “will be viewed very positively as a
correction of an injustice,” said Jehan Perera, executive
director of the National Peace Council in  Colombo . “It will
also be seen as determined by external pressure, and if Fonseka
is free to do politics, it may bring about a reinvigoration of
the opposition.”  Fonseka challenged Rajapaksa in elections in January 2010
after the president moved him to a ceremonial post and said he
was plotting a coup. Troops ringed Fonseka’s poll headquarters
in a Colombo hotel as votes were counted in a ballot that re-
elected Rajapaksa with the strongest mandate in 16 years.  The former army chief was arrested a month later, a move
that prompted opposition protests and accusations the government
intended to prevent Fonseka from participating in parliamentary
elections scheduled for April that year. Fonseka’s arrest
followed reports he was prepared to testify in an international
court on  war crimes  charges against the Sri Lankan government,
 Amnesty International  said after his detention.  ‘Dabbling in Politics’  The government denied Fonseka’s confinement was an act of
political vengeance. In August and September 2010, he was
convicted separately by courts martial for “dabbling in
politics” and taking part in “corrupt deals.”  The ex-military leader was recently transferred to a
private hospital in Colombo “for treatment for bronchial
complications,” according to the Daily Mirror newspaper.
Fonseka suffered injuries in an April 2006 attack in the capital
by a female suicide bomber.  The United Nations Human Rights Council in March voted in
favor of a U.S.-sponsored resolution calling on Sri Lanka to
again investigate alleged abuses during the war, stepping up
pressure on the government in Colombo. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 2010 called on Rajapaksa to ensure the due process of
law in Fonseka’s case.  ‘No Healing’  The resolution passed in Geneva urged  Sri Lanka  to begin
another probe into claims its army and the  Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam  committed war crimes during the conflict. Both sides
were probably responsible for violations of international law in
the final stages of fighting that killed as many as 40,000
civilians, a UN report released in April 2011 said.  “Although lives have improved for all people in terms of
security and development, there is no sense of healing of the
wounds of war,” the Peace Council’s Perera said. “There is no
clarity on what happened to missing people and there’s been no
compensation for the massive loss of personal property.”  The war finished with a bloody offensive by the Sri Lankan
army that ended the rebels’ fight for a separate Tamil homeland
in the north and east of the island.  The government’s efforts at bringing accountability for
alleged crimes were “deeply flawed” and “not in accordance
with international standards,” according to the UN report.  Tourism, Investment  Peace in Sri Lanka has spurred a pickup in tourism and
investment and prompted record  government spending  on roads,
ports and  power plants .  The military on May 19 commemorated the third anniversary
of the defeat of the LTTE with a victory parade in Colombo.  Rajapaksa, in an address to the nation two days ago, said
the government won’t abandon its responsibilities toward
reconciliation in the country. The report of the country’s
commission on reconciliation mustn’t be used to create divisions
among people, he said.  “We have not forgotten the help and assistance given to us
by our neighbors and other countries of the international
community to defeat terrorism,” the president said, according
to a transcript on the Sri Lankan government’s website.
“Similarly, what we expect from them today is cooperation in
our moves for rapid development of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Williams  in  New Delhi  at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  