-- Reit 1 Says Slower Israel Growth Offers Chance to Buy Assets
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-20T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/reit-1-says-slower-israel-growth-offers-chance-to-buy-properties.html
Reit 1 Ltd. (RIT1)  said a slowdown in
Israeli economic growth would give the country’s first real-
estate investment trust a chance to invest in more properties at
better prices.  The Tel Aviv-based company, which has increased investments
11-fold since 2006 to 1.84 billion shekels ($481 million) at the
end of the first quarter, owns 20 office, retail and industrial
properties as well as parking lots, Shmuel Sayad, its chief
executive officer, said in an interview on May 17.  Reit benefited as  Israel’s economy  grew more than 4 percent
in all but one of the last eight years, achieving occupancy of
about 98 percent, according to company data.  Israel ’s economic
growth will slow to 3.1 percent this year from 4.8 percent in
2011, central bank forecasts show.  “At the current growth levels in the country, we don’t
foresee a deterioration in our business,” Sayad said from
Reit’s headquarters in  Tel Aviv . “A slowdown should offer us an
opportunity to invest in quality buildings at more attractive
prices. We plan to grow in Israel.”  Israeli REITs, which are exempt from corporate tax, are
required by law invest at least 95 percent of capital in income-
producing properties, as well as distribute at least 90 percent
of taxable income as dividends to shareholders. A minimum of 75
percent of assets held by the trust must be located in the
country, and the REIT can’t leverage more than 60 percent of the
value of its assets.  Shares Outperform  Reit 1 has spent about 400 million shekels a year investing
in new assets, according to its chairman, Dror Gad, who declined
to say how much the company planned to spend this year.  Shares of Reit 1 have risen 6.5 percent this year, compared
with a 1.2 percent decline in the benchmark  TA-25 Index. (TA-25)  The
company’s shares gained 1.7 percent in Tel Aviv today.  “Because the leveraging of a real-estate investment trust
is limited by regulators, in times of uncertainty, when
investors want a safe haven, they turn to these kind of
companies,” Shay Lipman, an analyst at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage
& Investments Ltd. said by phone on May 16.  Reit 1 would be able to raise money on  capital markets  even
during periods of uncertainty, he said. “We expect the company
to grow and buy additional assets in the coming months,” Lipman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  