-- Saudi Arabia Edges Russia as Biggest Oil Producer, JODI Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-05-20T09:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/saudis-pass-russia-as-largest-oil-producer-in-march-jodi-says.html
Saudi Arabia boosted crude production
close to a 31-year high in March, overtaking  Russia  as the
world’s largest oil producer for the first time in six years,
according to the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  Saudi crude exports rose 3 percent in March, reaching the
highest level in five years as Iran cut shipments, according to
government statistics posted today on the initiative’s website.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, increased daily
output to 9.923 million barrels in March, up 0.7 percent to the
second-highest level since at least 1980, according to the
initiative. That topped output from Russia, which pumped 9.920
million barrels a day, for the first time since February 2006,
according to the data.  The initiative, known as JODI, is supervised by the Riyadh-
based  International Energy Forum  and compiles data provided by
member governments. The IEF is a group of nations accounting for
more than 90 percent of global oil and natural-gas supply and
demand, established as a forum for producing and consuming
countries to discuss  energy security .  Russia’s energy ministry estimated the country’s output at
10.36 million barrels a day in March. JODI calculated a
different barrel-per-day figure for Russia using data in metric
tons that the country submitted to the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum, and comparing that with information from four
other sources. The figures for Russia include crude and
condensate, JODI said.  Putin’s Goal  Vladimir Putin, who was this year elected to a third term
as Russia’s president, called in October 2008 for the country to
pump more than 10 million barrels a day for at least the next
decade.  Saudi production numbers compiled by JODI are based on data
the Saudi government submitted to the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, boosted
shipments to 7.704 million barrels a day in March from 7.485
million barrels a day in February, JODI data showed. Exports
from Iran, the second-largest producer in OPEC, fell by 4
percent to 2.242 million barrels a day from 2.338 million
barrels a day in February, according to the data.  Importers in Europe,  Japan , and  India  are seeking new
suppliers as a European ban on purchases of Iranian crude takes
effect on July 1. Saudi Arabia currently produces at elevated
levels in a bid to curb prices.  The Saudi oil minister,  Ali al-Naimi , said on March 13 in
Adelaide,  Australia , that he wants to see the price for  Brent
crude  at around $100 a barrel. Brent oil for July settlement
declined 35 cents on May 18 to $107.14 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European benchmark closed
at the lowest level since Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  