-- Serbs Pick Nikolic in Protest Over EU-Inspired Austerity
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-21T16:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/serbians-head-to-ballot-boxes-with-choice-between-east-and-west.html
Serbs joined voters across Europe in
rejecting the European Union’s austerity push, ousting  Boris Tadic  after eight years in power in favor of  Tomislav Nikolic ,
who advocated closer economic ties with Russia.  Nikolic, 60, won 49.5 percent in yesterday’s presidential
runoff, the Electoral Committee said with 99.1 percent of votes
counted. Tadic, who secured the Balkan nation’s candidacy to
join the EU, had 47.4 percent. The dinar fell to a record
against the euro on concern Nikolic’s win may delay the forming
of a Cabinet led by Tadic’s party after May 6 elections.  “Nikolic’s victory could well un-nerve some investors who
may fear that this will mark a new, more-nationalist tone in
policy over Kosovo, for example, and perhaps more divisive or
strained relations between the presidency and the government,”
Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  in  London , said in a note to clients.  Political leaders are falling in a wave of anger over
austerity prompted by Europe’s debt crisis. Two weeks ago,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was ousted and a parliamentary
vote in  Greece  ended in a gridlock. The president “will require
a high sense of statesmanship to overcome the more difficult
challenges,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in a joint statement in
Brussels today.  Weakening Dinar  The dinar had its biggest drop in almost three months,
touching a record-low 114.4861 per euro in reaction to the vote
outcome, said Ratko Guduric, deputy head of treasury at
Vojvodjanska Banka, the Serbian unit of the  National Bank of
Greece SA . It ended the session at 114.2308 at 4 p.m. in
Belgrade, down 0.89 percent.  The Belex15 main share index shed 1.3 percent to close at
469.30 points because of the “nervousness of investors arising
from the vote,” said Ivan Dzakovic, an analyst at Sinteza
Invest in Belgrade.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije sold 40 million
euros ($51.1 million) to “ensure the smooth functioning” of
the market, it said in a statement on its website, bringing the
total spent to prop up the dinar to 878.5 million euros in 2012.  “There’s too much uncertainty, the macroeconomic situation
is bad and it’s going to be even worse if the government is not
formed any time soon, within 15 days, so someone assumes
responsibility,” Guduric said.  ‘Increased Uncertainty’  Tadic stepped down in April, eight months before his term
was to end, to hold the election on May 6, the same day as a
parliamentary vote where his Democrats finished second. The
party has agreed with the third-place Socialists, once led by
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , to freeze out Nikolic’s party,
which won the vote, to form a new government with other
coalition partners.  This month’s presidential and parliamentary elections in
Serbia “have increased uncertainty about the direction of
economic policy and relations with the IMF,”  Fitch Ratings  said
today, adding that the “developments are within the tolerance
levels of our ’BB-’ rating with a Stable Outlook.”  Nikolic’s campaign was marked with nationalist rhetoric
about the nation’s claim on  Kosovo  two decades after  Yugoslavia 
broke up and his rejection of cuts needed to keep fiscal
policies in line with EU demands.  EU Candidacy  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership on March 1
after Tadic, 54, pushed the country to fulfill a series of
conditions, including the capture and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic , the three most-wanted
war-crimes suspects from the civil wars that accompanied the
breakup of the former Yugoslavia, to the Hague-based
International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.  The bloc called on Nikolic, a former cemetery manager, to
undertake a “visible and sustainable improvement” in ties with
Kosovo in order to advance its membership bid.  “ Serbia  won’t give up its EU path, but it won’t give up on
its people in Kosovo either,” Nikolic said, referring to his
campaign promise of a “two-door” policy that would improve
ties with the 27-nation bloc as well as with Russia.  Kosovo wants to “build correct neighborly relations” with
Serbia, President Atifete Jahjaga said in a statement. She
called on Nikolic “to do what his predecessors have not done,
to find the courage to take steps to establish good and peaceful
relations with Kosovo,” allowing both countries to continue to
“walk the path of European integration.”  Deficit, Unemployment  Gains on the political front haven’t been matched by
economic  success  in the past four years as the effects of the
global slump and  Europe ’s debt crises swept across the Balkan
nation. A widening budget deficit prompted the  International
Monetary Fund  to suspend talks on renewing a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan in February.  Amid a flagging economy and job prospects, higher wages and
the fight against corruption were hot topics during the
campaign. Unemployment rose 10 percentage points to 24.4 percent
at the end of 2011, public debt increased 16 percentage points
to 14.4 billion euros ($18.4 billion) and the average take-home
wage is now 360 euros per month.  “This is the result of a protest vote and attests to the
deep-seated dissatisfaction of the population with Serbia’s
difficult economic and social situation, made worse by Serbia’s
vulnerability to the worsening euro zone crisis,” said Laza Kekic, country-forecast director for the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit.  Tax Plan  Nikolic’s party has said it wants to introduce a tax on
banks to “relax pressure on the manufacturing” to spur as much
as 100 billion euros in new investment from  Russia  and  China 
over ten years. Nikolic will travel to Moscow on his first
foreign visit, though he said yesterday the trip is to attend
the United Russia party congress and was planned before the
vote.  The accord between Tadic’s Democrats and the Socialists
give the parties 111 seats in the 250-member legislature while a
coalition of Nikolic’s party and the anti-EU party of former
Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, controls 94 seats.  A win by Tadic “wasn’t a condition for our coalition in
parliament,” Socialist leader Ivica Dacic said yesterday after
the presidential vote. Tadic ruled out becoming prime minister
in a new Cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  