-- Suzuki Seen Better Fit for Fiat as Ties With Tata Founder
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-05-20T23:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/suzuki-seen-better-fit-for-fiat-as-ties-with-tata-founder.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  may be
headed for divorce.  The pair this month ended a deal that had let the Italian
company sell cars via Tata’s Indian dealerships for the past six
years. The move could pave the way for Fiat to strengthen its
ties to  Japan ’s  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  in  Asia ’s third-largest auto
market, analysts at IHS Automotive and Cyrrus AS said.  Fiat and the Japanese carmaker have worked together for
almost a decade, and expanding those ties could help Fiat boost
its presence in the country. Suzuki, which accounts for 42
percent of auto sales in India, may benefit from Fiat’s  diesel
engines  and network of dealers in markets such as  Brazil ,  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  “A marriage with Suzuki would be win-win for both Fiat and
Suzuki,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based managing
director of IHS Automotive in India. “The possibilities are
endless.”  While the acquisition of Chrysler Group LLC strengthened
Fiat’s foothold in the U.S., the company is still missing out on
Asia, which accounted for about 3 percent of its 2011 sales.  Neither Suzuki, which is seeking to end its own partnership
with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , nor Fiat would comment on the potential for
an alliance, though Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has acknowledged that a partnership in Asia would be
beneficial.  “I don’t have discussions going on with anybody in
particular other than general discussions about
collaborations,” Marchionne said in an April 26 call with
analysts. “But we continue to work at this issue.”  Asia Opportunity  The Asia Pacific region, excluding Japan, accounted for
about 60 percent of the 2.56 million vehicles Suzuki sold in the
year ended March 31, company data show. It has dealers across
Asia and nine factories in eight countries in the region.  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the Suzuki-controlled venture that’s India’s
biggest carmaker, sold 855,730 cars in the country in the year
ended March 31.  In 2006, Fiat and Suzuki began selling a sport-utility
vehicle that they jointly developed, branded the Sedici by Fiat
and as SX4 by Suzuki. In 2004, a Fiat venture with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  licensed Suzuki to make diesel engines for cars sold
in India and Hungary. In 2009, Suzuki started buying 2-liter
diesel engines from Fiat for the SX4. In January, Fiat began
supplying Maruti 100,000 1.3-liter diesel engines a year.  Struggling Venture  Fiat’s venture with Tata Motors, meanwhile, has struggled.
The two companies in 2007 began production in a joint venture
with a capacity of 200,000 cars and 350,000 engines annually
from a  factory  near Pune, western India.  The venture makes 1.3-liter diesel engines that Fiat, Tata
and Maruti all use in various models, as well as 1.2- and 1.4-
liter gasoline engines for Fiat and Tata cars. In the year ended
March 31, the venture sold 16,073 vehicles in India, a 24
percent decline, compared with the 2.2 percent increase in
passenger-car sales across the industry.  Tata Motors, India’s biggest truckmaker, started making
passenger cars in 1998, when it introduced the locally developed
Indica hatchback. It acquired Jaguar and Land Rover from  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  in June 2008.  Those luxury brands have since been the focus of Tata
Motors’ growth. Revenue at Jaguar Land Rover rose 41 percent in
the quarter ended in December, and the business contributed
about 70 percent of Tata’s net sales. Tata Motors Chairman  Ratan Tata  served on Fiat’s board for six years, though his term ended
last month. Fiat this month decided to set up its own dealer
network in India.  Jaguar Preoccupation  “Clearly, the Tata venture has not really worked out,”
said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director at industry researcher
Intelligence Automotive Asia. “Tata has too many things in its
own ventures to worry about, especially after Jaguar Land
Rover.”  Tata spokesman Debasis Ray said the venture with Fiat
doesn’t limit what the partners can do with other companies.
“The Fiat-Tata alliance is not cast in stone,” Ray said.  Suzuki would present Fiat with its own challenges. In
November, the Japanese company began arbitration procedures to
end a partnership with Volkswagen. Each side has accused the
other of breaching their cooperation agreement, meant to supply
Suzuki with technology and provide VW with access to the Indian
market.  Risks  “Marchionne is also risking a lot by trying to partner
with Suzuki,” said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen.  For its part, Suzuki may be reluctant to work with Fiat as
it may not have as much to gain, said Pradeep Saxena,  executive
director  at consultant TNS Automotive in  India .  “There is very little help that Fiat can provide Suzuki
except a timely supply of engines,” said Saxena. “I am not
sure whether Suzuki would like to lend Fiat the support of its
distribution channel, because it can lead to confusion in the
minds of Suzuki’s customers.”  Suzuki’s market share in India, though, has been sliding as
it faces growing competition. An alliance could benefit both
sides, said Jiri Simara, an auto analyst at Cyrrus in Prague.  “Suzuki can do the same for Fiat as Chrysler did --a
smooth approach to rich markets,” Simara said. “Fiat has some
things to offer as well --it’s still a sound name with many
technologies Suzuki is interested in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  