-- London Home Prices May Reach New Record on Haven Status: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-21T10:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/u-k-home-sellers-hold-asking-prices-amid-crisis-rightmove-says.html
London house values rose to a record
this month and the city’s property market may be further boosted
as investors seek a haven from the euro-area debt crisis,
according to  Rightmove Plc. (RMV)   The average asking price in the U.K. capital rose 0.9
percent from April to 469,314 pounds ($742,500), the most since
the operator of Britain’s biggest property website started
keeping the data in 2002, it said today. Nationally, values were
unchanged in May from the previous month.  “The Greek situation means that other countries may well
be undermined and you might get a domino effect of people
looking to actually put their cash into a safe haven,”
Rightmove commercial director  Miles Shipside  said on Bloomberg
Television. “Obviously, as the euro depreciates, the U.K. gets
slightly more expensive, but perhaps it’s a better option than
what’s facing them in their own countries.”  The pound and U.K. government bonds are already benefiting
from haven status as turmoil in  Europe  threatens to force Greece
out of the euro area and engulf  Spain . The pound has gained 3.2
percent this year, the most among 10 developed-market peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, while the yield on the 10-year
gilt is close to a record low.  Nationally, Britain’s property market may remain under
pressure as the economy struggles to shake off its first double-
dip recession in almost four decades, banks curtail lending and
 consumer confidence  remains weak.  Tax Exemption  The average  asking price  in  England  and Wales was little
changed at 243,759 pounds this month, Rightmove said. Normally,
sellers usually try to take advantage of a spring pickup in
house hunting and values have risen on average 1.5 percent in
May in the past 11 years, Shipside said. The end of a tax
exemption in March for first-time buyers of homes costing less
than 250,000 pounds has damped demand nationally, he said.  In  London , the increase was led by a 2.5 percent increase
in Sutton and a 2.4 percent gain in Greenwich. The end of the
stamp-duty holiday was “less of an issue” in London since just
three boroughs had an average asking price below the exemption
threshold, Rightmove said.  The number of British properties coming to market dropped
10 percent in May from April, today’s Rightmove report showed.
Five of 10 regions tracked by Rightmove showed declines in
asking prices from the previous month, led by a 2 percent drop
in southwest England. London led the increase among the regions
that showed gains.  ‘Uncertain’ Outlook  In a separate report today, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders 
said U.K. gross mortgage lending dropped 19 percent to 10.2
billion pounds in April. Rightmove said it’s a “cause for
concern” that the market has lost its momentum as there is
likely to be a longer-than-usual slowdown in the summer due to
an extra bank holiday in June to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s
Diamond Jubilee and the London  Olympic Games  in August.  “Euro zone developments are highly uncertain and have the
potential to undermine U.K. economic prospects and conditions in
our housing and mortgage markets,” CML chief economist Bob Pannell said. “The underlying picture is likely to be one of
easing momentum in the housing market, but with potential for a
sharper downwards correction on bad euro-zone news.”  Group of Eight leaders on May 19 urged  Greece  to stay in
the euro area as polls in the country showed a close race
between parties supporting and opposing its bailout deal. With
the country preparing for a second ballot on June 17, renewed
concerns about the currency area were fanned last week as Spain
revised its 2011 deficit upward -- even as borrowing costs
approached levels that prompted bailouts in Greece, Ireland and
Portugal.  European Summit  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble will, for the
first time, discuss the euro at a meeting with his newly
installed French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today
as European Union leaders prepare to meet in Brussels on May 23.  In the U.K., the  British Retail Consortium  said today that
visits to U.K. stores fell 2 percent in the three months through
April compared with a year earlier. With inflation continuing to
outpace wage increases, consumers’ real spending power for non-
essential items fell 0.9 percent in April from a year earlier,
the equivalent of 100 pounds, Lloyds TSB said. Income growth was
its weakest since February last year.  Fed Options  Separately, euro-area  construction output  rebounded in
March, rising 12.4 percent after a 10.4 percent drop in
February.  In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago will
publish its national economic activity index for April. Atlanta
Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in  Tokyo  today that policy
makers need to retain the option of starting a new round of bond
buying to spur the  U.S. economy .  “As popular as it might be in some quarters to rule out”
a third round of so-called quantitative easing, “I do not think
this option can be taken off the table,” Lockhart said. “QE3
will work under the right circumstances. But I don’t believe
such circumstances prevail at this time.”  China  should adopt a “proactive fiscal policy and a
prudent monetary policy” to bolster the world’s second-largest
economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to remarks published
yesterday by the official Xinhua News Agency. China may announce
stimulus actions in the near term, according to a front-page
commentary today in the China Securities Journal, which is
published by Xinhua.  Elsewhere in  Asia , Thailand’s gross domestic product
unexpectedly expanded 0.3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, compared with the median forecast for a 0.5 percent
decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  