-- Getting America on a Diet That Works
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-20T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/u-s-obesity-plateau-shows-what-works-in-weight-battle.html
Obesity has become a danger far
greater than hunger. Yet amid the alarming stories about its
harm to America’s health and economy, one bit of information has
been drowned out: The percentage of U.S. adults who are obese
appears to have plateaued.  According to data from the National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey, which measures the heights and weights of a
representative sample of almost 6,000 Americans, the prevalence
of obesity in 2009-2010 was  essentially the same  as in 2003-
2008. Given that the rate had doubled from 1980 to 2000, this is
positive news.  It should not, however, be reason to give up the fight.
Rather, the findings lead us to twin conclusions: We can make
gains against obesity, and we should find ways to accelerate
that progress.  The U.S. prevalence remains disastrously high:  Thirty-six
percent of adults  (78 million) and almost  17 percent of children 
(12.5 million) weigh enough in relation to their height to be
considered obese. For Hispanic and Mexican-American women, the
prevalence is more than 40 percent, and for black women, it’s
over 58 percent.  The health  risks  are unambiguous: diabetes,  heart disease ,
stroke, breast and  colon cancer , liver and gallbladder disease,
sleep apnea, osteoarthritis and infertility. Treating these and
other problems costs  $190 billion a year , more than a fifth of
the nation’s medical bill.  Why We’re Heavy  Many causes have been clearly identified: Our plates bulge
with dense, starchy, high-calorie foods, but hold fewer fruits
and vegetables than nutrition guidelines recommend. We eat out
and order in more than ever, as both parents work outside the
home. Our office jobs are sedentary. Kids sit around indoors too
much. We spend a great deal of time watching TV, moving little
and absorbing ads for all sorts of cheap, sugary, salty foods.  As a species, we lack biological mechanisms to block our
appetites at the point when we’ve eaten enough or, having
overeaten, to hunger less for the next meal. To the contrary,
our bodies are naturally adept at gaining fat.  Conquering obesity will require changing our “obesogenic”
culture in such a way as to steer people, en masse, away from
fattening habits and lead all of us to choose healthy foods in
modest portions, and become more active.  This cannot be accomplished with one sweeping national
policy, although the federal government can push for some useful
changes. The 2010 health-care reform law, for example, requires
restaurants and vending-machine operators with at least 20
locations to  list the calorie content  of their standard menu
items. The  Food and Drug Administration  is working out the rules
to make this happen.  The FDA is also working to update its  labeling  requirements
for packaged food, aiming in part to make calorie information
more prominent, on the front of the package. Britain has created
a  model  for this, with its voluntary front-of-package labels in
traffic-light colors: Fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt content
are given with rankings of green for low, amber for medium and
red for high.  We’d also like to see national  agriculture policy  changed
to refocus crop and insurance subsidies away from corn,
soybeans, wheat and cotton and toward vegetables.  But state and city policy makers can push for changes, too,
and can arguably have the greater effect. Foods and eating
habits have local qualities, after all. Obesity rates  vary by
state  -- from 20 percent in  Colorado  (in 2010) to 34 percent in
 West Virginia . And each city and state has its own tolerance for
government interference.  Local Preferences  Not all county officials would be willing to demand, for
example, that kids’ meals containing toys adhere to limits on
calories and salt, as supervisors in  San Francisco  and  Santa
Clara ,  California , have done. But some cities might follow  New
York ’s example and ban artificial trans fats in restaurants.  States can experiment with modifying the food environment
in other ways. Iowa, for instance, has  enhanced vending machines 
at highway rest stops by adding healthy snacks and providing
traffic-light-colored nutritional labels.  Some cities might want to try putting pressure on
restaurants to limit portion sizes, aiming for a weight-
conscious 700 calories per meal, as has been  proposed  by
scientists at the RAND Corp. Many local governments would no
doubt resist such a step as “nannying,” but state and local
health officials set various other standards for food and water,
to prevent food-borne illness and contamination. Now that one in
three adults are obese, it’s clear that calorie count is also an
aspect of  food safety .  Local officials can provide tax breaks and streamlined
permitting processes to encourage fresh-food grocers and
farmers’ markets to set up shop in neighborhoods that need them.
They can zone neighborhoods to get housing developers to provide
safe and convenient sidewalks.  We would especially like to see some cities follow the
recommendation of many obesity experts -- including, most
recently, the  Institute of Medicine  -- and put a penny-an-ounce
tax on sugar-sweetened beverages. A  study  published this year
suggested this could reduce per capita consumption by 15
percent. But it would be nice to find out for sure whether
people would choose less fattening beverages if sodas cost more.  Although no one knows how well each strategy will work,
there is good reason to think that the prevalence of obesity can
be reduced in adults. As for children, a prime target for
obesity prevention, they will be the subject of the next
editorial on the subject.  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Egypt’s shaky elections ;
 Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of Mormonism ; William D. Cohan
on the  dimming luster of Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay
vote in 2012 ; Catherine Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech” ;  Mark
Taylor  on how  academic specialization harms the economy.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 