-- U.S. Can Fix Egypt Ties If Election Eases Military Power
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-20T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/u-s-can-fix-egypt-ties-if-election-eases-military-power.html
U.S.- Egypt  ties have become snarled
over the past year. Many Egyptians resent the U.S. because it
supported the deposed regime of  Hosni Mubarak . And the U.S. has
struggled for a coherent response to the country’s back-and-
forth dance with democracy under transitional military rule.  The Egyptian presidential election May 23 and 24, with a
runoff June 16 and 17 if necessary, offers a chance to revive
the relationship.  For the last few months, Egypt’s relationship with the U.S.
has been stuck, overshadowed by the military government’s
prosecution of staff from 10 foreign-funded non-governmental
organizations (including Americans) working to build civil
society in Egypt. In response, the Obama administration, hewing
to a Congressional mandate, suspended the annual $1.5 billion in
U.S. aid to Egypt.  After Egyptian authorities allowed U.S. staff of the NGOs
to leave the country, the administration controversially used a
national security waiver to restore the $1.3 billion military
portion of the aid. Another $250 million in economic support
remains frozen. Of equal import,  negotiations  over $1 billion in
debt forgiveness remain on hold.  Beyond the monetary worth of this support, its restoration
would signal America’s commitment to Egypt. Despite the
 undercurrent of anti-Americanism , the U.S. stamp of approval
remains of value to any government trying to boost tourism,
investment and aid from other donors. More than a year of tumult
has  taken a toll  on all three.  So how do we get things back on track? Before restoring the
aid and resuming debt talks, the U.S. should impose one
condition only: that the military council truly cedes power to a
civilian government.  True, some questions about military power will remain
unanswered until Egypt completes the new constitution a
parliamentary-designated assembly is working on. Still, whether
the generals will cling to power or honor the democratic process
should be fairly clear within weeks of an election result. If
it’s the latter, that should reassure the  U.S. Congress  that
Egypt is moving in the right direction and permit the
normalization of the assistance package.  Some members of Congress may want to condition resumption
of economic aid and debt talks on the civilian government
stopping the NGO prosecutions. Many Egyptians argue that would
be an improper demand, since separation of executive and
judicial functions is a tenet of good government. There is merit
to this case, even if the cabinet minister who set the
prosecutions in motion just wanted to distract attention from
the transitional government’s failings. Thus, a better position
for the U.S. would be to express hope that the Egyptian
judiciary deals with the cases fairly. If it doesn’t, there will
be time to object later.  The U.S. should, however, press the new government for a
clear sign that it will not attack those who seek to help build
democracy in Egypt. Since 2006, more than 300 Egyptian NGOs
received foreign funding,  according to the Egyptian Justice
Ministry.  In countries like Egypt, with its long history of
authoritarianism, groups that support civil society lean on
overseas funding because would-be local donors fear state
retribution.  A new government should ask Parliament to lift the current
restrictive laws on the establishment and registration of NGOs
and draft a new code guaranteeing the right of such
organizations to operate freely.  For its part,  as we have argued before , the U.S. should
treat whichever candidate wins the presidential election just as
it would its first preference, even if the victor is Islamist.
Having failed to do so after balloting in  Algeria  and the
Palestinian territories, the U.S. has lost leverage in the Arab
world. Egypt’s vote presents an opportunity to dispel the idea
that the U.S. supports free and fair elections only if it likes
the outcome.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  curbing adult obesity ;
 Noah Feldman  on the  mainstreaming of Mormonism ; William D. Cohan
on the  dimming luster of Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the gay
vote in 2012 ; Catherine Wolfram on  “low-tech cleantech” ;  Mark
Taylor  on how  academic specialization harms the economy.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 