-- Tunisia Attractions: Bulla Regia, Caves, Skywalker Home
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-05-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/tunisia-attractions-bulla-regia-caves-skywalker-home.html
While Tunisians sort out their future
after a distraught vendor sparked the Arab protests in December
2010, the country’s past continues to attract the  World
Monuments Fund .  Since 2009, the WMF, an international nonprofit dedicated
to the preservation of historic architecture and sites, has been
helping to stabilize and safeguard the ruins of Bulla Regia, a
once prosperous colony-city not far from Carthage, the home of
Hannibal and the abandoned Queen Dido of Virgil’s poem.  The site includes a number of mysterious subterranean
houses and fine mosaics.  I spoke with Marilyn Perry, who led a recent tour of
WMF supporters. Now a painter, Perry was chairman of the WMF and
president of the  Kress Foundation .  Hoelterhoff: What’s unusual about  Tunisia ?  Perry: Tunisia is a fascinating country, far more than I’d
anticipated.  For example, it has the longest coastline on the
Mediterranean in that part of  Africa . I also hadn’t realized how
close it is to Sicily -- around 100 miles.  And it’s so varied. There’s the extremely fertile area in
the north, a mountainous region and then the Sahara in
the far south.  Hannibal!  Hoelterhoff: Once a famous city overlooked the sea:
Carthage, from where Hannibal launched his elephant attack on
the Romans.  Is there anything left?  Perry: No monumental remains. The Romans destroyed
Carthage. In time North Africa became extremely important to the
 Roman Empire  because of its fertility and proximity to  Italy .  The grain that fed the legions grew in Tunisia, and even
today the country is fourth in worldwide production of olive
oil.  There were many prosperous Roman colonial cities along the
coastal rim, among them Bulla Regia.  Hoelterhoff: How much remains?  Perry: There is a substantial expanse of ruins of the
ancient city up to the Byzantine period on an unusual hilly
terrain.  What really distinguishes the site is not what you see
above ground but underneath. Unlike other ancient Roman cities,
Bulla Regia, for reasons that are still mysterious, has a large
number of majestic private homes underground.  Open courtyards allowed light into high and airy rooms that
were decorated with beautiful floor mosaics, some of which are
still in place. Presumably, the residents enjoyed a cool
environment, though the experts are not agreed that this is the
sole explanation.  Luxury Resort  Hoelterhoff: Why else?  Perry: Some think they may have been conversions of ancient
cisterns. But these are just guesses. It’s weird.  Hoelterhoff: What has WMF been doing there?  Perry: The challenge, as at most archaeological sites, is
to preserve the ruins so that visitors can see them in safety.
For example, WMF has been working on securing the Maison de la
Chasse, a Roman house notable for its famous hunting mosaic on
the floor.  An international team of preservation engineers have
designed appropriate structural supports to make it accessible.  Hoelterhoff: So are local craftsmen able to restore their
history?  Perry: Yes. WMF always works with local partners, in this
case the  National Institute of Patrimony of Tunisia .  Also
involved is the  Getty Conservation Institute , a leader in
training mosaic conservationists.  Hoelterhoff: Is Bulla Regia hard to get to?  Perry: It’s only a couple of hours from Tunis, and the
roads are good. We had a little bus that took us to several
important sites in the country.  We felt perfectly safe.  Hoelterhoff: What else is there to see?  Luke Skywalker  Perry: In Tunis itself, of course the Medina, the old
walled city with the souk. There are luxurious resort towns such
as Sidi Bou Said, which reflect the long French occupation of
the country, and further south a number of other Roman sites,
including an impressive stone aqueduct and a huge Coliseum-type
amphitheater in El Jem.  The heritage of Islam is present throughout the country,
especially in the city of Kairouan.  And, in the far south, approaching the Sahara, there are
fascinating troglodytic dwellings, man-made caves in which
people have lived for centuries.  Hoelterhoff: Is that the destination of the “Star Wars”
pilgrims who look for the Luke Skywalker home?  Perry: Indeed. The whole region inspired  George Lucas , and
several film locations can be visited. Very unearthly.  Hoelterhoff: You’ve spent your life forging partnerships
that safeguard the ruins of the past for the future. What’s the
motivation for you?  Perry: Walk on an ancient Roman street, enter a mosque or a
cathedral, climb on an aqueduct, admire a mosaic -- and you
begin to wonder about the astonishing history of human
achievement.  How and why did they do this? No reconstruction or
computer simulation can remotely capture the feel of the real
place. It is essential to our understanding of our own
existence in the world.  Take the necessity of water in an arid land: the Roman
aqueducts, the Islamic basins in Kairaoun, the beauty and
durability of these structures.  Seeing what previous civilizations have accomplished can
also be a very humbling experience.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include reviews on  wine  and  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net  