-- Vale Loses to Australia as Mine Laws Curb Market Share
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-20T15:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/vale-loses-to-australia-as-mine-laws-curb-market-share.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, is poised to lose market share to Australian rivals
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP)  as Brazil imposes stricter
environmental rules on new mining projects and labor costs soar.  Brazil’s share of the seaborne iron-ore market may sink to
27 percent by 2016, down from 31 percent now, as the country
boosts capacity by 188 million tons, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Australia  will probably add about 502 million
tons, taking its market share to 50 percent from 41 percent.  Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , delayed the $8 billion
Carajas Serra Sul expansion and at least three other projects in
 Brazil  last year amid environmental permit issues, higher costs
and labor shortages.  The company  also cut its 2015 iron ore
output estimate by 10 percent to 469 million metric tons and is
weighing asset sales as it focuses on metals production.  “We are becoming less competitive,” Jose Fernando Coura,
president of the Brazilian Mining Institute, said by telephone
from Brasilia. Getting approval for a new project is “a Calvary
because you need to go through 350,000 institutions,” he said.  BHP, based in  Melbourne , said April 18 that fiscal third-
quarter iron-ore output surged 14 percent as it expands mines
and ports in Australia. London-based  Rio Tinto ’s production
gained 9 percent to 45.6 million tons, while Vale’s dropped 2.2
percent to 70 million after bad weather hurt operations.  Miners are boosting output to meet Chinese demand as the
country’s growth stokes demand for steel in automobiles,
appliances and construction. Chinese steel production reached a
record in March amid the ramp up of new plants.  Australian Ore  Australian iron ore output may climb to 940 million tons by
2016, compared with an expected 519 million tons for its South
American rival, according to Bloomberg data.  Vale rose 2.6 percent to 35.70 reais in Sao Paulo on May
18.  The stock  has fallen about 18 percent in the past twelve
months, more than the 13 percent decline of the Brazilian
benchmark  Bovespa Index. (IBOV)  BHP, the world’s biggest mining
company, lost 29 percent in Sydney during the same period while
Rio Tinto fell 32 percent.  China ’s steel demand will remain positive until at least
2025 and production will rise to about 1.1 billion tons by 2025
from about 700 million tons currently, BHP said in March. The
company is more than doubling its iron ore capacity by 2020 and
this year got initial approval to expand its export harbor in
 Western Australia , where most of the country’s ore is mined.  Australia Investment  “The investing environment in Australia is a little bit
friendlier than in Brazil from a political, environmental and
permitting standpoint,” said Andrew Cosgrove, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst in Princeton,  New Jersey . “Brazil may not be
seen as the source of new supply in the future that a lot of
people are expecting.”  Brazil, which counts  iron ore  as its key export product,
 shipped  330.8 million metric tons last year, 107 million  less 
than Australia. The gap between the two has widened since 2008,
the year the country overtook Brazil as the largest exporter.  Australian exports will grow 12 percent this year to reach
493 million metric tons, the country’s Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics said in a March 21 report. Brazilian exports
will gain 6.4 percent in 2012, it said.  Vale’s Carajas Serra Sul project, which is expected to
increase capacity by 90 million metric tons, is two years behind
schedule, the company said Nov. 28. Vale is expecting to get a
preliminary environmental license for the project by June.  ‘Licenses to Maintain’  “We obtained licenses to maintain,” Vale Chief Financial
Officer Tito Martins told reporters May 18. “The difficulty
that arose is getting licenses to expand.” Vale’s permit to
operate its N5 Sul pit, granted in January, was the first
license the company obtained in the Carajas region, where the
company has its biggest mine, in 10 years, Martins said.  Vale isn’t the only company grappling with project delays
and challenges in obtaining licenses in Brazil.  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , based in  London , was ordered by the authorities to stop
construction at its Minas Rio project, the company’s biggest,
six times. The reasons for the stoppages included protecting the
area’s artistic and cultural heritage.  “This is a painful process, but we go through it,” Paulo Castellari, the head of Anglo’s iron-ore unit in the Latin
American country, said of the Brazilian permitting processes in
an April 5 interview from Rio de Janeiro.  The company last month also had a license to install a
power line at the project suspended by a Minas Gerais state
court. Anglo failed to fulfil some of the conditions to obtain
the permit, prosecutor Francisco Francisco Chaves Generoso told
the court in a civil lawsuit.  Higher Costs  In December, Anglo raised its cost projection for at least
the fourth time to as much as $5.8 billion, more than double the
figure planned when the company agreed to buy the assets. The
company has followed all legal requirements for environmental
licensing on the project, which remains on track to begin
shipments in the second half of next year, according to London-
based spokesman James Wyatt-Tilby.  Mining projects in Brazil may become less profitable
because of planned legislation. The government is drafting new
rules to increase royalties on the extraction of iron-ore and
other minerals.  Vale last year stopped publishing a long-term iron-ore
output forecast after cutting its 2015 estimate. Rio Tinto, the
world’s second-largest iron-ore exporter, has embarked on a plan
to boost output capacity by more than 50 percent in Western
Australia, reaching 283 million metrics tons in 2013, with a
plan for a further increase to 353 million tons by the first
half of 2015, it said in February.  Still, Vale’s low production costs and the high quality of
its iron ore may prevent it from losing the lead in the market,
according to Alan Glezer, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco
BBI SA.  “The company has the lowest production costs and has an iron
ore of high quality, so they have a privileged position as the
market expands,” he said by telephone from  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  