-- Vietnam Economic Slowdown Seen in Cobweb-Covered Crates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T10:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/vietnam-slowdown-seen-in-cobweb-covered-crates-southeast-asia.html
Nguyen Thi Ha sighs as she looks at
the dust and cobwebs covering crates full of colorful, enameled
tiles in her factory by Hanoi’s Red River.  “We’re struggling to keep our business alive,” said Ha,
who laid off more than half of her 60 employees this year as
luxury hotels in the beach resort of Danang halted orders. “If
the situation doesn’t improve, it will be hard for us to hold
out beyond this year.”  Ha’s factory is among thousands in  Vietnam  that cut
production or closed this year after policy makers curbed a
lending spree and bad debts mounted. As demand also slows from
Europe to  China , the shakeout of businesses that mushroomed
during the 2002-2007 boom is slowing economic growth and may
temper a stocks rally that made Vietnam the world’s third-best
performer this year.  “There’s no way we can meet the economic growth target of
6 percent this year when so many companies are in serious
trouble,” said Le Dang Doanh, an economist who has advised
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and who estimates 2012 expansion
may slow to as low as 5 percent, the least since 1999. “Many
businesses are on their last breath.”  With almost 18,000 companies idled in four months and the
government stepping in to prevent a banking collapse, Vietnam is
trying to find a sustainable path to growth after years of easy
credit funded makers of cheap goods and triggered  Asia ’s highest
inflation. Parliament meets this week to debate an economic plan
that would draw more investment from foreign manufacturers such
as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , better regulate banks, and foster
more domestic demand from its 88 million people.  Shuttered Plants  In the first four months of 2012, 17,735 companies halted
production -- including more than 400 with overseas investors --
about 10 percent more than a year earlier, according to a  report 
from the Ministry of Planning and Investment. Pledged foreign
direct investment fell 32 percent.  Vietnam’s National Assembly will hold a session this week
to discuss proposals by the planning ministry to restructure the
economy, said Nguyen Si Dung, the parliament’s deputy secretary-
general. The plan was drawn up after bad debts mounted,  Standard
& Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s credit
ratings in December 2010, and inflation as high as 23 percent
sparked wage protests at factories across the country.  Parliament Addressed  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rebounded from last week’s 9.4
percent decline, gaining 3 percent today after Deputy Prime
Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said the government will take steps to
aid companies that are facing difficulties repaying bank loans
and the  Finance Ministry  signaled a second cut this month in
fuel prices. The index has risen 27 percent this year, after
falling 27 percent in 2011.  The economy is showing signs of a “slowdown” as domestic
consumption has significantly dropped this year and businesses
face difficulties, including accessing bank credit and high
 interest rates , Phuc told the legislature in Hanoi.  Vietnam’s growth may be slower than the government had
planned in the next few years, Minister of Planning and
Investment Bui Quang Vinh told parliament today. The economic
restructuring plan will reorganize state companies and banks and
will favor quality over pace for economic growth, Vinh said.  Financial Strength  Government efforts to boost the economy may help the
nation’s  biggest companies  recover from the recent slump because
they are financially stronger, said Ngo The Trieu, head of
public investment at Eastspring Investments Fund Management Co.  Six firms account for more than half the weighting in the
VN Index, including Vingroup JSC, Vietnam’s largest listed real-
estate company by market value, and  Vietnam Dairy Products JSC (VNM) ,
the country’s biggest dairy producer.  Emerging-market stocks fell partly on concern  Greece ’s debt
crisis is worsening and amid a deeper slowdown in China. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost more than 6 percent last week.  “Most companies are operating on money they borrowed from
banks with debt-equity of nine or 10 times -- it’s not
sustainable,” said Trieu. “Companies that are having financial
challenges will stumble. Those that can survive will be good
investments in the long run.”  He said Vietnamese stocks could rebound as much as 30
percent this year if there are more central bank rate reductions
and banks reduce lending rates to reasonable levels and improve
their non-performing loan ratios.  ‘Speed Up’  The prime minister told the central bank to “speed up”
rate cuts to help businesses, the government said on May 9.
 State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in March the
monetary authority would cut rates by 100 basis points in each
of the second, third and fourth quarters. The central bank
reduced benchmark rates in both March and April and capped some
lending rates this month for smaller businesses at 15 percent.  “The country’s economy is slowing quite sharply,” Art Woo,
director of Fitch Rating’s Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings group,
said on a May 14 conference call. “The economic slowdown can
still have some collateral impact on the banking sector, which
remains a source of weakness. Asset quality is deteriorating.”  Economic expansion in the first quarter was the slowest
since 2009, while inventories in processing industries,
including beverages, clothing, textiles and pharmaceuticals,
grew 32 percent this year from 2011, according to April figures
from the General Statistics Office in Hanoi. In 2007, annual GDP
growth peaked at 8.5 percent.  The government must “prioritize macroeconomic stability,”
Tran Hoang Ngan, a member of the National Financial and Monetary
Policy Advisory Council, said by telephone on April 24.
“Prolonged high inflation rates in the last few years have
exhausted businesses and consumers.”  No Debate  Vietnam’s legislature won’t consider a reduction in the
2012 growth target when it meets this week, Nguyen Hanh Phuc,
the parliament’s secretary general, said on May 17.  Exports fell to $8.6 billion in April from $9.48 billion in
March. The growth in garment shipments, the country’s biggest
export, slowed to 15 percent through April after expanding 33
percent in the same period last year, according to preliminary
figures from the statistics office.  Shipments of footwear, Vietnam’s fifth-biggest export, rose
9 percent through April after jumping 26 percent last year,
according to unrevised figures from the statistics office.
Vietnam ships most of its footwear and apparel to the U.S. and
 Europe . Sales to those two regions account for more than 20
percent of the economy, according to London-based researcher
Capital Economics Ltd.  Taming Inflation  Vietnamese companies are caught between slowing export
orders and high borrowing costs after the government passed a
resolution last year to restrain credit growth and tame what was
then Asia’s highest  inflation . While commercial lending rates
have since fallen from the peak of 27 percent last summer, they
are still as high as 20 percent. Vietnam’s annual inflation, now
Asia’s highest after  Pakistan , slowed to an 18-month low of 10.5
percent in April, from 14.2 percent in March, according to the
statistics office.  Of 700 companies on the country’s two stock exchanges, 11
percent posted losses last year and 62 percent saw profit fall,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among 473 that have
reported results in the first quarter, 14 percent lost money.  At Hanoi-based Viet Hung Real Estate, Garments & Embroidery
Co., owner Luong Thi Kim Oanh laid off more than half of her
staff and cut prices of her T-shirts, table cloths and bedding
by 50 percent to get cash to pay her 70 remaining workers. Sales
to Europe and the  Middle East  fell by half last year and haven’t
improved, she said.  Loan Sharks  The business, started in 1992, defaulted on loans and now
can’t get credit from banks to buy raw materials, she said.
Desperate for cash to pay wages, she turned to unlicensed
lenders who charge more than three times the bank rate, or an
annualized equivalent of more than 70 percent.  “I’m exhausted,” said Oanh in an interview at her factory.
“My family and I had to mortgage all our properties but we
still don’t have enough cash to fund the factory’s operations.
We are in desperate need of government help.”  The government’s response this month was to reduce
corporate income tax for small- and medium-sized companies by 30
percent, defer sales tax payments by six months and halve
government land leases.  “The tax breaks and tax delay for companies are like
putting a wet towel on someone’s forehead when they have a very
high fever -- the medicine needed to cure the illness isn’t
there,” said Vu Thanh Tu Anh, director of research of the
Fulbright Economics Teaching Program in  Ho Chi Minh City , a
partnership of the city’s University of Economics and the
Harvard Kennedy School.  Not Enough  The government measures are worth about 25 trillion dong
($1.2 billion), according to the Finance Ministry.  “The tax break and reduction in land lease are good, but
still far from enough to save businesses like ours,” Viet
Hung’s Oanh said.  Commercial banks’ bad-debt ratio has risen to 3.6 percent
from 3.2 percent at the beginning of year, Vietnamese central
bank Governor Binh said on April 12.  “Asset quality is likely to deteriorate further,”  Fitch
Ratings  said in a March report. “Non-performing loans are
significantly understated under the country’s accounting
standards and could be three or four times higher.”  “Given the current economic situation, more investors are
opting for the relatively safe  government bonds  these days,”
said Vu Anh Duc, a senior fixed-income dealer at Vietnam Joint-
Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade in Hanoi.  Falling Yield  The yield on the government’s benchmark  five-year  notes
this year fell about 300 basis points to 9.5 percent, the lowest
since June 2009, according to a daily fixing from banks compiled
by Bloomberg. Ten-year yields dropped 170 basis points to 10.28
percent, the  lowest  since October 2009.  Business conditions “continued to be weak” in April,
Trinh D. Nguyen, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc., said at briefing in Hanoi. “Domestically, conditions are
tough due to tightened credit and limited access to capital.”  At Bat Trang Ceramics Village, where pottery has been made
for more than six centuries amid rice fields along the Red River,
Ha’s factory and more than 500 other businesses making
everything from glazed bowls to power cable insulators are
showing the strain. More than half the kilns in the village have
shut down, she said.  “I wouldn’t be so excited about the corporate income tax
cut since there are many businesses which don’t have any
income,” Ha said. “There are thousands of companies dying.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  