-- Vintage $350 Madeira Beats Pricey Burgundy, Champagne
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-05-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/vintage-350-madeira-beats-pricey-burgundy-champagne.html
It isn’t every day that wine writers
get to taste Madeiras from 1910 and 1912 over lunch, but I had a
chance to taste those two old-timers in an array that also
included examples ranging from a 1920 to a pubescent 1996.  Even more surprising was my finding that the 1910 Barbeita
Sercial ($350) was the best of a dozen Madeiras sampled at a
 Wine Media Guild  in a  New York  tasting earlier this month.  For a wine more than a century old, it was voluptuous but
not fatty, fully balanced between fruit and acid, with a deep
richness that gave way to a light finish.  It is the acids in Madeira, which increase with age, that
keep centenarians like this tasting so fresh, while the added
fortifying alcohol allows for such longevity like Port.  Aside from its formidable aging potential and its variety,
the truly remarkable thing about Madeira is how relatively
inexpensive it is. When you think you can easily spend $300 to
$1,000 on a bottle of Champagne or Burgundy for a single night’s
pleasure, Madeiras were meant to be sipped in small doses over
many evenings.  Once opened, they don’t keep forever, but can be rewarding
for weeks, long after the Champagne and Burgundy bottles have
been consigned to recycling bins.  Madeira is made on the volcanic Portuguese island of the
same name, where it began in the 16th century as an unfortified
white wine. It became fortified when shippers found that the
addition of alcohol helped stabilize the wine on long trade
voyages.  Thirsty Colonists  This was particularly important for shipments to America
where it was the most popular wine of the 18th century and the
colonies consumed a quarter of all the Madeira produced.  Over the next two centuries Madeira had its ups and downs,
from crises caused by powdery mildew and phylloxera infestation
to supply problems.  At its height, the island boasted about 200 producers,
though today only about seven remain. France,  Germany  and the
Benelux countries consume the most cooking Madeiras and lesser
varieties, while the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. import the most
superior quality Madeiras.  Madeira can be made from a variety of grapes, including
Tinta Negra Mole, Sercial, Verdelho, Bual, and Malvasia,
information usually provided on the labels of better bottlings.  Supermarket Madeiras  Three-year and five-year Madeiras are blends mostly found
in supermarkets. But 10-year and 15-year Madeiras offer
considerably more quality at very decent prices.  A vintage Madeira, called a frasqueria, is basically drawn
from a cask from a single year and must age a minimum of 20
years in oak barrels.  The Madeiras at the tasting, most imported by  The Rare Wine
Co.  showed a remarkable range. One very light, pretty example
was the 1988 Barbeito Sercial ($47), while the 1978 vintage of
the same wine was pale in color yet spicy, with a perfect
balance of acid to make it delicious before or after dinner.  The 1985 D’Oliveira Verdelho ($95) was slightly vegetal,
somewhat grassy, while a younger vintage, 1994 ($80), had a
tremendous bouquet, bright acids, and levels of flowery, spicy
flavors that finished long on the palate.  The older 1973 was magnificent, with a burnt sugar nose
that changed to a restrained elegance and mild sweetness that
would make it a fine wine with a creamy Portuguese blue cheese
like Serpa or Serra da Estrella.  Coppery Centenarian  The 1912, still sound as a bell, was bracing, coppery, as
if it were just minted yesterday.  Turning to a series of Bual-based Madeiras, produced in
warmer terroirs on the island, I found all of them showing some
oxidation, tasting not unlike Spanish sherries, which was
pleasant enough in the 1966 Blandy.  The 1977 ($135-$170) was one dimensional, and not
particularly sweet (though Boals generally achieve higher sugar
levels than Sercials and Verdelhos).  Two other examples, 1968 ($150-$200) and 1920 ($700-$800),
were distastefully oxidized, musky tasting, and murky. Indeed,
the 1920 was brown and smelled so badly I couldn’t bring myself
to taste it.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Manuela Hoelterhoff 
and  theater  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 