-- England Needs 181 Runs to Win on Last Day of First Cricket Test
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-21T01:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/west-indies-sets-england-191-to-win-first-cricket-test-at-lord-s.html
Top-ranked England needs another 181
runs on the final day to win the first cricket Test against the
West Indies, which requires eight wickets for the victory.  The home team will resume at 10-2 today after losing
captain  Andrew Strauss  and nightwatchman  James Anderson  at the
end of day four as it chases 191 to win at Lord’s in  London .  Kemar Roach got both wickets, leaving Alastair Cook and
Jonathan Trott yet to score. Shivnarine Chanderpaul and Marlon Samuels earlier shared a 157-run partnership to help West Indies
to 345 in its second innings. Chanderpaul made 91, Samuels 86,
while Denesh Ramdin scored 43.  “We are coming back to fight and make them fight for the
rest of the runs,” West Indies coach Ottis Gibson said at a
news conference. “Against the number one team in the world it
is even harder, so we know it’s going to be a battle, but we are
up for that battle.”  England  is rated as the 1-5 favorite to win the opening
match of the three-Test series by U.K. bookmaker William Hill.
West Indies, which hasn’t  won an away Test  in a country other
than bottom-ranked Bangladesh since winning in South Africa in
December 2007, is the 7-2 outsider.  The visiting team resumed at 120-4 yesterday and got
through the opening session without losing a wicket, both
Chanderpaul and Samuels reaching their half-centuries.  Stuart Broad  finally made the breakthrough for England when
Samuels edged to Graeme Swann at second slip. Chanderpaul was
eventually dismissed leg-before-wicket to Swann.  Broad, who also removed opener Kieran Powell, took two
further wickets to complete figures of 4-93 and finish the match
with 11 wickets, the first 10-wicket haul of his Test career.  England needs to win the three-match series to stay atop
the International Cricket Council’s Test  rankings  ahead of  South
Africa . It is undefeated in its last 12 Tests at Lord’s since a
defeat to Australia in the 2005 Ashes Test at the venue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  