-- Wipro’s Premji Seeks $1 Billion in M&A: Corporate India
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-05-21T04:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/wipro-s-premji-seeks-1-billion-in-acquisitions-corporate-india.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  is seeking to make more
than $1 billion in acquisitions over the next 18 months, adding
intellectual property and software to help boost profit,
Chairman  Azim Premji  said.  India ’s third-largest computer-services provider is
targeting deals between $50 million and $300 million, though
“it’s not a hard cap,” Premji said in a May 18 interview in
New York. The company relies mostly on an internal mergers and
acquisitions team led by Rishad Premji, the chairman’s son, to
hunt for candidates, rather than using investment banks.  “We are trying to create deals, rather than just react to
deals which are lying with investment bankers, because we find
our win rates are much higher,” said Premji, 66. “We want to
supplement our growth rates there and go up the value chain.”  Wipro faces competition in its effort to add higher-margin
services business. Larger rivals  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  have said they want to make acquisitions in
 Europe  and other non-English-speaking regions in their hunt for
new markets. Global IT services spending growth may slow to 1.3
percent this year, from 6.5 percent in 2011, as Europe’s debt
struggles continue, research group Gartner Inc. said April 5.  Bangalore-based Wipro offers  software-development  and
business process outsourcing services, as well as consulting and
product engineering. IT services accounted for 76 percent of the
company’s business in the year ended March 2012. The company,
which also has units that make hand soap along consumer products
such as light bulbs, generated revenue of 375 billion rupees
($6.89 billion) in the 12 months ended March 31.  Lagged Estimates  Wipro tumbled 7.2 percent, the most in almost three years,
in Mumbai trading on April 25 after its forecast for
information-technology revenue lagged behind some analysts’
estimates. The stock is down 1.9 percent this year, while Tata
Consulting has gained 4.3 percent.  Wipro is looking for specialized companies in analytics,
cloud computing and mobile communications, and is focused on
industries including health care, financial services, energy and
utilities, and retail, Premji said.  “It’s a good time to get a decent price,” he said. “In a
slowdown market, people are a little more hesitant” to pursue
acquisitions.’’  Open Targets  Target companies also are more open to being acquired
“because they’re realizing this is not a time to take it
public, they cannot get the kind of upside they would have
expected,” he said. “It’s not that people think next year is
going to be bullish, or that next year is going to be great.”  Wipro is open to deals in areas where it’s expanding, such
as  Saudi Arabia , and in parts of Northern Europe and  Asia , he
said. It isn’t looking at  Japan  or Southern Europe, or for more
acquisitions in  Latin America .  The company also isn’t seeking businesses that “are quite
down in the value chain,” doing commoditized tasks, after
spending more than a year reorienting itself to capture higher-
value work, he said. “There are companies available for $1
billion and above in terms of revenue, but they’re available for
the wrong reasons.”  Premji, who with his family controls 78 percent of Wipro,
said “it would make sense” for his son Rishad to succeed him
eventually as non-executive chairman, though he said he has no
plans to step down for at least the next 24 months. The son was
 promoted  to chief strategy officer in September 2010, reporting
to Chief Executive Officer T.K. Kurien.  Net Worth  The chairman took over the reins of his father’s business
after he died of a heart attack in 1966. Azim Premji was 21
years old and had three months left in his engineering program
at Stanford when he returned home to helm the then $2 million
business, which he transformed over 40 years from a vegetable
oil and soap maker into a software services provider with a
market capitalization of $18 billion.  He is currently ranked No. 40 on the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  with a net worth of $15.3 billion. He donated $2 billion
of Wipro shares in December 2010 to a trust to fund his
foundation, which is focused on education.  Wipro isn’t the only Indian company looking for deals while
shunning the services of investment banks. Billionaire Ajay Piramal in an interview last month said he may spend $1 billion
to acquire biotechnology and defense assets for his health care-
to-real estate empire without the help of bankers, who he said
don’t “add much value.”  The attitude underscores the challenge facing global
companies such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG as they
try to squeeze revenues from a country where fees are 20 percent
of those in China, according to New York-based researcher
Freeman & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  