-- Worst Market Since Reagan Greets Obama Before Election
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-05-21T22:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/worst-market-since-reagan-greets-obama-in-elections-from-1948.html
With only six months before the
election, the stock market is giving President Barack Obama the
worst returns since Ronald Reagan was seeking a second term.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is up 1.3 percent since
Mitt Romney’s campaign began 12 months ago, compared with
average gains of 12 percent for incumbents who won re-election
starting with Harry S. Truman, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks are also advancing less than the 7 percent
minimum enjoyed by George H.W. Bush,  Jimmy Carter  and  Gerald
Ford , who lost their bids for a second term. The only one with a
worse equity performance heading into the vote was Reagan.  Weakening equity markets after a three-year rally
underscore the challenge faced by Obama, who took office during
the worst recession in seven decades and has presided over 11
quarters of growth. While share returns do little to foretell
presidential contests, the 8.7 percent decline in the  S&P 500 
since April 2 may be a sign investors are losing confidence in
an accelerating recovery even as they anticipate more central
bank spending to stimulate the economy.  “Fiscal policy is maxed out,” Wayne Lin, a  money manager 
at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a telephone
interview on May 16. His firm oversees $643.3 billion. “In past
years, we actually had the budget to be able to do it. We had
the economic growth that generated tax revenues to be able to
support any kind of fiscal policy. There was a lot more
flexibility in enacting fiscal policy in prior years.”  Weekly Decline  Stocks fell for a  third week , pushing the benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities down 4.3 percent to 1,295.22 and the  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  to its worst week since September. Concern
grew that  Greece  will leave the euro even as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB won’t compromise on
key principles to keep Greece in the euro area. About $4.5
trillion has been erased from global equity values this month.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.6 percent to 1,315.99 today, while
the MSCI index climbed 1.1 percent to 301.33. Both rallied after
dropping six straight sessions.  Speculation about Obama’s fortunes has fluctuated with the
stock market. Since the S&P 500 reached a one-year low of
1,099.23 on Oct. 3, odds he will win in November have climbed as
high as 61.4 percent from 46.5 percent as the index gained
almost 30 percent, data compiled by Dublin-based bookmaker
Intrade show. They’ve slipped back to about 57 percent.  Reagan’s First Term  U.S. stocks declined in the 12 months through May 1984
during  Ronald Reagan ’s first term, as U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker  pushed his target for overnight loans
between banks to 10.5 percent from 8.5 percent at the start of
1983. The S&P 500 advanced 5.7 percent from then through Nov. 2,
compared with the 4.6 percent average return in the six months
before elections since 1932, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 plunged 25 percent in the two weeks following
Obama’s Nov. 4 election. It was the fastest decline since the
October 1987 stock market crash and extended the index’s 19
percent plunge following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. two months before. By March 2009, the S&P 500 had
lost 57 percent from its record in October 2007.  The 80 percent advance in the 14 months ending April 2010
represented the biggest gain for any president since Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1934, when the index advanced 85 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Retailers, media companies and
technology shares led the gains, with CBS Corp., Priceline.com
Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  increasing at least sixfold.  Imminent Recession  The rally faltered in 2010 and in 2011 as investors
speculated a recession was imminent and bet equities would
suffer as politicians failed to solve the U.S. budget crisis.
The Fed’s signals of more easing helped equities rebound.  Obama’s 1.3 percent return since May 2011 comes after the
S&P 500 posted its best  first-quarter gain since 1998 . Shares
have fallen 8 percent since the end of March, on pace for the
worst second quarter in an election year since Truman, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed cut rates to  near zero  a month after Obama was
elected in November 2008 and has pledged to hold them their
through 2014, the longest period without an increase on record.
The world’s largest economy has expanded 2.4 percent per quarter
on average since the recession ended in June 2009, the weakest
recovery in six decades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fed Easing  The Fed has carried out two rounds of bond purchases known
as quantitative easing aimed at spurring inflation, buying $2.3
trillion from 2008 to 2011. Policy makers said at an April
meeting that the central bank would continue its swap of $400
billion of short-term debt with long-term debt to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist.
The Fed is scheduled to complete the program at the end of June.  “Bernanke’s been driving the bus for four years,” said
 Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity strategist at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $370 billion, in a
phone interview on May 16.  “The reason Bernanke has been so aggressive on the
monetary policy side as he’s been is because he realizes we’re
not getting the stimulus on the fiscal side,” said Orlando, who
added that he doesn’t expect a third round of easing. “Bernanke
took it upon himself to do more to help the economy along.”  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer for Pacific
Investment Management Co., and Jan Hatzius, the chief economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said this month that investors
should prepare for more bond purchases by the Fed. Several
policy makers said in April a loss of momentum in growth or
increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery on track, according to
meeting minutes.  Energy, Industrial  The S&P 500 rallied 30 percent in the eight months after
Bernanke foreshadowed in August 2010 a plan to buy $600 billion
in bonds. Energy, material and industrial companies led the
gains, as investors bought stocks most tied to economic growth,
betting the stimulus would boost production.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , a San
Antonio, Texas-based oil refiner, surged 149 percent from Aug.
26, 2010, through April 2011 for the biggest gain in the S&P 500
during that period.  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI)  both more than doubled.  About 52 percent of investors in government-backed mortgage
bonds, the likely focus of additional Fed debt buying, expect
more easing within the next six months, according to a survey in
the first week of this month by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Inability to Spend  Obama’s inability to spend more to drive growth may limit
stock gains before the election, according to Rebecca Patterson,
the New York-based chief market strategist at JPMorgan Asset
Management, which oversees $1.3 trillion. JPMorgan research
shows that the most consistent fiscal stimulus relative to gross
domestic product occurred in the third year of a presidency
during the last eight election cycles.  “Historically, incumbent presidents would lean towards
more fiscal stimulus in the year before an election to have a
strong economic backdrop for the election year,” she said in a
telephone interview on May 16. “Given the U.S. deficit,
President Obama has been much more limited in this respect.”  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, attacked Obama
last week for the swelling U.S.  deficits , saying the president
has done “almost nothing to fix” debt amassed over eight years
by former President  George W. Bush . Romney plans to streamline
agencies and lower federal spending to 20 percent of gross
domestic product from 24.3 percent to spur economic growth.  Tax Credits  Obama is pushing income tax credits for small businesses
and would face spending decisions at the end of this year.
Income tax cuts first enacted under President George W. Bush
will expire, as will a temporary reduction in the Social
Security payroll tax.  The  yearly government spending gap  reached $454.8 billion
before Bush left office in January 2009. Under Obama, the
deficit rose to $1.42 trillion at the end of his first year, and
is projected by the  Congressional Budget Office  to be $977
billion in fiscal 2013.  Those concerns haven’t kept the  bond market  from rallying,
with yields on  10-year Treasury notes  falling to 1.69 percent on
May 17 from this year’s high of 2.40 percent two months ago,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield is 9 basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, above the record low and rates
are a quarter of the 50-year average of about 6.70 percent.
Yields on securities that protect against a rise in consumer
prices show diminished concern about inflation.  Congress Stalemate  Last year’s stalemate between congressional Republicans and
Obama led to a downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA credit rating by S&P
in early August. The S&P 500 fell the most in three years during
the period, losing 19 percent between April and October before
 rebounding .  “Volatility in this election cycle is going to be extreme
because you have really two diametrically opposed candidates on
fiscal issues,” said Tim Hoyle, the director of research at
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co., which manages $6
billion.  In 2008, “you had two candidates who were in different
ways arguing for stimulus and to get the economy back on
track,” he said. “This time around, the president’s getting
dealt such a short hand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  