-- Yield Premium Nearing Record Spurs Subsidy Review: India Credit
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-05-21T05:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-20/yield-premium-nearing-record-spurs-subsidy-review-india-credit.html
India ’s government, forced to scrap
plans to reduce subsidies after a popular backlash, is being
compelled by investors to cut spending after the premium on
sovereign debt approached a record and the rupee slumped.  The finance ministry is paying 679 basis points over U.S.
Treasuries to raise funds for 10 years, approaching an all-time
high of 696 basis points reached in November. The rupee has
slumped 6.8 percent this quarter, the worst performance among
 Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies, after  Standard & Poor’s  said
there is a one-in-three chance that the nation will lose its
investment-grade rating.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told parliament last week
he wouldn’t hesitate to “bite the bullet” on rolling back
subsidies to trim the deficit as the rupee dropped to a record
low and the benchmark Sensitive Index of shares headed for a
third monthly drop. The shortfall in finances, including states,
will be the equivalent of 8.8 percent of gross domestic product
in 2012, compared with 2.3 percent for  Brazil  and 0.8 percent
for  Russia , according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “They are worried about the drop in the rupee, and it is
clear that the markets are forcing the government’s hand on
mending its finances,” Upasna Bhardwaj, a Mumbai-based
economist at ING Vysya Bank Ltd., the local unit of the biggest
Dutch financial services company, said in an interview on May
17. “Cutting the subsidy bill significantly will restore
investor confidence to a certain extent.”  Handouts in the year ended March overshot the government’s
estimate by 51 percent to 2.16 trillion rupees ($39.6 billion)
as  oil prices  rose. Mukherjee plans to curb expenditure on
subsidies to 1.9 trillion rupees, or 2 percent of GDP, in the
year that started April 1, according to budget documents. The
government will aim to restrict the proportion to 1.75 percent
in the next three years, Mukherjee told lawmakers on May 18.  Oil Imports  The government may raise energy prices this quarter as it
can’t afford higher payouts, a  finance ministry  official said on
April 23, asking not to be identified because the person isn’t
authorized to speak on the matter. Gasoline prices were last
raised in November, and those of diesel, kerosene and cooking
gas in June. Refiners sell fuels below cost as policy makers
seek to curb price increases for 30 percent of the population
that lives below the poverty line set at 50 U.S. cents a day.  The rupee’s drop is making oil imports more expensive in a
nation that relies on overseas markets for about 80 percent of
its requirements. The currency slumped 0.5 percent today to
54.6865 per dollar, taking its drop this month to 3.6 percent.  ‘No Option’  “The government has no option but to raise fuel prices as
with the depreciating rupee it could end up paying a whole lot
more than estimated on oil subsidies alone,” Sujan Hajra, the
Mumbai-based chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. “The fiscal situation could deteriorate and it could
impact the  credit rating . A hike in fuel prices, particularly
diesel, is a fait accompli.”  Government bonds  reversed a four-month rally through
February after Mukherjee said the government missed its goal of
curbing the fiscal deficit to 4.6 percent of GDP by 1.3
percentage points and set the target for the current fiscal year
at 5.1 percent. The yield on the benchmark 8.79 percent notes
due November 2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 8.53 percent today.  Rupee-denominated securities returned 0.27 percent this
quarter after earning 1.8 percent in the first three months of
the year, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.  ‘Slow’ Progress  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India has
more than doubled in the past year. Credit-default swaps on the
state-run lender, which some investors consider a proxy for the
nation, cost 372 basis points on May 18, compared with 177 basis
points a year ago, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted in privately
negotiated markets.  The revision to the outlook on India’s credit rating
reflects “slow” progress on fiscal reforms “in a weakened
political setting,” S&P said in a statement on April 25.  Former Rail Minister Dinesh Trivedi said he was raising
subsidized passenger fares by as much as 0.30 rupee a kilometer
when he presented his annual budget for the state-run network on
March 14. Trinamool Congress, his party and an ally of the
ruling Congress party, opposed his decision and forced him to
resign.  Trinamool’s leader  Mamata Banerjee  has been a source of
opposition to the government in the past, stalling his plans to
bring foreign supermarket chains into the nation, as well as
blocking passage of an anti-corruption law and proposals for a
nationwide counter-terrorism center. Singh shelved proposals to
allow foreign direct investment in pensions in December after
Trinamool refused to support the move.  ‘Coalition Compulsions’  “The government may not be able to roll back subsidies by
a whole lot or even raise fuel prices,” Amol Agrawal, a Mumbai-
based economist at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd., said in an
interview on May 18. “Coalition compulsions have been there for
a long time and the government’s hands are tied because of it.”  Shares of Indian companies fell 0.9 percent last week,
taking the drop for May to 6.4 percent, the biggest monthly
decline since November.  Global funds have pared holdings of India’s bonds by $416
million since the end of March to $29.6 billion, set for the
first quarterly reduction since 2009.  The rupee’s three-month implied volatility rose to this
year’s highest level today, signaling greater potential for
losses. The gauge, which traders quote as part of options
prices, climbed nine basis points to 13.1 percent.  Prices of crude oil traded in  New York  will increase 15
percent to end the year at $106 a barrel, according to the
median forecast of strategists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Some prudence by the government is overdue and a fuel-
price increase in inevitable,” Killol Pandya, the Mumbai-based
head of fixed-income investment at the local unit of Daiwa Asset
Management Co. that oversees about $200 million, said in an
interview on May 18. “Overall, such a move will be good for the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  