-- 200 Richest Firms, K&L Gates, Locke Lord: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/200-richest-firms-k-l-gates-locke-lord-business-of-law.html
Despite having almost the same rate
of revenue growth, the second-hundred wealthiest American law
firms are managing their business differently in one significant
way: They are bolstering their lawyer count, which is in sharp
contrast to the top 100 most-profitable law firms in the
country, according to an annual survey by the American Lawyer
Magazine.  The wealthiest 100 firms had gross revenue growth of 3.4
percent, while the second hundred had a 3.2 percent increase,
according to the magazine. The second hundred, or Am Law 200
firms, boosted their lawyer headcount by 3 percent, with a 10.1
percent jump in non-equity partners, the magazine said. That’s
compared to the top tier, Am Law 100 firms, which had a 0.8
percent increase in lawyers overall and 2.5 percent gain in non-equity partners, the magazine said.  The second-hundred firms are betting that lower rates will
send more work their way and that investing in new partners is
the right approach for the expected boom, the magazine said.  At the top of the list ranking the second-hundred
wealthiest law firms is  Cozen O’Connor , with $310.5 million
gross revenue. That firm was followed by Barnes & Thornburg LLP,
Ballard Spahr LLP, Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo
PC and Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP, in that
order. At the bottom of the list was Strasburger & Price LLP,
with gross revenue of $90.5 million.  K&L Gates LLP topped the list of profit per partner among
the second-hundred firms with $900,000, a position shared with
Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP, for whom that number represented a
15.9 percent drop in profit for its lawyers from last year.  The magazine reported the numbers based on a combination of
self-reporting by law firms and estimates by the magazine’s
reporters for firms that don’t cooperate.  The second tier of Am Law 200 firms had average profit per
partner of $696,576, an increase of 2.4 percent, the magazine
said. The Am Law 100 firms had a 4.2 percent increase to $1.5
million profit per partner.  Ice Miller LLP, with 32.5 percent and Holland & Hart LLP,
with 22.1 percent, had the greatest revenue gains on the chart.
Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper & Scinto, with an 8.8 percent
decrease, has the biggest loss.  For more, see the American Lawyer website,  here.   Firm News  Ex-Dewey Chairman Davis, XL Settlement Approved by Judge  An agreement by the former chairman of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP,
 Steven Davis , to pay the bankrupt law firm $511,000 in return
for a waiver of claims against him, and for insurer XL Specialty
Insurance Co. to contribute $19 million to the estate, was
approved by a New York bankruptcy judge on May 30.  The product of a 2007 merger between  Dewey Ballantine  and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Green & MacRae, the firm at one point had more
than 1,300 attorneys in 12 countries. The liquidation began
under Chapter 11 in May 2012. At the outset of bankruptcy, there
was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable
of $217.4 million, the firm previously said. The petition listed
assets of $193 million and liabilities of $245.4 million.  Dewey’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was approved by the
 bankruptcy court  in February and implemented in March. The firm
estimated that midpoint recoveries for secured and unsecured
creditors under the plan would be 58.4 percent and 9.1 percent,
respectively.  The settlement protects Davis and the insurers from
individual creditors suing them.  The bankruptcy case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-bk-12321,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  Moves  K&L Gates Adds Partner and Two Counsel in Asia Expansion  K&L Gates LLP added Virginia Tam, formerly of White & Case
LLP, as a partner in the corporate and transactional practice in
the firm’s Hong Kong office.  Additionally, the firm hired a counsel, who was previously
in house at Samsung Electronics, in the intellectual property
practice in Hong Kong and a counsel from Clifford Chance LLP in
the litigation and dispute resolution practice in Seoul.  Tam is dually qualified in  New York  and Hong Kong. She
focuses her practice on cross-border corporate transactions
involving publicly traded companies as well as advises clients
on private equity financing, mergers and acquisitions, and
public offerings in the U.S. and Hong Kong, the firm said in a
statement.  “We continue to expand our Hong Kong and Seoul offices in
line with an increase in cross-border corporate transactions and
litigation cases throughout the  Asia  Pacific region,” David
K.Y. Tang, K&L Gates’s managing partner for Asia, said in a
statement.  Tam is the third new partner to join K&L Gates’s Hong Kong
office this year.  K&L Gates has lawyers in 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
 Australia ,  Europe , the Middle East and South America.  Locke Lord Adds Los Angeles Corporate Partner Dienes  Louis Dienes joined Locke Lord LLP’s Los Angeles office as
a partner in the corporate practice group. He was previously at
TroyGould PC.  Dienes has experience working with clients in mergers,
acquisitions and divestitures, equity and debt financings, and
business operations. He has represented businesses, investment
banks and investors in more than 150 private offerings of
securities and offerings of partnership and limited liability
company securities, the firm said.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices.  Lane Powell Hires Four Business Lawyers in Seattle and Portland  Four attorneys, including two shareholders, join Lane
Powell LLP’s business practice group. In  Seattle , the firm hired
Patrick J. Franke, a shareholder, along with two attorneys, all
of who were previously at Graham & Dunn, where Franke was
chairman of the firm’s corporate practice group, the firm said.  Franke has a corporate and transactional practice with a
focus on providing strategic counsel to his client’s owners,
boards of directors and management on a range of business
matters, such as capitalization, restructuring and governance,
the firm said. He also advises clients on corporate financings,
mergers and acquisitions, licensing and distribution
transactions, and other commercial matters.  In  Portland ,  Oregon , A. Jeffery Bird, also joins as a
shareholder. He was previously a shareholder at Schwabe,
Williamson & Wyatt PC where he headed the firm’s business
transitions practice group and co-headed the firm’s corporate
finance and securities group.  Bird will concentrate his practice on complex business
transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, public and
private securities offerings, tender offers, proxy contests and
other matters, the firm said. He has experience with SEC
compliance matters, and he advises public companies on Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance issues, among other matters,
the firm said.  Lane Powell has more than 200 attorneys in six offices in
Washington state, Oregon, Alaska and London.  Delegal Joins Holland & Knight’s Government Advocacy Team  Holland & Knight LLP announced the expansion of the firm’s
 Florida  government advocacy team with the addition of partner
Mark Delegal and an associate in Tallahassee. Both attorneys
were previously with Pennington PA.  Delegal practices in the area of government affairs and
represents insurance companies, as well as hospitals,
physicians, local governments and businesses. His clients
include State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the Florida
Chamber of Commerce, New York Life Insurance, Shands Healthcare,
and the University of Florida College of Medicine, the firm
said.  Delegal also was general counsel to the Safety Net Hospital
Alliance of Florida and is involved in the Medicaid
appropriations process for public hospitals and other health
care entities statewide.  “Mark Delegal has done exceptional work for his insurance
and health-care clients and has a stellar reputation in the
legal and lobbying community,” Bob Martinez, chairman of the
firm’s Florida government advocacy team, said in a statement.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as
well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Day Pitney Adds New Jersey Real Estate Partner  Day Pitney LLP announced that Craig Gianetti joined the
firm as partner in the real estate,  land use  and environmental
department. He joins the firm from Giordano Halleran & Ciesla PC
in Monmouth County,  New Jersey .  His practice focuses on commercial and residential real
estate transactional matters, land use and redevelopment, and
construction and contract litigation. He also handles commercial
and residential land use development approvals, and due
diligence research as well as prepares detailed reports on the
viability of real estate projects.  Day Pitney has more than 300 attorneys in nine U.S.
northeastern offices.  Nelson Mullins Adds Privacy and Data Security Partner  Privacy and data security lawyer David F. Katz joined
Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP’s Atlanta office as a
partner. He was previously counsel at Aaron’s Inc., a sales and
lease company in residential furniture, consumer electronics,
home appliances, and accessories with more than 2,000 company-operated and franchised stores in 48 states and  Canada .  Katz counsels clients on the development, management and
oversight of privacy and compliance programs. He also assists
them in developing policies and procedures, education
strategies, implementation of auditing and monitoring controls,
reviews of disciplinary and enforcement activities, and risk
assessments.  Nelson Mullins has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals with offices in the  District of
Columbia , Florida,  Georgia , Massachusetts,  North Carolina , South
Carolina,  Tennessee  and West Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 