-- Mid-America to Buy Colonial Properties for $2.2 Billion
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-06-03T20:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/maa-agrees-to-buy-colonial-properties-creating-5-1-billion-reit.html
Mid-America Apartment Communities
Inc. (MAA)  agreed to buy  Colonial Properties Trust (CLP)  for about $2.2
billion in stock, creating the second-biggest U.S. multifamily
company by units owned.  Colonial investors will receive 0.36 newly issued shares of
 Memphis , Tennessee-based Mid-America for each share of Colonial
they own, the companies said in a statement today. Based on Mid-America’s closing share price of $67.97 on May 31, that
indicates a price of $24.47, about 11 percent more than
Birmingham, Alabama-based Colonial’s last close.  The deal would create a real estate investment trust with
about 85,000 rental units primarily in the U.S. south. Shares of
multifamily companies, after almost tripling since March 2009 as
apartment vacancies fell to the lowest in a decade, are now
lagging behind other commercial-property types on prospects
growth will slow. The merger may boost landlords’ stocks as
investors speculate that other deals might be coming, said Rod Petrik, a REIT analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “What’s moving this sector is sentiment, so certainly the
thought of M&A activity can change sentiment,” he said in a
telephone interview.  REIT Index  A Bloomberg  index  of 16 multifamily REITs rose 1.6 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with an 18 percent gain for the
 entire REIT sector . Office properties, the second-worst
performer after apartments, rose 14 percent in the same time
period.  Colonial Properties  shares  climbed 5.7 percent to $23.37
today, the most since November 2011. Mid-America, which has a
market value of about $2.79 billion, fell 3.1 percent to $65.89.  The nation’s apartment-vacancy  rate  was 4.3 percent in the
first quarter, the lowest in more than a decade, according to
 Reis Inc. (REIS)  Demand for rental homes has been rising among
Americans who can’t qualify for a mortgage or don’t want to own
property after the worst housing crash since the Great
Depression.  Mid-America shareholders will own about 56 percent of the
combined company’s equity, with Colonial owners holding the
rest. Mid-America Chief Executive Officer H. Eric Bolton Jr.
will be chairman and CEO, while Mid-America’s chief financial
officer and chief operating officer will also assume those roles
at the combined company.  “The scale of the combined company will support
accelerated growth,” Bolton said in the statement. The merger
will “drive higher margins as a result of synergies and
advantages generated.”  Texas, Florida  The joint company will own 285 properties, with its largest
markets including Dallas/ Fort Worth  and Austin, Texas; Atlanta;
Raleigh,  North Carolina ; and Jacksonville,  Florida . Colnial’s
average monthly rent in communities open at least a year is
$982, about the same as Mid-America’s, Petrik said in a note
today.  The deal was unanimously approved by both boards and will
result in gross savings of about $25 million a year once the
companies are fully merged. The agreement is subject to approval
of shareholders of both companies, and is expected to be
completed in the third quarter.  The combined company would be the biggest by number of
units after Chicago-based  Equity Residential (EQR) , which is also the
largest apartment REIT by market value, at $20.6 billion.
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , based in Arlington,  Virginia , is the
second-biggest by market value, at $17.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  