-- ABN Follows ING to Court as Dijsselbloem Calls Foul on EU Terms
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/abn-follows-ing-to-court-as-dijsselbloem-calls-foul-on-eu-terms.html
The Netherlands is seeking to loosen
the shackles the European Union placed on rescued Dutch banks,
after a property market-led economic slump left the nation
vulnerable to a rekindling of the continent’s debt crisis.  Nationalized ABN Amro Group NV will challenge a 2011 ban on
acquisitions at a Luxembourg court today. Separately, Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem is asking regulators to stop
barring bailed-out Dutch banks from undercutting rivals in
mortgages, saying the measures have increased interest rates.  The Netherlands, which controls two of its four largest
banks after providing more than 95 billion euros ($124 billion)
for rescues from 2008, has slipped into a third recession in
four years, causing it to diverge from other AAA rated euro-area
nations, the International Monetary Fund says. The government
says EU banking curbs are one reason borrowers paid 1 percentage
point more in interest than the EU average, contributing to a 20
percent slump in house prices over the past five years.  “There is a lot of pressure on Dijsselbloem in these weak
economic circumstances,” said Arnoud Boot, a professor of
corporate finance and financial markets at the University of
Amsterdam. “It fits in with a focus on reviving lending in the
Netherlands and to establish that, there has to be competition
between banks. Eliminating the price leadership bans would
contribute to that.”  Acquisition Ban  The EU General Court, the 27-member bloc’s second-highest
court, will hear the case brought by ABN Amro today. The bank
claims that an acquisition ban imposed as a condition of state
aid was stricter than those placed on other lenders, according
to court records. EU regulators approved recapitalizations of as
much as 5.45 billion euros after ABN Amro agreed to a ban on
takeovers of as long as five years and to stop undercutting
competitors on some products in return for a bailout.  The Netherlands’ government bought Fortis’s Dutch banking
and insurance units, including parts of the former ABN Amro
Holding NV, in 2008 for about 16.8 billion euros, after the
Belgian firm collapsed. The rescue’s cost later swelled to about
30 billion euros.  ABN, once among Europe’s biggest banks, is following  ING
Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch financial company, into Europe’s
courts. ING had a price leadership ban on mortgages and savings
in the Netherlands lifted in November after winning a court
challenge forcing the European Commission to re-examine terms of
its rescue. The company agreed to establish a new Dutch consumer
bank called Nationale-Nederlanden Bank, adding a “competitive
force” in the Dutch retail market, the commission  said  in
November.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
European Commission, didn’t immediately comment.  Not Healthy  Barring banks from price leadership, or offering more
favorable rates than others, has contributed to higher costs of
credit in the Netherlands, ABN Amro Chairman Gerrit Zalm said in
an interview. Removing or avoiding the constraints on the
biggest banks would be desirable, he said.  “We can deal with the current restrictions, both on
acquisitions and price leadership,” Zalm, 61, said in the May
30 interview. “But it isn’t healthy for competition on the
Dutch market, as we have seen.”  ING and ABN Amro, together with Rabobank Groep, the largest
Dutch bank, control about 70 percent of the market for home
loans, according to Dutch central planning agency data.
Following the 2008 bailouts, the two were prohibited by the
commission from undercutting rivals on prices in mortgages and
savings, leaving Rabobank, with 30 percent of the market, with
the most influence over interest rates.  Mortgage Rates  Rates on 10-year mortgages in the Netherlands are higher
than in neighboring economies and the euro area on average,
according to  European Central Bank data . In March, Dutch
institutions charged 4.95 percent a year on home loans with a
maturity of more than 10 years. That compared with 3.64 percent
in  Belgium  and 2.99 percent in  Germany , according to the ECB.
Rates on deposits are also higher in the Netherlands as banks
seek to reduce reliance on capital market funding.  Reports by the Dutch Competition Authority, the central
bank and the country’s central planning agency have cited the
limited number of market participants and the commission’s
restrictions as potential explanations for higher mortgage
rates. Parties challenging the top three banks disappeared as
the Netherlands combined Fortis and ABN Amro assets and Paris-based  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  withdrew from mortgage lending in the
country in 2011.  IMF Warning  “The price leadership bans are a complicating factor in a
market where competition is already limited,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux.
“More competitors are needed.”  Dutch mortgage debt is the second highest in the world,
amounting to 108 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the country’s central bank.  House prices in the Netherlands, where the size of the
finance industry measures 4.8 times the economy, have dropped
almost 20 percent from a peak in August 2008, the Dutch
Statistics Bureau said last month. The price of a home fell an
average 7.6 percent in April from a year earlier to levels not
seen for 10 years, according to the agency.  The IMF said on May 10 that “significant financial sector
challenges, declining real estate prices and weak domestic
demand” were hurting the Dutch economy.  Dijsselbloem, 47, is seeking concessions from Europe on ABN
while he negotiates with regulators on a rescue plan for another
bailed out bank, SNS Reaal NV.  EU Talks  The government nationalized SNS Reaal, the fourth-biggest
lender, in February at a cost of 3.7 billion euros to taxpayers,
widening the budget deficit as a portion of GDP by an estimated
0.6 percentage point this year. The European Commission objected
to proposals by Dijsselbloem to involve Rabobank, ABN Amro and
ING in the rescue on the basis that it would violate takeover
bans imposed on the two lenders, the minister said on Feb. 1.  Dijsselbloem has said he will seek to resist further
limitations by the EU on competition as he prepares a
restructuring plan for SNS, scheduled to be completed by August.
He said in a letter to parliament on May 21 that he spoke to
European antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia about “the
undesirability of price leadership bans on the Dutch mortgage
market, partly in light of the nationalization of SNS Reaal.”  The European Commission has expressed its own concerns
about the country’s housing market. Tax incentives on property
are leaving Dutch households with high levels of mortgage debt
and vulnerable to fluctuations in house prices, the commission
said May 29. Furthermore, imbalances and rigidity in the housing
market are hurting the economy, it said in a report.  The case is T-319/11, ABN Amro Group NV v. Commission  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  