-- Ackman Cuts Canadian Pacific Stake After Stock Triples
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-03T22:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ackman-cuts-canadian-pacific-stake-after-stock-triples.html
William Ackman , the activist investor
who staged a boardroom coup at  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ,
plans to sell stock for the first time after the price tripled
since he took a stake in the carrier in 2011.  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP, Ackman’s New York-based hedge fund, will cut its stake by about 29 percent by
selling as many as 7 million shares from June 10 through the
next six to 12 months, according to a statement today. Ackman
will stay on the board, Pershing Square said.  Ackman is reaping the benefits of a turnaround led by his
choice as chief executive officer,  Hunter Harrison , following a
proxy fight to oust former CEO  Fred Green . Harrison, who took
over 11 months ago, has cut jobs, shut yards and run longer
trains as he works to end Calgary-based Canadian Pacific’s
status as  North America ’s least-efficient major railroad.  “Our stake in CP has grown to approximately 26 percent of
the combined assets of our funds” with the run-up in the share
price, Ackman said in the statement. “Given that increased
concentration, portfolio management considerations have driven
our decision to trim our holdings.”  With 24.2 million shares, the fund expects to remain the
biggest stockholder, and partner Paul Hilal will remain on the
board with Ackman, according to the statement. That stake
amounted to 13.8 percent of the outstanding shares as of March
31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stock Surge  Today’s closing price of C$135.50 in Toronto compared with
a close of C$48.59 on Sept. 23, 2011, the day the hedge fund
began buying the stock, according to a 2011 regulatory filing.
The shares have jumped 84 percent since Harrison took over.  This is the first time that Pershing Square has announced
plans to cut its stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jennifer Burner, a spokeswoman for Pershing Square at
Global Strategy Group, and  Ed Greenberg , a railroad spokesman,
had no immediate comment on the sale plan.  Harrison, a former CEO of  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) ,
the country’s biggest railroad, was recruited out of retirement
by Ackman to overhaul Canadian Pacific. The 68-year-old Harrison
said in May he plans to stay on as CEO for another three years
before handing the reins to Chief Operating Officer Keith Creel.  CP Rail’s operating ratio, an industry gauge of efficiency
that compares expenses to revenue, was 83.3 percent in 2012,
exceeding the 71.7 average of North America’s largest carriers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The railroad’s ratio was 75.8 in the first quarter.  After Pershing Square,  Canadian Pacific ’s next-biggest
shareholder was FMR LLC with 12.8 million shares as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  