-- Aga Khan Fund to Withdraw From Ivory Coast Airline Stake
-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2013-06-03T15:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/aga-khan-fund-to-withdraw-from-ivory-coast-airline-stake.html
The  Aga Khan Fund for Economic
Development  will withdraw from Air Cote d’Ivoire as other
investors in the state carrier of  Ivory Coast  increase the
company’s stock, airline General Director Rene Decurey said.  Air Cote d’Ivoire, which started flying last year in place
of collapsed carrier Air Ivoire, plans a 10-fold capital
increase tomorrow to 25 billion CFA francs ($49.2 million) from
its original 2.5 billion francs, Decurey said in a phone
interview on June 1.  The Aka Khan Fund, which has its headquarters in Geneva,
holds 15 percent of the Abidjan-based carrier. The Ivory Coast
government owns 65 percent of the closely held company and
Paris-based  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest carrier, has
a 20 percent stake.  The fund “let us know it will not take part in the capital
increase,” and will shift its holding to another investor as
part of the transaction, Decurey said. The West  African
Development Bank  and local financial institution BIAO-Cote
d’Ivoire may potentially be interested in buying the fund’s
stock, he said.  Serge Bouah, a spokesman at the Lome, Togo-based West
African  Development Bank , and Eline Arnaud, a spokeswoman in
Abidjan for BIAO-CI, both declined to comment.  Air Cote d’Ivoire will invest $40 million to buy two
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Q400 turboprop aircraft to start domestic
flights by November, Decurey said. It will also acquire an
Airbus SAS twin-jet A319 plane by September to expand the
regional flight network in West and Central Africa, he said. The
fleet currently consists of two A319s and an Embraer 170
regional jet serving cities in nearby countries, according to
its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  