-- Airlines Seek Carbon Market to Curb Post-2020 Pollution
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-03T16:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/airlines-seek-carbon-market-to-curb-post-2020-pollution.html
Airlines backed a call for an
emissions market to offset growth in their greenhouse gases
after 2020, a step that could spur international talks on
tackling pollution from the industry.  International Air Transport Association members adopted
today at their annual general meeting in Cape Town a resolution
in favor of a market-based mechanism to help address airlines’
emissions. IATA produced the proposal before a September
gathering of the United Nations’ aviation panel that will
consider the industry’s tools to fight climate change.  It is “vitally important” to send a strong message that
“we are an industry determined to address environmental
performance, determined to continue to show leadership and
determined to play our part in shaping a fair and equitable
solution to this global problem,” Willie Walsh, chief executive
officer of British Airways parent  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said in a statement today.  The IATA resolution comes as representatives of governments
in the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization try to
iron out a deal to reduce air industry pollution. Countries from
Russia and China to the U.S. are seeking a global pact after
protesting the inclusion of foreign flights in the European
Union’s emissions-trading system last year. The bloc deferred
the carbon curbs to help the ICAO talks.  Significant Contribution  “This is unprecedented for the airline industry to take
such a powerful step,” said Dirk Forrister, president of the
International Emissions Trading Association in Geneva. “It’s
encouraging that carbon offsets are the central cost savings
mechanism that they are using to meet climate goals at the
lowest cost.”  Under the EU’s carbon cap-and-trade system, designed to
meet market-based emissions targets, tradable permits are
allocated to polluters that must surrender enough of them to
cover their emissions or pay a fine. Verified emissions reported
by airlines in the EU were almost 84 million tons in 2012, or
about 4 percent of the total in the bloc’s program, the European
Commission said on May 16.  IATA’s resolution is a “very strong message” that the
industry seems ready to support a single global market-based
mechanism, EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “Time for governments to match this and deliver in ICAO,”
she said.  The post-2020 program would set the market’s emissions
baseline at the average of greenhouse-gas output in the three
years through 2020, IATA said.  Overwhelming Majority  The resolution was backed by an “overwhelming” majority
of airline executives voting at the meeting, according to IATA
Chairman and Qantas Airways Ltd. CEO Alan Joyce. Air India Ltd.
and Air  China  Ltd. both voiced concerns.  Market-based measures for airlines should be considered
only as a secondary tool and as a part of a broader package of
measures to cut greenhouse gases, Air India Chairman Nandan
Rohit said.  They shouldn’t be implemented unilaterally and “should
only be applied within the national boundaries of a state and
limited to the national carriers,” he said at the meeting
today. “If a state decides to implement MBM on air carriers of
third states there should be a bilateral agreement in place.”  Welcome Departure  The IATA proposal means that it only endorses a global
program instead of a patchwork of national policy measures,
while maintaining opposition to the EU emissions trading system,
Brussels-based lobby group Transport & Environment said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Today’s IATA resolution represents a welcome departure
from their historical position that better air traffic control,
better planes and biofuels alone can solve the problem,” said
Bill Hemmings, aviation manager at Transport & Environment.
“However, it kicks the ball in the long grass, until after
2020, and sets out a string of unworkable conditions.”  EU carbon permits for delivery in December closed 0.8
percent lower at 3.92 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . The cost of UN certified emission
reductions for December was unchanged at 41 euro cents a ton.  “The biggest implication of this is it makes it more
likely that international aviation will not come back into the
EU ETS,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Energy Aspects Ltd. in
London, said by e-mail. “It seems very difficult for the
European Commission to make a case for this, particularly if
something similar comes out of ICAO this year.”  Montreal-based IATA represents 240 airlines worldwide,
comprising 84 percent of global air traffic. Members include
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, British Airways,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
and Delta Air Lines Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  