-- Men Who Eat Vegetarian Diet Live Longer, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-06-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/male-who-eat-vegetarian-diet-live-longer-study-finds.html
A vegetarian diet may help people,
particularly men, live longer than those who regularly eat meat,
according to a study of more than 70,000 Seventh-Day Adventists.  Researchers followed the participants an average of 6
years. During that period, vegetarians, including those who also
added seafood or dairy and egg products to their diet, had an
average 12 percent lower chance of dying from any cause than
meat-eaters, according to the findings published today in  JAMA
Internal Medicine . The study also found that male vegetarians
were less likely to die from  heart disease  than non-vegetarians,
while there were no similar results in women.  Vegetarian diets have been associated with a reduction in
chronic diseases like high  blood pressure , diabetes and heart
disease, the researchers said. The latest findings confirm
earlier studies that show the health benefits of eating a
vegetarian diet, said  Michael Orlich , the lead study author.  “People should take these kinds of results into account as
they’re considering dietary choices,” said Orlich, an assistant
professor of preventive medicine at Loma Linda University, a
Seventh-Day Adventist institution in Loma Linda,  California , in
a May 31 telephone interview. “Various types of vegetarian
diets may be beneficial in reducing the risk of death compared
to non-vegetarian diets.”  It’s not clear whether avoiding red meat and processed
meats plays a role in boosting life or whether the foods that
vegetarians are eating lowers their risk of dying compared with
non-vegetarians, Orlich said. He said he is planning a study to
help identify which foods are explaining these results.  Research Participants  Researchers in the study looked at 73,308 men and women who
are  Seventh-Day Adventists , a Christian church with about 17
million members worldwide. The church, officially established in
the U.S. in 1863, is known for celebrating the Sabbath on
Saturday and a view that a second coming of Jesus Christ is
imminent.  Those in the study were given a questionnaire to assess
their diet. Researchers found that 5,548 people were vegans,
21,177 were vegetarians that ate dairy and egg products, 7,194
were vegetarians that included fish in their diets and 4,031
were semi-vegetarian, which includes eating meat infrequently.
The rest were meat eaters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  