-- Hallacy Retires at Bank of America as Muni Unit Revamped
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-04T02:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hallacy-retires-at-bank-of-america-as-muni-unit-revamped.html
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s shake
up of its municipal-bond research department has led analysts to
leave while John Hallacy, the head of the unit, will retire next
month, a spokeswoman said.  Hallacy, 57, confirmed he’ll step down and declined further
comment in a telephone interview yesterday. Selena Morris, a
Bank of America spokeswoman, said Susannah Page and Howard Sitzer, both muni strategists, were exiting.  “We will be announcing a new structure shortly,” Morris
said. “We remain committed to the municipal markets.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch topped all underwriters last
year in leading sales of long-term municipal debt, managing the
marketing of 14 percent of all such issues, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, ahead of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc.  Wall Street firms have laid out plans to cut more than
300,000 jobs in the past 30 months as they sought to curb costs.
In January,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said it would eliminate 1,700
investment-banking positions and defer all bonuses for top
earners.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reduced payroll expenses by
more than a third in the five years through last year.  Hallacy has worked in state and local-government finance
for 34 years, according to a biography provided by Bank of
America. He started at  Standard & Poor’s , working as a muni-debt
analyst for six years.  He received a 2001 award for excellence from the National
Federation of Municipal Analysts, and ranked first in
Institutional Investor’s All-America Fixed-Income research team
in annual surveys for eight straight years through 2010.  Hallacy also worked at public-debt insurers  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , FGIC
Corp. and Bond Investors Guaranty, according to the biography.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  