-- American Realty Agrees to $1.45 Billion Purchase From GE
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-06-03T14:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/american-realty-agrees-1-45-billion-acquisition-from-ge.html
American Realty Capital Trust IV Inc.
agreed to buy 986 retail properties from  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
finance arm for $1.45 billion as it spends capital raised from
shareholders.  The buildings have an average remaining lease duration of
10.6 years and tenants include national food chains  Pizza Hut 
and Burger King, the non-traded real estate investment trust
said in a statement today. The REIT plans to increase the value
of its portfolio to $2.3 billion within two months, according to
the statement.  American Realty Capital Trust IV will finance today’s deal
using $1.7 billion of equity from shareholders and part of the
$750 million of debt it has arranged. The REIT will own 1,326
properties following the completion of its plan to use the
capital raised.  The properties are being bought at a capitalization rate
“north of 7 percent,” said Nicholas Schorsch, chairman and
chief executive officer of American Realty Capital Trust IV.
“This acquisition exemplifies our focus on building one of the
best-in-class, lowest leveraged, long-term, retail focused net
lease portfolios in the REIT industry’s history.”  Cap rates, a measure of investment yield, are net operating
income divided by purchase price. The company said its
annualized rental income will more than double to about $170
million from $71 million after the deal is completed.  REIT Sponsor  American Realty Capital Trust IV is one of the nontraded
REITs sponsored by New York-based American Realty Capital, of
which Schorsch is chairman and CEO. American Realty Capital is
also the external manager of  American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP) , a publicly traded owner of U.S. single-tenant buildings,
which announced two acquisitions last week.  American Realty Capital last year raised $2.6 billion, the
most in the nontraded REIT industry, according to Blue Vault
Partners LLC, a Cumming, Georgia-based company that tracks the
industry. Companies that manage REITs are generally paid fees
based in part on properties they oversee.  The assets purchased from GE’s GE Capital unit consist of
net-lease properties, in which the tenant is responsible for the
costs relating to the property as well as the rent. The
portfolio was formerly part of Trustreet Properties Inc., which
was bought by Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  