-- AMR-US Airways to Reveal New Leadership Team by Mid-June
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-03T14:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/amr-us-airways-to-reveal-merged-leadership-structure-by-mid-june.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said they plan to announce a new
management structure by mid-month as they move toward a merger
to create the world’s largest airline.  American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said that while
he’s making recommendations, the final decision on appointments
rests with his US Airways counterpart Doug Parker, who will lead
the combined company under the American Airlines name.  Horton, 52, and Parker, speaking in an interview in  Cape
Town , confirmed that the merger remains on course to close in
the third quarter. A second request for information already
received from the U.S. Justice Department will probably be the
last and no issues have emerged in the antitrust review process,
said Parker, 51.  “We have fulfilled the request,” he said. “They still
have work to do, but we don’t expect any issues. The networks
are so complimentary with virtually no overlap.”  US Airways  rose 0.3 percent to $17.63 at 10:02 a.m. in  New
York  trading. The shares  previously climbed  30 percent this
year, trailing gains by the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  The merger will close as AMR emerges from bankruptcy. The
carrier filed for Chapter 11 protection on Nov. 29, 2011, and
the airlines announced a merger agreement on Feb. 14. The
combined company will keep American’s Fort Worth, Texas,
headquarters.  Reservation Systems  The pace of integration will vary according to the areas
concerned, the CEOs said. The companies will begin code-sharing
“very soon” after the merger, though it will be three to six
months before US Airways transfers to AMR’s Oneworld airline
alliance from the Star group to which it belongs now.  Combining reservation systems could take as long as a year,
and it may be 18 months before the pair move to a single
operating certificate, allowing them to function as one airline
and share crew and planes.  American and Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways said at the
time the merger was announced that they were committed to taking
more than 400 planes on order, plus associated options. There
may be room for modifying delivery dates in line with existing
contracts, though that’s not currently planned, they said.  “If we go and do the work and say maybe we would like to
accelerate some airplanes, maybe delay some airplanes, maybe
change some aircraft types, those are conversations airlines
have all the time,” Parker said. “There may be some of that,
we don’t know.”  The executives spoke during the annual meeting of the
 International Air Transport Association , where Parker attended a
gathering of Oneworld CEOs for the first time.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net  