-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Made Little Progress in May
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-06-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-made-little-progress-in-may.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
made little progress in May, indicating the industry will
provide scant support for the world’s largest economy,
economists said before a report today.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index held at
50.7 during the month, matching the weakest this year, according
to the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 71 economists.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.
 Construction outlays  rebounded in April, other figures may show.  Factory activity has waned since reaching an almost two-year high in February as across-the-board  federal budget  cuts
took hold and overseas markets struggled to improve. At the same
time, demand for automobiles, the rebound in  residential
construction  and lean inventories may spark a pickup in orders
and production in the second half of the year.  “It’s a pause in manufacturing,” said Brian Jones, a
senior U.S. economist for Societe Generale in New York. “There
is still domestic demand. The housing recovery is continuing,
and in fact, accelerating. Manufacturing isn’t likely to go down
a lot.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group’s index is due at 10
a.m. New York time. Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 49 to 53.  Also at 10 a.m., the Commerce Department may report that
construction spending rose 0.9 percent in April, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Forecasts ranged from a
decline of 5.1 percent to a rise of 1.7 percent. The prior
month’s 1.7 percent drop reflected a plunge in government
projects.  Construction Projects  One area of construction that remains a bright spot is
residential real-estate as borrowing costs near a record low
attract buyers and encourage more projects.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is finding support from the housing rebound as demand
picks up for everything from machinery to furniture, appliances
and home-decor items.  Automobile purchases may help keep assembly lines running
as households use low borrowing costs to replace older vehicles.
May sales, also due today, may show purchases of cars and light
trucks improved from a  14.9 million  annual rate in April,
according to economists surveyed.  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROST) , a Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based
maker of factory automation software, is benefiting as
businesses strive to improve productivity and reduce costs.  Auto Demand  Among regions, “the U.S. and  Canada  are stable and we
continue to see investments across most industries,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith Nosbusch said during a May 31 conference
presentation. “Automotive looks solid for the next several
quarters” and capital spending in consumer-related industries
is “stable,” he said.  Manufacturing shares are trailing the overall market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has advanced
 9.7 percent  so far this year, compared with a 14.3 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  measure.  Regional manufacturing reports were mixed for May. The MNI
Chicago Report’s business barometer jumped to the highest level
since March 2012, with orders, factory employment and production
accelerating from April. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
so-called Empire State measure and the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s index showed manufacturing unexpectedly shrank.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.4 percent annualized
rate in the first three months of 2013, figures showed last
week. While inventory accumulation was slower than initially
estimated, providing less of a boost to the economy, it sets the
stage for continued growth this quarter as higher sales may
prompt more stockpiling.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  