-- Apple Saves $724 Million With Well-Timed Sale: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-03T15:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/apple-saves-724-million-with-well-timed-sale-corporate-finance.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  could have hardly picked a
better time to borrow an unprecedented $17 billion in its first
bond sale since 1996.  The world’s  most valuable  technology company is pocketing
an initial $40 million in annual interest savings compared with
current yields on the six bonds it sold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  yield  on 10-year Treasury bonds, a
benchmark for the entire fixed-income market, rose to 2.13
percent by the end of last week from 1.67 percent on April 30,
the day of the offering, Bloomberg Bond Trader data show.  The iPhone maker will save $724 million compared with
today’s rates over the life of the bonds, Bloomberg data show.
Cupertino, California-based Apple tapped the market four days
before Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s billionaire chairman,  Warren Buffett , said he felt “sorry” for fixed-income investors with
yields so low. Not a week later, Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income
fund, said the three-decade  bull market  in bonds probably ended
on April 29.  ‘Real Money’  “That’s real money, even to Apple,”  David Brown , a  money
manager  who helps oversee $97 billion of fixed-income assets at
 Neuberger Berman  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “I
don’t know if it was insight or luck, but they timed the market
very well, so they were able to capture some very attractive
yields to finance their capital plan. Kudos to them.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
on the company’s bonds.  The offering was the largest bond sale on record, topping
Roche Holding AG’s $16.5 billion six-part deal from February
2009, which included $3 billion of one-year floating-rate debt,
and AbbVie Inc.’s $14.7 billion six-part issue in November,
Bloomberg data show.  Apple’s notes were ranked Aa1 by Moody’s Investors Service
and AA+ at  Standard & Poor’s , the second-highest grade at each
ratings company.  For similarly rated debt, yields fell to an unprecedented
2.225 percent on May 2 from 8.874 percent in 2008, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch AAA-A U.S. Corporate Index.
They rose to 2.573 percent by May 31 as investors weighed
whether the  Federal Reserve  may start scaling back the
unprecedented stimulus efforts that helped push borrowing costs
to historic lows.  $504 Million  Apple’s new debt, its only outstanding bonds, lost $504
million of market value through the end of last week, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt has been the fifth-most
actively traded on Knight BondPoint since it was issued.  Those losses were probably mitigated by hedges against
rising interest rates, according to Neuberger’s Brown.  “We and many institutional buyers of credit are usually
selling either Treasuries or other credit against a purchase
like that, so I’m much more focused on spreads as opposed to the
all-in yield changes,” he said. “I don’t care nearly as much
that it has gone down in dollar price because what I sold
against it went down the same. For absolute-return investors,
which typically include retail investors, though, the interest-rate move and resulting price deterioration is painful.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators held a net-short position in Treasury futures for the first time in almost
two months for the week ended May 14, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Bets that prices will
fall now outnumber long positions by 35,505 contracts on the
Chicago Board of Trade.  Gross, Buffett  Apple sold the bonds to help finance a $55 billion stock
buyback, saving as much as $9.2 billion in taxes by avoiding the
use of about $100 billion of cash it holds offshore, Gerald Granovsky, an analyst at Moody’s, estimated last month.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  defended Apple’s use of
offshore tax shelters before U.S. senators on May 21, saying
“we pay all the taxes we owe -- every single dollar.”  Gross picked April 29 as the end of a 31-year bond rally,
the manager of Pimco’s $293 billion Total Return Fund wrote in a
Twitter post on May 10. Buffett isn’t investing in company debt,
including Apple’s, because yields are too low, he said May 4 in
a Bloomberg Television interview from Omaha,  Nebraska , where
Berkshire was holding its annual meeting.  ‘Great Day’  Apple’s biggest savings are on its longest-dated securities
due May 2043. The $3 billion of 3.85 percent bonds, issued at
99.418 cents, fell to 92.084 cents on the dollar as of May 31,
pushing the yield to 4.32 percent, Trace data show. They dropped
to 91.83 cents to yield 4.34 percent at 8:54 a.m. in  New York 
today. The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt rather
than similar-maturity Treasuries has widened to 103.7 basis
points from 100 at issue.  Selling the debt on May 31 would have cost Apple an
additional $396.9 million annually for 30 years.  “From a rate perspective, they picked a great day to issue
bonds,” Robert Smalley, a strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview, noting the 5 basis-point rise in spreads. “The real underperformance has been
because of the backup in yield. The Apple bonds themselves have
held their ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  