-- Tata Steel Seeks Coal Assets to Improve Returns: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-06-04T10:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/tata-steel-seeks-coal-assets-to-improve-returns-corporate-india.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , owner of Europe’s
third-most indebted maker of the alloy, is cutting jobs and
eyeing coking coal assets to boost profitability that’s yet to
recover following the $12.9 billion purchase of Corus Group Plc.  India’s biggest steelmaker is targeting to increase its
return on invested capital to more than 16 percent over the next
five years from an annualized 12.5 percent in the three months
ended March 31, Group Chief Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee
said in an interview. The gauge, which measures the efficiency
with which a company uses its debt and equity, was at 32.6
percent in the year ended March 2007 before Corus was purchased,
according to the company’s annual report.  Chairman Cyrus Mistry is seeking to cut costs by securing
fuel and iron ore supplies in  Europe  with company-controlled
mines to help guard against swings in commodity prices. Tata
Steel, which is weathering a demand slump in Europe after buying
Corus in 2007, sold businesses, wrote down $1.6 billion of
assets and goodwill leading to a record loss last quarter and is
focusing on high-value products for returns.  “The asset writedown may have pushed up the return on
invested capital last fiscal year, but going forward it will
need to sell non-core business and cut costs to have any chance
of seeing an increase,” said Goutam Chakraborty, an analyst at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., who has a hold rating on
the shares. “For the next couple of years, Tata Steel will be
investing large sums in  India , which will make it difficult to
lift returns.”  Tata Steel shares gained 0.8 percent to 298.75 rupees at
the close in Mumbai. The stock has declined 30 percent this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Yorkshire, Teesside  The company said in November it plans to reorganize its U.K.
business, cutting 900 jobs in locations including Yorkshire, the
West Midlands and Teesside. It will also close 12 factories,
including Tafarnaubach and Cross Keys plants in South Wales.  Tata Steel’s net loss, including that of its European unit,
was 65.3 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) in the quarter ended
March 31, compared with a profit of 4.33 billion rupees a year
earlier. Interest expenses on debt outstanding at the company,
part of India’s largest business group, rose 4 percent in the
last financial year to 39.7 billion rupees, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Asset Sale  Tata Steel sold units worth 100 million pounds ($152
million) in Europe last year and is investing in an iron ore
project in  Canada  from which shipments will probably start in
the quarter beginning January. The company, which buys almost
all of its raw material needs in Europe, is searching mostly for
coking coal assets in different parts of the world, including
 Australia , Managing Director Hemant Madhusudan Nerurkar said in
an interview.  “For strategic reasons we’d like to secure metallurgical
coal mines, he said. “These don’t come easily. I can’t buy
assets at ridiculously high prices.”  The company has a 35 percent stake in  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s Benga
coking coal project in  Mozambique  that gives it a right to
procure 40 percent of the mine’s output. Shipments from Benga
started in June 2012 and about 300,000 tons of coking coal has
been dispatched in the last year, Chatterjee told analysts after
earnings on May 23.  There have been delays in ramping up rail and port
infrastructure, which affected the first phase of the Benga
project, he said that day. About 1 million tons of coking coal
is expected from the mine in 2013, he said.  Bond Risk  Tata Steel’s bond risk is rising from a 20-month low after
the loss last quarter, eroding its ability to repay $5 billion
in debt due by the end of 2015. The company, which had
liabilities minus cash of $9.7 billion as of March 31, is
borrowing more as it expands capacity in India.  The company plans to spend  $2.5 billion  this financial year
on projects including a new plant in the eastern state of Odisha,
Chatterjee said. The factory will take the company’s Indian
capacity to 16 million tons by 2016, at par with its current
European capacity.  Tata Steel incurs lower costs in India, compared with its
European operations mainly because it sources all of its  iron
ore  and about half of its coking coal requirements from its own
mines. In its Indian operations, the company withstood declining
prices in the last quarter to boost revenue by lifting output 26
percent and shipments 29 percent from a year earlier.  Rising volumes at higher per-ton earnings in India “de-risks structurally” the Tata Steel group from the challenges in
Europe, Chatterjee told analysts last month.  “The volatility is higher in our European business due to
weak macro conditions,” he said in the interview. “Our
measures especially in Europe as well as the ramping up of the
Indian operations and getting more volume in India in due course
will help increasing ROIC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  