-- Aussie Dollar Rebounds With Bond Yields as China Concern Eases
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-06-03T06:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/aussie-dollar-rebounds-on-china-manufacturing-after-monthly-drop.html
Australia ’s dollar and government
bond yields climbed amid signs that a slowdown in China is
bottoming out, easing concern demand for commodities will
decrease in Asia’s biggest economy.  The Aussie gained against all of its 16 major peers after
official Chinese data over the weekend showed manufacturing
accelerated and as a technical indicator signaled a recent
decline in the currency was overdone. Local 10-year bond yields
rose before a Reserve Bank of Australia policy meeting tomorrow,
when the central bank will probably keep the benchmark rate at a
record-low 2.75 percent, economists forecast.  The manufacturing report published June 1 was “the first
seemingly positive bit of economic news that we’d had from  China 
for some time,” said Ray Attrill, the global co-head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney.
“There’s a chance that we can push a little bit higher,” he
said, referring to the Aussie.  Australia’s dollar added 0.8 percent to 96.49 U.S. cents as
of 4:36 p.m. in Sydney after posting a 7.7 percent tumble in
May, the biggest monthly slump since September 2011. New
Zealand’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 79.75 U.S. cents following
a 7.2 percent decline last month.  The 14-day relative-strength index for the Aussie against
the U.S. dollar slid to as low as 19.5 last month, a level
unseen since May 2010, and was at 25.5 on May 31. Readings below
30 indicate an asset’s price has fallen too rapidly and is set
for a rebound.  Chinese Economy  The Purchasing Managers’ Index of Chinese manufacturing
advanced to 50.8 in May from 50.6 the prior month, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on June 1. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
had forecast 50, which marks the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  A separate report today from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed that their PMI for China’s manufacturing fell
to 49.2 last month from 50.4 in April. China is Australia’s
biggest export market.  Retail sales  in Australia rose 0.2 percent in April from a
month earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.
Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent increase.  The RBA may lower  borrowing costs  in the coming 12 months
by 34 basis points, according to data from Credit Suisse Group
AG on overnight-index swap rates. That compares with the
reduction of 56 basis points expected on April 30.  Bond Yields  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year note climbed six
basis points to 3.42 percent today, extending its gain from the
seven-month low of 3.01 percent set on May 2. Even so, the  yield
premium  that investors can get by holding the nation’s debt over
U.S. Treasuries has shrunk in the past two months, decreasing to
1.16 percentage points last week, the least since November 2008.  Futures traders increased their  bearish bets  on the
Australian dollar to the most in almost a year. Demand for the
Aussie and other higher-yielding currencies was damped amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will scale down its bond-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, driving U.S.
debt rates higher.  The number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on a decline in the Aussie outnumbered those on a
gain by 42,307 in the week ended May 28, the most for so-called
net shorts since June 12, 2012, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Investors should sell Australia’s dollar against the
greenback as policy makers in the U.S. look to taper monetary
easing, according to HSBC.  “The dollar will continue to find support given the
ongoing debate over the Fed and QE tapering, especially versus
the Aussie,”  Paul Mackel , HSBC’s head of Asian currency
research in Hong Kong, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  