-- Australia Needs to Restart Debate to Become Republic, Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-03T03:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/australia-needs-to-restart-debate-to-become-republic-swan-says.html
Advocates for an Australian republic
need to start convincing people now that someone locally-born
should replace Queen Elizabeth II as head of state, Deputy Prime
Minister Wayne Swan said.  “How can it be in a modern democracy that any one of our
citizens can’t aspire to be our head of state?” Swan said today
in a speech in Canberra. “How can it be that the sole
qualification to be the head of state is an inherited privilege?
It is simply astounding that we are still stuck in that
discussion.”  Decades of debate over whether  Australia , founded by the
British in 1788 as a penal colony and now the world’s 12th-largest economy, should be a republic peaked in 1999, when a
referendum on the matter was defeated. Since then the republican
movement has stagnated, with Prime Minister Julia Gillard, whose
minority Labor government trails in polls ahead of the Sept. 14
election, saying the nation shouldn’t consider such a move
during Queen Elizabeth’s reign.  While opinion polls before the 1999 referendum showed
three-quarters of Australians wanted to break ties with Britain,
they were split over what form a republic should take.
Monarchists joined those republicans who wanted to directly
elect a president to defeat the model offered in that vote, in
which a ceremonial president would be chosen by the parliament.  “The world remains bemused that Australia doesn’t have its
own head of state, but it’s an issue that’s managed to divide
even supporters of a republic,” Nick Economou, a political
analyst at Monash University in  Melbourne , said by phone today.
“Swan is playing a long game to get this back into the public
consciousness, because it’s lost mainstream support and won’t be
a factor at this election.”  Windsor Castle  Swan today called for a two-stage process with a vote to
determine the best model for a republic, including the method of
choosing a head of state and setting out their powers. That
would be followed by a vote on becoming a republic, he said to
mark the release of the book “Project Republic: Plans and
Arguments for a New Australia.”  “With the economic and political balance now shifting to
our part of the world, the idea of an Australian head of state
who resides in  Windsor Castle  outside  London  seems very far-fetched,” Swan said. “This is the right time to make a big
statement on the global stage.”  The republican argument has support from some members of
the conservative Liberal-National opposition. Still, opposition
lawmaker Malcolm Turnbull, the head of the Australian Republican
Movement during the 1999 referendum, said the issue wouldn’t
feature in the election as there were “more immediate issues.”  ‘Best Chance’  “It isn’t an issue of the hour for determination, at least
for most Australians,” Turnbull said, adding a successful push
toward a local head of state would need to start with convincing
the population of the right model. “Our best chance for having
a referendum that could win would be after the end of the
Queen’s reign.”  The popularity of the royal family, which was criticized in
the late 1990s for its reaction to the death of Diana, the
Princess of  Wales , has risen since the 1999 referendum. Queen
Elizabeth, 87, last year celebrated her Diamond Jubilee, which
marks 60 years on the throne.  “It is not the question at the forefront of people’s
minds,” Gillard said in a February 2012 BBC interview when
asked about the prospects of becoming a republic. “Ultimately I
believe Australians will have their say again on our ongoing
constitutional arrangements, but it’s not the center of national
life or national debate at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  