-- Australian April Retail Sales Rise Less Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-03T01:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/australian-april-retail-sales-rise-less-than-economists-forecast.html
Australian retail sales rose less
than economists forecast in April as weaker spending at
department stores partly offset higher outlays on clothing and
footwear.  Sales climbed 0.2 percent to A$21.9 billion ($21 billion)
from a month earlier, when they fell 0.4 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists for
a 0.3 percent gain.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his
board slashed borrowing costs by 2 percentage points over the
past 20 months to 2.75 percent, joining global counterparts in
embracing record-low rates to combat currency strength. The
nation’s benchmark stock index has fallen in two of the past
three months and the government in May projected a deficit of
A$19.4 billion this fiscal year.  “Anecdotal reports suggest retail sales rose in April,
although we expect growth to continue moderating,”  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  economists led by Bill Evans, who predicted a 0.2
percent increase, said in a research report before the release.  The local dollar was little changed at 96.28 U.S. cents at
11:37 a.m. in Sydney.  Spending at department stores fell 2 percent, and household
goods dropped 0.6 percent, today’s report showed. Consumers
spent 1.8 percent more on clothing, footwear and personal
accessories and 0.5 percent more on food, it showed.  Slowing Growth  “Growth in economic activity was still expected to be a
little below trend this year,” the RBA said in minutes of its
May policy meeting. “The near-term forecast reflected the
slowing in overall business investment, given the peak in the
mining investment boom along with the effects of fiscal
consolidation and the high level of the exchange rate.”  Australia ’s gross domestic product growth will slow to 2.6
percent in 2013, down from 3 percent projected in November, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
May 29 report. With the economy slowing, the government’s
“gradual approach” to reducing the public deficit is welcome,
it said.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department
store company, reported last week that quarterly sales fell to
an eight-year low, weighed down by competition and warm winter
weather. Sales in the three months ended April 27 dropped 2.2
percent from a year earlier to A$391 million, David Jones said
in a statement May 27, the lowest since the same quarter of the
Sydney-based company’s 2005 financial year.  Australian  consumer confidence  slumped in May by the most
in 17 months as a government announcement the budget would
remain in deficit overshadowed low rates, a private report
showed May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  