-- Lawmakers Benefit From Farm Subsidies Congress Seeks to Overhaul
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/lawmakers-benefit-from-farm-subsidies-congress-seeks-to-overhaul.html
Fifteen members of the U.S. House and
Senate or their spouses benefited from federal  farm subsidies 
last year, underscoring a personal stake for some lawmakers in a
congressional debate that resumes this week over spending on
agriculture programs.  Representative Stephen Fincher, a Tennessee Republican and
member of the House Agriculture Committee that has approved a
rewrite of farm programs, was the biggest recipient of the
subsidies last year, according to an analysis by the
Environmental Working Group, a group that seeks lower farm
subsidies. Fincher and his wife, Lynn, own 50 percent of a farm
and received $70,574 in direct farm subsidies last year, the
group said.  The second biggest recipient was Representative Doug LaMalfa, a California Republican and agriculture panel member
who, along with his wife, Jill, is part owner of a farm that
received direct payments of $62,857.  “There are many issues before congress that correlate with
members’ personal lives; doctors vote on healthcare reform,
farmers vote on the farm bill and teachers vote on education
funding,” said Mark Spannagel, chief of staff to LaMalfa, in an
e-mail. LaMalfa has advocated ending the farm payment system and
the bill the house is working on would do so, he said.  Other lawmakers who benefited included Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican and Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah
Republican, the EWG said.  Debate Resumes  Both chambers this month will debate competing versions of
a five-year measure reauthorizing $500 million in U.S.
Department of Agriculture programs, with the Senate this week
resuming work on its legislation. Crop subsidies benefiting
buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  food stamps 
subsidizing purchases at  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  are prime targets for
lawmakers seeking to trim the  U.S. budget deficit .  The House may consider its measure later this month.  Of the 15 lawmakers, only two -- Senator Jon Tester of
 Montana  and Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado -- are Democrats.
Eight of them sit on the agriculture committees in Congress.  Among other recipients, Representative David Valadao, a
California Republican, reaped $28,077 last year through direct
farm payments and subsidies from a milk program, the
environmental group estimated. Valadao and his wife own a
portion of two dairy farms.  Tester and his wife received $21,281 in direct payments and
conservation reserve program payments last year. The two jointly
own T-Bone Farms.  Aderholt, Noem  Among other lawmakers:  Representative Robert Aderholt, an Alabama Republican,
benefited indirectly because of his wife’s part ownership of a
farm, through which she received $4,559 in subsidies in 2012,
the EWG estimated.  Representative Kristi Noem, a South Dakota Republican,
received $1,400 in direct payments last year, based on her part
ownership of Racota Valley Ranch. Noem is on the House
Agriculture Committee.  Representative Vicky Hartzler, a Missouri Republican and
agriculture panel member, is beneficiary of a trust that
received $1,383 in direct payments and benefits from a
conservation reserve fund last year, the group said. The trust
owns 98 percent of Hartzler Farms.  Other Lawmakers  Representative  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican,
benefited indirectly through payments to his wife, Lynda, who
received $14,584 in disaster payments last year, the group
found. He sits on the House Agriculture Committee.  Vicky Sheldon Kline, the wife of Representative  John Kline ,
a Minnesota Republican, received $605 in conservation reserve
payments last year, the EWG said. She is 20 percent owner of
Sheldon Family Farms LP.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and
member of the agriculture committee, received a 2012 direct
payment of $339.  Representative Marlin Stutzman, an Indiana Republican,
received a direct farm payment of $6,654 last year, the group
said.  Representative Mac Thornberry, a Texas Republican and one-third owner of Thornberry Brothers farm, received $9,181 in 2012
in direct and disaster aid payments.  Bennet’s wife, Susan Daggett, received $2,107 in
agriculture subsidies last year based on her partial ownership
of two farms. Bennet, of  Colorado , is a member of the Senate
Agriculture Committee.  Grassley, another Senate Agriculture Committee lawmaker,
received $9,935 in direct and conservation reserve payments last
year, the group said.  Hatch’s wife, Elaine, received $10,506 in direct and
conservation reserve payments last year to a farm in which she
owns a share, the group estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  