-- Surprise Factory Downturn Holds Back U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-06-03T20:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/may-ism-manufacturing-index-decreased-to-49-from-50-7-in-april.html
Manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in May at the fastest pace in four years,
showing slowdowns in business and government spending are
holding back the world’s largest economy.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
49, the lowest reading since June 2009, from the prior month’s
50.7, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today.
Fifty is the dividing line between growth and contraction. The
 median  forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51.  Across-the-board  federal budget  cuts and overseas markets
that are struggling to rebound will probably continue to curb
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy. At the same time, demand for automobiles, gains in
 residential construction  and lean inventories may spark a pickup
in orders and production in the second half of the year.  “Manufacturing is really stymied by slow corporate
spending and government spending cutbacks,” said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, who was the only analyst in the Bloomberg survey
to correctly project the drop in the index. “Manufacturing will
grow at a modest pace this year” although it “is unlikely to
accelerate in coming months,” LeBas said. “This is part of the
slower expansion we’ll have in the second quarter.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 49 to 54.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose, erasing earlier losses, after Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said central bank
officials are committed to record stimulus measures. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,640.42 at
the close in  New York  after posting its first consecutive weekly
losses since November.  Other reports today showed most manufacturers globally were
also struggling. Figures from  China  indicated small factories
contracted at a faster pace in May even as larger counterparts
improved.  Euro-area manufacturing output shrank less than initially
estimated last month. A gauge in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 48.3 last month from 46.7 in April, Markit
Economics said. That’s above an initial estimate of 47.8 on May
23. It’s been lower than 50 since July 2011.  The U.S. ISM index was pushed down by declines in orders
and  production  and smaller gains in exports. The group’s
 employment  gauge was little changed at just above the break-even
level of 50.  Lockhart’s View  Lockhart said the ISM report was an example of the “very
mixed” readings that indicate the economy isn’t strong enough
to justify a reduction in the central bank’s bond-buying
program.  “I’m not getting a clear picture of an economy that really
is tracking with considerable momentum,” Lockhart said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview in New York with  Michael McKee .  “I’d tend to be a little more cautious, and say maybe
August, September or later in the year” would be time to
consider slowing purchases. “The issue can be on the table in
any of those meetings.” The policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  said May 1 that it will keep buying $85 billion a
month in bonds to bolster growth and cut unemployment.  Pall Corp. (PLL) , a producer of water-filtration and purification
systems, is among manufacturers cautious about sales as global
demand remains uneven.  While demand in the U.S. is holding up, “not all markets
and geographies are working well,” Lawrence Kingsley, chief
executive officer of the  Port Washington , New York-based
company, said on a May 31 earnings conference call. “The macro-environment continues to be a mixed one.”  Construction Figures  One area of the economy that remains a bright spot is
residential real-estate as sales climb and encourage more
homebuilding projects.  Spending on construction  increased  0.4 percent in April to
an $860.8 billion annualized rate, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today. Outlays on private construction
projects rose 1 percent in April from the month before.
Government projects fell by 1.2 percent, to the lowest spending
level since October 2006, after slumping in the prior month by a
revised 2.9 percent.  Ten of 18 industries in the ISM factory survey grew last
month, down from 14 in April, according to today’s report. Some
of those contracting included larger groups including chemicals
and transportation.  Sales Outlook  The report is at odds with the group’s semiannual survey
issued at the end of April, a sign the slump may be short-lived,
Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the group’s factory committee, said
in a conference call today with reporters. Manufacturers then
projected sales would grow 4.8 percent this year, up from a
December estimate of 4.6 percent.  “We’ve hit a little bit of a pothole,” Holcomb said.
“Hopefully, this is a momentary lull.”  Automobile purchases may help keep assembly lines running
as households use low borrowing costs to replace older vehicles.
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , Chrysler Group LLC, and Nissan Motor Co. today
reported May sales gains that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
industry tally, to be released later, may show purchases of cars
and light trucks improved last month from a 14.9 million annual
rate in April, according to economists surveyed.  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK) , a Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based
maker of factory automation software, is benefiting as
businesses strive to improve productivity and reduce costs.  Global Outlook  Among regions, “the U.S. and  Canada  are stable and we
continue to see investments across most industries,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith Nosbusch said during a May 31 conference
presentation. “Automotive looks solid for the next several
quarters” and  capital spending  in consumer-related industries
is “stable,” he said.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.4 percent annualized
rate in the first three months of 2013, figures showed last
week. While inventory accumulation was slower than initially
estimated, providing less of a boost to the economy, it sets the
stage for growth this quarter as higher sales may prompt more
stockpiling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  