-- Haymarket Financial Said to Plan European CLO to Replace Deal
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-03T14:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/haymarket-financial-said-to-plan-european-clo-to-replace-deal.html
Haymarket Financial LLP, a London-based lender and money manager, plans to raise a collateralized
loan obligation of more than 300 million euros ($390 million),
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The deal will refinance an existing CLO transaction, HayFin
Ruby Luxembourg Sarl, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deal is private. Natixis is arranging the
new deal.  Sheena Shah, a spokeswoman for Haymarket who works for
Brunswick Group LLP, declined to comment on the financing.
Andrea Pucnik, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Natixis, hasn’t
returned an e-mail and telephone call seeking comment.  HayFin Ruby CLO, raised in September 2011, comprised 200
million euros of AAA rated notes and as much as 333 million
euros of unrated subordinated securities,  Standard & Poor’s   said 
Oct. 2011. Earlier this year S&P said the CLO had 260 million
euros of performing assets and generated spread of 546 basis
points, or 5.46 percentage points, up from 440 basis points in
2011.  The CLO’s reinvestment period, after which it can no longer
buy debt, was due to end in March this year, S&P said.  Haymarket was founded in 2009 backed by investors including
TowerBrook Capital Partners LP, Canada-based Public Sector
Pension Investment Board and OMERS Private Equity Inc.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  