-- Barcelona Says Neymar Cost Spanish Soccer Champion $75 Million
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-03T18:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/barcelona-says-neymar-cost-spanish-soccer-champion-75-million.html
Spanish soccer champion  Barcelona 
paid 57 million euros ($74.6 million) to sign Brazilian striker
Neymar from Santos, teams Vice President Josep Maria Bartolomeu
said today.  Neymar, 21, flew into Barcelona to meet the media a day
after playing for Brazil in a 2-2 draw against  England  in Rio de
Janeiro. He said he signed a five-year contract with Barcelona
on May 26.  The transfer fee for Neymar is being split between Santos,
which owned 55 percent of his economic rights, and two other
investors. Supermarket owner Delcir Sonda’s company DIS paid 5.5
million reais ($2.6 million) in 2009 for a 40 percent stake in
Neymar’s transfer rights, and Terceira Estrela Investimentos
S.A. in 2011 acquired a 5 percent stake for 3.5 million reais in
2011.  At a news conference, Bartolomeu didn’t provide a breakdown
of the amounts each party would receive as part of the deal,
which also includes two exhibition games between Santos and
Barcelona to be played in  Brazil  and Spain. Barcelona has set a
190 million euro buyout clause in Neymar’s contract, he added.  Barcelona has paid Santos 10 million euros now, and will
pay the remainder of the fee over the next three years.  The Spanish champion had been chasing Neymar for several
seasons after he broke into the Santos first team at 17.
Bartomeu said Barcelona initially budgeted 40 million euros for
the striker but had to raise the offer because of competition
from other clubs. Santos said last month it accepted two offers
for Neymar, with local media reporting Real  Madrid  as the other
bidder.  Real Madrid president Florentino Perez told the Cadena Ser
radio station last month that signing Neymar would have been too
costly for his club, the world’s richest soccer team by sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  