-- Barrick Says Pascua-Lama Output Delayed Past 2014 Target
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-06-04T20:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/barrick-says-pascua-lama-output-delayed-past-2014-target.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest gold miner, said production at its Pascua-Lama project
won’t start in the second half of 2014 as planned because of
demands from Chile’s environmental agency.  The delay at the mine on the border of Chile and Argentina
is expected to lead to higher capital costs, the Toronto-based
company said yesterday in a filing. Barrick raised the cost
estimate for the project twice last year, to as much as $8.5
billion, and said output would be delayed by more than a year
from its previous forecast.  Chile’s environmental regulator, known as SMA, fined
Barrick last month and ordered work to protect nearby water
supplies before construction on the Chilean side of the project
can resume. Work was stopped by a Chilean court in April after
it accepted an injunction filed by indigenous communities
concerned about damage to glaciers.  “The company is in the process of reviewing the SMA
resolution in detail and is in discussions with Chilean
authorities regarding the implications,” it said in the filing.
“Barrick is unable to fully assess the impact of the SMA
resolution on the capital budget, operating costs and schedule
of the Pascua-Lama project at this time.”  Barrick dropped 1.7 percent to C$21.57 at the close in
Toronto.  Fine Paid  Pascua-Lama was expected to produce an average of 800,000
to 850,000 ounces of gold annually in its first five years of
production, the company said on its website. That’s equivalent
to about 11 percent of the company’s forecast output this year.
The mine will also produce silver.  Barrick will work as fast as it can to satisfy the Chilean
authorities and regulations, Co-Chairman John Thornton said in
Toronto on May 31 after a speech by Chilean President Sebastian Pinera. The project will go forward, Thornton said.  The company paid a fine of about $12 million related to
non-compliance in the construction of the water-management
system in  Chile  and some associated reporting requirements, Andy Lloyd, a spokesman for Barrick, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  