-- Bills’ Hall of Famer Jim Kelly Says He Has Jaw-Bone Cancer
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-03T14:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/bills-hall-of-famer-jim-kelly-says-he-has-cancer-in-jaw-bone.html
Hall of Fame quarterback Jim Kelly
said he was diagnosed with cancer in his upper jaw bone and that
his prognosis for recovery is very good.  Kelly, who led the Buffalo Bills to four straight Super
Bowl appearances from 1991 to 1994, said he was recently
diagnosed with Squamous-cell carcinoma that is isolated in his
upper jaw and that he will have surgery on June 7, according to
a statement released through the Pro Football Hall of Fame.  “With the excellent medical care that I will be receiving
and the loving care of my wife, Jill, and my daughters, Erin and
Camryn, and the support of my entire family and friends, I am
extremely confident in my road to recovery,” Kelly said. “I
plan to tackle this challenge head on, as we Kellys always do,
with toughness, perseverance and faith.”  The 53-year-old Kelly was inducted into the Canton, Ohio-based Hall of Fame in 2002 after playing his entire NFL career
with the Bills, from 1986 to 1996. Kelly was named a first-team
All-Pro in 1991. His 35,467 career passing yards rank 18th in
NFL history, while his 237 touchdowns thrown are 20th.  The Bills selected Kelly with the 14th pick in the 1983 NFL
draft in a first round that included six quarterbacks, with
fellow Hall of Fame passer John Elway the top choice. Kelly
opted to join the United States Football League, playing for the
Houston Gamblers for two seasons before the league folded.  No-Huddle  The Bills, with Hall of Fame running back Thurman Thomas
and standout wide receiver Andre Reed, excelled at the no-huddle
offense under Kelly. They also became the only team in league
history to lose four straight Super Bowls. The first defeat was
20-19 to the  New York  Giants that was decided when Scott Norwood
missed a 47-yard field-goal try with nine seconds left that
would have given Buffalo the lead, and they also dropped title
games to the Washington Redskins and twice to the Dallas
Cowboys.  Kelly also has worked to increased awareness about Globoid-Cell Leukodystrophy, or Krabbe disease, which claimed the life
of his son, Hunter, at age 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  