-- Blackhawks Beat Kings 4-2 to Take 2-0 Lead in NHL Playoff Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-03T04:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/blackhawks-beat-kings-4-2-to-take-2-0-lead-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  Chicago Blackhawks  defeated the
Los Angeles Kings 4-2 in Game 2 of the  National Hockey League ’s
Western Conference finals, scoring less than two minutes after
the opening faceoff and knocking out Kings goaltender Jonathan Quick midway through the second period.  Andrew Shaw, Brent Seabrook, Bryan Bickell and Michal Handzus scored goals for the top-seeded Blackhawks, who got
points from 10 different players last night in Chicago to take a
two-games-to-none lead.  The best-of-seven playoff series now shifts to Los Angeles,
where the Kings are 7-0 in the postseason and have won 14
straight overall. The Kings, who won the Stanley Cup last year
as a No. 8 seed, host Game 3 tomorrow.  “You’ve got to keep your foot on the gas and keep going,”
Shaw told reporters. “We’ve got some momentum.”  The Blackhawks-Kings winner advances to the  Stanley Cup 
Final to face either the  Pittsburgh Penguins  or Boston Bruins.
The Penguins host Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals after
a 3-0 loss in the opener.  Shaw scored one minute, 56 seconds into last night’s game
at the United Center to give the Blackhawks the lead. Seabrook
made it 2-0 with 51 seconds left in the first period before
Bickell and Handzus scored just over two minutes apart midway
through the second.  Quick allowed four goals on 17 shots for the Kings before
being pulled in favor of Jonathan Bernier.  “That was a real good start,” Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said at a news conference. “It certainly put us in
a very good spot. Now we’re going to be going to a hostile
environment. A quick start is going to be important.”  Jeff Carter  scored for Los Angeles with just over a minute
left in the second period, while Tyler Toffoli added a goal with
1:02 remaining in the third period.  The Kings lost their first two games this postseason in  St.
Louis  before winning four straight to eliminate the Blues.  “They’re the Stanley Cup champions for a reason,” Bickell
said. “They’re a great home team, so we just have to bring the
mindset like we had here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  