-- BlackRock Warns of Regulating Market Indexes After Libor
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-04T10:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/blackrock-warns-of-regulating-market-indexes-after-libor.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, warned against over-regulation of market indexes
in the wake of the London interbank offered rate-rigging
scandal.  Most indexes are based on transaction data and would be
burdened by extra costs if they are subject to regulation,
BlackRock managing directors  Richard Prager  and Stephen Fisher
said in a  response  to proposals from the International
Organization of Securities Commissions to reform global
benchmarks.  “BlackRock remains particularly cautious about a far-reaching regulatory regime for market indices since this would
likely result in significant additional cost for index
providers,” Prager and Fisher said in a letter dated May 16 and
released yesterday by Iosco. “The cost would ultimately be
passed onto the end investor, undermining the core benefits of
low-cost passive funds, whilst presenting barriers to entry for
new market participants.”  Global regulators are working on alternatives to Libor
after U.S. and U.K. officials uncovered attempts by banks to
manipulate the benchmark rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined a total of about $2.5
billion and at least a dozen firms remain under investigation.  Gensler, Wheatley  Iosco received more than 40 responses to the  consultation ,
which was led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Chief
Executive Officer Martin Wheatley. Madrid-based Iosco, which
brings together markets regulators for more than 100 nations to
coordinate their rule-making, will publish final standards later
this year.  Barclays and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , two of Britain’s
biggest banks, called on Iosco to modify or drop rules they said
would prevent traders from submitting data to benchmarks.  IOSCO’s proposal “would include many types of reference
price-setting process which are submission-based and where the
relevant staff who are most qualified to make a meaningful
submission, will necessarily be the same staff who are trading
instruments which may price with reference to that benchmark,”
 Standard Chartered  said in its response, citing the example of
spot currency rates.  Barclays Fine  Barclays, which was fined 290 million pounds ($445 million)
almost a year ago for rigging Libor, also said external audits
of benchmarks shouldn’t be published publicly, but only released
to a “stakeholder” or regulator on request.  CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures exchange, said
regulators should scale back the range of benchmarks covered by
the plans, warning that a “vague and over-ambitious scope will
pose challenges to any market participant or regulatory agency
seeking to put the final principles into practice.”  Benchmarks underpinning equity markets and other exchange-traded products should be excluded from the rules because they
are already properly regulated, CME said.  Other interbank lending rates, as well as benchmarks used
in the $379 trillion swaps market, have also come in for
scrutiny.  CFTC Probe  The U.S. CFTC is probing suspected rigging of the ISDAFix
rate used as reference for derivatives trades. European Union
antitrust regulators visited  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
Platts last month as part of a probe into manipulation of the
published prices of oil and biofuel products.  U.K. regulatory oversight of Libor was handed to Wheatley’s
FCA about six months after he proposed wide-ranging changes to
the benchmark  interest rate  in September. The Wheatley Review
recommended scrapping more than 100 Libor rates tied to
currencies and maturities where there isn’t enough trading data
to set them properly.  Iosco responded to the interbank-rate scandal last year by
announcing the  task force , which is reviewing benchmarks across
different financial sectors. The Iosco proposals extend to
dozens more rates than the Libor-style interest benchmarks that
the Wheatley report was limited to.  BlackRock said it is important that regulators
differentiate between rate benchmarks, like Libor and Euribor,
that are based on estimates, and market indexes based on
financial data.  “Such a distinction is additionally appropriate since
providers of market indices are commercially incentivized to
ensure that their index tracks the relevant market as closely as
possible,” the New York-based firm said.  ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial company, in
contrast  welcomed  tougher rules around rate setting. “A
benchmark should be based on actual trade data to avoid
subjectivity,” ING said in its submission.  “Governance for contributing banks needs to include robust
processes and effective controls specifying concrete parameters
to contribute rates,” the Amsterdam-based bank said.  Examples of specific benchmarks other than interbank
lending rates include ISDAFix, and the Overnight Index Swap,
both used in the derivatives markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  