-- BOE's Bailey Says Mixed Credit Data Reflect Policy Lag
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/boe-s-bailey-says-mixed-credit-data-reflect-policy-lag.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Andrew Bailey  said weak growth in credit partly reflects a need
to deal with existing debt and doesn’t necessarily indicate a
failure of central bank policy.  “We are determined to put behind us the legacy of issues
that have called into question the capital position of banks
during the crisis,” Bailey, chief executive officer of the
Prudential Regulation Authority, said in a speech in London
today. “The evidence in credit creation is so far mixed, which
is not in my view a mark of the failure of policy since this
operates with a lag.”  U.K. overall lending declined 300 million pounds ($460
million) in the first quarter, according to data published today
on the BOE’s Funding for Lending Scheme, designed to ease access
to credit. The  central bank  and the U.K. Treasury extended the
program in April to target small and medium-sized companies and
cement the economic recovery.  Bailey said a pickup in credit to these borrowers will
depend on the economic outlook and borrowers’ perceptions of
credit availability. In assessing the merits of the FLS since it
started in August, he said its record “needs to be judged
against a worse outlook for lending a year ago.” He also said
that more focus is required “on the consequences of debt
overhangs linked to commercial property in those parts of the
market where there are problems.”  “Incentives to lend to SMEs are therefore in place, no
doubt about that,” he said. “But we cannot promise that the
results will follow almost as night follows day, because there
is more to it than that.”  Capital Levels  U.K. regulators have been assessing banks’ capital as they
work to improve financial stability, and Bailey said officials
will tell individual firms their shortfalls in the coming weeks.  While  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  said last month they could meet  capital requirements 
without needing to raise new equity, Bailey said this did not
mean they have been “let off the hook.”  “Both of those institutions have come a long way from
their original business plans and are consequently much safer,”
he said. “These banks have agreed to do what we have asked and
we will hold them to that. This is a regulator’s promise.”  Bailey said the new regulatory efforts need not come at the
expense of the economic recovery.  “Our objective is not to achieve resilience at any cost,”
he said. “Our actions must not have a significant adverse
effect on the capacity of the financial sector to contribute to
the growth of the U.K. economy in the medium or long term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  