-- BofA $8 Billion Mortgage Deal Before Judge After 2 Years
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-06-03T22:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/bofa-8-billion-mortgage-deal-before-judge-after-2-years.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s $8.5 billion
settlement with mortgage-bond investors is being considered by a
New York judge two years after the lender struck the deal to
resolve claims over home loans bundled into securities.  Opening statements began today before Justice Barbara Kapnick in State Supreme Court in  Manhattan . The settlement is
part of an effort by Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan to
clear up liabilities tied to the purchase of home lender
Countrywide Financial in 2008.  While the deal has the backing of an investor group that
includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , it must overcome opposition from
investors led by  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  who argue
Bank of America isn’t paying enough.  “The settlement is the centerpiece of the strategy to
resolving Countrywide’s mortgage liability,” said  Isaac
Gradman , a mortgage-finance litigator at Perry, Johnson,
Anderson, Miller & Moskowitz LLP in  Santa Rosa ,  California , who
isn’t involved in the case. “It’s imperative they get this
approved or there’s going to be a lot more pain down the road.”  For Moynihan, 53, approval of the settlement would resolve
one of the biggest remaining uncertainties tied to  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America’s takeover of Countrywide,
said Pri de Silva, senior banking analyst at CreditSights Inc.  Fannie Mae  The bank reached an $11.7 billion settlement with mortgage-finance company Fannie Mae in January and ended disputes with
bond insurers including  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , which settled for $1.7
billion with the lender in May. What remains for Moynihan are
claims from private investors, and the 2011 accord deals with
most of those, de Silva said.  “I’m sure he’ll be a pretty happy camper if it gets
approved,” de Silva said. “This ends one chapter in the
mortgage saga for Moynihan.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee seeking approval
of the agreement on behalf of investors, agreed to the
settlement because it was the “only reasonable choice,”
 Matthew Ingber , an attorney for the bank, told Kapnick. The bank
took a certain payment over the risk of years of litigation
against Bank of America.  ‘Chose Finality’  “It chose certainty. It chose finality. It chose a
settlement that was more than fair,” Ingber said. “It chose
not to roll the dice.”  Investors supporting the settlement and opponents are
scheduled to make their opening statements tomorrow.  If the settlement is rejected, Bank of America will either
have to negotiate a costlier agreement with the investor group,
or deal with individual bondholders in a way that “could drag
out the process for years,”  Betsy Graseck , a Morgan Stanley
analyst, said in an April 23 research note.  Moynihan called the deal, which stems from Countrywide
loans with an original principal balance of $424 billion, “a
major milestone in a March 27 interview on PBS television’s
“Charlie Rose” program. He has booked more than $45 billion in
costs to clean up  the mortgage mess  inherited from the purchase
of Countrywide.  “If you think about the pie, or the piece being this big,
we’ve been chopping it down to less and less,” Moynihan said in
the interview. “There’s a couple pieces of mortgage litigation
left, but the lion’s share of it has gone through” the bank’s
earnings, he said.  Unresolved Demands  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages dropped 39 percent to $17.1 billion as of March 31,
driven by demands extinguished in the  Fannie Mae  deal, according
to company  filings .  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment about the court hearing on the settlement.  AIG and other opponents have asked Kapnick in court papers
to reject the settlement. They call it a “pennies-on-the-dollar
bargain” for the bank because losses to the securitization
trusts at issue in the case are expected to be more than $100
billion.  They also claim  BNY Mellon  violated its responsibilities to
investors by putting its own interests and the interests of its
“business partner,” Bank of America, ahead of the interests of
investors.  “The trustee acted unreasonably by failing to investigate
material facts, by failing to use its leverage to obtain a
larger settlement and by merely rubber stamping a settlement
that was negotiated by a minority investor group,” the
opponents said.  ‘Vocal Minority’  The investor group supporting the deal, which also includes
Pacific Investment Management Co., Goldman Sachs Asset
Management and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , called the opponents a “vocal
minority.” Out of tens of thousands of investors, only 10 filed
objections, they said in court papers, and many of them,
including New York-based AIG, are pursuing separate litigation
against Bank of America and BNY Mellon.  “Rejection of this landmark settlement would plunge
thousands of innocent investors and hundreds of trusts into
decades of potentially fruitless litigation that could well end
in Countrywide’s bankruptcy and a resulting scramble among its
creditors over assets which are far less than the $8.5 billion
payment,” they said.  Court Rulings  Gradman said the claims are worth more than $8.5 billion
and that assumptions used to justify the settlement have been
undermined by court rulings since the deal was reached. The
investor group and BNY Mellon agreed to the settlement to avoid
a drawn-out fight with Bank of America and preserve business
relationships with the lender, Gradman said.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to comment on
that claim, and lawyers for the investor group backing the
settlement didn’t respond to requests for comment on it.  The advantage for Bank of America and the supporters is
that the standard for approval is whether BNY Mellon’s decision
to enter into the settlement was reasonable. That’s a
deferential standard that will be difficult for opponents to
overcome, whatever the settlement’s flaws, said Gradman.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
 New York  Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  