-- Bombardier Rallies as CSeries Prepares for First Flight
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-03T20:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/bombardier-rallies-as-cseries-prepares-for-first-flight.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is rallying on
optimism that the CSeries jet, the company’s biggest ever, will
meet a June deadline for its maiden flight after a six-month
delay shook investors’ confidence.  An 18 percent surge in May for the widely traded Class B
shares was the best monthly jump since September 2009. That
pushed Montreal-based Bombardier to a 25 percent gain in 2013,
the third-most among  industrial companies  on Canada’s Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, and the shares rose again today.  Bombardier is counting on the jet as a catalyst for almost
doubling annual revenue by decade’s end. While the CSeries won’t
be at this month’s  Paris Air Show , the highest-profile industry
forum for new models, a June takeoff would help an image marred
by a dearth of orders and a surprise postponement in November a
month before the plane’s planned debut.  “They’re on target with the CSeries, and that’s really
what’s driving the stock now,” said Marc-Andre Robitaille, who
manages about C$760 million ($733 million) in equities for AGF
Investments Inc. in  Montreal  and holds Bombardier stock.
“There’s good momentum to the story.”  Bombardier climbed 1.1 percent to C$4.75 at the close in
Toronto. That added to a  year-to-date jump  for the Class B
shares that outpaced gains through May of 1.7 percent for the
S&P/TSX Index and 16 percent for the 20 stocks on the
industrials sub-index.  CEO’s Assurance  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin affirmed his first-flight target in May, reassuring investors about a program whose
orders are still less than half the goal of 300 planes by next
year’s first delivery. Development costs for the jet may reach
about $3.4 billion, Mike Arcamone, president of Bombardier’s
commercial aircraft unit, said March 7 at a presentation in
Mirabel,  Quebec .  A first flight this month “looks good,” Chet Fuller,
Bombardier’s senior vice president/commercial, said yesterday in
 Cape Town ,  South Africa , before the annual meeting of the
 International Air Transport Association .  The CSeries is intended to compete with the smallest  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  narrow-body jets and will carry as many as
160 people, a step up from Bombardier’s signature regional jets
with fewer than  100 seats . Bombardier cited unspecified supplier
“issues” when it said on Nov. 7 that the December first-flight
timeline was being pushed back by six months. In the days
afterward, the shares slumped to the lowest since March 2009.  ‘Critical Part’  “There was a lot of anxiety as to whether the CSeries was
going to get going,” David Tyerman, an analyst at  Canaccord
Genuity , said in a May 28 telephone interview from Toronto.
“The critical part from an investor standpoint is getting the
plane in the air and into the certification process. There have
been some aerospace programs that have had problems in the last
decade. Execution is the big thing here, as opposed to orders.”  Beaudoin told  Bloomberg News  in March that Bombardier would
forgo displaying the CSeries in Paris in order to finish testing
before the June 30 deadline. A first flight may act as a trigger
for orders as some airlines wait for the plane to get airborne,
said analysts including  Chris Murray  at PI Financial Corp.  “First flight is a major milestone for a lot of people,”
Murray said by phone from Toronto. “If they could announce a
significant number of orders, that would really help the stock.
If orders take off, it could go north of C$7.”  Firm orders through the end of March, the most-recent data
available, totaled 145. Those deals have typically been for
handfuls of planes, compared with the scores or hundreds of jets
common for established single-aisle models from Boeing and
Toulouse, France-based Airbus.  ‘Highly Positive’  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest discount carrier, has
said it’s considering the CSeries, and an order announcement in
Paris “would clearly be highly positive for Bombardier,”
 Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National Bank Financial in
Montreal, said in a May 28 note to clients.  A successful test flight won’t end Bombardier’s challenges
with the plane.  In trying to crack the Boeing-Airbus duopoly, Bombardier is
offering one model against manufacturers making everything from
short-haul, narrow-body planes such as the 737 and A320 up to
long-range wide-bodies including Chicago-based Boeing’s four-engine 747 jumbo jet and Airbus’s A380 doubledecker.  The gap between a first flight and commercial service also
may be longer than Bombardier’s estimate of about a year,
according to Ronald Epstein, an analyst at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York .  Commercial Debuts  New plane programs such as the A380, the 787 Dreamliner and
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s E-190 have taken an average of two years from first
flight to entering commercial service, Epstein wrote in a May 15
note to clients. That suggests a CSeries delivery may not take
place before 2015’s second half, he wrote.  Bombardier continues to expect that the jet will enter
service in mid-2014, said Marc Duchesne, a spokesman for
Bombardier’s aerospace unit.  “The key concern for investors is that the CSeries fails
to take off on time, delaying the associated cash flows,”
Anthony Scilipoti, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in
Toronto, said in a May 10 note. “Bombardier’s stock is not for
the faint of heart, and we recommend staying on the sidelines as
the risk-reward is not yet in your favor.”  John Stephenson , a  fund manager  with First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, said Bombardier’s valuation makes
the shares attractive.  Share Discount  Bombardier traded at a discount of 30 percent to the
S&P/TSX index on a price-earnings basis on May 31, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Relative to the S&P/TSX industrials
index, the discount was 40 percent. The planemaker’s P/E ratio
based on estimated 2013 earnings was 11.6.  “Bombardier is an inexpensive stock,” Stephenson said in
a May 29 telephone interview. “It will do well in a recovering
world. People are seeing a general recovery in  North America ,
particularly the U.S., and that portends well for industrial
stocks such as Bombardier. Its star is on the rise.”  Among 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the company has
ratings of buy or the equivalent from 71 percent, the highest
percentage since October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Murray and Tyerman recommend the stock as a buy while
Doerksen has an outperform rating. Scilipoti had the lone sell
rating in the Bloomberg survey.  Bombardier Aerospace President  Guy Hachey  told investors
March 21 he expects the CSeries to contribute $5 billion to $8
billion in additional sales later this decade, part of a $10
billion to $16 billion annual revenue boost from new products.
Bombardier had  revenue  of $16.8 billion last year.  “We are getting closer to the point where results should
start improving, and that’s generating interest in the story,”
Canaccord Genuity’s Tyerman said. “Toward the end of this year,
things should start to shape up a lot better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  