-- Bonds’ Point of No Return About a Standard Deviation Away
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-03T10:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/bonds-point-of-no-return-about-a-standard-deviation-away-1-.html
The biggest monthly loss in fixed-income securities since 2004 has still left global yields short
of the tipping point that would signal a  bear market  in bonds.  Yields on U.S.  Treasuries (USGG10YR) , German bunds and Japanese
 government bonds  are about one standard deviation above their
historical norm. Treasury 10-year rates have reached two
standard deviations above the average twice since 2009, and each
time the notes rallied. While sovereign yields at 1.39 percent
are above the record low of 1.14 percent set May 2, they are
about half the 3.64 percent average of the past 20 years, based
on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Government Index.  Bonds lost 1.5 percent in May after Federal Reserve policy
makers sent mixed signals about whether they would slow the pace
of their $85 billion a month in debt purchases this year. Tame
 inflation  and lower global growth estimates from the
 International Monetary Fund  indicate the world’s central banks
won’t pull back anytime soon, averting a further rout.  “You’d need much more than these sort of yield increases
to hang your hat on to say this is a start of a bond bear
market,” Robin Marshall, a director of fixed income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in London, which oversees about
$21 billion, said in a May 30 phone interview. “I’ve seen one
in the early 1980s, and this doesn’t look like it. Inflation is
still very low, and we need to see more convincing evidence of
the economy strengthening, not just in the U.S. but elsewhere.”  Gross’s Prediction  While  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
for Pacific Investment Management Co., said May 16 that fixed
income’s three-decade bull market “was over,” trading patterns
suggest the increase in government debt yields isn’t abnormal.
Gross said on May 31 that Newport Beach, California-based Pimco
likes Treasuries that mature in 5-to-10 years as there will be
“no tapering for now.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose 46 basis points in May,
including a jump of 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point,
on May 28, as a report showing  consumer confidence  climbed to
the highest in more than five years bolstered speculation the
Fed would scale back its purchases.  The 10-year Treasury rate rose three basis points to 2.16
percent at 6 a.m. New York time today. Similar-maturity German
bund yields increased four basis points to 1.54 percent.  The rate on the German securities climbed 29 basis points
last month, the biggest increase since January, while those for
Japanese  bonds  rose 26 basis points to 0.86 percent, after
reaching 1 percent on May 23, the highest since April 2012.  Historical Volatility  Yields on Treasuries and bunds are more than 40 basis
points below what would be two standard deviations from their
means, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese bonds 
are about five basis points away.  Standard deviations measure how tightly a data series is
moving relative to the average. A price that’s two standard
deviations away from its long-term level is considered “extreme
and excessive” and may suggest a market is about to turn from
its trend, according to  Tom Fitzpatrick , the chief technical
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Standard deviations greater than one occur about 32 percent
of the time in statistical models. The chance of yields reaching
two standard deviations is about 5 percent over any given time,
and below 0.3 percent for three levels.  Bernanke Watching  “It may not be a chart holy grail, but it’s a pretty good
warning sign,” Fitzpatrick said in a phone interview on May 31.
“Yields have been going down in the past 32 years. Although
they can’t keep falling forever, all indicators we look at
currently suggest we are not at that  turning point  yet.”
Treasury yields will probably set fresh 2013 lows in the second
half of the year, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that the Fed was
seeking “real and sustainable” progress in shrinking
unemployment before it would reduce monthly bond purchases. With
 joblessness  of 7.5 percent still higher than before the last
recession, the  Federal Open Market Committee  announced May 1
that it would increase or decrease the pace of buying in
response to changes in inflation and the labor market.  The policy makers maintained monthly buying of $40 billion
of mortgage securities and $45 billion of Treasuries in a bid to
boost employment. The purchases have expanded total  Fed assets 
to a record $3.4 trillion from less than $1 trillion in 2008.  “Investors are wary of stepping in front of what has
historically been a freight train when the Fed acts or is
perceived to be getting ready to act,” said Robert Tipp, chief
investment strategist in Newark, New Jersey, for Prudential
Financial Inc.’s fixed-income division, which oversees $335
billion. “But most of the selloff is probably behind us at this
point,” he said by phone on May 29.  New Period  That view isn’t shared by  Zach Pandl , a senior interest-rate strategist in  Minneapolis  at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers, which oversees $340 billion. He sees yields starting
to rise because their historically low levels won’t last when
growth picks up.  “We are entering into a period of sustained increases in
rates,” Pandl said in an interview on May 28. “The Treasury
market has had a  fantastic run , and that has probably come to an
end. We’ve passed that inflection point as evidenced by the
improvement in housing and the labor market. We’ve seen enough
evidence of a self-sustaining recovery.”  Led by the Fed’s bond purchases, central banks from the
 Bank of Japan  to the  Bank of England  have flooded the world with
trillions of dollars of cash.  Subdued Inflation  Even so, concern that inflation will accelerate has been
supplanted by the prospect of disinflation, or a slowdown in the
pace of price increases, as major economies outside the U.S.
struggle to expand and  commodities  decline.  Global inflation expectations, as measured by the gap in
yields between index-linked and nominal government bonds, fell
to 1.44 percentage points on May 31, the lowest in nine months,
from a two-year high of 1.73 percentage points in April,
according to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The IMF on April 16 trimmed its forecast for global growth
this year to 3.3 percent from 3.5 percent even as the U.S. shows
signs of recovery. China’s Premier  Li Keqiang  told German
business leaders on May 27 that his country is confronted by
“huge challenges” after the nation expanded 7.8 percent in
2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  “The U.S. is not an island in the world economy,” said
Prudential’s Tipp. “Most of the data coming in from major
trading partners is disappointingly slow.”  Global Easing  While Bernanke said last month the Fed “could” start to
pare back on bond buying if it was confident of a sustained
recovery, other central banks have loosened monetary policy,
which has kept yields under pressure.  Haruhiko Kuroda, governor of the BOJ, is pursuing
unprecedented stimulus to jolt  Japan  out of deflation. The
 European Central Bank  cut its benchmark rate by 0.25 percentage
point to a record 0.5 percent on May 2, and speculation has
mounted that the Bank of England will increase its bond-buying
target after  Mark Carney  takes over as governor next month.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.6
percent this year after contracting 0.5 percent last year, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on
May 29. The region’s  unemployment rate  climbed to a record 12.2
percent in April as its recession deepened, the European Union
statistics office in Luxembourg said on May 31.  “The euro zone economy has been struggling and it needs
more stimulus from monetary policy,” Kazuyuki Takigawa, who
oversees $6 billion of non-yen bonds at Resona Bank Ltd. in
Tokyo, said in a phone interview on May 29. “Current policy is
restrictive. The economy needs another rate cut, maybe 25 basis
points within a couple of months.”  Shrinking Supply  Rising bond demand from retirees seeking regular income
will help to cap yields, Rick Rieder, chief investment officer
for fundamental fixed-income at BlackRock Inc., said in a phone
interview on May 29. The New York-based company is the world’s
largest money manager, with $3.94 trillion of assets.  That’s coinciding with a shrinking supply of high-quality
bonds. The number of securities rated AAA or AA in indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch dropped to 6,168 on
May 31 from 7,728 five years ago.  “There is too much demand for fixed income and for yield
and there isn’t enough supply in a deleveraging world,” Rieder
said. “The population is aging and true income levels haven’t
grown much. The pressure for rates to stay low is just too
great. It’s so intense that every time rates move up, people
will enter to take advantage of better yields.”  Central banks may also consider last month’s bond market
selloff as they adjust their monetary policy, because of the
effect of higher yields on government financing costs, as well
as rates for mortgages and credit cards.  “The market might be getting a bit ahead of itself,”
Willem Sels, the London-based head of global investment strategy
at  HSBC Private Bank , which manages $480 billion, said in an
interview on May 29. “While the economy in the U.S. is
improving, other major economies are still weak. It’s possible
we’ve seen the low in yields in this cycle, but I don’t think
central banks will be happy to see bond yields rising much
higher from here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  