-- Breast Cancer Genes May Explain Poor Outcomes for Black Women
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-06-03T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/breast-cancer-genes-may-explain-poor-outcomes-for-black-women.html
One in five black women with breast
cancer were found to have inherited mutations on at least one of
18 genes linked to the disease, in a study that may explain the
earlier onset and more-aggressive malignancies in that group.  Researchers from the  University of Chicago  used genome
sequencing to study the DNA of 249 black women, 56 of whom had
at least one mutation that mattered for their cancer, according
to a study presented at the  American Society for Clinical
Oncology ’s meeting in  Chicago .  Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among black
women, and they are 40 percent more likely than white women to
die from the disease, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Even accounting for differences in
education and wealth, black women have worse outcomes in cancer,
 previous   studies  have shown.  “This is an understudied and under-tested population, and
this study underscores what you don’t know can hurt you,” said
Andrew Seidman, a professor of medicine at Weill Cornell Medical
College in  New York . He wasn’t involved in the study. “The
woman who doesn’t get tested and doesn’t know her risk may not
pursue preventive strategies,” such as mastectomy, he said.  The women were considered to be at a higher risk of
carrying a mutation than the general black population and were
referred for genetic counseling. Even so, the rate of mutations
was surprisingly high, since only 5 to 10 percent of breast
cancers in the general population are expected to have a
hereditary aspect.  Gene Mutations  Mutations were found on BRCA1 and BRCA2, two mutations that
confer a 60 percent risk of  breast cancer . Mutations were most
prevalent among women with  triple-negative breast cancer , in
which the three most common types of receptors known to fuel
malignant growth aren’t present. A third of those women had at
least one mutation.  Another 27 percent of patients who carried mutations were
young, or diagnosed with the disease before the age of 45. So
were half of the women who had a second unrelated cancer in the
breast.  The majority of mutations weren’t uniform, and weren’t seen
more than once in the group, the authors said. The finding
suggests that black women should be genetically screened more
often for breast cancer than white peers, especially if they are
diagnosed with cancer young, have triple-negative breast cancer,
or have a family history of the illness. The study underscores
the need for broader genetic screening among understudied ethnic
groups.  The study was funded by the  National Institutes of Health ,
the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, and Komen for the Cure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  