-- Buffett’s Charity Lunch Auction Bids Climb on First Day
-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2013-06-03T23:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/buffett-lunch-auction-bids-accelerate-as-past-winner-sees-record.html
Warren Buffett ’s charity auction, in
which bidders vie for a chance to dine with the billionaire,
drew a top offer of more than $100,000 as a former winner
predicted the fundraiser would set a fourth straight record.  Bidding started yesterday at $25,000 in the 14th annual
auction and climbed to $178,100 at 7 p.m. today in  New York ,
according to the  event page  on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s website.  Buffett, 82, who earned his fortune and reputation by
investing in out-of-favor stocks, has helped raise more than $14
million for San Francisco’s Glide Foundation in the past 13
years. Last year’s auction brought in $3.46 million as the
amount almost tripled in the last minute of bidding. It was 32
percent more than 2011’s winning offer.  “The trajectory will keep moving upwards simply because
the total number of lunches left keeps going down every year,”
 Mohnish Pabrai , who was part of a group that paid $650,100 in
2007, said in a telephone interview from Irvine, California. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if it went over $4 million.”  The event concludes at 10:30 p.m. New York time June 7. The
winner and seven companions get to dine with Buffett at the
Smith & Wollensky steakhouse in New York.  Breaking bread with Buffett is akin to dining with a
historical figure such as  Benjamin Franklin  or  Albert Einstein ,
said Pabrai, who manages about $600 million in assets. Buffett,
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s chairman and chief executive officer,
transformed his company into a $280 billion owner of units that
sell insurance and electricity, haul freight and manufacture
products including chemicals and construction materials.  Charitable Pledge  Buffett’s annual meetings for Berkshire fill up a
basketball arena in Omaha,  Nebraska , as he answers questions on
finance, public policy and life. The world’s third-richest man,
he has pledged his wealth to charity. He completed treatment in
September for stage 1 prostate cancer.  Buffett has had lunch with last year’s winner, who chose to
remain anonymous, the billionaire’s assistant said in an e-mail.
He hired the winner of the 2010 and 2011 auctions, former hedge-fund manager Ted Weschler, to help oversee Berkshire’s
investments.  Glide was brought to Buffett’s attention by his first wife,
Susan, a volunteer for the charity. Led by the Rev. Cecil Williams, the foundation runs a church in  San Francisco ’s
 blighted  Tenderloin district and provides meals and health
services to the poor.  “It takes people who have hit bottom and brings them
back,” Buffett said in a statement posted on EBay’s auction
website. “I’ve seen it with my own eyes.”  Glide has an annual budget of about $17 million, Williams
said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivek Shankar in San Francisco at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  