-- Buyout Ownership Hurts Company Performance, Study Finds
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-03T17:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/buyout-ownership-hurts-company-performance-study-finds.html
U.K. companies bought by private-equity firms become less productive than their peers, according
to a study by academics at three British universities.  Researchers at Warwick Business School, Cardiff University
and Loughborough University profiled the 105 U.K.-traded firms
taken private from 1997 to 2006 and examined their performance
over 10 years, six before the buyout and four after, against
those not owned by private equity.  The report found that the performance of the private-equity-backed companies, measured by revenue per employee,
worsened under their tenure with an average revenue gap of
89,000 pounds ($136,600) against the control group after four
years compared with 29,000 pounds in the year before the
acquisition.  “What we found was the promised productivity gains of a
takeover rarely materialized,” Geoffrey Wood, professor of
international business at Warwick Business School, said today in
an e-mailed statement. “Rather, there was evidence of private-equity buyouts reducing the number of workers and squeezing
wages, without making the firm more efficient.”  Wood attributed the performance gap to private-equity firms
finding “it more difficult to cost the worth of a firm’s human
assets, and their combined knowledge and capabilities.”  The report also found deeper cutbacks among the private-equity-backed companies, with 59 percent reducing the workforce
in the year after acquisition compared with 32 percent in the
control group.  “Given that this paper explores only a very small sample
of private-equity deals, it provides a partial and
unrepresentative picture of the industry,” said Tom Allchorne,
a spokesman for the British Private Equity and Venture Capital
Association in  London .  He said larger studies had found private-equity-backed
buyouts achieved superior economic and financial performance
from 1995 to 2012, relative to comparable firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  