-- California’s Lockyer Says He Won’t Run Again for Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-06-03T19:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/california-s-lockyer-says-he-won-t-run-again-for-office.html
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer,
who runs the bond financing and banking office of the largest
U.S. municipal borrower, said he won’t run again for elective
office when his term ends in 2015.  Lockyer, a 72-year-old Democrat, has overseen the sale of
about $49 billion of general-obligation bonds since he took
office in 2007, spokesman  Tom Dresslar  said. Dresslar said
California plans to sell more than $5.6 billion of the
securities this year, the most since 2010.  “I want to do something new and different,” Lockyer said
today in an interview. “I’ve been in state government since
1973 as an elected official -- 18 legislative races, eight
statewide campaigns, attorney general for eight years, treasurer
for eight years. So I just need a new challenge.”  “I don’t know what that is,” he added. “I’ve got a year
and a half to figure it out.”  Lockyer was one of six people who had filed to run for
controller in 2014. He had $2.2 million in a campaign fund for
that office as of Dec. 31 and about $230,000 left in his 2010
campaign fund for treasurer at the same date. Lockyer has been
undefeated in 40 years as an assemblyman, senator, attorney
general and treasurer.  Lockyer said he isn’t endorsing anyone for controller. He
said he expected the field to widen, with “people who deferred,
anticipating my candidacy, who will now think about it,”
Lockyer said.  Biggest Vote  He received 5.43 million votes in 2010, more than
California Governor  Jerry Brown  or any other elected state
official in the U.S., according to the secretary of state’s
office. The same year, his wife, Nadia Lockyer, was elected to
the Alameda County Board of Supervisors with more than $1
million in campaign financing support from her husband.  Nadia Lockyer, 42, resigned in 2012 after reports began to
spill out in the state’s newspapers about an extramarital
affair, an alleged sex tape and drug abuse. The former Orange
County lawyer was arrested on charges of methamphetamine
possession, a felony, and neglect of the couple’s son, Diego,
who was with her.  In July, the treasurer filed for divorce in Alameda County
Superior Court, according to court records. He has withdrawn
that petition, Dresslar said.  ‘Family Considerations’  “Family considerations are always a factor,” Lockyer said
when asked how his personal life shaped his decision to abandon
his campaign for controller.  As attorney general, Lockyer had considered challenging
then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in 2006 before deciding
instead to seek his first term as treasurer. He said in a 2005
statement that he didn’t want to have to endure the politics and
fundraising involved in a bid for governor of the most populous
U.S. state.  In 2012, he expressed interest in serving as the chancellor
of the California State University system, the nation’s largest,
to oversee 23 campuses and almost 437,000 students. Timothy P.
White was selected for the job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  