-- Canada Dollar Gains Most in a Year as U.S. Manufacturing Slows
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-03T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/canadian-dollar-rises-as-european-manufacturing-data-boost-risk.html
The Canadian dollar gained the most
in almost a year against its U.S. peer as a weaker-than-forecast
reading on American manufacturing damped speculation the Federal
Reserve will reduce stimulus.  Canada’s currency advanced after a monthly loss in May that
saw it reach its lowest point in a year before jobs data this
week projected to show jobless rates held steady in both
nations. It rose as stronger-than-forecast readings on
manufacturing in Europe boosted investors’ appetite for riskier
assets. Canada’s dollar extended gains after a Fed official said
policy makers are committed to record stimulus even as they
voice different views on tapering.  “We’re seeing a stampede out of U.S. dollars across the
board,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at Forexlive.com in
 Montreal , said in a telephone interview. “The last month of
trading has been predicated on the idea that the U.S. was
gathering strength. As the numbers come in, that’s no longer a
sure thing, and patience has run out for Canadian dollar
sellers.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, rose 0.9
percent to C$1.0278 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after
adding as much as 1.1 percent, the biggest gain since June 29,
2012. The currency touched C$1.0421 per U.S. dollar May 29, its
lowest point in a year. One loonie buys 97.30 U.S. cents.  Oil, Stocks  Crude-oil futures rose 1.5 percent to $93.30 a barrel in
New York and the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of 24 commodities
gained 1.2 percent. The S&P 500 Index of stocks added 0.6
percent.  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
2.05 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 11 cents to $95.07.  The greenback declined against the majority of its most-traded peers as the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
factory index fell to 49 from the prior month’s 50.7, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Fifty is the dividing
line between growth and contraction, and last month’s reading
was the lowest since June 2009. The median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51.  “It’s just a case of the U.S. dollar slipping back across
the board,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto. “I’m not too sure
that we’re going to see a clean risk-on, risk-off environment
from here.”  Market Volatility  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that recent data, including the
manufacturing decline reported today, suggest the economy isn’t
strong enough to justify a reduction in the central bank’s $85
billion pace of monthly bond purchases.  The loonie briefly pared gains earlier after Fed Bank of
San Francisco President John Williams said in  Stockholm  that
U.S. policy makers may start reducing purchases over the next
three months and stop the program by year-end.  “The potential for reduced asset purchases may mean that
suppressed levels of market volatility will continue to rise,”
a group of analysts from Toronto-Dominion wrote in a client
note. “That has implications for the higher-yielding, higher
beta currencies.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index reached
10.24 percent on May 31, the highest since June 18, 2012. The
gauge was at 10.23 percent today.  Risk Reversals  The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to
1.1125, its lowest level since May 13. Risk reversals measure
the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Hedge funds and other large speculators last week  decreased 
their bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the
greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 33,359 on May 28, compared
with net shorts of 33,852 a week earlier.  The loonie gained with the dollars of  Australia  and New
Zealand, fellow commodities exporters, as the euro-area
 manufacturing index  increased to 48.3 last month from 46.7 in
April, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above an
initial estimate of 47.8 on May 23. It has been below 50,
indicating contraction, since July 2011.  Canada’s currency has fallen 0.4 percent in the past month
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The greenback added the
most, with a 1.8 percent advance. The Aussie dollar led
decliners, dropping 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  