-- Canada Wireless Watchdog Limits Contract Time, Caps Fees
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-03T19:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/canada-wireless-watchdog-limits-contract-time-caps-fees.html
Canada ’s wireless regulator issued a
code of conduct for the country’s carriers that will allow users
to terminate contracts after two years without cancellation fees
and limit extra data and roaming charges.  The  guidelines  released today by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission will come into
effect for new contracts on Dec. 2, the agency said in a
statement.  “The wireless code will contribute to a more dynamic
marketplace by making it possible for Canadians to discuss their
needs with service providers at least every two years,” Jean-Pierre Blais, chairman of the CRTC, said in the release.  Blais is reacting to Canadian consumer demands for more
clarity on mobile-phone bills and relief from three-year
contracts the three largest providers typically insist on. In
the U.S., most contracts last two years and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) 
recently introduced a plan that allows customers to pay for a
smartphone over time but not be committed to two years of
monthly service fees.  In addition to the contract-length changes, wireless
operators won’t be able to charge cancellation fees that exceed
the “device subsidy” for users who end contracts before two
years. The regulator also is capping extra data charges at C$50
per month and data roaming charges at C$100 per month.  Device Locks  Other changes include limits on device locks so phones can
be used on more than one network, and new powers that give users
the right to decline changes to key terms of their contracts.  The document was released just as a three-day conference
for wireless executives and regulators kicks off in Toronto
today. Blais is scheduled to speak at the Canadian Telecom
 Summit  tomorrow at 10 a.m.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, said it has no plans to challenge the new two-year
rule. Rogers can work with the new code, said Ken Engelhart, the
Toronto-based carrier’s regulatory chief.  “The decision is good for consumers and will make most
Canadians happier with their service,” he told reporters at the
Canadian Telecom Summit.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , the country’s no. 2 operator, is reviewing the
terms of the code and did not have immediate comment, said Jason
Laszlo, a spokesman for the Montreal-based company.  Vancouver-based  Telus (T)  said in an e-mailed statement that it
has tried in recent years to incorporate many of the changes
enshrined in the code. For example, it already has a cap on
international data roaming.  Market Share  Rogers, BCE and Telus Corp. together control about 90
percent of the domestic wireless market, even after four new
competitors attempted to win market share with stripped down,
prepaid phone plans. One of the new firms, Mobilicity, agreed
last month to be bought by Vancouver-based Telus for C$380
million ($369 million). Backers of Wind Mobile, another of the
new players, are exploring a sale of the Toronto-based carrier.  Wind today said it welcomes the changes.  “This is a great day for those of us who have fought
against long-term contracts,” Toronto-based Wind said in an e-mailed statement.  Tony Clement , president of the Canada’s  Treasury Board ,
told lawmakers today in Ottawa the wireless code addresses some
“key issues” for consumers.  “We are happy to see this new wireless code, it puts
consumers first,” said Clement, who has also served as industry
minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  