-- Cancer Drug Shortages Force Doctors to Ration, Delay Treatment
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-06-03T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/cancer-drug-shortages-force-doctors-to-ration-delay-treatment.html
Shortages of medicines for some of
the most common cancers have caused nearly half of doctors to
delay treatment and forced about a third to choose between
patients needing a particular drug.  The findings from a survey of 250 cancer doctors highlight
the anxious situation some of their patients have faced during
the past year as manufacturing lapses and changes in the
generic-drug industry have cut off supply of key medicines, said
Keerthi Gogineni, a cancer doctor at the  University of
Pennsylvania , who presented the finding in  Chicago  at the
meeting of the  American Society of Clinical Oncology .  More than 80 percent of cancer doctors surveyed said they
haven’t been able to get needed medications, including
potentially life-saving drugs for breast, ovarian and prostate
cancers. While the  Food and Drug Administration  said it is close
to resolving the scarcity, cancer doctors said they expect a
continuation of the shortages that have forced them to ration
treatments or turn to more expensive alternatives.  “Cancer drug shortages continue to be persistent and
pervasive and are affecting the treatment of curable
malignancies and adding to our health-care costs,” said
Gogineni. “Oncologists are being asked to improvise despite the
fact that this has been going on since 2006. We know this is a
problem that isn’t going away.”  Skipping Doses  The survey asked doctors about their experience with cancer
drug shortages between March 2012 and March 2013. Seventy-eight
percent of doctors treated patients with a different drug or
regimen because of a shortage while 43 percent delayed a
patient’s treatment. Shortages caused 29 percent to skip doses
and 37 percent had to choose which patient would be treated and
which would have to wait.  In some cases, the shortages have also driven up costs,
said Gogineni.  For example, when doctors couldn’t get enough of the
chemotherapy drug  5-fluorouracil  for gastrointestinal cancer
patients, 22 percent switched patients to the drug  capecitabine ,
which costs about 140 times more, the study found. The shortage
of 5-fluorouracil has been resolved, the FDA said.  Legislation passed last year that requires drugmakers to
notify the agency of potential shortages is fixing the problem,
according to the agency.  FDA Notification  Last July, President  Barack Obama  signed  the law  requiring
drugmakers to notify the FDA if they planned to stop making a
product, either permanently or temporarily, or anticipated a
shortage because of manufacturing issues. The FDA has also
boosted resources devoted to addressing shortages and has worked
with foreign drugmakers 17 times since 2010 to fill the supply
void, said Valerie Jensen, the FDA’s associate director, drug
shortages. The FDA has 25 employees working on each medication
shortage, she said.  “What we are seeing is that companies are talking to us
sooner, if they notice a quality problem they are letting us
know and that helps us intervene,” said Jensen in a telephone
interview.  A separate survey presented at the meeting found that 59
percent of cancer doctors said they or a colleague had
experienced a drug shortage and that 17 percent felt the problem
had gotten worse since last fall. The survey, conducted by the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  of its members in April,
included responses from more than 400 cancer doctors about their
experience over the previous six months.  Underlying Causes  While the rules signed into law last year helped the FDA
resolve some shortages, it doesn’t address the underlying
causes, including consolidation in the generic-drug
manufacturing industry and lapses in manufacturing quality,
Gogineni said.  Fewer generic drugmakers means there are now just a handful
of companies that supply most of the world’s generic medicines.
When there is a quality problem at one plant and manufacturing
needs to be shut down, it can cause a shortage of dozens of
treatments. Drugmakers have also stopped making some older
drugs, shifting focus instead to newer, more profitable
products.  “We aren’t out of the woods yet,” said Jensen. “These
products continue to be vulnerable and we are watching very
closely and we think the law is working.”  There are currently 133 medicines in short supply,
including 10 drugs for cancer, some of which have been in
shortage since 2011, according to the  FDA’s website.  The FDA is
close to resolving all of those cancer drug shortages, Jensen
said.  Most of the shortages in 2013 have been of intravenous
nutritional products made by American Regent Inc., which had to
shut down manufacturing because of quality issues, Jensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  