-- Carlyle to Sell Shares as Calpers Seeks to Exit 4% Stake
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/carlyle-to-sell-shares-as-calpers-seeks-to-exit-4-stake.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  is losing one of its
oldest and biggest shareholders as the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  plans to exit its 4.1 percent
stake.  Carlyle yesterday filed to sell as many as 12.7 million
shares, including an over-allotment option of 1.66 million
shares, to allow Calpers to exit its stake. Calpers bought 5.5
percent in Carlyle in 2001 for $175 million, according to a
person familiar with the deal, before the stake was diluted by
share sales.  Calpers last month registered to sell about a quarter of
its stake in Carlyle competitor  Apollo Global Management LLC. (APO) 
Shares of both asset managers have rallied this year, though
Carlyle has lost about 9 percent from its peak in February. The
pension has been one of Carlyle’s largest fund investors and has
more than $3.7 billion in the firm’s pools currently, the person
said.  “Calpers has been a substantial investor in Carlyle funds
since 1996,” Carlyle said in the statement. “After the sale of
the common units, Carlyle will continue to manage a significant
amount of limited partnership investments for Calpers.”  Calpers’s stake was diluted when Mubadala Development Co.,
an investment vehicle owned by the  Abu Dhabi  government, bought
a 7.5 percent stake in Carlyle for $1.35 billion in September
2007, and then again when Carlyle sold 30.5 million shares to
the public on May 2, 2012.  Carlyle’s IPO  Carlyle sold shares in last year’s public offering for $22
each. They  rose  as high as $37.30 on Feb. 19 before paring
gains. At yesterday’s closing price of $29.39, a sale of
Calpers’s full stake would generate $374 million in proceeds,
more than two times the pension’s 2001 investment. That return
doesn’t take into account the dividends Calpers has collected
from its ownership.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment. Calpers spokesman  Brad Pacheco  did not immediately
return a message seeking comment.  Last month, Calpers and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority
registered to sell as much as $326 million of shares in Apollo,
the world’s third-biggest private-equity firm, with $114 billion
in managed assets. Calpers and Abu Dhabi invested a combined
$1.2 billion in Apollo in 2007. Apollo co-founders  Joshua Harris 
and Marc Rowan sold a fraction of their holdings in the New
York-based firm’s May offering.  Seeding Businesses  Investment firms sell stakes in their companies to large
institutional investors to grow their franchises or seed new
businesses. Providence Equity Partners Inc., the buyout firm
with holdings in Univision Communications Inc. and the cable-television network of the  New York  Yankees, in September sold a
minority stake to Florida’s state pension system and an unnamed
sovereign-wealth fund.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., based in London, told investors
in September it agreed to sell a 10 percent stake to three
sovereign-wealth funds, one in the  Middle East  and two in Asia.  Carlyle is the second-largest private-equity firm, managing
$176 billion in assets across 114 funds and 76 fund-of-funds
vehicles. The firm, founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein , invests in leveraged buyouts,
real estate, hedge funds and funds-of-funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  