-- CEOs Group Calls Too-Big-to-Fail Bill Threat to U.S.-EU Accord
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-06-03T18:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ceos-group-calls-too-big-to-fail-bill-threat-to-u-s-eu-accord.html
Prospects for a new trade agreement
with the European Union are being threatened by measures that
would boost capital requirements for the biggest banks, a group
representing U.S. chief executive officers said in a letter.  Legislation including a bill proposed by Senators Sherrod Brown and  David Vitter  would hurt both the financial services
industry and “globally engaged U.S. businesses” by forcing
banks to shrink,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chairman and CEO Douglas R. Oberhelman wrote to lawmakers in his role as head of the
Business Roundtable’s International Engagement Committee.  “At the very moment of opportunity to increase
transatlantic regulatory coherence and U.S. competitiveness,
legislation is pending in Congress that, if enacted, would take
the United States in the opposite direction,” Oberhelman wrote
to leaders of the House Financial Services Committee and House
Ways and Means Committee.  The bill sponsored by Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and Vitter,
a Louisiana Republican, would impose a 15 percent capital
requirement on so-called mega-banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America  Corp. to reduce systemic risk and remove the
perception they’d be bailed out in a crisis. The letter from the
Business Roundtable, whose members include the heads of  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , aligns
the Washington-based group with financial industry lobbying
against new restrictions for banks.  Broad Agreement  The 27-nation European Union hopes to complete talks on a
broad agreement on investment and trade in goods and services
with the U.S. within two years, EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said on Feb. 13. Wall Street firms have been pushing to
use that negotiation, and others at the World Trade Organization
and with Asia-Pacific nations, to change rules included in the
Dodd-Frank Act.  “The United States should include financial services
market access and regulatory cooperation issues in the
negotiations,” Oberhelman and  Eaton Corp Plc (ETN)  CEO Alexander Cutler, chairman of the Business Roundtable’s Corporate
Governance Committee, wrote in the letter. The agreement is
“too big of an opportunity to exclude any sector from the
negotiations,” they wrote.  The letter was sent to Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the
Texas Republican who leads the House Financial Services
Committee, and the panel’s top Democrat, Representative Maxine Waters of California. It was also sent to Michigan
Representatives Dave Camp, the Republican head of the House Ways
& Means Committee, and Sander Levin, the top Democrat on that
panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  