-- LCH Begins N.Y. Service to Give Customers U.S. Bankruptcy Cover
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-06-03T14:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/lch-begins-n-y-service-to-give-customers-u-s-bankruptcy-cover.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of the
world’s largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, began a U.S.-
based service to give customers the protection of American
bankruptcy law.  LCH.Clearnet is announcing the system nine months after the
London-based exchange bought the International Derivatives
Clearing Group LLC in  New York  from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and
other investors. The expansion “is a direct response to client
demand for a domestic clearing service in the U.S.,” the
company, which renamed the New York clearinghouse LCH.Clearnet
LLC, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. service provides for segregation of client
collateral that is put up to back trades at the clearinghouse,
 Richard Prager , head of global trading at BlackRock Inc., said
in the statement. It “promises not only to enhance client asset
protection, but provide asset managers with the functionality
necessary to efficiently clear  interest-rate swaps ,” he said.  Asset managers who traded swaps with Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. are still fighting in court to retrieve collateral
given to the dealer’s London office. Lehman, one of the largest
swaps dealers at the time, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
September 2008 and didn’t separate swaps collateral from its own
assets in the unregulated market, an industry practice at the
time.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act imposed regulations on the $633
trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market , including the
requirement that most swaps be processed by clearinghouses.  LCH.Clearnet LLC’s member banks are  Barclays Plc (BARC) , BNP
Paribas SA,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Nomura Holdings Inc. and UBS AG, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 