-- China’s May SouFun Home Prices Jump, Defying Tightened Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-03T08:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/china-may-home-prices-jump-defying-tightened-curbs-soufun-says.html
China ’s new home prices jumped in May
by the most since they reversed declines in December, as the
government’s efforts to tighten property curbs this year fail to
deter buyers.  Prices surged 6.9 percent from a year earlier to 10,180
 yuan  ($1,659) per square meter (10.76 square feet),  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate website owner,
said in a statement today after a survey of 100 cities. The
costs rose 0.81 percent from April, the 12th month of gains on a
month-on-month basis.  China will widen property tax trials, which have only been
imposed in  Shanghai  and Chongqing, the State Council said in a
statement posted on the central government’s website on May 24.
The government stepped up a three-year campaign to cool  home
prices  in March, with only the capital city of Beijing issuing
the toughest measures among 35 provincial-level cities,
according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the country’s
biggest real estate agency.  “Against the backdrop of rising land prices, supply
shortages in key cities and expectations of looser monetary
policy, the expectations for further home-price gains going
forward remain relatively strong,” SouFun said in the
statement.  The average price in the 10 biggest cities, including
Beijing and Shanghai, jumped 9.7 percent from a year earlier to
17,202 yuan per square meter, up 1.1 percent from April, SouFun
said.  Limited Gains  Guangzhou and Shenzhen in the southern province of
Guangdong are rejecting some projects seen as too expensive,
according to CEBM Group, an advisory company. Beijing will
probably cap home prices on a “large scale” in the second half
of the year, 21st Century Business Herald reported May 30,
without citing anyone.  A  gauge  tracking property shares listed in Shanghai rose
0.3 percent at the close of trading, compared with a 0.1 percent
drop in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  China Vanke Co. (000002) ,
the nation’s biggest developer, added 0.2 percent to 12 yuan in
Shenzhen trading.  “While home prices may keep rising, the possibility of an
acceleration in gains is limited,” Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Industrial Securities Co., said by
phone, citing an expected inventory recovery in major cities.
“We don’t think the price changes will trigger more strict
price controls, and that should be neutral tilted toward
positive for the industry.”  The month-on-month increase in May was 0.19 percentage
point slower than in April, a second consecutive month of
narrowing, according to SouFun.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  