-- China’s Xi Offers Caribbean Nations $3 Billion in Loans
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-03T22:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/china-s-xi-offers-caribbean-nations-3-billion-in-loans.html
China’s President  Xi Jinping  promised
more than $3 billion in loans to 10 Caribbean nations and  Costa
Rica , Trinidad & Tobago’s prime minister said, ahead of a summit
in  California  with U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Xi pledged about $296 million in loans to help Costa Rica
expand a key highway as part of 13 accords signed with President
Laura Chinchilla yesterday. After meeting with leaders from 10
Caribbean nations in Trinidad on June 2, he promised about $3
billion in loans, Prime Minister Kamla Persad-Bissessar said.
Further details weren’t disclosed, government spokesman Dennis
McComie said in an interview. There was no immediate
confirmation of the plans from the Chinese government.  Xi arrived in Trinidad on May 31, three days after a visit
to the island by U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden , who was on a
regional tour of his own that underscored the competition for
influence in  Latin America  by the world’s two biggest economies.
He departs Costa Rica for Mexico today and will meet Obama in
California on June 7.  The Caribbean loans may provide some welcome relief to
island nations, most of whom have seen growth slow and debt
levels jump as a result of increased spending and lower tourism
receipts during the global economic slump. Among the island
economies, only the Bahamas is forecast to grow more than 1.5
percent this year compared with 4 percent for Latin America,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Mexico Visit  In Mexico today, Xi will meet with President Enrique Pena Nieto about one month after Obama visited the country.  China surpassed Mexico in terms of its market share in the
U.S. after joining the  World Trade Organization  in 2001,
accounting for 19 percent of goods sold last year, up from 8
percent in 2000, according to the U.S. Commerce Department. That
compares with Mexico’s 12 percent share, barely changed from
2000.  The two leaders will give a joint statement at 6:15 p.m.
local time, according to a statement from Mexico’s presidential
palace. Tomorrow, Xi meets with business leaders over lunch and
on June 6 he’ll visit the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza in the
Yucatan Peninsula.  During his visit to Trinidad, the largest supplier of
energy in the Caribbean, Xi announced that China will provide
funding and workers to help build a  children’s hospital  on the
island. Persad-Bissessar welcomed the Chinese support, saying
the project was “very close to my heart.” She also pledged to
visit China later this year and open Trinidad’s first Embassy in
Beijing 39 years after the two countries established diplomatic
ties.  “The Chinese people will never forget that  Trinidad and
Tobago  cast its vote in favor of restoring the lawful seat of
the People’s Republic of China in the  United Nations  in 1971,”
Xi said after talks June 1 with Persad-Bissessar.  While in Port of Spain, Biden  discussed  regional economic
and security concerns with 15 Caribbean leaders. The U.S. has
committed $200 million to help Caribbean governments fight drug
trafficking through the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  