-- China Crisis Is Good for the Global Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-06-03T21:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/china-crisis-is-good-for-the-global-economy.html
The world should stop panicking over
 China (CNGDPYOY) ’s economic slowdown. It’s actually a good thing.  This advice won’t go down well in  Australia , which has made
a big leveraged bet that  China  will keep growing 10 percent
forever. It won’t comfort exporters in  Japan ,  Singapore ,  South
Korea  or Taiwan. Traders won’t be happy to see prices of oil,
gold and steel plunge as demand from the mainland shrinks.  Asia ,
as a whole, will shudder if China weakens the  yuan .  Europe  might
have to find a new benefactor for its debt markets.  Yet if China is to avoid a major crash, a minor setback
right now may be just what the country needs. Everyone agrees
the country’s old growth model is unsustainable. Its economy is
perilously addicted to  exports  and inflated property prices.
Massive investments in smokestack industries have led to
overcapacity and blackened China’s skies. A tight labor market
is driving up wages, just as global demand for Chinese products
is dwindling. Local governments are piling up dangerous levels
of debt.  Chinese leaders have said for years that they needed to
move the economy toward a growth model led by services and
household spending, not exports. So why did the country make so
little progress during former President Hu Jintao’s 10-year
term? Zero political will. Rather than challenging vested
interests or risk sparking public anger, Hu anesthetized his 1.3
billion people with easy credit and history’s biggest building
boom. A humming export engine deadened the urgency for change.  Fear’s Benefits  Fear could now be cathartic. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang
expects growth to slow to 7 percent this decade. Even that may
prove optimistic -- and in any case, anything less than 8
percent growth could prove disastrous if handled poorly. That
changes the calculus for China’s much-vaunted economic managers:
It may be more dangerous to avoid painful economic reforms than
to institute them.  Historically, like their counterparts from  Washington  to
 Tokyo , Chinese leaders have responded best in a crisis. The
horrors of Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution drove  Deng Xiaoping 
to build a market economy. Recession and soul searching after
the Tiananmen Square massacre led to Deng’s 1992 “southern tour”
to bolster restructuring efforts. The 1998 Asian financial
crisis empowered Premier Zhu Rongji to shake up state-owned
enterprises.  Debt Disaster  President Xi Jinping now has a chance to change China’s
course just as dramatically as his predecessors. How? First,
China must ensure that  capital  is priced realistically. That
means banks must stop shoveling loans to deadbeat state
enterprises and unnecessary real-estate projects.  Fitch Ratings 
says financial lending totaled 198 percent of gross domestic
product last year, compared with 125 percent four years earlier.
Banks can’t grow their way out of that kind of debt.  Xi must rein in local governments, too. A glut of
borrowing, much of it off-balance sheet, has raised the specter
of a Japan-like bad-debt disaster. Recently, former Finance
Minister Xiang Huaicheng let slip that local debt may have
reached $3.3 trillion. That’s a bad omen for China’s credit
rating.  Better household-registration policies would help workers
moving to cities to get social benefits and education --
critical if China is to transition from an economy dominated by
manufacturing to services. Xi also must act fast if the country
is to avoid choking on its own development. Of the 20 dirtiest
cities, 16 are in China. Pollution is rapidly replacing
corruption as the main cause of social unrest.  Promises, Promises  Massive investment in  wind turbines  and solar panels is a
good start, but China must think bigger. It should learn from
Japan’s postwar environmental example, and enact laws to reduce
emissions, demand greater  energy efficiency  across industries
and consider a carbon tax.  On each of these measures, Xi will run into resistance from
Communist Party bigwigs who have gotten fat off the status quo.
True reforms will also depress GDP growth, perhaps to as low as
5 percent or 6 percent. Xi will face great pressure to paper
over China’s daunting to-do list by offering fresh fiscal
stimulants, a few new dam and airport projects and nationalistic
rants to deflect attention.  “The previous administration basically promised the same
reforms,” says  Jim Chanos , the president of New York-based
Kynikos Associates Ltd. and a prominent China bear investor.
“The entire Chinese political system is tilted to the current
model. Truly changing it will bring on a serious economic
contraction. It remains to be seen if Xi/Li have the political
will to risk that outcome as a by-product of reform.”  The Hangover  Fair enough. The weaker the current outlook grows, though,
the less of a risk that seems. “There are still bulls talking
about how China can reverse the slowdown by stepping firmly on
the credit accelerator again, but this is like saying that you
can prevent a hangover by drinking even more,” says  Michael Pettis , a finance professor at  Peking University . “We may get a
small pop in growth now and then, but the overall trajectory is
for growth to continue slowing.”  That’s a bleak prospect -- for the world as well as China.
But by bringing home the stakes for Chinese leaders and
bolstering the case for reform, it may also turn out to be a
bright one.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  