-- Christie Shore Revival Glosses Over Towns Still Repairing
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/christie-shore-revival-glosses-over-towns-still-repairing.html
Katie Worsham, sunglasses in place
and lounge chair in hand, had to walk by a “No Trespassing”
sign and an abandoned condominium to reach Ortley Beach, a slice
of New Jersey coast devastated in October by  Hurricane Sandy .  On May 29, a day after Governor  Chris Christie  and
President  Barack Obama  toured two Jersey shore towns, Ortley’s
lone entry point was hard to find amid a skeletal boardwalk,
fenced-off houses and contractor storage pods. The square-mile
community is north of Seaside Heights, where the NBC News show
“Today” broadcast images on May 24 of Christie and his family
urging visitors to return to its rebuilt boardwalk.  As the Christie administration spends $25 million of
federal money to advertise the Jersey shore as a tourist
destination, a handful of beach towns remain more construction
zone than resort. Ortley Beach, where Sandy damage kept
residents out for more than three months, wasn’t part of the
fanfare leading to the start of the vacation season.  “They got the tourist spots up and running,” Worsham, a
24-year-old waitress from Toms River, said in Ortley’s Third
Avenue parking lot. “But what about our little boardwalk?
They’re saying the beach is back. Clearly, it’s not.”  Prince Harry  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican seeking re-election in
November, has traveled the state’s 127-mile (200-kilometer)
coastline over the past few weeks urging people to visit and
vacation. The tourist industry is  New Jersey ’s third-largest
nongovernment employer, accounting for 10 percent of all state
jobs. It generated $37.7 billion in sales in 2012, according to
a study by Wayne, Pennsylvania-based Tourism Economics. Most of
that came in Atlantic County, home to Atlantic City casinos, and
Cape May and Ocean counties, famed for their beaches.  The governor has welcomed the U.K.’s Prince Harry to the
shore in Mantoloking and Seaside, dedicated boardwalks in Belmar
and Lavallette, cut a 5.5-mile ribbon in Seaside Heights and
joined Obama on May 28 for a look at rebuilding efforts in
Asbury Park and Point Pleasant.  “Everybody is ready to welcome America back to the Jersey
shore this summer and so am I,” Christie said in Asbury Park.  Sandy destroyed or damaged 365,000 homes in New Jersey,
including all 2,000 in Ortley Beach, and Christie has said it
will cost $36.9 billion for repairs and prevention of
devastation from future storms.  Homes Destroyed  Some shore towns, including Wildwood, escaped Sandy
virtually unscathed. Others weren’t so lucky. In Mantoloking,
surging tides and waves cut a channel between Barnegat Bay and
the Atlantic Ocean and destroyed or damaged all 521 homes.  Christie has said the state’s recovery from Sandy’s ravages
will determine whether he wins re-election. His response earned
him record approval ratings of more than 70 percent in polls
taken in the months following the storm.  The governor never promised that the Jersey shore,
birthplace of  Bruce Springsteen ’s fame and a reality series
about hard-partying singles on cable television’s MTV channel,
would be fully recovered by the summer tourist season.  “We still have so much more to do,” he said last week in
Asbury Park. “Still so many -- so many -- of our citizens who
just want their lives to go back to normal.”  Porta Potties  Still, 19-year-old Sarah Wegrzynski and two friends from
Bridgewater, New Jersey, weren’t prepared for portable toilets
and boardwalk patches of plywood and duct tape when they visited
Seaside Park and adjacent Seaside Heights on May 29.  “I expected this to be cleaner,” Wegrzynski said as she
turned from the wreckage of Seaside Park’s Funtown Pier, whose
attractions included the 225-foot (70-meter) Tower of Fear, once
billed as the Jersey shore’s highest amusement ride.  Seaside Heights is a community of 3,100 year-round
residents that typically expands to more than 30,000 from June
to September. Its boardwalk reopened last month, though work
continues at Casino Pier, home of the Jet Star roller coaster
that was ripped from its base and left half-submerged. Casino
Pier expects to open later in the season with fewer rides.  Gerry Konn, operating the Clown Toss booth on the Seaside
Park boardwalk, had few takers on May 29 for $5 chances to win a
stuffed animal or George Foreman grill. Christie’s heart was in
the right place when he visited to boost the shore, Konn said,
and the media exposure can only help the governor politically.  “It’s an opportunity” for Christie, said Konn, 63, from
Bayonne. “He’s going to be running for president. He was down
here with Obama and Prince Harry. You have the TV cameras. You
always shine a spotlight on yourself.”  Construction Trucks  In every town on the 20-mile-long Barnegat Peninsula, heavy
equipment was at work, demolishing homes that had been knocked
from foundations, delivering cement, scouring the inner bay.  “Safety, peace of mind are issues that people are
concerned with this year,” said Tim O’Shea, 55, manager of
Birchler Real Estate’s Ortley Beach office. About a third of the
company’s 350 rental listings were in Ortley, he said, and
business there is “almost completely off.”  “Is the beach itself going to be safe? We’d like to think
it is but we can’t be certain,” O’Shea said by phone. “Noise
and construction and porta potties and air quality, indoor mold
-- those things are hard to answer.”  Ortley Beach, a section of the Township of Toms River, is
waiving badge fees for beachgoers until June 22, after which the
entry tags will cost $35 for the season, same as last year.
Officials are warning visitors to wear water shoes for
protection in the ocean, and a councilman told the local
taxpayers association he’ll work on a schedule for street
sweeping, to pick up nails and debris left from demolition work.  Sand Piles  Toms River Mayor Thomas Kelaher said he is tired of Ortley
Beach residents complaining about the pace of recovery.  “I am so annoyed with people over there,” he said by
telephone. “We still have a couple of hundred houses we have to
knock down. We had three feet of sand in every street.”  Ortley Beach is so far behind other shore communities,
Kelaher said, because residents couldn’t return until 400
sinkholes were filled and all utilities restored.  “The reason the governor is doing everything is to get
people to come back to the shore, which is only going to help
businesses and real-estate people,” he said.  In Bay Head, Marge Geraghty wanted $20,000 for the July
rental of her family’s vacation home, six houses from the ocean.
Some beach entrances there are closed because they lack stairs
from the bluff and the main road, Route 35, is subject to lane
closures as restoration work continues.  Repair Costs  Geraghty’s July price was $3,500 more than last year,
before almost a foot of water left inside by Sandy forced her to
replace the kitchen, refinish the hardwood floors, buy new
furniture and paint the walls. It remained available on May 31.  “The beaches are going to be tough down here,” Geraghty,
of Ridgewood, New Jersey, said by telephone. “The street was
totally ripped up and the sewer lines broke. Our whole street
has to be redone.”  Downtown, the Jolly Tar gift shop’s windows were covered in
plywood and a notice promising to reopen, though its Facebook
page has no target date. The 100-year-old Mueller’s Bakery
served only coffee and crumb buns during the Memorial Day
holiday weekend. A construction permit remains on its door and
its website says, “We hope to be open full-time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  