-- Chrysler Joins Ford in Beating May U.S. Sales Estimates
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-06-03T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/chrysler-u-s-sales-rise-in-may-helped-by-ram-pickups.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
reported U.S. sales gains that exceeded analysts’ estimates as
surging demand for F-Series and Ram pickups pace the industry’s
best year since 2007.  Deliveries of cars and light trucks climbed 14 percent for
Ford and 11 percent for Chrysler, according to company
statements.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  sales rose 25 percent, also beating
analysts’ estimates. General Motors Co. deliveries increased 3.1
percent,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s gained 2.5 percent and Honda Motor
Co. rose 4.5 percent, all less than analysts had estimated.  The full-size pickup market expanded 21 percent this year
through May, almost triple the increase for all U.S. light
vehicles, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Ford, Chrysler
and  GM (GM) , which have a stranglehold on the domestic truck market,
are marketing more efficient pickups as rebounding housing and
energy sectors boost demand.  “New  home construction  remains really the driving force
behind growth in the pickup truck market, not to mention the
fact that the energy markets have been booming out there,” Alec Gutierrez, an industry analyst for Kelley  Blue Book , said in a
telephone interview. “It means a ton for the domestic
manufacturers. They really dominate the segment.”  Ford’s sales increase topped the 11 percent average
estimate of 13 analysts in a survey by  Bloomberg News . The
Dearborn, Michigan-based company plans to boost third quarter
production by 10 percent to 740,000 vehicles, according to
today’s statement. Ford reiterated its forecast for an 8.5
percent rise in second-quarter output to 800,000 vehicles.  Marchionne’s Lineup  Sales for Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , topped the
6.4 percent increase that was the average of 13 estimates. The
company’s U.S. sales have increased 38 consecutive months as
Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne loads its lineup with
redesigned Ram trucks, Jeep sport-utility vehicles and new cars
such as the Dodge Dart. Fiat rose 3.3 percent in Milan trading
to the highest in 22 months.  U.S. light-vehicle sales climbed 8.2 percent to 1.44
million, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata.
Deliveries topped the 1.43 million average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The annualized industry sales  rate , adjusted for seasonal
trends, rose to 15.3 million, Autodata said in an e-mailed
statement. The pace exceeded the 15.2 million average estimate
of 17 analysts and is up from 14 million a year earlier, keeping
the market on pace for its best year since 2007.  Housing, Energy  Consumer confidence  climbed in May to the highest level in
more than five years and  home prices  advanced by the most in
seven as the housing rebound gives the  U.S. economy  a lift. Oil
production that grew by the fastest pace in U.S. history last
year is accelerating in 2013 as horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, unlocks crude trapped in
formations such as North Dakota’s Bakken shale.  “With the great performance that we’re seeing in the
housing sector of our economy, we feel very good about the full-size pickup truck segment as we move through the year,”  Erich Merkle , Ford’s sales analyst, said on a conference call.  Ford’s F-Series sales surged 31 percent to 71,604, clearing
the 70,000 monthly threshold for the first time since March
2007. Deliveries rose 25 percent for GM’s Silverado and 22
percent for Ram pickups.  The strong truck demand and fresh cars from Detroit such as
Ford’s Fusion, Chrysler’s Dart and GM’s Cadillac ATS paced a
sweep of first-quarter U.S. market share gains for the three
companies for the first time in two decades.  ‘Fondest Dream’  The gains that U.S. brands are making are propelled by a
“fundamental shift in consumer perception” that recognizes
their improved vehicles, said Jim Press, a former sales
executive with Toyota and former deputy CEO of Chrysler.  “Their products are equal to or better than all import
brands, giving consumers the green light to purchase American
with pride,” Press said in an e-mail. “The imports’ biggest
nightmare is Detroit’s fondest dream.”  GM rose 1.6 percent $34.42 at the close in New York, while
Ford increased 1.3 percent to $15.89.  U.S. automakers are responding by raising production. Ford
said last month that it will add capacity to build 200,000 more
vehicles annually in  North America  on demand for Fusion sedans
and F-Series pickups. The company also will idle most of its
North American assembly plants for one week this summer instead
of two, increasing output by about 40,000 cars and trucks.  Skipping Breaks  Three of Chrysler’s assembly plants and all except one of
its engine, transmission and stamping factories will skip summer
shutdown this year. Since its 2009 bankruptcy, GM hasn’t had a
formal summer shutdown,  Mark Reuss , president of the company’s
North American operations, told reporters last month. Automakers
record revenue when vehicles are shipped to dealers.  Deliveries were projected to increase 5.5 percent for GM in
May, the average estimate of 13 analysts. Cadillac sales rose  40
percent , while sales of  Chevrolet , GM’s largest brand, climbed
0.9 percent. Toyota sales were estimated to increase 3 percent,
the average of eight analysts’ projections.  Detroit’s more competitive entries are slowing down  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  after the Seoul-based affiliates
combined to gain market share for 13 consecutive years through
2011. Hyundai and Kia are giving up more ground to the Americans
automakers this year than Japanese companies, whose rebound last
year from a tsunami a year earlier snapped their run of gains.  Hyundai-Kia  The trend continued this month, with combined Hyundai and
Kia sales rising 1.6 percent from a year earlier, the smallest
gain among major automakers.  Hyundai and Kia beat the 1.6 percent decline that was the
average estimate of seven analysts. Combined U.S. sales for the
two Seoul-based affiliates fell 1.4 percent through May in a
market that grew 7.3 percent, according to Autodata.  Nissan was projected to lead all automakers with a 22
percent increase in U.S. sales, the average of eight estimates.
The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker last month cut the price of
seven models, including its top-selling Altima sedan.  Honda (7267)  sales were projected to gain 5.7 percent in May, the
average of eight analysts’ estimates. Toyota, Nissan and Tokyo-based Honda may benefit from the 20 percent decline in the yen
against the dollar since Oct. 31, which could give the Japanese
companies the ability to stuff their cars with more content
without raising prices.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, reported a 2.2
percent increase in sales for its VW and Audi brands in May,
falling short of the 7.7 percent gain that was the average of
four estimates. VW brand sales slipped 1.7 percent, while Audi
deliveries jumped 15 percent, according to company statements.  “If people have a reasonable measure of security in terms
of their employment outlook, this is a terrific time to be out
purchasing vehicles,”  Jonathan Browning , chief executive
officer of Volkswagen Group of America, told reporters on a
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  