-- CIT Group Takeover Speculation Revives After Fed Lifts Curbs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-06-03T14:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/cit-draws-renewed-takeover-speculation-after-fed-lifts-sanctions.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the once-bankrupt
business lender run by  John Thain , may have become a more
attractive takeover target after escaping crisis-era regulatory
curbs.  Speculation about CIT’s future revived on May 30 when the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York  lifted sanctions that had
restricted dividends, buybacks, severance payments and hiring
since 2009. The new freedom and Thain’s turnaround of New York-based CIT’s  fortunes  since his 2010 arrival make the lender a
good fit for a healthy bank with cheaper funding, analysts said.  “Now the company will be able to make its own decisions,”
said  Mark Palmer , a New York-based analyst at BTIG LLC, which
provides trading and services for  hedge funds  and institutional
investors. “The potential acquisition of CIT is a cleaner
proposition for a potential buyer than it had been.”  Thain, 58, sold the previous company he led, Merrill Lynch
& Co., to Bank of America Corp. amid the 2008-2009 credit
crisis. As CIT’s chief executive officer, he’s worked to bring
down the cost of  funds  from as high as 13 percent in the
aftermath of the firm’s money-losing foray into subprime
mortgages.  A Canadian lender such as Toronto-Dominion Bank could
profit by using low-cost deposits to fund CIT’s high-yielding
commercial loans, Palmer said. Analysts including Bert Ely at
Ely & Co. have said CIT could be a good match with San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , given the bank’s involvement
in similar markets such as factoring and small-business lending.
Factoring involves buying receivables at a discount from
manufacturers to provide them with cash.  Stock Reaction  Curt Ritter , a CIT spokesman, and Toronto-Dominion’s Duncan
Martin said their firms don’t comment on rumor or speculation.
“We remain focused providing financing and services to our
clients, prudently growing our franchise and improving long-term
 shareholder value ,” Ritter said. Officials at Wells Fargo, the
nation’s No. 1 small-business lender, didn’t immediately respond
to inquiries about CIT.  CIT’s stock  rose as much as 7.4 percent on May 30 to its
best level since February 2011 when it announced the end of the
written agreement signed with the New York Fed on Aug. 12, 2009.
Hours later, CIT said it would buy back as much as $200 million
of its shares. The stock closed at $46.08 last week for a 12-month gain of 35 percent.  The firm has a market value of about $9.3 billion and the
stock sells for little more than book value, a theoretical
measure of what a company would be worth if liquidated. Founded
in 1908, CIT employed more than 3,500 people at the end of 2012
serving customers in more than 30 industries.  Top Goal  Thain made lifting the Fed agreement a top priority since
being named CEO in February 2010. He was brought in after the
firm, led by former CEO Jeffrey Peek, had taken $2.33 billion in
U.S. bailout money and then reorganized in  bankruptcy court .  Losses piled up amid defaults on home and consumer loans,
and unpaid debts from students left stranded when a helicopter
pilot school went bankrupt. The taxpayer funds were never
repaid, and the firm was still subject to extra scrutiny from
federal regulators.  Ending the added supervision allows CIT to set aside less
money to cover bad loans, and it doesn’t need permission to
prepay debt, hire senior executives or offer them large
severance packages.  “They have got to be popping a champagne cork,” said  Jeff
Davis , managing director of the financial institutions group of
Mercer Capital, a Memphis, Tennessee, advisory firm. “A buyer
certainly wouldn’t want to assume the written agreement.”  More Hurdles  Standard & Poor’s  said May 31 that terminating the Fed’s
agreement removes an obstacle to an upgrade of CIT’s  credit
rating , which could happen if the firm hits certain financial
targets without substantially relaxing its loan standards.  The regulatory agreement wasn’t the only hurdle to a
takeover, Davis said. The Federal Reserve has been reluctant to
bless large  bank transactions , as evidenced by the delay of  M&T
Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s pending takeover of Hudson City Bancorp, he said.
CIT also has businesses that regulators do not want banks to
fund with deposits, such as aircraft leasing.  If CIT doesn’t sell in the near-term, he said, it now has
more flexibility to buy loan portfolios and other assets.  “They have got a much bigger fairway to work with now,”
Davis said.  Under Thain’s watch, the $44.6 billion-asset company has
curbed loan losses, and improved its funding costs by retiring
debt and increasing deposits. CIT  earned  $162.6 million during
the three months ended March 31 compared with a loss of $427
million a year earlier.  Sale Prospects  Investors have speculated that a sale might be Thain’s
ultimate goal. He came to CIT after persuading Bank of America
to pay $29 a share for Merrill Lynch, a 70 percent premium to
its stock price, even as credit markets and rival firms were
collapsing in 2008. The bank ousted Thain early in 2009 amid
disputes over bonuses and whether Merrill Lynch’s spiraling
losses had been properly disclosed.  While CIT probably won’t decide to sell in three months,
there is a strong possibility that it will happen eventually,
said  Mike Turner , an analyst with Compass Point Research and
Trading LLC in  Washington  who rates the stock neutral.  “It has a bunch of good businesses that everybody wants to
be in,” he said. “And they have market-leading positions in
all of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  