-- Clariant Says in Advanced Talks to Ramp Up Biofuels Business
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-03T14:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/clariant-says-in-advanced-talks-to-ramp-up-biofuels-business.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  is in advanced talks with
potential partners that can build a bioethanol factory to
generate additional revenue from enzyme technology acquired
through the $2.5 billion purchase of Sued-Chemie.  The Swiss company wants a partner to build a second-generation biofuel plant capable of generating as much as
150,000 tons based on its Sunliquid enzyme technology, Markus
Rarbach, head of Clariant’s Biofuels & Derivatives business,
said in a telephone interview today.  The maker of cosmetic ingredients and plastics-additives is
seeking an entry into a market dominated by  Denmark ’s  Novozymes
A/S (NZYMB) , DuPont Co. and Royal DSM NV. Clariant is looking to
outperform yields generated by the incumbent enzymes to  enable
it to get a commercial-scale plant up and running without the
investment in a plant that Novozymes and DSM made.  “We are in close and advanced discussions with partners
about commercialization of the technology,” said Rarbach,
adding that he is confident of securing a tie-up based on the
level of interest and quality of talks under way.  Potential partners range from agricultural companies to
petrol distributors and bioethanol makers, the manager said,
declining to be more specific.  Clariant is betting U.S. demand for greater domestic fuel
production, and a push towards environmentally friendly petrol-alternatives in  Europe , will open a market for its startup
biofuels operation. The Muttenz-based company is taking steps
towards commercializing Sunliquid, which has been in development
since 2006, after opening a 28 million-euro ($36 million) pilot
factory in Straubing last year, Rarbach said.  Yield Claim  Clariant’s production method has a higher yield and better
economics than competing technologies, Rarbach said. DSM and
Poet LLC, one of the world’s largest ethanol producers, are
partnering on a U.S.-based project to make fuel from
agricultural residue and  Brazil ’s government has approved loans
to companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Petrobras for
research into similar projects.  Sunliquid converts the stalks and leaves left over from
crop harvests into ethanol. Some 240 million tons of cereal
straw waste accumulates across the European Union each year,
with the potential to meet 25 percent of the region´s 2020
demand for gasoline, Clariant  estimates .  Rarbach, who started working on Sunliquid at Sued-Chemie in
2006 and continued researching after Clariant acquired the
German catalyst maker in 2011, said the company is hiring for
the project, which currently employs 70 to 80 staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  