-- Cameron Ties Lobbyist Register to Labor-Union Regulation
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-03T17:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/clegg-urges-cleanup-of-u-k-politics-amid-lobbying-allegations.html
Prime Minister David Cameron tied the
compulsory registration of U.K. political lobbyists to
restrictions on the political activities of labor unions,
suggesting that attempts to deal with future scandals won’t get
cross-party political support.  Two separate newspaper and television investigations in the
past four days have alleged lawmakers are offering parliamentary
services in return for cash. The opposition Labour Party
suspended two of its members in the House of Lords over the
claims, and a Conservative member of the lower house, the
Commons, resigned from his party.  Cameron’s office said today a new bill to be published this
session would introduce a long-promised compulsory register for
lobbyists. It will also require unions to get their membership
lists audited and restrict the ways they can support political
parties during elections, something that would hit Labour
hardest.  “The point around this is that people can have confidence
that where organizations are engaged in political activity, it’s
transparent,” Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told
reporters.  The move didn’t receive whole-hearted support from the
Liberal Democrats, the junior coalition partner to Cameron’s
Conservatives. Tom Brake, the Liberal Democrat minister in
charge of the bill, told the BBC the inclusion of union clauses
was “premature” and that the policy around lobbyists was “the
most fleshed-out” part of the proposals.  ‘Groundhog Day’  Earlier, the Liberal Democrat leader, Deputy Prime Minister
Nick Clegg, called for “head-to-toe” reform of the U.K.’s
political system.     ‘  ‘It’s the political equivalent of Groundhog Day: MPs
accused of abusing their position; businesses of getting too
close,” Clegg wrote in today’s Daily Telegraph newspaper.
“Westminster remains a place where power is hoarded, decisions
are opaque, and the people who take those decisions are not
properly held to account. Our political system has long been
crying out for head-to-toe reform.”  Labour suspended lawmakers John Cunningham and Brian Mackenzie “pending further investigation,” the party said in a
statement. The two men, along with John Laird, who represents
the Ulster Unionist Party in the upper chamber, were named in an
undercover probe carried out by the Sunday Times newspaper into
lobbying on behalf of private companies.  Laird resigned the Ulster Unionist whip, meaning he’s no
longer part of the party in Parliament. All three deny breaching
parliamentary rules.  The controversy came two days after Patrick Mercer, a
Conservative lawmaker, resigned from the party after a joint BBC
and Daily Telegraph investigation into lobbying. Mercer said he
won’t seek to retain his seat in the next general election in
2015.  In February 2010, three months before he became prime
minister, Cameron said lobbying was “the next big scandal
waiting to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  