-- Fair Climate Fix Gives U.S. Three Times Effort Assigned to China
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-03T19:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/climate-fix-that-s-fair-assigns-u-s-three-times-chinese-effort.html
An equitable fix to  climate change 
would assign the U.S. almost three times the effort of cutting
carbon dioxide output as  China , which in 2006 became the biggest
emitter, research by the Stockholm Environment Institute
suggests.  The U.S., the biggest historical emitter, would have
responsibility for 29.1 percent of the greenhouse gas reductions
needed in 2020 to keep the planet on a pathway that avoids the
worst effects of global warming, according to the institute.
That compares with 10.4 percent for China, 22.9 percent for the
European Union and  India ’s 1.2 percent.  The research aims to quantify how the principle of equity
can guide emissions targets being devised at United Nations
climate talks among more than 190 nations that aim to write by
2015 a new treaty to take hold from 2020. Two weeks of
discussions began yesterday in Bonn,  Germany . Debate about
fairness has frequently stalled the discussions as nations
wrangle over who bears the greatest responsibility for tackling
climate change.  “We want to identify a small manageable set of indicators
that can be used to incorporate equity” into the discussion on
emissions targets, Sivan Kartha, senior scientist at the
institute, said in an interview in Bonn. “Any one of these
gives an equitable fair share that’s mostly in the developed
countries.”  Kartha’s work will feed into a framework being devised by
Climate Action Network, to show envoys how they can use
available indicators to incorporate the concept of equity into
emissions reduction targets. The network is an alliance of more
than 800 non-governmental organizations around the world which
lobbies diplomats at the UN talks.  Stalled Talks  “If they can sort out equity, we avoid the problems that
have stalemated negotiations so far,” Ria Voorhaar, a
spokeswoman for the network, said in an interview. “We want
them to agree a process by the end of the year that would agree
what indicators to use, ideally in 2014, to give time to
consider them before a deal is reached in 2015.”  Groups including Friends of the Earth, Germanwatch, Oxfam
and Christian Aid are also feeding research into the equity
framework that Climate Action Network is devising.  Kartha’s analysis used a measure of economic output that
only includes income above the level needed for basic survival,
which he put at $20 per person per day, to calculate a country’s
share of the global capacity to fight climate change. He used
data for emissions since 1850 to define the share of
responsibility for causing the problem, and took a simple
average of the two numbers to give each nation’s fair share.  Temperature Increase  The proportions would apply to the cuts the United Nations
Environment Program says are required to reduce global output of
 greenhouse gases  to the equivalent of 44 gigatons (44 billion
tons) of carbon dioxide in 2020 from a business-as-usual
scenario of 58 gigatons. That would give the planet a chance of
curtailing the temperature increase since industrialization to
below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).  Using Kartha’s methodology,  Japan  would bear responsibility
for 6.6 percent of the cuts in 2020, Russia would make up 4.3
percent and  South Africa ’s share would be 1.1 percent.  The scientist said not all the emissions cuts needed to be
done domestically, and also said other indicators and
circumstances could be taken into account. While his calculation
used historical emissions produced in a country, another metric
that could be used are emissions used to make goods consumed in
a nation, he said.  Countries such as  Trinidad & Tobago , a big ammonia
producer, and Nauru, which exports phosphates, could make a case
that they’re producing emissions-intensive goods that others
need, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 