-- Clovis Oncology Shares Double on Data for Cancer Drugs
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-03T20:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/clovis-oncology-shares-almost-double-on-cancer-drug-trial.html
Clovis Oncology Inc. (CLVS)  shares doubled
today after the biotechnology company reported positive early
results in trials of its lung and ovarian cancer drugs.  The shares jumped $38.01 to $74.59 at the 4 p.m. close in
New York, the biggest one-day rise since the stock began trading
in November 2011.  A drug for non-small cell lung cancer, aimed at patients
who have a mutation that makes the disease resistant to current
treatments, showed a response in previously resistant tumors,
Boulder, Colorado-based Clovis said in a statement today. The
drug, CO-1686, is in the first of three phases of testing
typically required before U.S. regulatory approval.  “There are no approved treatment options for patients with
non-small cell lung cancer who have developed the T790M
resistance mutation,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Mahaffy
said in the statement. “We are extremely encouraged by these
initial results,” he said.  Clovis also released information on its experimental drug
for ovarian cancer that showed a clinical benefit in 89 percent
of patients. As of May, 37 patients had been treated with
rucaparib, including 10 with ovarian tumors, 21 with breast
tumors, and six others, Clovis said in a statement.  Rucaparib is in the first phase of testing, and Clovis said
it may move into a second phase by the second half of the year.  “Once we identify the recommended Phase II dose, we look
forward to commencing the late-stage development program in
platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer,” Mahaffy said.  The data on both drugs was presented today at the American
Society of Clinical Oncology meeting in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  