-- Company Credit-Default Swaps Rise as U.S. Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-03T16:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/company-credit-default-swaps-rise-as-u-s-manufacturing-shrinks.html
A  gauge  of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose after a report showed manufacturing activity unexpectedly
contracted in May at the fastest pace in four years.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 80.5 basis points at 11:59
a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest level since April 23.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
contracted at the fastest pace since June 2009, indicating
industry will provide scant support for the  U.S. economy ,
pushing up the credit-swaps index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates.  “Much of Monday’s activity is the result of the weaker-than-expected ISM result, which signals that the manufacturing
expansion is likely to be modest in 2013,” said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “Good news is tough for credit because of the
potential for higher rates, and bad news is tough for credit
because, well, it’s bad news.”  The factory index fell to 49 from the prior month’s 50.7,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. The median
forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51. Fifty is
the dividing line between growth and contraction.  The  yield  on 10-year Treasury bonds, a benchmark for the
entire fixed-income market, rose to 2.165 percent on May 28, the
highest since it closed at 2.18 percent on April 5, 2012.  Deteriorating Quality  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Markit’s high yield  index , tied to debt rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s , climbed 9 basis points to 399.3.  Credit quality has deteriorated among speculative-grade
companies, high-yield credit analysts at Morgan Stanley led by
Adam Richmond wrote in a note dated today.  “Today’s record low cost of debt has led to strong
issuance and a double-digit increase in total debt for our high-yield universe,” up 10 percent year-over-year in the first
quarter, he wrote. Companies are “no longer feeling the need to
hoard cash,” while at the same time “the weak macro backdrop
is serving as a meaningful headwind to profitability,” he
wrote.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 10.7 basis points to 519.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  