-- AB InBev, Constellation Brands Seek Dismissal of Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-04T19:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/constellation-brands-seeks-dismissal-of-lawsuit-over-inbev-deal.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  seeks
dismissal of a private antitrust lawsuit alleging its
$20 billion acquisition of Grupo Modelo SAB will lead to higher
beer prices, while nine customers who filed the lawsuit asked a
judge to postpone the deal.  Budweiser-maker AB InBev, the world’s largest beer company,
agreed as part of the merger for winemaker  Constellation Brands
Inc. (STZ)  to buy the stake that Modelo holds in their joint U.S.
distribution venture for $1.85 billion. AB InBev called the
customers’ claims that the deal will allow it to control
Constellation and conspire to raise beer prices “outlandish and
completely unsupportable.” Constellation also asked a judge to
dismiss the lawsuit.  AB InBev made binding commitments in the U.S. Justice
Department-supported transaction to turn Constellation into a
competing brewer that will produce and control all of  Mexico 
City-based Modelo’s brands in the U.S., including Corona, the
country’s biggest import, AB InBev said in filings yesterday in
federal court in San Francisco.  The antitrust complaint “should be seen for what it is:
the latest in a line of shakedown attempts by plaintiff’s
counsel premised on baseless assertions of fact,” said Allen
Ruby, AB InBev’s attorney.  Beer Production  Attorney Joseph Alioto, representing beer consumers in the
antitrust lawsuit, said Constellation has been inclined to
follow AB InBev’s price increases before the deal, and AB InBev
will be running the brewery and supplying the beer production
during the first three years of the transaction.  He asked U.S. District Judge Maxine Chesney to issue a
temporary restraining order blocking the companies from
completing the transaction today and make them show why the deal
shouldn’t be put on hold while the lawsuit proceeds.  “The new Constellation is under-capitalized and highly
leveraged, having incurred billions of dollars in additional
debt in order to make the acquisition,” Alioto said in a court
filing yesterday. “As such it will be in no position to
maintain lower prices in the face of ABI constant pressure to
increase prices.”  The acquisition was completed as scheduled this morning, so
the temporary restraining order request is moot, Ruby said in a
filing today.  The U.S. said its agreement with Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev to turn Victor, New York-based Constellation into a
competing brewer could save beer drinkers almost $1 billion a
year because of lower prices.  Alioto has sued to block other deals, including the one
that created United Continental Holdings Inc. and the merger of
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and AirTran Holdings Inc.  The case is Edstrom v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-01309, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  