-- Construction Spending in U.S. Increases on Private Building
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-03T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/construction-spending-in-u-s-increases-on-private-building.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
climbed in April, as private projects rose and public spending
slumped.  Outlays (CNSTTMOM)  increased 0.4 percent to a $860.8 billion annual
rate, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington. The
median forecast of 49  economists surveyed  by Bloomberg called
for a 0.9 percent rise. Private construction projects rose 1
percent in April from the month before, to the highest spending
level since December 2012. Public projects fell by 1.2 percent,
to the lowest spending level since October 2006, after slumping
in the prior month by a revised 2.9 percent.  A pickup in the housing market may be helping to offset any
drag created by across-the-board federal spending cuts known as
sequestration that began in March and have been rolling out
since then. Sales of  new properties  advanced 2.3 percent in
April to an annualized pace of 454,000 homes, the second-fastest
pace since July 2008, the Commerce Department said last month.  “Construction has been so beaten down for so long, I think
there is strong pent-up demand,”  Russell Price , senior
economist at  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit , said before
the report. “Unless we get a jump in  interest rates  for some
unforeseen reason, which I do not expect, I do think it is a
solid path higher for the sector.”  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 5.1
percent to a 1.7 percent gain. March’s reading was revised to a
0.8 percent drop from the initial estimate of a 1.7 percent
decrease.  Construction spending rose 4.5 percent in the 12 months
ended in April before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Housing outlays fell 0.1 percent to a $301.9 billion
annualized pace. Private non-residential projects rose 2.2
percent.  Improvements in construction would help companies including
 Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , which designs and manufactures specialty trucks
and other vehicles. Chief Financial Officer David Sagehorn said
the services the Oshkosh, Wisconsin-based company uses to
monitor North American construction spending are projecting 9
percent to 12 percent annual growth in the U.S. between 2012 and
2015, and low to mid-single digit growth in  Canada .  “Construction spending is projected to continue picking up
from rock-bottom levels,” Sagehorn said in a May 29
presentation. “Our sales growth in this region over the last
several years in the access equipment segment has been largely
replacement demand-driven. With any significant uptick in non-residential construction spending, we do expect to see some
fleet expansion.”  Construction changes may have played into first-quarter
growth estimates released last week. Gross domestic product rose
at a 2.4 percent annualized rate in the first quarter, revised
from the 2.5 percent pace reported earlier, figures from the
Commerce Department showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  