-- Copper Futures Rise on Freeport Mine Shutdown, China Data
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-06-03T18:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/copper-gains-as-chinese-manufacturing-gauge-unexpectedly-rises.html
Copper futures climbed the most in
more than three weeks as a shutdown at the world’s second-biggest mine and an unexpected increase in a Chinese
manufacturing gauge fueled supply concerns.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said a probe of
accidents at its Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  may halt work for as
long as three months. An official purchasing managers’ index
released June 1 in  China , the biggest consumer of industrial
metal, rose to 50.8 in May from 50.6 a month earlier. Economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  “The Chinese numbers were a little bit better than
expected, and the mine closure will put a little more tightness
in the market,” Harry Denny, a broker at PVM Futures Inc. in
Hoboken, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “This is a
bit more of a sustained shutdown than we’ve seen.”  Copper futures for July delivery climbed 1.2 percent to
settle at $3.3305 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since May 8.  Chinese economic concerns may limit gains in copper, Denny
said. Premier Li Keqiang said last week that the government’s
reform measures will be accompanied by lower levels of growth.  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida site in  Chile  is the largest
copper mine.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.4 percent to $7,340 a metric ton ($3.33 a pound).  Nickel rose to a six-week high in London after the
Financial Times reported that China’s State Reserve Bureau
bought 30,000 tons, equivalent to one-sixth of LME stocks. The
newspaper cited people familiar with the transaction.  Nickel gained 2.4 percent to $15,185 a ton. Earlier, the
price reached $15,600, the highest since April 17.  Aluminum, tin, lead and zinc also climbed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  