-- Court’s DNA Ruling Brings U.S. a Step Closer to ’Gattaca’
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-03T17:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/court-s-dna-ruling-brings-u-s-a-step-closer-to-gattaca-.html
The day that DNA cheek swabs
officially became the new fingerprints deserves to be marked and
remembered -- and not just because of the inevitable march of
technology.  No, the  Supreme Court ’s 5-4 holding today in  Maryland v.
King , that anyone arrested for a “serious crime” can have his or
her DNA taken without any suspicion, is a landmark because it
represents a major step toward a  “Gattaca”  world. This means
that evidence of a crime can be collected without any particular
suspicion, avoiding the pesky requirement of a warrant that the
Founding Fathers thought would give us liberty and privacy.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority opinion treats the
standard collection of DNA samples from arrestees in  Maryland  as
the logical outgrowth of the state’s interest in identifying the
people it has arrested. This is a bit of a surprise from
Kennedy, who can generally be counted on to embrace liberty. Yet
in this case, he wrote, the state’s interest in keeping track of
everyone it has arrested can be satisfied more accurately by DNA
than by fingerprinting. And the swab of the cheek is, he said,
little more invasive than a fingerprint.  If DNA sampling was actually like fingerprinting, this
argument might be convincing. But of course it isn’t.
Fingerprints are a phenotype that reveals nothing except a
random pattern that no two individuals share. DNA, however, is
your genotype: the blueprint for your entire physical person. If
the government has my fingerprints, it’s like they have my
randomly assigned Social Security number. If it has my DNA, it’s
like they have the entire operating system.  Full Blueprint  That DNA is a full blueprint matters in two major ways: The
first and most basic is that when the state possesses genetic
information, it can -- and in the future, almost certainly will
-- know vast amounts about the person whose genes are typed. The
court said this wasn’t a worry because Maryland law prohibits
the use of DNA information beyond identification. But in a world
where every arrestee is sampled, how long will that legal
principle last?  Yet it was the second concern that exercised Justice
 Antonin Scalia  in his pungent dissent. Ordinarily, Scalia
explained, a search can be performed only on probable cause and
with a warrant. Fingerprints are not a search. But DNA is a
search, and for a very important reason: The DNA of the
petitioner, Alonzo Jay King Jr., was used to link him to the
rape he was accused of committing. In other words, said Scalia,
the purpose of the search and the swab wasn’t to identify the
accused with a unique marker. It was to solve a crime in
question.  If Scalia’s distinction seems subtle, it shouldn’t.
Fingerprints are generally used for bureaucratic identification
and only occasionally to solve a crime -- when the criminal has
been careless enough to leave them behind. DNA, by contrast,
hasn’t, thus far, been used for bureaucratic identification. It
is useful primarily for solving crimes, since it is almost
impossible not to leave some DNA behind wherever we may go and
whatever we may do. To prove the point, Scalia demonstrated that
King’s DNA sat around for weeks before being analyzed -- and was
eventually analyzed to solve a crime, not to keep track of the
criminal.  What is remarkable, then, is that even Justice Scalia --
joined by the liberals  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Elena Kagan  and
 Sonia Sotomayor  -- thinks there would be nothing wrong with
sampling every arrestee’s DNA if the purpose really were just to
keep tabs on them. The constitutional objection focuses on what
the DNA is actually used for. However, these two functions --
bureaucratic identification and crime solving -- can probably
never be fully separated in the real world. As technology
improves, the DNA database could be employed to solve crimes
even if its primary purpose were just to be for bureaucratic
classification. The reason, again, is the nature of DNA itself,
which is not only unique but also oozes from our every pore.  Libertarian Impulse  Justice Scalia’s libertarian impulse forms a real contrast
with his conservative colleagues. It can be seen in his greater
precision of language: Only Scalia, among the court’s
conservatives, would build an opinion on the distinction of two
different meanings of the word “identification.” Furthermore,
Scalia distrusts the administrative state’s tendency to subsume
the criminal-justice system. The fear that bureaucracy swallows
rights -- and that our criminal-justice liberties are vulnerable
to this process -- has also been reflected in Scalia’s repeated
votes to strike down the federal sentencing guidelines.  On the other side, Justice  Stephen Breyer ’s decisive vote
with the conservatives to provide a majority today is also
characteristic and worth noting. Breyer is a pragmatic
rationalist whose sympathies usually lie with effective
bureaucratic administration. From his standpoint, it would be
naive and silly to stand in the way of inevitable technological
progress.  This case, then, posed a choice between technological state
power and Luddite liberty. Liberty lost. Remember the day.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow him  on
Twitter.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  