-- Credit Traders Said to Win SEC Relief in Portfolio Margin Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/credit-traders-said-to-win-sec-relief-in-portfolio-margin-rules.html
Hedge funds  and asset managers will
win partial relief from Dodd-Frank Act collateral requirements
for credit-default swaps under a policy shift to be announced
this week, according to two people briefed on the matter.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is revising a
policy released in March that required some clients to put up
double the collateral dealers post at Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , according to the people, who
requested anonymity because the decision isn’t public. The
relief applies to portfolio accounts that hold credit swaps tied
to single securities as well as indexes.  ICE, owner of the world’s largest clearinghouse for credit
swaps, Citadel LLC and other firms have spent more than a year
pushing regulators to support the portfolio-margining system for
client trades. The SEC may require banks temporarily to collect
from clients collateral equivalent to what’s required under
clearinghouse rules plus the level required by their own models,
according to an e-mail note the Managed Funds Association sent
members on May 31.  The change from the March policy may help encourage
clearing of trades under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory law
that called for most swaps to be guaranteed at clearinghouses as
a way to reduce risk in the financial system.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC, which
share oversight of the credit-swaps market, have taken steps to
reduce the amount of collateral traders must have when they hold
swaps in portfolio accounts. Investors have called for the rules
to reduce the margin necessary when swaps tied to single
securities are offset by trades tied to indexes.  ‘Capital Efficiencies’  “There are very few cost-saving measures in Dodd-Frank;
this is one of them,”  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC member,
said yesterday. “Portfolio margining provides the buy-side the
same capital efficiencies clearing members have enjoyed.”  Clients could save as much as 80 percent of the amount of
margin, also known as collateral, necessary to offset index and
single-name trades once they’re held in the same account,
according to ICE.  The SEC’s move follows a March 8 letter the agency sent to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and four
other dealers governing how much collateral their clients must
post. In the letter, the commission told dealers they were
required to collect at least double the amount of margin from
most of their clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  