-- Cyprus’s Credit Ratings Downgraded by Fitch on Uncertain Outlook
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-06-03T17:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/cyprus-s-credit-ratings-downgraded-by-fitch-on-uncertain-outlook.html
Cyprus’s credit ratings were cut
further below investment grade by Fitch Ratings, which cited
uncertainty around the country’s economic outlook.  Cyprus’s foreign-currency issuer rating was taken down one
level to B- from B, while its local-currency issuer rating was
reduced two levels to CCC from B, according to a statement from
Fitch in  London  today.  The reduction of the former reflects “high implementation
risks” on reforms agreed in exchange for a European Union-led
bailout and the restructuring of the banking industry, the
ratings company said, adding that the latter also takes into
account the “greater vulnerability of bonds issued under
domestic law.”  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) loan from the euro area and the International Monetary
Fund in return for measures including a tax on bank deposits of
more than 100,000 euros. Those concessions were demanded by
creditors in a bid to shrink the country’s banking sector, and
led to Cyprus imposing capital controls as it resolved its
second biggest lender, Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl.  “Cyprus has no flexibility to deal with domestic or
external shocks and there is a high risk of the program going
off track, with financing buffers potentially insufficient to
absorb material fiscal and economic slippage,” Fitch said in
the statement. “A premature lifting of capital controls that
triggers material capital flight could have large negative
economic consequences.”  Rating Outlook  Fitch said it removed the Rating-Watch-Negative label,
which would have indicated a heightened probability of another
downgrade, on both ratings. The firm placed a negative outlook
on the foreign-currency issuer rating, suggesting the rating may
be cut again in the next year or two.  Investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at Standard &
Poor’s in 2011. Yields on sovereign securities moved in the
opposite direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of
32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlooks last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and published in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  