-- Daiwa Leads Bank Shares Lower as Fee Optimism Wanes: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-06-03T06:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/daiwa-paces-broker-share-drop-as-fee-optimism-wanes-tokyo-mover.html
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  led a
plunge in Japanese financial shares, slumping to an eight-week
low as the nation’s stock-market retreat worsens the profit
outlook.  Japan ’s second-biggest brokerage tumbled 11 percent to 764
yen, the lowest since April 9, at the close in  Tokyo . Bigger
rival  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  slid 8.4 percent, the steepest drop
since November 2011, to 723 yen. Commercial banks also fell,
with  Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  losing 13 percent, the worst performer on
the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) , which declined 3.7
percent.  Securities firms benefited the most from a stock market
rally that began last November as investors bet renewed demand
for Japanese equities would boost fees and commissions. Those
expectations are now being damped as the Nikkei retreats about
15 percent from last month’s peak on speculation Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s stimulus won’t boost the economy fast enough.  “Brokerages fell because the market reached an inflection
point, and investors reckon their fees from investment trust
sales to individuals will fall,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
 fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Japanese stocks have risen too much, and now we’re seeing a
backlash.”  The nation’s equities are still the best performing among
the major developed markets this year, with the benchmark Topix
Index and Nikkei up about 28 percent. Shares rallied since mid-November on optimism the government and the  Bank of Japan  will
beat 15 years of deflation.  Worst Performer  The  Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index , which has
doubled in the past six months, lost 9 percent today, the  worst
performer  among 33 industry groups on the Topix.  Commercial banks declined on concern that rising bond
yields amid expectations for inflation will lead to losses on
their holdings of government debt.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s biggest lender, fell 5.4 percent.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest
bank by market value, slid 5.3 percent and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. dropped 6.2 percent.  “Foreign investors who have been buying bank stocks may be
realizing profits,” said Natsumu Tsujino, a Tokyo-based analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “People are also paying attention to
how risks of higher long-term bond yields would affect banks’
finances.”  Rising Yields  Yields on Japan’s 10-year bonds swung between a record low
of 0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the Bank of Japan
unveiled a plan to double monthly bond purchases to achieve its
2 percent inflation target, to as high as 1 percent on May 23.
The note yielded 0.805 percent at 3:16 p.m. in Tokyo.  The decline in brokerage shares coincided with a Yomiuri
newspaper report today that an SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
employee posed as the brother of an 80-year-old woman with
dementia to enable her to transfer as much as 50 million yen
($497,000) in assets managed by two other companies.  SMBC Nikko, a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui , received a claim
through the Financial Instruments Mediation Assistance Center
and “we will handle it sincerely,” Tadataka Ishida, a Tokyo-based spokesman at the brokerage, said in response to questions
about the report.  Tsukasa Kinumura, a planning and coordination official at
 FINMAC , a non-profit organization that represents investors in
disputes with banks, declined to comment on specific cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  