-- DBS Extends Deadline for Takeover of Temasek’s Bank Danamon
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-06-03T04:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/dbs-agrees-to-extend-deadline-for-takeover-of-temasek-s-danamon.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, agreed to extend a deadline for buying a
controlling stake in  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  from Temasek
Holdings Pte amid regulatory wrangling.  The agreement with Temasek’s Fullerton Financial Holdings
Pte, which expired yesterday, will be prolonged to Aug. 1,
Singapore-based DBS said in a statement today. The deal will
lapse unless both parties agree to a further extension, it said.  Indonesia ’s former central bank Governor Darmin Nasution
said last month that DBS will be allowed to take 40 percent of
Danamon, in accordance with bank ownership rules set after the
66.4 trillion-rupiah ($6.8 billion) takeover bid was made in
April last year. A minority stake would deny DBS management
control as it seeks a foothold in a country where loans are the
most profitable among the world’s 20 largest economies.  It was the second time DBS pushed back the deadline for
completing a deal. Indonesia’s regulator is leveraging the
transaction to gain equal access in  Singapore  for its banks,
possibly thwarting what would be  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank
acquisition.  Indonesia’s central bank welcomes the extension, Bank
Indonesia Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah told reporters in
Singapore today. Indonesian officials “are still talking” with
the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Alamsyah said.  “I think we have the agreement,” he said. “We will wait
for the response from the MAS.”  Ownership Laws  While a minority stake in Danamon would cut DBS’s reliance
on Singapore, Southeast Asia’s least profitable loan market,
Indonesian bank ownership laws unveiled last July can bar the
bank from achieving its original plan to gain full control. The
new rules allow ownership by another lender to rise above 40
percent only if certain conditions, including capital strength
requirements, are met.  “DBS will make further announcements when there are
significant developments on the transaction,” it said in
today’s statement.  Karen Ngui , a spokeswoman for DBS, said following
Nasution’s announcement on May 21 that the lender hadn’t
received written notice of the approval and it “hopes” the
application will be approved as originally submitted.  Share Swap  The takeover agreement calls for DBS to acquire Temasek’s
67.4 percent stake in Danamon by allowing Singapore’s state-owned investment company to swap its Danamon holdings into DBS
shares. The swap was agreed to at a price of 7,000 rupiah for
each Danamon share, which called for DBS to issue 439 million
new shares to Temasek at S$14.07 apiece. That will increase its
stake in DBS to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  Following that transaction, DBS would make a tender offer
for any remaining Danamon stock for 7,000 rupiah a share, taking
its holding in the Indonesian bank to 99 percent.  Danamon  shares  fell 2.6 percent to 5,600 rupiah at 11:02
a.m. in Jakarta. DBS declined 1.6 percent to S$16.88 in
Singapore.  International rules known as Basel III that require banks
to deduct the value of minority investments from  Tier 1 capital 
make such deals “quite punitive,” DBS Chief Financial Officer
Chng Sok Hui said on May 2.  DBS is “very reluctant” to buy minority stakes, Chief
Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said that day, after the bank
reported earnings for the three months to March 31.  Indonesian  lenders  are the most profitable among the
world’s 20 biggest economies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks with a market value greater than $5 billion
boast an average net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, of 7.3 percent, according to the data.  In comparison, Singapore’s banks have a net interest margin
of 1.82 percent, the narrowest in Southeast Asia, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  