-- Default Swaps on Junior Debt Undervalued, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-06-03T08:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/default-swaps-on-junior-debt-undervalued-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors are undervaluing
outstanding credit-default swaps on subordinated financial debt
as they anticipate changes to the market will make future
contracts more effective, according to Morgan Stanley.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the
subordinated debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell to 177
basis points, the lowest in almost three years, on May 22. That
was after the International Swaps & Derivatives Association
proposed changing the contracts to explicitly protect against
debt writedowns, exchanges or conversions into equity. The gauge
climbed seven basis points today to 218 basis points.  The index dropped as investors shunned existing contracts
out of concern they provide insufficient coverage when
governments impose losses as part of bank bailouts and that
they’ll become hard to buy and sell when the improved terms are
adopted. The changes are part of the biggest overhaul to the
swaps market in a decade, seeking to fix flaws that resulted in
buyers of protection on SNS Reaal NV’s bonds losing out after
the notes were expropriated by the Dutch government.  “This proposed change is clearly valuable for buyers of
protection in a new contract, in specific scenarios,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Phanikiran Naraparaju in  London  wrote in
a note to investors. “We think the market underestimates the
utility of existing contracts.”  The swaps proved effective when Iceland’s banks defaulted
and Irish banks were restructured, according to Morgan Stanley  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  