-- Delta-Air France Led SkyTeam Sees Gol, Virgin as Likely Recruits
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-03T13:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/delta-air-france-led-skyteam-sees-gol-virgin-as-likely-recruits.html
The SkyTeam airline alliance said it
may add Brazilian carrier Gol and U.K.-based Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. after leading member  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  of the
U.S. took stakes in both.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, in which Delta has a
6.15 percent holding, could consider applying for alliance
membership in the next two years after expanding its network,
SkyTeam Managing Director Michael Wisbrun said today in  Cape
Town , adding that: “ Brazil  is on the wish list.”  Virgin Atlantic and Delta will initially focus on winning
regulatory approval for the U.S. company’s purchase of a 49
stake and on deepening bilateral ties, Wisbrun said. Seeking
SkyTeam membership or some other alignment for the U.K. operator
could be on the agenda in 2015, he said.  One of the main global markets where Skyteam lacks a member
is  India , and Wisbrun said airlines there need to undergo
further change before it can be determined whether Jet Airways
(India) Ltd. or another carrier there would be a candidate for
recruitment. Jet has been bolstered by a move by Etihad Airways
PJSC of  Abu Dhabi  to take a 24 percent stake, the executive said.  Etihad, which has established code-share ties with  Air
France-KLM Group (AF) , the dominant carrier in SkyTeam alongside
Delta, as well as with Kenya Airways Ltd., another member, is
not currently in any talks to join, he said. Neither is Air
Berlin Plc -- a Oneworld alliance carrier courted by Air France
when Etihad bought its stake -- regarding as a likely addition.  While options exist to add to Skyteam -- which competes
with British Airways and American Airlines-led Oneworld and the
Star group led by Deutsche Lufthansa AG -- members are
“comfortable with the footprint we have today,” Wisbrun said.  SkyTeam will formally add PT Garuda Indonesia in March, he
confirmed at a briefing during the  International Air Transport
Association ’s annual conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in Cape Town via 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper in Cape Town via 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  