-- Djokovic to Face 35-Year-Old Haas, as Mattek’s Run Ends
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-03T14:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/djokovic-to-face-35-year-old-haas-as-mattek-s-run-ends.html
Top seed Novak Djokovic overcame an
early slump to move to the  French Open  quarterfinals, where
he’ll meet 35-year-old  Tommy Haas .  Djokovic of Serbia beat No. 16 seed Philipp Kohlschreiber,
4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4, on a windy main Court Philippe Chatrier at
Roland Garros in Paris. He’ll play Haas, another German, in the
last eight. Haas is the oldest men’s quarterfinalist at Roland
Garros since 1971.  “It was tough, Philipp is a quality player on clay,”
Djokovic said in a court-side interview. “I have a lot of
respect for Tommy, he’s playing very well.”  Russia’s No. 12 seed,  Maria Kirilenko , ended the run of
unseeded American Bethanie Mattek-Sands, 7-5, 6-4.  Mattek-Sands, one of four American women in the fourth
round, had ousted former champion Li Na of China last week. The
28-year-old Minnesota-born player is making a successful
comeback after she dropped out of the top 200 early in the
season because of injuries last year.  Kirilenko’s next opponent is Australian Open champion
 Victoria Azarenka , who eased past former title holder  Francesca Schiavone  of Italy, 6-3, 6-0.  “It’s been always the most challenging for me, but I feel
like I’m finally understanding what I need to do to improve,”
the third-seeded Azarenka, who has never reached the last four
in Paris, told reporters. “And I feel it’s a process, but I’m
on the right way.”  Kohlschreiber beat Djokovic in the third round of the 2009
French Open, the last time the two met on the Parisian clay.
Since then, Djokovic, a six-time major winner, hasn’t lost
before the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament.  ‘Great Success’  Haas beat Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny , 6-1, 6-1, 6-3, today.  “What I’m really proud of is that I reached the quarters
here for the first time, not knowing if that was ever going to
be possible,” Haas told reporters. “It’s a great success for
me.”  Haas dropped out of the top 800 two years ago when he
struggled with hip and shoulder injuries. After climbing to No.
2 in the rankings in 2002, he missed the entire 2003 season
because of a shoulder injury that needed surgery twice.  Youzhny was so frustrated by his performance today that he
smashed his racket into pieces on his bench. Last year, he wrote
“sorry” in the clay after taking only four games against  David Ferrer  in a third-round match.  Haas, who squandered 12 match points in his previous round
against  John Isner , made his first Grand Slam quarterfinal at
the 1999 Australian Open, when Djokovic was 11 years old. Haas
has beaten the 26-year-old three times in seven meetings,
including on hard court in Miami this season.  Djokovic Sadness  After winning his previous round two days ago, Djokovic was
told by his team of the death of his former coach, Jelena
Gencic, at the age of 76.  Djokovic canceled his post-match press conference because
he was upset about the death. Gencic, who discovered him at age
6, also coached Grand Slam champions  Monica Seles  and Goran Ivanisevic.  Seven-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain plays Japan’s Kei
Nishikori today, while defending women’s champion Maria Sharapova of Russia faces Sloane Stephens, the No. 17 seed from
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  