-- Djokovic Wants to Honor Late Coach With French Open Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-04T00:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/djokovic-wants-to-honor-former-coach-with-french-title.html
Jelena Gencic never really stopped
coaching Novak Djokovic right up until her death last weekend at
age 76.  The top-ranked men’s tennis player told journalists
yesterday that the coach who discovered him as a 6-year-old
reminded him just two weeks ago to chase the French Open title,
the one Grand Slam tournament he hasn’t won.  “She told me, ‘Listen, you have to focus, you have to give
your attention to this tournament,’” Djokovic said after
beating Philipp Kohlschreiber 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 to reach the
quarterfinals. “‘This is a tournament you need to win.’ She was
giving me this kind of inspiration and motivation even more. So
now I feel in her honor that I need to go all the way.”  Djokovic will play 35-year-old  Tommy Haas  in the last
eight. The 26-year-old Serb made his first Roland Garros final
in 2012, losing a four-set match to  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  played
over two days because of rain delays. He may face Nadal in the
semifinals this year.  After yesterday’s victory, he paid tribute to Gencic, a
former tennis and handball international for  Yugoslavia  who
coached him until he was 12. She also coached Grand Slam
champions  Monica Seles  and Goran Ivanisevic.  “Life gives you things and takes away close people in your
life, and Jelena was my first coach, like my second mother,”
Djokovic told reporters.  Djokovic added his team had done “the right thing” when
they decided not to tell him of Gencic’s death before he had to
play his previous round against Grigor Dimitrov of  Bulgaria .
They told him afterward, and he was so upset he canceled his
post-match press conference.  ‘Still a Shock’  “Regardless of the timing, it’s still a shock,” he said
yesterday. “But I think it was better for me and for my match
that the news came after.”  Djokovic smiled as he said Gencic had still been giving
tennis lessons to young kids two days before her death.  Djokovic grew up in war-torn  Serbia . He turned 12 in 1999,
when the then-Yugoslavian region was bombed for 11 weeks in a
NATO campaign to end former President  Slobodan Milosevic ’s
crackdown on ethnic Albanians in  Kosovo . During nightly air
raids, Djokovic and his family hid in the basement of his
grandfather’s apartment in Belgrade, the city where he practiced
with Gencic during the day.  Djokovic said he’d like to continue her work in Serbia.  “We were very close throughout my whole life, and she
taught me a lot of things that are part of me, part of my
character today,” he said. “Hopefully I will be able to
continue on and follow up where she stopped with her legacy,
because she left so much knowledge to me and to the people that
were close to her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  