-- Dollar Below 100 Yen as Data Dims View Fed to Cut Buying
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-06-04T05:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/dollar-below-100-yen-as-data-dims-view-fed-to-cut-buying.html
The dollar remained below 100 yen
after falling past the level for the first time in almost a
month yesterday as investors weighed whether the U.S. recovery
is robust enough for the  Federal Reserve  to scale back stimulus.  The Dollar Index reached an almost one-month low yesterday
after a report showed U.S. manufacturing contracted in May at
the fastest pace in four years. Private data tomorrow may show
the pace of hiring in the world’s largest economy quickened.
 Australia ’s dollar held declines after the nation’s  Reserve Bank 
signaled scope to ease further. South Korea’s won strengthened
while the Turkish lira held a five-day slide.  “The QE exit hinges on the recovery in the labor market,
so the jobs data this week would be key,” said Noriaki Murao, a
managing director of the marketing group at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , referring to the Fed’s
quantitative-easing program. “It’s too early to say the long-term weakening trend in the yen has ended.”  The dollar recovered 0.4 percent to 99.88 yen at 6:52 a.m.
in  London  from yesterday, when it touched 98.87, the lowest
since May 9. The yen’s four-day, 2.8 percent gain against the
greenback was the biggest since July 2011. The euro slid 0.1
percent to $1.3065 from yesterday, when it reached $1.3108, the
strongest since May 9.  Europe ’s shared currency added 0.3
percent to 130.49 yen.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 97.32 U.S. cents.
The Aussie dropped to the lowest level since October 2011 on May
29.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fetched 82.760 from 82.656 yesterday, when it declined
to 82.428, a level unseen since May 9.  Payrolls Report  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index  for the
U.S. fell to 49, the lowest reading since June 2009, from the
prior month’s 50.7 reading, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed yesterday. Fifty is the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  ADP Research Institute will probably say tomorrow the pace
of hiring in the U.S. quickened by 46,000 jobs to 165,000 in May
from the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Nonfarm payrolls swelled by 165,000 jobs in April, more
than forecast, and the unemployment  rate  unexpectedly fell to
7.5 percent, the Labor Department reported last month. It will
probably say June 7 that employers added 168,000 workers in May,
economists forecast.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs
under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, which tends to
debase the dollar.  Fed Stimulus  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 the
U.S. central bank could decide at its next few meetings to taper
purchases if it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.
At the same time, he said a premature tightening of monetary
policy might imperil the recovery.  “Should the U.S. employment number disappoint, that could
pour cold water on the argument for the Fed’s tapering of
stimulus,” Yunosuke Ikeda, the head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Nomura Securities Co. in  Tokyo , wrote in a report
today.  RBA Decision  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  kept its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 2.75 percent today, in line with 24 of the 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  exchange rate  “remains high considering the decline in
export prices that has taken place over the past year and a
half,” the RBA said in a statement today.  The Australian dollar’s one-month risk reversal rate rose
to minus 2 percentage points, after dropping to minus 2.45
points on May 17, the lowest since June 19 and indicating
increased demand for options that grant the right to sell the
Aussie versus the greenback.  Demand for the yen was limited after the Nikkei newspaper
reported that  Japan ’s Government Pension Investment Fund, which
oversees about 108 trillion yen ($1.08 trillion) in assets, may
diversify away from Japanese  government bonds . The Cabinet
secretariat will set up a panel this month to make
recommendations to GPIF on allocations, which may take place in
one to two years, Nikkei said without attribution.  GPIF Allocations  Fund President Takahiro Mitani said in a Bloomberg
interview in February that GPIF, the world’s biggest manager of
retirement savings, would begin talks in April about reducing
its 67 percent target allocation to domestic bonds.  “GPIF’s new asset allocation plan may not be adopted for
another two years, so it’s a little surprising the dollar was
bought back on the news,” said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s
Murao.  Japanese investors became net buyers of Australian bonds in
May for the first time in nine months,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
said. Sovereign investor support for Aussie bonds surged again
last month, particularly from  Asia , according to a Westpac
research note.  Turkey’s lira remained lower on concern days of protest
against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will undermine his
efforts to overhaul the political system.  The lira was little changed at 1.8828 per dollar, after
having weakened 2 percent in the previous five sessions.  The won climbed amid diminished expectations the Fed will
taper asset purchases that have fueled demand for emerging-market assets. It rose 0.5 percent to 1,122.45 per greenback,
appreciating for a second day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  