-- DPSC Says Wind Policy Uncertainty May Delay Expansion
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-03T06:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/dpsc-says-wind-policy-uncertainty-may-delay-expansion.html
DPSC Ltd. (DPSC) , a Kolkata-based power
producer that has gained  14 percent  this year, may delay a plan
to double wind power capacity because of uncertainty over when
 India  will reinstate a subsidy for the industry.  The company, a unit of India Power Corporation Ltd.,
planned to add 100 megawatts of wind farms in the states of
 Andhra Pradesh , Maharashtra and Rajasthan.  “The policy certainty is definitely affecting expansion
plans,” Rakesh Bhatia, DPSC’s head of renewable energy, said in
a phone interview. “We wanted to start earlier.”  Installations in India, the world’s third-biggest market
for  wind turbines , plunged 42 percent in the year to March 31 to
1,700 megawatts after the government withdrew a tax break and
generation-based subsidy for wind farms, according to data from
the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers’ Association. Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram pledged to reinstate the
subsidy in February. The government has yet to do so.  DPSC, which also distributes electricity in West Bengal
state, rose 2.3 percent to 20 rupees as of 11:31 a.m. in Mumbai
trading today. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has climbed 1.3
percent this year.  The company has built 100 megawatts of installed wind
projects that use turbines from Wind World (India) Ltd.,
formerly known as Enercon (India) Ltd. Wind World topped  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  to become India’s largest wind-turbine maker last
year.  Bhatia said the company is evaluating larger machines from
suppliers for future projects that can produce more power from
slower wind speeds.  “Enercon has a limitation of 800-megawatt turbines,”
Bhatia said. “The new trend is for higher capacity turbines.”  Inox Wind Ltd., the country’s fourth-largest supplier, said
last week that 2 megawatt wind turbines are the maximum size
that can be installed in India because of transportation issues
and poor roads. Suzlon, Inox and  Gamesa Corp. (GAM)  Tecnologica SA are
among those that have introduced such turbines for the local
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  