-- Draghi Sees Signs of Stabilization in ‘Challenging’ Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-03T01:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/draghi-sees-signs-of-stabilization-in-challenging-economy.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said that while the economic outlook in the euro area is
“challenging,” he still expects a recovery this year.  “There are a few signs of a possible stabilization,”
Draghi said in a speech in  Shanghai  today, according to a text
provided by the Frankfurt-based central bank. “Our baseline
scenario continues to be one of a very gradual recovery starting
in the latter part of this year.”  After reducing the ECB’s  benchmark interest rate  to a
record low of 0.5 percent last month, Draghi signaled he’s
prepared to cut again if economic data worsen. While
unemployment in the 17-member euro area reached a fresh record
in April and the recession deepened in the first quarter, most
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  said they didn’t expect
the ECB’s Governing Council to lower borrowing costs when it
meets on June 6.  “The drivers of such a gradual recovery are the highly
accommodative monetary policy and export growth, caused by
growing foreign demand,” Draghi said. Recent increases in stock
markets are “benefiting virtually all economic agents,
including corporations, banks and households,” he said.  Recapitalization Needs  As the financial sector is the intermediary between the
ECB’s loose monetary policy and the real economy, transparency
is needed about the risks that remain on the balance sheets of
lenders across the region, Draghi said. That’s a pre-condition
for restoring “lasting health” in the banking sector, he said,
adding that the central bank can’t help lenders recapitalize.  “It is –- first and foremost –- the responsibility of
shareholders to ensure that their bank is solvent and able to
sustain its core business,” Draghi said. “And if the private
sector is unable or unwilling to provide the capital necessary
to achieve solvency, it is for the fiscal and regulatory
authorities to decide whether and how to act.”  Once the ECB conducts an asset-quality review of European
banks and before it takes over responsibility for supervision
next year, any capital shortfalls will need to be plugged by
governments or the region’s bailout fund, Draghi said.  “The national budgets and where needed, the ESM, will have
to provide adequate backstop,” he said.  Draghi also defended the ECB’s potentially unlimited and,
as yet, unused OMT bond-buying program. The German
 Constitutional Court  will hold a hearing on a case that
challenges the OMT’s compatibility with German primary law later
this month.  The program, announced in mid-2012, has made the euro area
“a more stable and resilient place to invest in than it was a
year ago,” Draghi said. “This important improvement largely
reflects the removal of unwarranted fears of a systemic collapse
of monetary union that was previously priced in by markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  