-- The Real Scandal at the IRS
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/the-real-scandal-at-the-irs.html
Republicans on  Capitol Hill  are abuzz
with the possibility that the scandal at the  Internal Revenue
Service  will lead to  tax reform . Media strategist  Frank Luntz  is
advising them to harness public outrage to reach this goal.  This path will dead-end. Republican tax-reform plans remain
vague, because that’s the way they stay popular. And the leading
Republican tax-reform ideas have no real relation to the facts
of the scandal. Republicans generally want to broaden the tax
base, lower rates and reduce the number of brackets. The IRS
could have harassed conservative groups applying for tax-exempt
status -- the core of the current scandal -- even if we did all
of these things with a flat tax.  Conservatives disliked it when Democrats responded to the
massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut , by proposing gun regulations
that wouldn’t have done anything to stop it, and that
disconnection is one reason the regulations didn’t have enough
political momentum to pass. That example should make Republicans
think twice about using the IRS scandal to flatten taxes.  Some conservatives would like to get rid of the corporate-income tax, which actually would prevent such a scandal from
happening again. Republicans have enough political sense,
though, not to propose that. So the default response is
continued vagueness: They’re saying we should “abolish the IRS”
without noting that they would almost certainly have to create
another large, intrusive tax-collection agency to replace it.  Government Power  Republicans had a better response to the last round of IRS
scandals, in the 1990s. In 1997, congressional hearings revealed
that IRS agents were being pressured to meet quotas for back
taxes and penalties. Agents, sometimes anonymously, admitted
that these quotas had led aggressive collectors to squeeze
taxpayers for money they didn’t really owe.  A bipartisan commission recommended reforms to rein in such
practices. The Clinton administration resisted some of the
recommendations, but many of them ultimately became law in 1998.  Senator  Rob Portman , the  Ohio Republican  who helped lead
the commission as a member of the House back then, points out
that these reforms played a role in uncovering today’s scandals.
The 1998 law created an inspector general within the Treasury
Department to police the IRS for abusive practices, and it was a
report from this office on the targeting of conservative groups
that brought the latest scandal to light. “You could argue that
we would know nothing about this if not for the law,” Portman
told me.  The earlier IRS scandals produced useful reforms partly
because the Republicans who did the most to publicize them
weren’t focused on pinning the blame on President  Bill Clinton .
They instead wanted to demonstrate the dangers of letting the
federal government have too much power, and in finding ways to
reduce those dangers.  We could use a congressional investigation with the same
spirit today. The targeting scandal has led to other troubling
revelations about the IRS. The Taxpayer Advocate of the U.S.
has, for example,  reported  that a whopping 69 percent of people
who claimed the adoption tax credit for 2012 were audited --
even though most of the returns were clean. (The IRS hasn’t
disputed these facts.)  And  news reports  have suggested that the IRS may have
targeted a broad range of conservatives -- individuals as well
as organizations -- for audits. One conservative writer, Anne
Hendershott, has  accused  the IRS of singling her out for
political reasons. Even if that speculation is incorrect, the
details of the story she tells -- that an IRS agent summoned her
to a meeting and forbade her from bringing her husband -- point
to the possibility that some IRS practices still need reform.  Why, for example, should the agency be trying to predict
whether new tax-exempt organizations will comply with the law?
Brett Kappel, a lawyer at Arent Fox LLP’s political-law group,
says it shouldn’t: “A better approach is to do away with this
asking for permission in advance.” The IRS should confine itself
to checking whether groups already in operation have in fact
followed the rules.  Larger Threat  Robert Schriebman, a tax attorney based in  Los Angeles  who
was involved in the last round of reform, believes that enforced
tax collection -- liens, seizures and the like -- should be
placed under the supervision of independent judges, so that the
IRS is not its own “judge and jury.” It should also be easier
for taxpayers to record meetings with IRS officials.  Portman cautions against legislating before we know all the
facts about the scandal: “We have to get to the bottom of this
first to find out what happened, how it happened and why it
happened.”  That’s right. But Congress shouldn’t just investigate a
political scandal. It should look at the larger threat of
abusive behavior by a fearsomely powerful government agency.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 