-- Heat Host Pacers in Decisive Game 7 for Trip to NBA Finals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/heat-host-pacers-in-decisive-game-7-for-trip-to-nba-finals.html
LeBron James  and the  Miami Heat 
haven’t lost consecutive games in almost five months. They’ll
need to keep that streak intact to earn a return trip to the
National Basketball Association Finals.  The Heat host the  Indiana  Pacers tonight in a decisive
seventh game of the Eastern Conference finals, with the winner
facing the  San Antonio Spurs  in the championship series.  The Heat, who entered the postseason as odds-on favorites
to win a second straight title, are 7-point favorites at home
following their 14-point Game 6 loss in Indianapolis two days
ago. Miami hasn’t trailed in the series, as Indiana rallied
three times to tie after losses in games 1, 3 and 5.  “Certainly you don’t want it to get to that point when you
feel like you had opportunities to close out a series,” Heat
coach  Erik Spoelstra  told reporters yesterday. “But when it
does, these are the moments. There’s almost not a better two
words in pro sports than ‘Game 7.’”  The Heat reached the NBA Finals a year ago by beating the
Boston Celtics 101-88 in Game 7 of the Eastern Conference
finals. Miami gets to host the deciding game again after
finishing with the NBA’s best regular-season record at 66-16.  “That’s what we had the best record in the league for,”
James said after Miami’s Game 6 loss. “If we didn’t take care
of business on the road at some point in the playoffs, we can
always fall back on this. We hate to be in this position, but
it’s an opportunity and we look forward to it.”  Back-to-Back Losses  The Heat lost back-to-back games three times during the
season, most recently on Jan. 8 and 10, against the Pacers and
the Portland Trial Blazers.  The Pacers, whose 20-1 odds of winning the NBA title were
tied for sixth-best entering the postseason, won two of three
meetings against the Heat during the regular season. Including
the playoffs, they’re 1-3 in Miami this season.  “We believe we can win there,” Pacers coach Frank Vogel
said yesterday. “We believe we can win the series. We always
have. We haven’t been perfect this series, but we’re going to
need to be near perfect to win a Game 7 there.”  Spoelstra said the series has been a showcase of
contrasting styles, with James and the Heat facing a Pacers team
that led the NBA in rebounding this season while holding
opponents to the lowest field goal percentage in the league.  Roy Hibbert , the Pacers’ 7-foot-2 center, is averaging 16.9 points,
10 rebounds and two blocks a game this postseason.  “We’re trying to impose our will on the game and attack
and get to the rim,” Spoelstra said. “They protect the paint,
protect the rim, protect the free-throw line. So who can get to
who? Can our speed and quickness and our pace, our spacing, can
it get to them more often, or can their size get to us? That’s
what makes it a compelling series. We’re embracing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  