-- Elan Sues Royalty Pharma to Halt ‘Coercive’ Tender Offer
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-03T21:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/elan-sues-royalty-pharma-to-halt-coercive-tender-offer.html
Elan Corp. sued Royalty Pharma AG in
 Manhattan  federal court seeking to halt what it called a
“coercive” tender offer that gives stockholders until June 6
to determine whether or not to waive their shares.  Elan alleged in a complaint filed today that Royalty Pharma
has made “material misrepresentations” in its revised tender
offer, saying “shareholders who do not tender their shares may
find themselves trapped in a company under Royalty Pharma’s
control.”  Royalty Pharma offered to buy Dublin-based Elan for about
$6.5 billion, or $11 an American depositary receipt, Elan Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Martin said in March. Elan is asking the
court for declaratory and injunctive relief to prevent Royalty
Pharma from proceeding with the offer, according to the
complaint.  “Unless promptly enjoined, Royalty Pharma’s material
misrepresentations and omissions will deny Elan’s shareholders
the opportunity to properly and meaningfully evaluate Royalty
Pharma’s lowball revised tender offer and deliver the company
into Royalty Pharma’s hands at an unfair and inadequate price,”
according to the filing.  Elan said in a statement today that it received an
injunction from the Irish High Court restraining Royalty
Pharma’s bid vehicle from distributing a proxy to shareholders.
That ruling couldn’t immediately be independently confirmed in
court records.  With a portfolio of 37 approved and marketed products, New
York-based Royalty Pharma calls itself the world’s largest
investor in pharmaceutical royalties.  George Lloyd, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment about the complaint.  The case is  Elan Corp. (ELN)  v. RP Management LLC, 13-CV-3758,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  