-- Royalty Pharma Takeover of Elan Temporarily Blocked
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-04T11:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/elan-purchase-by-royalty-pharma-temporarily-blocked.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  won an order from a U.S.
judge temporarily blocking Royalty Pharma AG from attempting a
$6.4 billion hostile takeover of the Irish drugmaker after Elan
sued to halt what it called a “coercive” tender offer.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan yesterday
issued a temporary restraining order blocking Royalty and
related parties from “consummating or closing defendants’
tender offer” for the outstanding shares of Elan. Pauly
scheduled a June 11 hearing to consider whether to issue a
preliminary injunction.  Pauly’s order came after Elan filed a complaint claiming
that Royalty Pharma made “material misrepresentations” in its
revised tender offer. Elan said “shareholders who do not tender
their shares may find themselves trapped in a company under
Royalty Pharma’s control.” The offer gives stockholders until
June 6 to determine whether to waive their shares, Elan said.  Elan, which receives royalties on  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s
multiple sclerosis treatment Tysabri, said yesterday in a
yesterday won a ruling from an Irish court restraining Royalty
Pharma from distributing a proxy to shareholders. Judge Gerard
Hogan left the injunction in place at a hearing today in Dublin
pending further hearings this afternoon.  Royalty Pharma on May 20 issued a revised proposal to buy
the stock of the company at $12.50 per American depositary
receipt, raising its bid from $5.7 billion to $6.4 billion.  Pharmaceutical Royalties  With a portfolio of 37 approved and marketed products, New
York-based Royalty Pharma calls itself the world’s largest
investor in pharmaceutical royalties.  George Lloyd, a spokesman for Royalty Pharma, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message left at his office
yesterday seeking comment on the case.  Elan said in the lawsuit filed in New York that Royalty
Pharma’s tender-offer documents fail to disclose required
details of its plans for the company, its management and assets,
including whether it plans to change dividend policies and
whether it plans to take on additional debt or sell Elan assets
to repay a $2 billion bridge loan. Royalty Pharma also didn’t
give details of its own corporate structure and sources of
capital, Elan said.  “Unless promptly enjoined, Royalty Pharma’s material
misrepresentations and omissions will deny Elan’s shareholders
the opportunity to properly and meaningfully evaluate Royalty
Pharma’s lowball revised tender offer and deliver the company
into Royalty Pharma’s hands at an unfair and inadequate price,”
Elan claimed in its court filing.  ‘Corrective Disclosure’  Elan argues that without a court order, its shareholders
won’t be able to properly evaluate the revised tender offer.  Elan seeks an order directing the Royalty Pharma to make a
“full and complete corrective disclosure” in connection with
the revised tender offer by June 14 and requiring it to extend
the tender offer until June 30.  Elan  fell  0.5 percent to 9.40 euros at 12:36 p.m. in Dublin
trading. The stock fell 1.5 percent to close at $12.47 yesterday
in New York.  “This is a kind of defense mechanism from Elan,”
Guillaume van Renterghem, an analyst at UBS AG in  London , said
in a telephone interview. “This is a purely technical, legal
move to make sure investors have all the required information in
terms of Royalty Pharma’s background.”  Extraordinary Meeting  An extraordinary general meeting of Elan’s shareholders is
scheduled for June 17 to consider several transactions proposed
after Royal Pharma’s takeover bid, including a $1 billion
investment in  Theravance Inc.’s (THRX)  royalties. Royalty Pharma has
said its offer is contingent on Elan investors rejecting the
Theravance deal.  Shareholders will also vote on a $340 million takeover of
Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG and plans to issue
$800 million in debt.  In a statement yesterday, Royalty Pharma said Institutional
Shareholder Services, an independent proxy advisory service,
recommended that Elan shareholders vote against the
transactions, saying they may have been intended to avoid the
takeover bid.  The case is Elan Corp. v. RP Management LLC, 13-CV-3758,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  