-- Electric-Vehicle Charging Network Collaboratev Names Wolf as CEO
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-06-03T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/electric-vehicle-charging-network-collaboratev-names-wolf-as-ceo.html
Collaboratev LLC, the electric-vehicle charging-station venture formed in March by  Ecotality
Inc. (ECTY)  and ChargePoint Inc., named Jason Wolf as its first chief
executive officer.  Wolf’s top priority is expanding the network and
eliminating range anxiety among drivers of electric cars. He was
formerly North American vice president for the failed Israeli
charging-station venture  Better Place LLC , Collaboratev said in
a statement today.  Wider use of electric cars will depend on the development
of a broad network of charging stations that are easy to access,
said Wolf, who was also a founder of Collaboratev.  “With the growth of e-fueling, we’re going to need to have
a solution that’s easy for drivers,” Wolf said in an interview.
“I’ve got a pound of cards and stuff on my keychain. I have to
look at three or four different apps to find at all the charging
stations out there, and then I have to hope that station is
activated by any of my cards. That’s the reality every driver
faces.”  Collaboratev connects the monitoring and billing systems of
San Francisco-based Ecotality and Campbell, California-based
ChargePoint, and the combined network includes about 90 percent
of the public charging stations in the U.S. The two networks
will be fully integrated by early 2014, said Ecotality CEO Ravi Brar.  Other car-charging providers may join the venture, said
Wolf, who drives a Nissan Motor Co. Leaf electric car.  Better Place developed a system that switched drained
batteries from electric cars with full ones, and filed a motion
for liquidation in  Israel  last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  