-- Embraer Poised to Seek Approval for New Regional Jet Due in 2018
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-03T15:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/embraer-poised-to-seek-approval-for-new-regional-jet-due-in-2018.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is preparing to request
formal board approval for a re-engined regional jet to update
its E-Jet family of planes.  “We are going for a full board decision soon,” Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva, Embraer’s president for commercial
airplanes, said in an interview today. The first plane to be
developed under the G2 codename would enter into service in
2018, he said at the IATA annual general meeting in Cape Town.  Embraer has already named  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt
& Whitney as engine provider to help it lower fuel costs and
keep pace with improvements that Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are
introducing on larger single-aisle planes. The No. 4 aircraft
maker has said the new model may seat about 132, more than the
120 that its largest model currently accommodates.  “We are seeing strong demand for the E-Jets and also the
G2,” Silva said. He would not reveal whether a first order may
come at the  Paris Air Show  starting on June 17, where aircraft
makers typically secure billions of dollars in deals.  Embraer has already booked a series of orders this year for
its current model.  United Airlines (UAL)  partner Skywest Inc. agreed
to buy 40 more 76-seat E-175 jets last month after the Sao Jose
dos Compos, Brazil-based planemaker secured 30 sales to United
in April. American Airlines Inc. and its regional partner
 Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  agreed to order of 47 Embraer
E-175 jets earlier this year.  “There are still more orders to come,” Silva said. Sales
have been spurred by the introduction from next year of an
improved version of the E-Jets that will lift fuel efficiency by
about 5 percent, he said.  Larger E-Jets are also drawing interest, Silva said, with
certification of the type in Russia opening the prospect of the
first sales into that market. Carriers in Latin America, China,
and the  Middle East  also are showing interest, he said.  The activity has started to fill Embraer’s order book after
several years of muted sales. The E-175 is sold out for two
years, Silva said, with the larger first E-190 and E-195 model
not available until late next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  