-- Emerging Stocks Decline to Six-Week Low as Turkey Tumbles
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-03T22:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/emerging-stocks-drop-to-six-week-low-as-philippine-shares-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a six-week low as  Turkey ’s shares tumbled amid protests against the
government and concern grew the global economy will falter.
South  Africa ’s rand rebounded from the lowest level since 2009.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index posted
the biggest slump in a decade as  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and
Akbank TAS sank at least 9.4 percent, while Turkish bond yields
surged the most on record. Russia’s dollar-denominated index
plunged as much as 20 percent from this year’s high as OAO
 Mechel (MTLR)  slid.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose from a six-week low as Vale
SA led Brazilian raw-material producers higher.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 1 percent to 998.55,
the lowest level since April 18. The gauged dropped a fourth
day. Clashes in Istanbul began May 31, with protesters calling
for Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to resign. Manufacturing
in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted, while Federal Reserve Bank
of San Francisco President John Williams said bond purchases may
be reduced in the next three months.  “You’re starting to see some risks come back,” Sameer Samana, the St. Louis-based international strategist at Wells
Fargo Advisors LLC, said by phone. His firm oversees about $1.3
trillion. “You almost need a person whose full time job is to
analyze Fed comment, but the economy is going to be more
important than opinions.” The Turkish turmoil “shows some of
the risks in  emerging markets ,” he said.  All  10 groups  in the measure of developing-nation stocks
retreated, as consumer-staple shares had the biggest loss. The
broad gauge extended this year’s decline to 5.4 percent,
compared with a 10 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund added 1.5 percent to $41.81. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 3.8 percent to 22.79.  Brazil’s Ibovespa gained 0.8 percent, rebounding from
earlier losses, as Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, rose the most since April 3. The nation’s swap rates
climbed to their highest level in a year after the central bank
unexpectedly stepped up the pace of increases in borrowing costs
last week to control inflation. The real advanced for the first
time in six days.  Turkish stocks plunged 10 percent, leading losses among
major emerging-market indexes. Turkiye Garanti posted the
biggest slump in more than nine years, while  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  fell the
most since 2008. Bond yields surged 71 basis points, or 0.71
percentage point, to 6.78 percent at the close in Istanbul.  Mechel Plunges  Russia’s RTS Index fell as much as 2.1 percent before
trading down 0.9 percent, a 19 percent drop from this year’s
high on Jan. 28. The ruble-based Micex Index slipped 0.9 percent
as Mechel, a coking coal producer and steelmaker, lost as much
as 8.3 percent after a report signaled the nation’s
manufacturing sector is slowing for the third straight month.  South Africa’s rand strengthened the most since June 29
after plunging 11 percent last month. The currency of Africa’s
largest economy tumbled to a four-year low on May 31 amid
concern union talks scheduled to start this month on wages will
worsen unrest in the mining industry, which accounts for more
than 50 percent of exports.  Indian stocks declined to the lowest level in a month, led
by automakers, after factory production in May fell to the
lowest level in 50 months.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  sank 2.3
percent after reporting sales in May slid 14 percent from a year
ago.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,  India ’s biggest
drugmaker by value, also retreated.  Chinese Shares  Most Chinese stocks fell after manufacturing indexes
signaled small businesses are struggling. Losses for technology
companies and retailers overshadowed gains for property
developers. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.1 percent,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies dropped 0.5 percent.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slumped 3.7 percent,
the lowest level since April 8. The measure is valued at 20
times this year’s estimated earnings, the highest among 15 Asia-Pacific markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 299 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  