-- Contractor Running EPA's Warehouse Found TV Watching
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-04T10:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/epa-contractor-used-warehouse-for-hidden-tv-rooms.html
A warehouse the Environmental
Protection Agency rented for $750,000 a year was found by an
agency watchdog to have television viewing rooms and weight-lifting machines stored out of view of surveillance cameras.  EPA managers hadn’t visited the Landover,  Maryland , site
before its independent inspector general briefed managers three
weeks ago, according to a report yesterday. After the briefing
on conditions described as deplorable, the agency cut ties with
a contractor that ran the facility, and moved to catalog items
and clean up the site of vermin feces.  “Our initial research at the EPA’s Landover warehouse
raised significant concerns with the lack of agency oversight of
personal property and warehouse space,” according to the
report. “The warehouse was filled with considerable amounts of
unusable, inoperable and obsolete furniture and other items.”  After a briefing on May 16, the EPA halted the contract
with Apex Logistics LLC, changed building-access codes and
inventoried and cataloged all the items in the warehouse, Acting
Administrator Bob Perciasepe said in a memorandum released with
the report.  “The agency is continuing its investigation and response,
and will take additional actions, as appropriate,” spokesman
David Bloomgren added in an e-mail.  The inspectors visiting the facility said they found
corrosion, feces and mold. Among the items were appliances from
2007 still in original boxes, unused agency stationary, rotting
computer bags and boxes of gold-embossed EPA mugs. Archived
files dated to 1992, according to the report.  The report included photos of government-issued passports,
television-watching areas and an extensive workout room with up-to-date weight-lifting machines.  “Agency steno pads were used for recording workouts,” the
report said. “These conditions raise questions about time
charges made by warehouse employees under the contract.”  A telephone message left with Apex Logistics wasn’t
returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  