-- Erdogan Shows Why Turkey Shouldn’t Give Him More Power
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-03T17:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/erdogan-shows-why-turkey-shouldn-t-give-him-more-power.html
Protests against plans to replace an
Istanbul park with a shopping mall have spread across Turkey,
metastasizing into something far more politically significant.
While the demonstrations aren’t the start of a Turkish Spring,
they show why Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s design to
turn his country into a presidential republic next year should
be stopped.  The police response to the Gezi Park protests has been
brutal, injuring hundreds of people and turning central Istanbul
into a battle zone. The nation’s leader should have tried to
defuse the situation by listening to the protesters’ concerns
and calling for restraint from the security forces. That is how
President  Abdullah Gul  responded.  Erdogan instead dismissed the protesters as “looters,”
“bums” and “extreme elements.” His government had won the last
elections, he said, so it would continue with construction in
Gezi Park. If not a shopping mall, then at least a copy of
Ottoman-era military barracks would be built there, as well as a
mosque on the adjoining Taksim Square.  Taksim is  Turkey ’s primary meeting place for public dissent
and is at the center of a secularist playground of bars and
nightclubs. Putting a mosque on the square is a politically
aggressive move whose significance no Turk would miss.  Erdogan’s response has fed the fears of many secular Turks
that he is bent on pursuing an authoritarian, Islamist and neo-Ottoman agenda. Emotions were already running high after
parliament last week rushed through legislation banning all
advertising of alcohol and its sale in stores after 10 p.m.,
among other restrictions. “Whoever drinks alcohol is an
alcoholic,” Erdogan said on June 2 to justify the move.  Tens of thousands of Turks took to the streets over the
weekend and more hung out of their windows to bang on pots and
pans in protest. Police arrested about 1,700 people in 67 cities
across Turkey, according to the interior minister.  This is a turning point to which governments in the U.S.
and  Europe  should respond. Turkey has too few checks and
balances on the prime minister’s power, and its democratic
foundations -- including an independent judiciary, free media
and strong political parties -- are shallow. This is why the
country cannot afford Erdogan’s plans to have the constitution
altered to give the president, a largely ceremonial figure, the
authority to issue decrees with the force of law, to dissolve
parliament, to call elections and to decide whether to send the
military into action. Such a change would concentrate too much
power in the hands of a single figure.  If he succeeds in changing the system, then Erdogan -- who
under his party’s rules shouldn’t serve a fourth term as prime
minister -- would run for president next year and, if
successful, become Turkey’s version of  Vladimir Putin . Erdogan
has failed to adjust to the reality that he is no longer the
religious conservative underdog, struggling against a too-powerful military to create a civilian democracy. He is now in
full control of the country -- and the changes he proposes would
weaken, rather than strengthen, Turkey’s democracy.  Secular Turks and the country’s woefully inept opposition
parties should focus their energies on preventing the
constitutional change that Erdogan wants. They might even find
allies within the prime minister’s own party, and possibly win
the support of President Gul, as well.  The U.S. and the European Union can help by making the
argument against Turkey becoming a presidential republic, and by
relentlessly highlighting the jailing of journalists and other
abuses of free speech, judicial independence and civil
liberties.  Erdogan is the most important leader Turkey has had since
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk founded the republic in 1923. Erdogan has
brought enormous change for the better, including an economy
that has tripled in size since he came to office in 2003, and
has reason to boast, as he did  recently  in  Washington , that “the
world is talking about Turkey.” There is, however, a good reason
for subjecting politicians to  term limits : After too long in
office, they lose touch with the people they represent and
become captives of their own propaganda. Erdogan is no
exception.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  