-- Meredith Whitney Offers Barrage of Numbers, Errors: Books
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/meredith-whitney-offers-barrage-of-numbers-errors-books.html
We’re all moving to  North Dakota .  Or  South Dakota . Or somewhere out there in the middle of
the country.  This is the thesis of Meredith Whitney’s “ Fate of the
States: The New Geography of American Prosperity .” The
country’s “central corridor,” largely untouched by the housing
bust, is going to drive the economy for decades to come.  The “smart money,” she writes, “is flocking to states
with lower tax burdens and less strained budgets.”  Fleeing the coasts is not a new idea. I trace its modern
incarnation to Rich Karlgaard’s 2004 “Life 2.0,” in which the
Forbes publisher asserted that people were leaving the crowded,
overpriced coastal states to seek “larger lives in smaller
places.”  Now Whitney, with a barrage of numbers, percentages, gross
generalization, bald assertion and outright error, joins the
ranks of the demographic determinists. Perhaps the favorite word
of these proponents of the decline and fall of  New York  and
 California  is “already.” Whitney doesn’t disappoint: “The
 United States  is already in the process of rebalancing itself
demographically based upon opportunity and standard of living.”
This is already happening, she writes. In other words: I’m
right!  ‘60 Minutes’  Not so fast. The idea, based purely on dollars and cents,
sounds reasonable. Yet the evidence is thin. And using the last
five years as predictor of the next 30 is questionable. There
are lots of reasons people move.  Tax policy  is low on the list.
And some states possess advantages others just can’t overcome.  What Whitney, a banking analyst who in 2007 made her name
with the call that  Citigroup (C)  was going to suspend its dividend,
is doing here is defending her December 2010 appearance on “60
Minutes.”  At the time, Whitney had spent two and a half years on an
otherwise unremarkable piece of research, a punctuation mark to
the hysteria about public finances common during the latter
stages of the financial crisis.  To correspondent Steve Kroft, Whitney predicted that the
unhysterical experts were wrong, and that the municipal market
would see “50 to 100” significant defaults.  ‘Hundreds of Billions’  Nobody had a problem with that figure. The average since
1980, according to Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter data,
is 111 defaults per year totaling an average of $3 billion.  Asked to put a dollar amount to the prediction, Whitney
blurted out, “hundreds of billions” of dollars. Instead of
challenging this absurd figure, Kroft just gave one of his
crinkly-eyed, sorrowful shakes of the head, pitying all those
bondholders.  Investors panicked and pulled $26 billion out of muni
mutual funds over the next few months, according to Lipper US
Fund Flows data. Whitney got a ton of attention, and not
coincidentally a book contract.  Connect the Dots  Whether we will all move to  Kansas  is debatable. What isn’t
are the factual errors on display here.  Experts, Whitney writes, are “quick to point out that
states have never defaulted.” Who are these experts? The ones I
know acknowledge that  Arkansas  was the last state to default, in
1933.  Cities “just assumed that their states would be there to
bail them out.” On the contrary, most local officials know that
recourse to the states is limited and punitive.  “Jefferson County’s finances were sunk by a water-and-sewer project that, thanks to graft and engineering blunders,
never actually got built despite the county’s borrowing and
spending billions.” Never got built? That isn’t true.  Orange County, California, bondholders “would not have
been repaid had it not been for a bailout by the state of
California.”  Bailout? State lawmakers allowed the county to divert  tax
revenue  from certain county agencies to back a  bond issue  used
to repay obligations. No one considered this a bailout.  In the introduction to “Fate of the States,” Whitney
writes, “My brain instinctively works to connect the dots in
life, turning mosaics of information into narrative tales of how
things came to be and what I think will happen as a result.”  That way madness lies. There are 89,004 local governmental
entities in the U.S. Take four or five or a dozen headlines and
“connect the dots,” and you no doubt have a trend, maybe even
a book. What you don’t have is an accurate picture of municipal
finance.  “Fate of the States” is published by Portfolio/Penguin
(260 pages, $27.95). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of the Bloomberg Brief: Municipal
Market. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Joe Mysak at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 