-- Ericsson Pushes Into Services as Data Growth Quadruples
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-06-03T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ericsson-pushes-into-services-as-data-growth-quadruples.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  is expanding beyond its
roots in network hardware to sell more software and services,
aiming to get more revenue from wireless carriers as data
traffic quadruples over the next five years.  Ericsson, the largest maker of wireless networks, expects
smartphone subscriptions to more than triple by 2018 to 4.5
billion worldwide from last year, according to a report released
today. The surge in smartphones will cause the average data
consumed per customer to increase fourfold to about 2 gigabytes
in 2018, according to the report.  “The trends are very clear in this report: There will be
more and more video and data traffic, and from our point of view
we will do more of the things to help carriers with this,”
Johan Wibergh, head of the Stockholm-based company’s networks
operations, said in an interview.  Ericsson faces challenges from traditional rivals Nokia
Siemens Networks and Alcatel-Lucent SA as well as Asian
companies including Samsung Electronics Co. and Huawei
Technologies Co. With so many vendors trying to sell networking
gear to telephone companies, Ericsson has been expanding into
products such as video systems -- areas where carriers are
making upgrade investments.  Wibergh pointed to the acquisition of Microsoft Corp.’s
Mediaroom, a  Mountain View , California-based provider of
technology used to deliver television over the Internet, as an
example of the shifting strategy.  Mediaroom Deal  “Our acquisition of Mediaroom from Microsoft is another
way to run TV over fixed and mobile networks,” Wibergh said.
“We want to provide the infrastructure and also provide work in
other areas to help carriers increase the effectiveness of their
operations.”  Heavy competition and unpredictable spending trends across
the globe have made Ericsson eager to find new growth markets
beyond the wireless-infrastructure business.  Ericsson said in November that it was cutting 1,550 jobs in
Sweden to make up for weak equipment spending from
telecommunication operators.  Even though business has been challenging, the company
hasn’t lost ground to rivals, Wibergh said.  “We are holding on to our market share,” he said. “We
are still very much No. 1, and about equal to No. 2 and No. 3
combined.”  On a global level, demand for telecommunications gear
remains mixed, Wibergh said.  “Our outlook depends on what part of the world you are
in,” he said. “Sales activity is strong in  North America , but
Europe is still in a slower period, which we are hoping will get
better. Areas in  Asia ,  Korea  and  Japan  are driving growth, but
it is not an even picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Nick Turner  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  