-- Merkel to Visit German Flood Regions Amid State of Emergency
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-06-03T10:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/merkel-to-visit-german-flood-regions-amid-state-of-emergency.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will visit
flooded regions of  Germany  as she moves to take control after a
state of emergency was declared less than four months before
national elections.  The army has been deployed to help people in the affected
areas in the south and east of the country and an emergency task
force, reporting directly to the chancellery, has been set up,
Steffen Seibert, chief government spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin today. Merkel will travel to the flooded regions
tomorrow, with her destinations to be decided later as the
situation develops, he said.  Germany is suffering from heavy rainfall that threatens to
turn into a repeat of the 2002 flooding that crippled much of
central Europe. The German cities of Passau, about 30 miles from
the Czech border, and Rosenheim declared a state of emergency,
while Bavaria’s flood alert service warned that the forecast of
continuing rain was likely to worsen the flooding affecting the
rivers Danube and Inn. Rivers in Saxony and Baden-Wuerttemberg
have also burst their banks.  In 2002, then Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder reversed a poll
lead held by Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc after he  toured 
German regions suffering flooding in August that year, and went
on to win the September election.  Seibert, responding to a reporter’s question at a regular
government press conference, rebuffed any similarity with Merkel
as she faces federal elections on Sept. 22.  Her visit tomorrow “is about rallying all the resources of
the federal and regional governments to help those affected,”
he said. “That’s what concerns the chancellor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  