-- EU Demands Refrigerator Cleanup as Most Potent Gases Escape Law
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-03T15:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/eu-demands-refrigerator-cleanup-as-most-potent-gases-escape-law.html
The European Union urged a cleanup of
emissions from air conditioners and refrigerators, saying the
gases, as much as 11,700 times more potent in warming the
atmosphere than carbon dioxide, are “ripe” for global action.  International coordination to reduce hydrofluorocarbons,
known as HFCs or F-gases, could have a “significant impact” on
reducing emissions, said Artur Runge-Metzger, the European
Commission’s lead envoy at United Nations climate talks that
began today in Bonn. HFCs make up about 1 percent of greenhouse
gases and may account for more than 20 percent by 2050, he said.  The EU is seeking ways to expand the global fight against
climate change before 2020, when nations plan to bring a new
emissions treaty into effect. The bloc is pushing to delegate
HFC reductions to a different treaty, the Montreal Protocol,
which was established in 1987 to eliminate chlorofluorocarbons,
the so-called CFC gases found in aerosols and solvents.  “We and others believe that the best framework for
implementing the phase-down is the Montreal protocol,” Runge-Metzger told reporters. “It has 25 years of experience in
addressing fluorinated gases and dealing with the industry
sectors that are affected.”  It’s not the first time nations have attempted to cut HFCs,
which have gained favor since the gradual reduction in CFCs. The
U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico  put forward a proposal in 2009 that has
failed to become a reality.  HFCs are “a family of gases that we think is ripe for
international action,” Runge-Metzger said.  The EU is calling on the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, which governs HFC emissions, to cede responsibility for
them to the Montreal Protocol authority. The UNFCCC should send
a “clear signal” on such a move at this year’s main round of
UN talks in Warsaw in November, according to the 27-nation bloc.
More than 100 countries back the plan, Runge-Metzger said.  China, the world’s biggest polluter, remains “hesitant”
on the matter, he said.  Su Wei,  China ’s lead negotiator, said he wasn’t available
for an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 