-- EU Short-Selling Curbs Made Markets More Stable, Regulator Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-03T11:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/eu-short-selling-curbs-made-markets-more-stable-regulator-says.html
European Union curbs on short selling
and naked credit-default swaps made financial markets more
stable without increasing government borrowing costs, according
to a report by the bloc’s top securities regulator.  The rules, introduced last November, triggered “no
compelling impact” on the liquidity of EU government bond
markets, the European Securities and Markets Authority said in
an e-mailed statement. Still, the EU should make some technical
changes to the law to clarify the rules for trading credit-default swaps linked to sovereign debt, the Paris-based ESMA
said.  “The introduction of the short-selling regulation has had
some positive effects in terms of enhancing market transparency
and reducing risks of settlement fails in EU financial
markets,” said Steven Maijoor, ESMA’s chairman.  Lawmakers approved the curbs in 2011 in a bid to make
markets less volatile and tame speculation by traders who they
blamed for driving up governments’ borrowing costs. The rules
included a ban on investors buying and selling credit-default
swaps on sovereign debt unless they have a clear financial stake
in whether the government defaults. Nations can opt out of the
measure if they are concerned that it would raise their
borrowing costs.  “So far, there does not seem to have been a noticeable
adverse effect on EU sovereign-debt markets themselves,” ESMA
said. “However, there has been a decline in activity for
sovereign CDS in a few EU countries and sovereign CDS indices,”
it said. “There is, therefore, a need to keep this area under
close review.”  Naked CDS  Investors buy credit-default swaps as insurance to protect
themselves from losses if a bond issuer defaults. A sovereign
CDS trade becomes naked when an investor buys the swap without
being at risk of suffering such losses.  The U.K. is seeking to overturn the law at the European
Court of Justice, claiming that powers handed to ESMA by the
legislation are in breach of the bloc’s treaties.  The law gives ESMA the power to introduce pan-EU short-selling bans.  ESMA said lawmakers should consider a series of technical
changes to the law, to make it clearer and improve how it works
in practice. The suggested changes include clearer wording on
which trades are covered by the naked CDS ban.  The EU should also simplify rules for when regulators can
introduce targeted short-selling bans in response to a sudden
plunge in a company’s share price, ESMA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  