-- EU Shouldn’t Reward Russia’s Repression With Visa Deal
-- B y   B e n   J u d a h
-- 2013-06-03T22:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/eu-shouldn-t-reward-russia-s-repression-with-visa-deal.html
In its usual bureaucratic way, the
European Union is sleepwalking into a huge blunder in its
relations with Russia.  The EU’s regular  summit  with Russian leaders opened in the
Urals city of Yekaterinburg this week. The EU -- and  Germany , in
particular -- wants to sign a new visa-facilitation agreement
with Russia, the EU’s third-largest  trade  partner after the U.S.
and  China , taking an important step toward eventual visa-free
travel in Europe.  The EU’s representatives in Yekaterinburg will be
negotiating this visa deal on behalf of the Schengen area, a
borderless zone in Europe that includes most, but not all, EU
nations, plus a few from outside, such as Switzerland and
Norway. This will make visas cheaper and easier for many
Russians to acquire.  Ominously, though, it also means the EU may be about to
free up travel for the roughly 15,000 Russian bureaucrats who
hold biometric “service passports.” These people represent the
beating heart of President Vladimir Putin’s state and include
officials from the Kremlin, government ministries and the feared
security forces, which Russians call “the organs.”  Giving these people visa-free travel would reward them and
Putin for their increasingly repressive policies. It would be a
mistake.  Emerging Dictatorship  Russia  is no longer an emerging democracy but an emerging
dictatorship since Putin returned to the Kremlin in 2012 and
redefined Russian authoritarianism. The protest movement that
arose in response to abuse in the election, which returned Putin
to power, has been crushed through arrests, trials, political
imprisonment and the potential sentencing of opposition leader
Alexey Navalny to a decade behind bars. The space for free
speech has been squeezed by a terrifyingly vague new treason law
and punitive fines for any protests that the authorities deem
illegal.  The state, represented by those same 15,000 bureaucrats, is
also trying to smother flourishing nongovernment organizations.
NGOs now have to register as “foreign agents” if they take
money from abroad. They are also subjected to legal harassment
and inspection raids that make it impossible for them to work,
unless they switch to Russian sources of revenue, which the
state can better control.  Putin has empowered a political police force known as the
Investigative Committee, which has taken the lead in harassing
the opposition. An influential economist, Sergei Guriev, who is
neither a politician nor a billionaire, has had to flee the
country for his pro-opposition stance. He left after being
interrogated by the Investigative Committee.  Amid all this gloomy change, the EU hasn’t altered its
Russia policy. Instead it is continuing an engagement strategy
that made some sense under the sham liberalism of President
Dmitry Medvedev, but is hopelessly mismatched to Putin’s
repression.  If the EU decides to adopt the new visa-facilitation
agreement, it will be moving its Russia policy in the opposite
direction to that of the U.S. In December, Congress barred U.S.
entry to those Russian officials who were believed to have been
involved in the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky while he was in
custody. Magnitsky exposed large-scale corruption among a group
of Interior Ministry officials.  The EU’s new visa agreement would be the reverse of the
Magnitsky list. It would also reward the people engaged in
building a repressive state in Russia by giving them easy access
to European shopping that other Russians don’t enjoy. Europe
might even grant visa-free access to people who are on the U.S.
blacklist, if they hold the biometric service passports.  European Response  Securing visa-free travel for bureaucrats would mark a
significant victory for Putin. He would be able to sell it as
proof that there are no consequences for his increasingly
vicious crackdown on dissent.  Europe should instead unilaterally liberalize its own visa
procedures for Russians who aren’t government officials, for
example by making five-year visas available to frequent
travelers. Failing that, the EU should take a principled stand
and freeze visa negotiations, even though that wouldn’t be
popular within Russia, where it would be seen as halting
progress toward open borders.  Halting the negotiations would signal to Putin that he
can’t get what he wants from Europe at the same time as he
tramples on dissent. It would also show the Russian
establishment, as a whole, that repression has costs for them.
If the EU makes the error of agreeing to visa-free travel for
Russia’s bureaucrats, there is some hope that the European
Parliament -- which has to sign off on the deal and has signaled
that it backs a Magnitsky list for Europe -- will refuse its
approval.  Yet the EU leaders in Yekaterinburg shouldn’t let this
reach parliament. Agreeing to visa-free travel for Russia’s
bureaucrats would demonstrate that European politicians, for all
their frequent blustering about the need to protect universal
human rights, are as cynical as the ones in the Kremlin. This
is, of course, what Putin has long claimed to be the case.  (Ben Judah is the author of “Fragile Empire: How Russia
Fell In and Out of Love With Vladimir Putin.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ben Judah at  bjudah@esiweb.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  