-- European Stocks Drop for Second Day to One-Month Low
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-06-03T16:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/european-stock-futures-drop-indicating-new-four-week-low.html
European stocks  declined for a second
day, extending a one-month low, amid speculation the Federal
Reserve will scale back its debt-buying program.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  sank the most since 2011 after a study
showed that its Avastin drug failed to extend the lives of
patients with a type of brain cancer. Munich Re and Hannover Re
slipped more than 2.5 percent, leading reinsurers lower, as
storms across central Europe caused rivers to swell, flooding
 Prague .  Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  added 1.9 percent after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its rating on the shares.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 0.8 percent to 298.59 at
the close of trading, the lowest level since May 2. The measure
earlier climbed as much as 0.2 percent and fell as much as 1.2
percent. The gauge climbed 1.4 percent in May, completing its
12th consecutive month of gains. That was the longest winning
streak since July 1997.  “Risk premiums are increasingly driven by the fear of a
reduction in monetary stimulus,” Witold Bahrke, who helps
oversee $55 billion as a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mail. “Markets are moving into a
good-news-is-bad-news environment when it comes to strong macro
numbers, as strong figures increase the chance of the
quantitative-easing punch bowl being taken away.”  The Stoxx 600 has  fallen 3.9 percent  since this year’s high
on May 22 as investors weighed the likelihood of the Fed scaling
back its monetary stimulus.  Fed Reductions  Fed Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said
today that policy makers may start to reduce a bond-purchasing
program in the summer and may end quantitative easing by the end
of the year. Williams, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this
year, spoke to reporters in  Stockholm .  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
decreased to 49 in May from 50.7 in April, according to a report
today. That fell short of the  median forecast  of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a number of 51. A reading below 50
means that activity contracted.  In  China , HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said their
index of manufacturing in the world’s second-largest economy
fell to 49.2 in May from 50.4 in April. An  official index  for
the industry, released on June 1, rose to 50.8 from 50.6.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 15 of the 17
western-European markets open today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid
0.9 percent, while  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  dropped 0.7 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX lost 0.8 percent. Irish markets were closed for a
public holiday.  Roche Retreats  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, slid 3.7
percent to 230.30 Swiss francs for the biggest decline since
November 2011. Avastin failed to extend the survival of patients
with deadly brain tumors in a study that found no advantage in
using the drug as a first-line therapy against the cancer known
as glioblastoma.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, lost 2.7 percent
to 140.80 euros and Hannover Re, the fourth-largest, dropped 3.3
percent to 56.39 euros.  Prague braced for the swollen Vltava River to crest today
as the Czech government deployed hundreds of soldiers to avert a
repeat of the 2002 floods that destroyed neighborhoods and
caused $1.2 billion in damage. The German cities of Passau,
about 30 miles from the Czech border, and Rosenheim declared a
state of emergency and rivers in Saxony, Baden-Wuerttemberg and
Bavaria burst their banks.  Separately, the Financial Times reported that U.S. property
insurers seeking to manage the potential costs of natural
disasters won price cuts for reinsurance policies of 15 percent
on average.  Ingenico Downgrade  Ingenico SA (ING) , a French provider of payment terminals and
services, decreased 3.4 percent to 50.92 euros for its biggest
drop in three months. Berenberg Bank downgraded the stock to
sell from hold, citing an increase in competition.  Lonmin Plc tumbled 4.3 percent to 282.4 pence after a
National Union of Mineworkers member was killed and a second
wounded in a shooting near the company’s Marikana mine in
northwestern South Africa.  Polymetal, a Russian gold and silver producer listed in
 London , gained 1.9 percent to 703.5 pence. JPMorgan upgraded the
shares to overweight, meaning investors should buy the shares,
from neutral, citing changes in pricing and output.  Exor SpA, the Agnelli family holding company that is Fiat’s
biggest shareholder, climbed 1.3 percent to 24.94 euros in Milan
after selling a 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion)  stake in SGS SA ,
the world’s largest product inspector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  