-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Activity Shrinks Less Than Estimated
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-06-03T08:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/euro-area-manufacturing-activity-shrinks-less-than-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area manufacturing output
contracted less than initially estimated in May, adding to signs
the currency bloc’s economy is beginning to emerge from a
record-long recession.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 48.3 last month from 46.7 in April, London-based
Markit Economics said today. That’s above an  initial estimate  of
47.8 on May 23. The gauge has been  below 50 , indicating
contraction, since July 2011.  Today’s PMI report followed encouraging euro-zone
 industrial confidence  and  trade data  released last month that
showed the currency bloc edging toward an economic recovery. The
 18-month recession  will end in the second quarter, as the
economy stagnates before returning to growth in the following
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  “Although the euro-area manufacturing economy continued to
contract in May, it is reassuring to see the rate of decline
ease to such a marked extent,”  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit, said in the report. “The sector still
seems some way off stabilizing, however, and therefore remains a
drag on the economy.”  The euro advanced against the  U.S. dollar  on the
manufacturing data. The European currency traded at $1.3038 at
10:11 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.3 percent on the day.  ‘Possible Stabilization’  The  European Central Bank  has cut its  benchmark rate  to a
record low of 0.5 percent and is exploring unconventional ways
of channeling money to needy companies, especially in the south.
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today in  Shanghai  that while the
economic outlook in the euro area is “challenging” he still
anticipates a recovery this year.  “There are a few signs of a possible stabilization,”
Draghi said in the text of a speech in Shanghai. “Our baseline
scenario continues to be one of a very  gradual recovery  starting
in the latter part of this year.”  In  China , the world’s second-largest economy, manufacturing
indexes showed small businesses struggling, sapping growth
momentum. The official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for smaller
companies fell to 47.3 in May from 47.6 the previous month, even
as the broader  gauge  rose to 50.8 from 50.6, the government said
on June 1.  Factory Activity  In the U.S., the biggest economy, manufacturing probably
made little progress in May, economists said before a report due
later today. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
held at 50.7 last month, matching the weakest this year,
according to the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 71
economists.  Construction outlays  rebounded in April, other
figures may show.  U.S. factory activity has waned since reaching an almost
two-year high in February as across-the-board  federal budget 
cuts took hold and overseas markets struggled to improve. At the
same time, demand for automobiles, a rebound in  residential
construction  and lean inventories may spark a pickup in orders
and production in the second half.  In Europe, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker, said demand for new vehicles in the region has started
to stabilize at a “very low level,” after European Union car
sales rose 1.8 percent in April, the first gain since September
2011.  Even so, the auto market is near a two-decade low. Maxime Picat, head of the manufacturer’s Peugeot brand, said May 22
that industry sales in Europe will fall 5 percent this year in
the sixth consecutive  annual decline , and that it’s too early to
predict a rebound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  