-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Exeutive Can Pursue Police-Beating Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-03T20:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ex-deutsche-bank-exeutive-can-pursue-police-beating-suit.html
A former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executive
can pursue his civil rights claims against  Los Angeles  policemen
who he says savagely beat him last year while he was in a
neighborhood to visit a medical marijuana dispensary.  U.S. District Judge R. Gary Klausner in Los Angeles today
denied a request by one of the officers, James Nichols, to
dismiss the case. The judge said without ruling on the merits
that the ex-bank executive, Brian Mulligan, adequately pleaded
his allegations.  Mulligan, a former vice chairman of media and telecom
investment banking at Deutsche Bank, sued two police officers,
the city of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police Protective
 League  in February, seeking more than $20 million in damages.  He alleged that Nichols and Officer  John Miller  stopped him
as he was walking in the Eagle Rock area of Los Angeles, where
he had gone to legally buy tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the
active ingredient of marijuana, for use as a sleep aid.  Nichols and Miller found he wasn’t under the influence of
alcohol and drugs and first took him to his car, which they
searched without his consent and where they discovered $3,000 in
cash, Mulligan said in his complaint.  The policemen took him to a motel and told him not to leave
before morning or he would be “dead,” using an expletive for
emphasis, according to the complaint.  Fled Motel  Mulligan said in the complaint that he was afraid that he
was being set up and fled the motel after 10 minutes. He
encountered the policemen again, and Nichols hit him in the face
with his baton, shattering his nose, and broke his shoulder
blade twice after he had been handcuffed, according to the
complaint.  In August, Mulligan alleges, the Police Protective League
leaked information to the media about him, including a taped
conversation he had with a Glendale police officer two days
before the beating in which he discussed having taken “bath
salts,” a paranoia-inducing stimulant.  Klausner in a separate ruling today dismissed one of
Mulligan’s retaliation claims against the Police Protective
League and allowed him to proceed with another one.  Nichols’s lawyer, Peter Ferguson, and David Scheper, a
lawyer for the Police Protective League, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment on the rulings.  Denise Mills, a lawyer with the Los Angeles city attorney’s
office, which represents Miller and the city in the case, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office.  The case is Mulligan v. Nichols, 2:13-cv-00836, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in federal court in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 