-- Mexico Peso Gains as Bonds Snap Losing Streak Amid Fed Bets
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-03T23:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/mexico-peso-gains-as-bonds-snap-losing-streak-amid-fed-bets.html
Mexico ’s peso rose for the first time
in five days as benchmark bonds snapped their longest losing
streak since November 2010 amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will maintain its pace of monetary stimulus.  The peso appreciated 0.5 percent to 12.7418 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, it’s first advance since May 27. Yields on
benchmark government bonds maturing in 2024, known as Mbonos,
declined four basis points, 0.04 percentage point, to 5.42
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield had
increased for 11 straight days.  Mbonos advanced today as weaker than expected U.S. data
fueled speculation the Fed will maintain the pace of its asset
purchases. Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said in
a Bloomberg Television interview that central bank officials are
committed to record stimulus measures even as divergent views of
when to reduce bond purchases create a “mixed message.” U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in May at the fastest pace
in four years, according to an Institute for Supply Management
report.  The peso’s rebound today was caused by “flows to the local
market simply for their valuation and a bit also from the ISM
data that came in below what was expected,”  Mario Copca , a
currency and fixed-income strategist at Metanalisis SA, said in
a telephone interview from Mexico City. “The Fed has a little
bit of room to maintain its stimulus.”  The Mbonos had slumped as Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  signaled last month the central bank may cut its
pace of debt purchases if officials are confident that the U.S.
recovery will be sustained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  