-- Hezbollah, Assad Troops Prepare to Attack Northern Rebels
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-03T07:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hezbollah-assad-troops-prepare-to-attack-northern-rebels.html
Thousands of troops loyal to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad and allied Hezbollah fighters are
preparing to enter the province of Aleppo, a rebel stronghold
close to the Turkish border, activists said.  The fighters plan to enter from the province’s northern
region, Al-Jazeera television said, citing unidentified rebels.
The forces mobilized yesterday to attack from three different
fronts, the U.K.-based pro-opposition Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights  said on its Facebook page yesterday. Parts of
Aleppo, the nation’s commercial capital, and the broader
governate by the same name fell into rebel hands last year.  Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the civil
war and the violence has spilled over into neighboring Lebanon,
Hezbollah’s home base, inflaming the sectarian tensions that
have frequently led to conflict there. A 15-year civil war ended
in 1990 after reducing parts of the capital  Beirut  to rubble.  Hezbollah, a Shiite militia, is fighting alongside the
Syrian forces loyal to Assad, whose Alawite sect is an offshoot
of Shiite Islam, to retake the strategic city of al-Qusair from
the mainly Sunni Muslim rebels. The U.S. classifies Hezbollah as
a terrorist organization.  The Free Syrian Army has threatened to strike Hezbollah’s
locations inside and outside Lebanon if the group doesn’t
withdraw from al-Qusair.  Clashes between pro- and anti-Assad groups in Lebanon have
centered in the northern city of Tripoli. More than 10 people
were injured in the latest fighting there between Sunnis and
Alawites, the official National News Agency said late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  