-- Fed’s Williams Says Sees Potential QE Taper This ‘Summer’
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-06-03T14:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/fed-s-williams-says-sees-potential-qe-taper-by-summer-.html
 Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said policy makers may start
reducing the pace of bond purchases over the next three months
and potentially end quantitative easing by year-end.  With continued “good signs” on jobs and confidence in a
“substantial improvement” I could see as “early as this
summer some adjustment, maybe modest adjustment downward, in our
purchase program,” he said today in  Stockholm . The program “is
doing this great job of helping the economy gain momentum, and I
would want to see that continue well into the second half of
this year, but if things, again if they go well, you could
imagine ending the program by the end of the year.”  The comments were similar to a May 16 speech in  Portland ,
 Oregon , when Williams said “we could reduce somewhat the pace
of our securities purchases, perhaps as early as this summer”
and end the program late this year “if all goes well.”
Williams doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a response to
questions following Congressional testimony on May 22 that the
central bank could consider reducing the amount of Treasuries
and mortgage debt it buys within “the next few meetings” if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in the labor
market.  High Level  Treasuries recouped losses today after the  Institute for
Supply Management  said its factory index decreased to 49 in May
from the prior month’s 50.7. Fifty is the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  decreased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.09 percent at 10:07 a.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Earlier today,
10-year yields were at almost the highest level in more than a
year.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1
that it will keep buying $85 billion a month in bonds to bolster
growth and cut unemployment. The central bank also pledged to
keep  interest rates  near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  In a May 22 interview, Williams said any move to reduce the
pace of bond buying could be followed by an increase should the
economy weaken again.  “Even if we do adjust downward our purchases, it doesn’t
mean we’re now in some autopilot of moving in the same
direction,” Williams, 50, said. “You could even imagine a
scenario where we adjust it downward based on good data and then
adjust it back” if the economy weakened.  Near Zero  Having cut the benchmark rate almost to zero in December
2008, the Fed has used unorthodox measures to support the
economic expansion. One tool has involved offering more guidance
on the course of future policy.  Williams said he sees economic growth of about 2.5 percent
in 2013 and 3.25 percent next year.  U.S. fiscal policy is holding back growth this year, while
the housing market and  consumer spending  are “improving
nicely,” he told reporters in Stockholm today.  The Fed for the first time set an inflation goal in January
2012, pledging to keep price increases in the longer run around
2 percent. At the same meeting it began releasing policy makers’
interest-rate projections. Williams, who was an early advocate
for such a move, said today inflation may become a concern if it
stays at the current level. Inflation will accelerate toward 2
percent “over the next few years,” he said.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices, as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, rose 0.7 percent in April from a year
earlier.  The central bank began linking its zero-rate policy to
economic indicators in December. Before, it had pledged to keep
rates low until a calendar date of mid-2015.  “Inflation right now is running closer to a 1 percent
level which is obviously, if that were to continue, would be a
concern and an argument for more monetary accommodation than
otherwise,” he said. “So it’s really a question for me of
watching for continuing signs of improvement in the U.S. labor
market, continuing signs of greater confidence and the momentum
in the U.S economy, but also watching carefully” on the outlook
for inflation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  