-- Fed Unwinding of QE Has Limited Hong Kong Impact, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-06-03T21:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/fed-unwinding-of-qe-has-limited-hong-kong-impact-jpmorgan-says.html
A gradual increase in U.S.  interest
rates  will have limited impact on Hong Kong  equities  because
benefits from a stronger economy will outweigh the negatives,
according to JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd.  The  Federal Reserve  may slow its asset purchases in the
second half of this year if the U.S. labor market continues to
improve, and may start raising interest rates from mid- to late
2014, said Tai Hui, Hong Kong-based chief market strategist for
 Asia  at JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees about $1.5
trillion globally. A liquidity withdrawal caused by U.S.
interest-rate hikes will have little impact on the city’s  equity
market  because most of the fund flows associated with
quantitative easing have been into fixed income, he said.  “As long as it’s not a shock to the upside in interest
rates,  Hong Kong  should be able to withstand it,” Hui said in
an interview on May 29. “We still like equities despite
acknowledging the event of the Fed cutting back on quantitative
easing and raising interest rates.”  The  Hang Seng Index  surged 21 percent from September
through January as the Federal Reserve undertook a third round
of quantitative easing. Cash inflows forced the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority to intervene in foreign-exchange markets for
the first time in three years in order to protect the Hong Kong
dollar’s peg to the U.S. currency.  Federal Reserve members are debating when to reduce
stimulus that includes holding benchmark interest rates in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent and $85 billion a month of bond
purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
central bank could begin winding that back if the economy shows
sustained improvement.  Worst Market  Even with increasing evidence of a recovery in the world’s
largest economy, Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index is down
1.7 percent this year, the worst among developed markets.  Slowing growth in China and government efforts to damp
property prices in Hong Kong and the mainland have weighed on
equities. Brokerages and the  International Monetary Fund  lowered
their forecasts for world’s second-biggest economy last month.
Government data on June 1 showed the nation’s manufacturing
expanded last month, while a private survey yesterday from HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  signaled a contraction.  “When Chinese growth is not matching expectations, it will
be a struggle for Hong Kong to perform well,” Hui said. “Over
the long run, we still think  China  is cheap. There’s a lot of
potential, but you need earnings to really set the house on fire
and that’s just not happening.”  Buying Opportunities  Still, there’s buying opportunities in Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong and in the mainland, Hui said, without
naming any companies.  Financial companies have room for organic growth, he said.
Valuations are attractive after shares priced in potential
credit quality concerns.  A gauge of banks, developers and insurers in the MSCI China
Index is down 3.7 percent this year and is trading at 6.9 times
estimated earnings. That compares with a global financials
measure, which trades for 12 times estimated earnings after
gaining 8.7 percent this year.  Consumer companies may have steady growth and investors are
willing to pay a premium, Hui said. Exporters and materials
companies should be avoided because of the slow European economy
and a sluggish recovery in the U.S., he said.  Asian equities will offer returns through the second-half
of this year and into 2014, according to Hui. The upside for
equities relative to bonds is much more attractive because
 capital gains  for fixed income will be limited, he said.  “We have been advocating to clients they should really
start to tip-toe back into equities,” Hui said, noting that the
company may increase its equity allocation further. “When
earnings start to cooperate, we will advocate an even more
aggressive stance on equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  