-- Fiat Owner Exor Sells Its SGS Stake to GBL for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-03T06:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/fiat-owner-exor-sells-its-sgs-stake-to-gbl-for-2-6-billion.html
Exor SpA (EXO) , the Agnelli family holding
company which controls  Fiat SpA (F) , sold its stake in SGS SA to
 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB)  for 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion),
for a capital gain of 1.53 billion euros.  Exor will use the proceeds from the sale of its entire 15
percent holding in the Swiss product-inspection provider to
pursue “new investment opportunities,” the company said in a
statement sent through the Italian exchange.  “We have been privileged to have been able to support SGS
throughout these past 13 years,” Exor Chairman John Elkann said
in the statement. “We are confident the company will continue to
develop.”  Elkann said last week that Exor will support the planned
combination of Fiat and Chrysler Group LLC, adding that it’s too
early to say whether the holding company will invest further in
the carmaker to maintain its controlling stake after the planned
merger.  Fiat is in talks for as much as $10 billion in financing
from a pool of banks to buy the Chrysler stake it doesn’t own
and refinance the two automakers’ debt, people familiar with the
matter said last week.  The banks, which include Bank of America Corp., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP Paribas SA, are
discussing loaning Fiat the money to purchase the 41.5 percent
of the U.S. carmaker held by the United Auto Workers’ retiree
health-care trust, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is also
chairman of SGS. Marchionne, 60, was CEO of the Geneva-based
company from January 2002 until he took top spot at Fiat
in mid-2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  