-- Fiat Owner Exor Sells SGS Stake to GBL for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-03T15:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/fiat-owner-exor-sells-sgs-stake-to-gbl-for-2-6-billion.html
Exor SpA (EXO) , the Agnelli family holding
company which controls  Fiat SpA (F) , sold a stake in  SGS SA (SGSN)  for 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion), freeing up resources ahead of the
Italian automaker’s planned combination with Chrysler Group LLC.  Exor, which will post a capital gain of 1.53 billion euros
from the sale of its 15 percent holding in the Swiss product-inspection provider to  Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB) , will use the
money to pursue “new investment opportunities,” the company
said in a statement today.  Chairman John Elkann said last week that Exor has enough
funds to invest in Fiat and Chrysler when they combine. One
option being explored is to create a company in the U.S., merge
Fiat and Chrysler into it and issue shares in the new entity, a
person familiar with the matter said last week.  “We clearly see a connection between the sale of the SGS
stake and the hypothesized capital increase of Fiat-Chrysler,”
Gabriele Gambarova, an analyst at Banca Akros in Milan wrote in
a note to clients today. The sale “suggests the Fiat-Chrysler
capital increase might be much bigger than the 3 billion euros
to 4 billion euros previously estimated.”  Exor  gained  33 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 24.94 euros in
Milan. SGS rose 1.1 percent in Zurich, giving the company a
market value of 17.1 billion Swiss francs ($18 billion). GBL
declined 1.1 percent in Brussels. Fiat climbed 3.3 percent.  Elkann said last week that Exor has “firepower” of about
1.6 billion euros for new investments, including cash and
additional borrowing capacity.  Investment Resources  “It’s very premature to say how the Fiat-Chrysler
transaction will happen and what it would will entail in terms
of requirements,” Elkann said on a conference call with
analysts May 30. “What is sure is that we do think that if the
right opportunity comes, we want to have the resources to be
able to invest in it.”  Fiat is in talks for as much as $10 billion in financing
from a pool of banks to buy the Chrysler stake it doesn’t
already own and refinance the two automakers’ debt, people
familiar with the matter said last week.  The banks are discussing loaning Fiat the money to purchase
the 41.5 percent of the U.S. carmaker held by the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care trust, said the people.  A merger is a key step in efforts by Sergio Marchionne, who
runs both carmakers, to create a manufacturer with the scale to
compete with industry leaders  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Two-Step Deal  The Italian carmaker plans a two-step transaction, first
buying the trust’s stake, and later refinancing the debt of both
manufacturers at lower interest rates, the people said. Fiat may
pay as much as $3.5 billion for the rest of Chrysler, UBS AG
estimates. The two carmakers had 7.1 billion euros of net
industrial debt combined at the end of March.  Marchionne is considering moving Fiat’s headquarters to the
U.S. from  Italy  after the merger as the main revenue and profit
sources shift to North America, three people familiar with the
matter said last month. Chrysler said today that U.S. deliveries
in May increased by 11 percent to 166,596 cars and light trucks,
the 38th straight monthly gain.  No final decision on the headquarters has been made and
other options are being examined, the people said. Fiat said the
headquarters issue is not on its agenda at the moment.
Marchionne said in April that he favored a primary listing in
New York for the company. The merged company will have both Fiat
and Chrysler in its name, Elkann said last week.  Ongoing Engagement  SGS will benefit from Marchionne’s “ongoing engagement”
as chairman, Elkann said in the statement. Marchionne, 60, was
CEO of the Geneva-based company from January 2002 until he took
the top spot at Fiat in mid-2004.  Exor was the biggest investor in SGS. GBL Verwaltung, a
unit of GBL, last month sold a 1.1 billion-euro stake in  GDF
Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s largest utility by market value.  “We have been privileged to have been able to support SGS
throughout these past 13 years,” Elkann said in today’s
statement. “We are confident the company will continue to
develop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  