-- China’s Xi Orders Investigation of Deadliest Fire Since 2000
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T07:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/fire-kills-61-at-china-poultry-processing-plant-xinhua-reports.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping ordered
an investigation into a fire at a poultry plant in the
northeastern province of Jilin that killed 120 people, the
nation’s deadliest blaze in 13 years.  Xi, currently visiting countries in  Latin America  and the
Caribbean, together with Premier  Li Keqiang  called on rescuers
to make every effort to save lives and pledged to punish those
responsible, the central government said in a statement
yesterday. Li held a teleconference today during which he
received updates on the situation and also gave instructions for
rescue work, the government said.  The fire broke out in the city of Dehui after an explosion
at 6 a.m. yesterday and was extinguished at noon, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported. A leak of liquid ammonia caused an
explosion that triggered the fire at the 17-acre facility, state
broadcaster  China Central Television  reported today.  China  has struggled to improve building safety, with fires
at a car wash, a clothing factory and an agricultural market
killing more than 20 people in the past six months. The
government in 2010 ordered inspections of shopping malls,
hotels, hospitals and other public venues after a blaze at a
downtown  Shanghai  apartment building killed more than 50. A fire
at a night club in  Henan province  killed 309 people in 2000.  About 100 of the plant’s more than 300 workers escaped,
Xinhua reported. The gates were locked when the fire began,
according to survivors cited by the agency, which said the
prefabricated building’s complicated interior and narrow exits
hampered rescuers. Seventy workers were injured, according to
Xinhua. Authorities have yet to say how many are still missing.  Ultimate Blame  “Recent fires have stirred up a public safety crisis,” a
commentary in today’s Beijing News newspaper said. “Though it
is the operating companies who should be held responsible
directly, the ultimate blame is on the government.”  Yang Dongliang, head of the State Administration of Work
Safety, will lead a team set up by the State Council to
investigate the incident, the safety agency said today.  The 2010 fire in Shanghai was in a building undergoing
renovations that was covered with scaffolding made of flammable
nylon netting and bamboo, and was started by sparks from
unlicensed electric welders and exacerbated by high winds,
firefighters said at the time. Then Shanghai Mayor  Han Zheng 
said the city government bore “inescapable responsibility.”  A district official in charge of construction was sentenced
in 2011 to 16 years in jail after he and three others from the
city government were found guilty of having taken bribes and
misused their authority, leading to the blaze, the China Daily
newspaper reported at the time.  Night Club Fire  The 2000 blaze in Henan was at a building that had failed
fire prevention checks since 1997, Xinhua reported at the time.
That was the deadliest fire since 1994, when 324 people were
killed at a cinema in the western region of Xinjiang. A 1977
blaze at another cinema in Xinjiang killed 694 people.  “Any fatal casualties over 100 that’s not a natural
disaster will make the government very nervous, in fear of
possible social unrest,” Willy Wo-lap Lam, an adjunct professor
of history at the  Chinese University  of  Hong Kong , said by
phone. “This should serve as a big lesson for the government to
put on even more stringent safety checks and to crack down on
any project corruption.”  Charred Frame  CCTV yesterday showed fire trucks spraying water onto the
charred frame of the chicken plant’s roof as black smoke rose
into the sky. More than 10 fire engines and dozens of ambulances
responded to the scene, the broadcaster reported.  Three calls from  Bloomberg News  to Jilin Baoyuanfeng
Poultry Co., owner of the plant, went unanswered yesterday.
Dehui is 30 kilometers from Changchun, the capital of Jilin. The
company has 1,200 employees and an annual output of 67,000 tons
of chicken products, Xinhua reported.  Zhao Xian, deputy secretary-general of the Changchun city
government, apologized for the fire, according to CCTV.
Changchun is the capital of  Jilin province .  Separately,  PetroChina Co. (857)  extinguished a fire in a tar-oil
tank at its Dalian refining complex on June 2, Leng Shengjun,
the manager of the plant, said by phone. Two people died and two
are missing, Xinhua reported yesterday. The cause of the fire is
still under investigation, parent company CNPC said on its
website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  