-- Flooding Closes Rhine River to Barges Upstream of Koblenz
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g ,   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-03T11:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/flooding-closes-rhine-river-to-barges-upstream-of-koblenz.html
The Rhine River,  Europe ’s busiest
inland waterway, was shut to barges upstream of Koblenz in
Germany as water levels along some parts of the river rose to
the highest in at least seven years after heavy rain.  The  level  at Kaub, Germany, is about 200 kilometers (125
miles) south of Dusseldorf, rose to 6.61 meters (22 feet) as of
7:30 a.m. Berlin time, the highest since at least 2006, data
from the German Federal Institute of Hydrology show. As a
result, the Upper Rhine is inaccessible to smaller tankers and
boats that ply the route to cities such as Cologne, Frankfurt
and Karlsruhe in Germany and Basel in  Switzerland , according to
energy researcher PJK International BV.  “The Upper Rhine is not navigable so everyone there cannot
move or discharge,” Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK
International, said by phone today from Breda, Netherlands.
“It’s basically affecting the whole barge market right now and
brought things to a standstill. Normally this is a short-term
problem but if it takes longer, there could be a problem with
barge supply and demand.”  The Rhine links industrial sites including  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Gelsenkirchen oil refinery and  BASF SE (BAS) ’s Ludwigshafen chemicals 
site to Rotterdam, Europe’s busiest port. A canal system running 
into  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and  Austria  joins the Rhine at
Duisburg, near Dusseldorf. Nonstop spring storms have raised the
specter of the 2002 floods that crippled  Prague , shutting down
the Czech capital’s subway system for weeks and saddling
insurers with tens of billions of koruna in claims.  Stable Rates  Barge rates have been stable in the past four days even as
water levels rise and are unlikely to be affected because the
floods will soon subside, according to Joachim Hessler,
operations manager at Maintank Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, who
was speaking today by phone from near Frankfurt. The rate at
Duisburg has been stable at 5.75 euros ($7.5) a metric ton since
May 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Further downstream, the river remains open to barges with
water levels still about 4 meters below the point at which the
link would be closed, according to the Wasser-und
Schifffahrtsverwaltung, or WSV.  “There are no constraints on the Rhine between Bonn and
the border of the  Netherlands ,” Renate Schaefer, a Muenster,
Germany-based spokeswoman for WSV, which is responsible for
barge activities on the northern Rhine, said in an e-mail.
“Today they  measured  7.39 meters in Ruhrort near Duisburg and
this level should increase due to the water that is coming from
the south today and tomorrow. Only if the level reaches more
than 11.3 meters will they stop traffic on the Rhine.”  Drier weather is forecast over the next few days in central
and western Germany so the levels are expected to subside with
barge traffic resuming in two or three days, according to Kulsen
of PJK International.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  