-- Floods in Europe Near Peak as Merkel Tours Disaster Areas
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-06-04T10:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/floods-in-europe-approach-peak-as-merkel-heads-to-disaster-areas.html
Floodwaters that inundated  Prague  and
swamped large areas of central  Europe  may peak today as
emergency crews work to open river traffic, drain submerged
neighborhoods and count the cost of the storm damage.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  began a tour of flooded regions in
 Germany  as forecasters struggled to predict exactly when rivers
including the Elbe, Danube and Rhine will crest. States of
emergency in Germany, the Czech Republic and  Austria  remain in
force after firefighters, soldiers and volunteers widened
evacuation zones and tried to stem flooding that spread even as
rain abated. Nine people were confirmed dead and six are missing
in the Czech Republic and Austria. Local media reported three
deaths in Germany.  “This is not just a once-in-a-hundred years event, it’s
one you have to call exorbitant,” Merkel told reporters in the
southern German town of Passau, where the Danube, Inn and Ilz
rivers converge. “We want to help. Even as the water marks
slowly recede, the damage will continue to have an effect for a
long time.”  The federal government will make 100 million euros ($131
million) available in immediate funds to aid the clean-up
effort, she said.  Authorities are battling to limit the damage from flooding
that is the worst on record in some parts of Germany and recalls
the devastation in 2002 that put whole regions of Bohemia,
Germany and Austria under water.  Determine Losses  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said it will take
“several weeks” to determine the losses resulting from the
floods. The company put the losses from the Elbe overflowing in
August 2002 at 16.8 billion euros across Europe, 3.5 billion
euros of which was insured. So far, the losses from the current
floods aren’t as extensive as 11 years ago, it said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, said it’s deploying
staff from across Germany to the flooded areas to assess the
damage and support clients. The insurer has received “several
thousand” notifications of damage to buildings, homes and cars,
it said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Even though the floods are comparable with the situation
in 2002 or even worse, the areas affected aren’t big economic
centres,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at  Deutsche
Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn. “While it’s thoroughly possible that the
floods will have an effect on output in the second quarter, I
wouldn’t expect that impact to be large.”  Flood Damage  The flood damage in the  Czech Republic  may total as much as
35 billion koruna ($1.78 billion), according to  Martin Lobotka ,
an economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague. Repairs may add
0.6 percent to 0.7 percent to nominal gross domestic product in
the second half of the year, he wrote in a report to clients
yesterday.  Rains in Bohemia, the Czech region that borders Germany and
Austria, have begun to ease and will end by midweek, Petr
Dvorak, a spokesman for the Czech weather service, said.  Meanwhile,  Hungary  has deployed 400 soldiers as it stepped
up flood defense along the Danube, state news service MTI cited
army chief Tibor Benko as saying. Authorities expect water marks
to reach record levels on June 9, MTI said. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  declared a state of emergency effective from noon
today.  Hardest Hit  The Czech capital was among the hardest-hit cities from
non-stop spring rains. The Vltava, which bisects Prague, crested
earlier today after flooding about four percent of the city.  The 650 year-old Charles Bridge straddling the Vltava,
parts of the subway and embankments in the Kampa or Smichov
areas remained closed.  “The situation in Prague has stabilized and the worst is
behind us,” acting mayor Tomas Hudecek said in a statement
broadcast by state news channel CT24. “Right now, we are
dealing with the complicated transport situation and putting
together clean-up plans.” The subway will remain closed “for
at least a day,” he said.  With all dams on the river at capacity, it will be some
time before waters recede, the Vltava river basin management
said.  Czech authorities evacuated about 8,000 people and reported
seven deaths and four people missing in the floods.  As many as 4,000 German soldiers are working in the flood
areas, the defense ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The
troops are reinforcing dams, giving medical aid and helping with
evacuations, it said.  Bears Scars  The center of Passau was partially submerged, with shops
and homes near riverside areas evacuated. Power supplies were
cut off in some parts as a precaution, said Siegfried Ratzinger,
a spokesman for the city’s crisis center.  “We also have problems with the quality of the drinking
water due to the floods,” he said.  In the city of Dresden, which still bears the scars of the
2002 floods that damaged buildings including the 19th century
Semper Opera, several schools sent students home and old
people’s homes were evacuated as authorities prepared for the
River Elbe to approach record-high levels.  “We expect the water level in Dresden to rise by 1.50
meters (4.9 feet) in the next days, possibly to 9 meters,”
Frank Meyer, a spokesman for Saxony’s environment ministry, said
by phone.  Helma Orosz, Dresden’s mayor, said yesterday that the
situation evoked memories of the deluge 11 years ago, when the
Elbe rose to 9.4 meters in the city.  The Elbe had risen to 7.37 meters in Dresden as of 9 a.m.,
according to the most recent  data  by German water authorities.
The region may see thunderstorms and heavy rains today,
according to the state government’s most recent flood forecast.  Dresden’s Frauenkirche  While Dresden’s historic city center including the
Frauenkirche cathedral will be safe because of protection
installed after the 2002 floods, city districts including Gohlis
and Laubegast that are located further downstream still lack
such protection, Meyer said. The Diakonissenkrankenhaus Dresden,
a hospital sitting on the northern banks of the Elbe, may have
to be evacuated, he said. A decision will have to be made in the
course of the day, he said.  Water levels are “slowly dropping” in cities including
Doebeln and Grimma that had been submerged by the Mulde
tributaries, Meyer said. “Clean-up work can slowly start
there.”  The weather in most of Germany is “calm,” the national
weather service said on its website today. Southeastern and
eastern parts are still affected by an upper low-pressure area
that’s “weakening,” it said. Eastern Germany is experiencing
isolated thunderstorms or heavy rains of more than 15 liters (4
gallons) per square meter in some cases, it said.  Construction Worker  A construction worker was found dead three days after he
slipped into the water, trying to secure a building site against
the floods near the city of Reutlingen in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported. Two more bodies
were found in the town of Guenzburg in the Swabian region,
according to the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper.  Elsewhere in Germany, river traffic on the Rhine upstream
from Koblenz remained closed, affecting commodities transport
including oil.  Merkel’s tour echoes steps by her predecessor  Gerhard Schroeder , whose visits to the 2002 flood-affected regions are
credited by pollsters with helping him win a second term in
federal elections weeks later.  The visit to disaster areas by Merkel, who’s running for
re-election in less than four months, is to “raise the spirits
of those who are working to the point of exhaustion,” Merkel’s
chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said yesterday. “There are no
other considerations.”  Found Dead  In Austria, two people were found dead and two others were
reported missing after landslides. In the eastern part of the
country, levels of the Danube are expected to reach their peak
today. With several city centers under water, about 1,000 people
have left their homes in the provinces of Upper Austria and
Lower Austria, a government official said.  The situation in western parts of the country eased
yesterday. In Salzburg, levels are declining on all rivers,
Stefan Mayer, a spokesman for the province, said by telephone.
The damage will “surely exceed that caused by the flood of
2002,” he said.  Railroad Connections  The highway connecting capital Vienna to the airport and
onwards to Budapest experienced flooding and traffic had to be
diverted locally. Firefighters expect Vienna’s Port Albern on
the Danube to be partially flooded.  Eleven years ago, floods caused total damages of about 3
billion euros in the country, according to the Austrian
Insurance Association.  While Austria’s most important railroad connections and
highways are accessible, traffic on the Danube remains
suspended. The government said it will provide aid to those
affected.  “We have to help, even if that puts us in a budgetary
situation we can’t yet assess,” Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger told journalists yesterday.  Inhabited areas of Vienna are expected to be spared because
of the discharge flume the city built for the Danube in the
1970s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James M. Gomez in  Prague  at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  