-- Former JPMorgan Trader Gulati Said to Get $300 Million for Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/former-jpmorgan-trader-gulati-said-to-get-300-million-for-fund.html
Deepak Gulati, a former head of
global equity proprietary trading at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
started investing at his own hedge fund after raising about $300
million, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Argentiere Capital AG, run by Gulati, 35, and a team of
former colleagues from JPMorgan, started trading yesterday from
its base in Zug,  Switzerland , said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the move hasn’t been made public. The fund
will focus on volatility trades, betting on the rate at which
stocks rise or fall. Gulati declined to comment on the
fundraising or his backers yesterday.  He joins a growing group of traders who’ve left banks since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 prompted
U.S. regulators to try to limit risk-taking by lenders, through
the so-called Volcker rule, a law that tries to prevent lenders
from using federally-insured deposits to make speculative bets.  Still, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Nomura Holdings
Inc. executives who left to start hedge funds in the past three
years have already shut their firms down after they lost money
amid markets dominated by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.
Pierre-Henri Flamand, former head of Goldman Sachs’s biggest
proprietary-trading unit, and Herve Gallo, a former equity-derivatives trader at Nomura, have both shut their funds.  Argentiere, named after a skiing village in the French
Alps, has 15 employees, including seven former JPMorgan workers
focused on trading and investment analysis, the people said. The
firm plans to stop seeking additional investors if assets climb
to $750 million, the people said.  The firm also has portfolio managers who make event-driven
bets and others who make quantitative wagers. Event-driven
investors try to profit from corporate actions such as
acquisitions, bankruptcies and buybacks, while quant investors
use mathematical models to predict changes in asset prices. 