-- Taiwan’s Jailed Ex-Leader Attempts Suicide With Towel in Protest
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2013-06-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/former-taiwan-president-chen-attempts-suicide-in-prison-hospital.html
Former  Taiwan  President Chen Shui-bian tried to kill himself in a prison hospital to protest his
2009 corruption conviction, for which he’s serving a 20-year
jail sentence.  Chen, 62, tried to hang himself with three towels tied
together at a faucet of a bathroom sink at 9 p.m. on June 2,
Deputy Justice Minister Chen Ming-tang said in a phone interview
yesterday. The former president was stopped by guards and his
condition is stable, the Justice Ministry said in a statement.  After serving as president from 2000-2008, Chen and his
wife were sentenced in 2009 to life in prison for misuse of
public funds and other charges including corruption and inducing
false evidence. The punishment was reduced on appeal and Chen
was moved to the prison hospital in April to treat ailments
including depression, a sleep disorder and  Parkinson’s disease ,
Taiwan’s  Central News Agency  reported.  Chen’s 2000 election ended more than half a century of rule
by the Kuomintang, which subsequently regained power as his
Democratic Progressive Party was tarnished by the corruption
allegations.  During his tenure, Chen earned  China ’s wrath by trying to
assert the island’s sovereignty, dropping the word “China”
from the names of state-owned companies and bidding to join the
 United Nations  under the name of Taiwan. His successor, Ma Ying-jeou, reversed those moves, allowing direct flights and easing
restrictions on mainland investment.  Money Laundering  In 2009, Chen and his family was charged with accepting
bribes to facilitate two property deals and laundering the funds
overseas. Prosecutors said more than $30 million was remitted
abroad, ending up in Swiss bank accounts.  The suicide attempt happened in a part of Chen’s bathroom
not visible to surveillance cameras, and the equipment has since
been adjusted, the ministry said.  In a statement yesterday, the former president’s office
said he was trying to “build diplomacy” for Taiwan with the
money he was convicted of embezzling.  Chen has applied to be reinstated as a member of the
 Democratic Progressive Party . The application isn’t progressing
smoothly, according to the justice ministry’s statement. Party
spokesman Jason Lin said Chen’s application for reinstatement is
under review and there’s no time-line for approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  