-- Freeport Mine in Indonesia Shut as Probe May Take 3 Months
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-06-03T06:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/freeport-mine-in-indonesia-may-shut-for-three-months-on-probe.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s
production in  Indonesia  will be shut for a government probe into
accidents at its Grasberg mine that may take as long as three
months, boosting concern over global supply.  Output will be halted from both its open pit and
underground operations at the site, the world’s second-largest
copper mine, said Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and
minerals at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, at a
conference in Bali today. The company is allowed to ship ore
concentrate from stockpiles, he said.  The deposit, located in Papua province, usually produces
220,000 metric tons of ore a day, Rozik B. Soetjipto, president
director of PT Freeport Indonesia, said May 22. The lost output
amounts to 680 tons of copper a day, based on Bloomberg
calculations using data in the annual report. Investigators are
seeking the causes of a tunnel collapse on May 14 that killed 28
people. Another worker died on June 1 from a separate accident
when wet ore covered a truck.  “Exports mean nothing if there are lots of people dead,”
Dede Suhendra, the ministry’s director of minerals, said in
Jakarta today. “Production activities must stop,” he said,
adding the probe that started on May 22 may take three months.  Copper in  London  advanced 0.5 percent to $7,347 a metric
ton today, after increasing 3.6 percent in May. Inventories
monitored by the London Metal Exchange fell last month for the
first time since September.  Presidential Order  Suhendra from the mining ministry said President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono had ordered a comprehensive check of all mines
in the country, which is one of the world’s top exporters of
tin, thermal coal and nickel.  Freeport can’t give a date to restart work and needs to
seek permission from the mining ministry before resuming, said
Daisy Primayanti, vice president of corporate communications at
Freeport Indonesia.  “We will cooperate with the government in our effort to
resume our operation,” Primayanti said yesterday. Freeport had
restarted some work at Grasberg’s open pit mine on May 28, the
company said in a statement last week.  The workers have refused to return until Freeport suspends
officials believed to be responsible for the May 14 accident,
Virgo Solossa, head of the Mimika branch of the All Indonesian
Workers Union in the Chemical, Energy and Mining Sectors, said
May 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  