-- German Stocks Decline as U.S. Manufacturing Contracts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-03T15:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/german-stocks-pare-gains-deutsche-lufthansa-rises.html
German stocks  declined to a three-week low as a report showed U.S.  manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  unexpectedly
contracted in May, and amid investor concern the Federal Reserve
will reduce its debt-buying program.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, fell 2.5 percent,
following its European peers lower as central Europe was hit by
floods. TUI AG slipped 2.3 percent after a report cited its
chief executive officer as saying the company’s future depends
on cost reductions.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  advanced as the
International Air Transport Association forecast higher earnings
for the industry.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 0.8 percent to 8,285.8 at
the close of trading in Frankfurt. The gauge rose 5.5 percent in
May and has rallied in all but one of the past 12 months as
central banks around the world maintained their stimulus
efforts. The broader HDAX Index also lost 0.8 percent today.  “European equities are further consolidating after last
week,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and fund manager at
Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an e-mail. “Fears of
quantitative easing being removed and poor macroeconomic numbers
are driving down stocks and pushing up bond yields.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in May at
the fastest pace in four years. The Institute for Supply
Management’s  factory index  decreased to 49 from the prior
month’s 50.7, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed
today. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. The  median  forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 51.  Insurers Drop  Munich Re declined 2.5 percent to 141.10 euros, and
Hannover Re, the world’s fourth-largest reinsurer, lost 3.3
percent to 56.39 euros.  Authorities are striving to cope with central-European
floods similar to 2002, when high water in western Bohemia and
 Austria  spread to  Germany  and costs insurers billions of dollars
in damage claims.  U.S. property insurers seeking to manage their exposure to
hurricanes and other disasters secured price cuts for annual
reinsurance policies of 15 percent on average over the weekend,
according to the Financial Times, which cited unidentified
people with knowledge of the talks.  The yield in the benchmark 10-year German bund rose to 1.52
percent today. Yields have advanced from 1.17 percent on May 2,
and rates for similar U.S. Treasuries climbed to 2.23 percent
last week from 1.63 percent on concern the Fed may taper its
bond-buying program.  “The insurance sector is very sensitive to violent moves
in the bond-yield curve. In the last few weeks U.S. and European
rates have moved higher quite sharply,” Valahu said.  TUI Costs  TUI, the owner of Europe’s largest travel company,
retreated 2.3 percent to 9.25 euros.  TUI’s (TUI1)  “right to exist”
hinges on cost cuts that include scrapping almost half the 190
jobs at its headquarters in Hanover, CEO Friedrich Joussen told
the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper in an interview.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, rose 0.5
percent to 16.71 euros, paring earlier gains of as much as 1.8
percent.  Airline earnings  will be 20 percent higher this year
than forecast just three months ago as capacity cuts help pack
planes to record levels, IATA said.  Carriers are likely to generate net income of $12.7 billion
in 2013, the industry group said today. That compares with a
forecast of $10.6 billion issued on March 20, and represents a
67 percent gain on last year’s profit of $7.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  