-- German Energy Watchdog Staffs Insider-Trading Division
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-06-03T08:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/german-energy-watchdog-staffs-insider-trading-division.html
Germany ’s power and natural-gas grid
regulator has appointed more than half the employees it’s
seeking for a new unit to combat potential market manipulation
in the region’s biggest energy market.  Bundesnetzagentur, based in Bonn, plans to have about 30
people enforcing the European Union’s regulation on wholesale
energy market integrity and transparency, known as Remit,
according to Jochen Homann, who heads the agency. The watchdog
already has 17 people working on the project to collect and
check information from power and gas traders active in Germany
starting in the middle of 2014.  “This is a huge project,” Homann said in an interview at
his office in Bonn. “All power traders have to register with
us. When they make their data announcements, we have to screen
everything for signs of potential  insider trading  and whether we
need to follow up on it.”  Remit , which came into force in December 2011, is part of
the EU’s campaign to clamp down on insider trading and
manipulation in the region’s 900 billion-euro ($1.2 trillion)
power and gas markets. Regulators say the low level of
transparency comes at the expense of private and industrial
consumers who pay more to heat their homes or keep factories
running if prices are artificially high.  The European Commission raided the offices of major oil-production and trading companies last month, seeking information
on potential price fixing. The U.K.’s Office of the Gas and
Electricity Markets is investigating alleged manipulation in the
nation’s gas market,  Europe ’s biggest by trading volume, Lisa
O’Brien, a spokeswoman for the regulator, said by phone from
London on May 29.  Probing Fraud  In Germany, the Hamburg tax office said May 30 it was
probing possible cases of fraud in the power and gas market
after the nation’s Federal Tax Office last month warned it found
signs of potential impropriety that may be similar to a 2009
value-added tax scam that roiled the EU carbon market.  The country’s power and gas markets were liberalized in
1998, the start of a process that split up companies that
produced and distributed energy while giving other producers and
marketers access to the nation’s grids.  “If we fail to make major changes to the way the energy
market functions, we will be faced with a less reliable and more
costly European energy system,” the European Commission, the
EU’s regulatory arm, said in a November  letter  to the European
Parliament.  Price Jumps  The Remit rules require traders, grid operators, suppliers,
producers, brokers and large users who trade energy products to
provide information on the use of infrastructure to store,
produce, consume or transmit power or gas. Information about an
unplanned halt at a nuclear reactor or at a  gas field  may cause
prices to jump.  “The people in our Remit group all have the necessary
experience to deal with this topic,” Homann said on May 6.  Manufacturing plants such as steel and aluminum mills and
other large power-consuming installations will also have to
report unplanned halts.  “It is good to have transparency in the energy markets,
but it will be a huge effort for us to set up the reporting
infrastructure,” Carsten van Plueer, a spokesman for  VIK e.V. ,
said May 31 by e-mail from Essen, Germany.  The German energy-intensive industry lobby is seeking
clarity on what its members will need to report under Remit, van
Plueer said.  “If a large consumption unit fails, that usually does not
impact the market, but we still need to report it.”  Cartel Office  The German grid regulator hasn’t decided which data need to
be provided, Homann said. “Also, the exact way of sending the
data to us is still unknown,” he said. “But we need to make
sure this creates a minimum of bureaucracy.”  Trading in German power amounted to 3,857 terawatt-hours in
2012, about 45 percent of the European total and 7.1 times
annual consumption, according to data from London-based Prospex
Research Ltd.  Of the 17 people assigned to the new unit at the German
 grid regulator , 12 were moved from other parts of
Bundesnetzagentur and five were transferred from the nation’s
cartel office, Homann said.  “In the beginning it was unclear how the tasks to
implement Remit would be split between us and the cartel
office,” he said. “Now it is clear that the responsibility
lies with us, which makes sense.”  About 295 billion euros of German gas and power contracts
were handled by brokers in  London  last year, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on average prices and  volume data 
from the London Energy Brokers’ Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  