-- Gillard Slips Again in Poll as Australians Abandon Labor
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-04T01:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/gillard-slips-further-in-poll-as-australian-voters-abandon-labor.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor party slumped again behind  Tony Abbott ’s
Liberal-National coalition in an opinion poll that indicates a
change of government in the Sept. 14 election.  Labor fell 2 percentage points to 42 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while the opposition gained 2 points to 58
percent, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper today. Gillard’s satisfaction rating dropped 3 points
to 28 percent.  Gillard’s bid to woo voters disaffected by internal party
infighting and policy reversals by announcing increased
education and health funding has failed to boost Labor’s
ratings. With signs of a slowdown in the world’s 12th-largest
economy, including worsening employment prospects and waning of
the mining boom, momentum is with Abbott’s conservative
coalition, which hasn’t ruled since 2007.  “When elections get closer Australian opinion polls
usually become tighter, but that isn’t happening now, which
suggests voters have totally turned off this government,” said
Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at  Monash University  in
 Melbourne . “While these figures probably won’t be replicated in
the election it’s still hard to see anything but a wipe out.”  Leadership Challenge  Gillard’s woes were exacerbated in March by a challenge to
her party leadership. She has sought to arrest her minority
government’s ailing electoral fortunes by announcing A$9.8
billion ($9.6 billion) in extra funding for schools over six
years from 2014-15 and a new levy that will collect A$20.4
billion for the disabled by mid-2019.  While some states have said they will financially support
those plans, others such as  Western Australia  -- at the
forefront of the softening mining boom -- have rejected them.
That has undercut Gillard’s reputation for negotiating and
economic management, which was damaged in December when the
government abandoned a pledge to return the budget to surplus.  “There’s no doubt we are under considerable pressure as we
head toward the election,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet 
said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview today.
“There’s no news in that. It’s been difficult for quite some
period of time.”  Labor will win back some voters as the election gets closer
through policies in areas including education, Combet said.  Preferred Leader   Abbott’s satisfaction rating remained on 37 percent,
according to the poll. He increased his lead on the question of
who would make the better prime minister, gaining 3 points to 43
percent, while Gillard fell 4 points to 35 percent.  Labor’s primary, or first-preference, vote fell 1 point to
30 percent, while the coalition rose 3 points to 49 percent and
the smaller Greens party remained on 9 percent.  The Newspoll survey of 1,139 people taken May 31-June 2 had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge which party is most
likely to form a government under  Australia ’s preferential
voting system. Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News Ltd. and 50
percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research company.  Other polls released today show Labor is losing momentum
across Australia.  Internal Labor polling showed the party risked losing all
but one of the 26 seats to be contested in Queensland, the
nation’s third biggest state, the Sydney Morning Herald
reported, citing a senior party source it didn’t identify.  Former prime minister  Kevin Rudd , who Gillard ousted in a
backroom party coup in June 2010, could be the sole Labor
representative from the state after the election, with Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  set to lose his seat, it said.  In Victoria state, several previously safe Labor seats are
at risk, including that of Attorney-General Mark Dreyfus, the
Herald Sun reported, citing polling by JWS Research.  The opposition has “a complete focus on developing and
building the relationship of trust with the Australian people
and restoring trust in government,” Shadow Environment Minister
Greg Hunt said in a Sky Television interview today. “There is
deep disenchantment with the Gillard government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  