-- Gilts Trail in Worst Global Bond Month Since 2004: U.K. Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-03T07:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/gilts-trail-in-worst-global-bond-month-since-2004-u-k-credit.html
In the worst month for fixed-income
assets in almost a decade, U.K. government bonds suffered more
than most.  As sovereign securities across the world declined in May
amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may taper its bond-buying
plan, British debt trailed all but one of the 26 markets tracked
by Bloomberg. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said May 15
that a U.K. recovery is “in sight” while investors are betting
his successor,  Mark Carney , may pursue new strategies to boost
economic growth.  “The market view that seems to be emerging is that more
support from a Mark Carney BOE would not necessarily be in the
form of more vanilla gilt purchases,” said  Moyeen Islam , a
fixed-income strategist at Barclays Plc in  London . “The data
has been OK, and the May Inflation Report essentially took more
quantitative easing off the table, so there is little reason to
suppose that more action is imminent.”  Rising borrowing costs may make it harder for Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to argue his budget cuts retain
credibility with investors. U.K. gilts declined 2.4 percent in
May, the most since December 2009, and the second-worst
performer after South African bonds in indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Yields Climb  The  10-year gilt  yield was little changed at 2.01 percent
at 8:20 a.m. in London after climbing 31 basis points, or 0.31
percentage point, in May. The rate compares with an  average  of
1.80 percent during the past 12 months, and a record-low 1.407
percent in July.  Securities in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index fell 1.5 percent last month, the steepest
loss since April 2004.  While 10-year gilts outperformed their U.S. equivalents
last month, the yields on shorter-dated U.K securities increased
more. Their appeal was dented as Bank of England policy maker
 Paul Fisher  said May 24 that he’s not convinced about the merit
of cutting the central bank’s key  interest rate , which has been
at a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  Bank of England minutes from February showed officials
considered options including a rate cut as ways to help the
economy. Governor King has voted to boost the central bank’s
bond-purchase program from 375 billion pounds ($569 billion) at
each meeting since then, though he has been outvoted by other
members of the Monetary Policy Committee.  Perverse Effects  “Further cuts in rates may not feed through to higher
consumption in the normal way and some of the effects could even
be perverse,” Fisher said. “We may well find that getting
rates back to normal is part of re-establishing economic
activity at potential in due course.”  The  two-year gilt yield  rose 13 basis points in May to 0.37
percent. That pushed the  yield difference , or spread, over their
U.S. equivalents up by four basis points to eight basis points.  Two-year gilts have underperformed their U.S equivalents as
“data has improved and the MPC has downplayed any chances of a
rate cut,” said Jason Simpson, a rates strategist at Banco
Santander SA in London. “Overnight index swaps were at one
stage most of the way to pricing a 25-basis points cut. This
discounting of lower rates has gradually unwound and pushed two-year gilt yields up with it.”  Sonia Contracts  Traders use derivatives based on the sterling overnight
index average, or Sonia, to protect against future changes in
 interest rates .  The contracts show traders are not expecting a rate cut
before April 2014, data from Tullett Prebon Plc shows. The Sonia
contract for next March, which was at 0.255 percent on April 22,
has risen to 0.392 percent.  Britain’s economy resumed growth in the first quarter,
expanding 0.3 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
May 23 in London, matching an estimate published on April 25.
U.K. house prices increased the most in 18 months on an annual
basis last month,  Nationwide Building Society  said May 30.  “There is a welcome change in the economic outlook,” King
said at a quarterly press conference in London on May 15, his
last before retiring as central-bank governor. “We don’t see a
particularly rapid recovery in the next few quarters but we do
see a recovery and I think there are good reasons for that.”  ‘Escape Velocity’  Carney, who is scheduled to succeed King as governor in
July, said earlier this year that central banks aren’t “maxed
out,” and that their task is to achieve “escape velocity” for
their economies. The  International Monetary Fund  said last month
that the  Bank of England  may need to buy more gilts and assure
households and investors that rates will stay low until the
recovery reaches “full momentum.”  The Debt Management Office plans to hold 11 outright sales
of gilts and two offerings via banks between July and September,
it said on its website May 31.  “There is a relatively heavy supply schedule and there are
currently no supportive Bank of England buyback operations
taking place,” said Simon Peck, a rates strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The net risk the market
has to take down is rising. That’s one of the drivers behind the
general underperformance we’ve seen in gilts and I expect to see
that continue into coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  