-- Glaxo Findings on Avandia Safety Supported in Reanalysis
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-03T14:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/glaxo-findings-on-avandia-safety-supported-in-reanalysis.html
A second look at  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) ’s once-best-selling diabetes pill found it doesn’t increase
overall cardiac death risk, U.S. regulators said.  Findings by London-based Glaxo that Avandia doesn’t raise
the overall risk of death, heart attack or stroke appear to be
supported in a reanalysis by independent researchers, some Food
and Drug Administration staff said in a  report  today. FDA
advisers will reconsider restrictions imposed on Avandia in 2010
at a meeting June 5-6, according to the report.  “It is important to note that FDA has not reached any
final updated conclusions” on the cardiovascular safety of
Avandia based on the reassessment, said Mary H. Parks, director
of the FDA’s division of metabolism and endocrinology products.  The former $3 billion drug generated $9.5 million in  sales 
last year amid strict FDA limits on prescribing and Glaxo’s
decision to stop promoting the Type 2 diabetes treatment. The
drug came under fire after a New England Journal of Medicine
article in 2007 found a 43 percent increased risk of heart
attack in a combination of results from smaller studies. Glaxo
followed with a study of its own in 2009 that didn’t show an
overall higher heart risk.  The FDA sought an independent assessment. The findings of
that review, discussed in today’s report, “were consistent with
the original trial’s report,” according to one FDA staff review
that matched similar comments from other reviewers. The FDA
included multiple staff reviews in the report.  Duke Review  Cardiovascular deaths occurred in 34 Avandia patients, or
1.5 percent, and 42, or 1.9 percent, of those who took the drug
combination metformin and sulfonylurea, FDA staff said.  Glaxo originally conducted the study, which did find
Avandia more than doubled the risk of heart failure, at the
request of European regulators. The medicine carries a black box
warning that alerts patients of the potential for heart failure.  Based on the FDA’s request for an independent assessment,
Glaxo asked Duke University School of Medicine’s Duke Clinical
Research Institute in Durham,  North Carolina , to examine the
results of the cardiovascular outcomes study. Known as the
Record trial, the study compared Avandia to a drug combination
typically tried first among Type 2 diabetes patients.  Some FDA staff questioned whether Duke’s reanalysis can
address flaws in the design of Glaxo’s original trial.  Blinded Data  Avandia, approved in 1999, was taken up by two FDA advisory
panels in 2007 and 2010 that voted to place warning labels on
the box and limit some patient access to the drug instead of
pulling it from the market. Advisers in 2010 were concerned that
the Record trial was conducted in a way that didn’t involve
blinding, a method used to minimize bias by not letting trial
participants know who is on what drug.  Unblinding the trial was necessary because Avandia couldn’t
be used with insulin, Murray Stewart, senior vice president of
Glaxo’s metabolic pathways and cardiovascular unit, said in an
interview. Duke researchers were given blinded data, he said.  The advisory panel will discuss whether more study is
needed to fully understand the cardiovascular safety of Avandia.  The FDA restricted access to Avandia in 2010 to only
certain doctors, pharmacies and patients. About 117,000 patients
took the drug in May 2010, a number that has fallen to 3,000,
Glaxo said.  Glaxo agreed to a $3 billion settlement with the U.S.
Justice Department almost a year ago involving a failure to
report certain safety data about Avandia between 2001 and 2007
and promotion of two other popular drugs for uses that the FDA
hadn’t approved. The company also agreed to pay $90 million to
settle claims by 37 U.S. states and  Washington , D.C., that the
company illegally promoted Avandia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  