-- Glencore Said to Study Bid for Rio’s Canada Iron Ore Operations
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-03T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/glencore-said-to-study-bid-for-rio-s-canada-iron-ore-operations.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
fourth-largest mining company, is studying a bid for the
Canadian iron ore operations Rio Tinto Group is seeking to sell,
according to two people familiar with situation.  Glencore’s interest is at an early stage and there’s no
certainty it will submit a formal bid, one of the people said,
declining to be identified as the matter is confidential.
Spokesmen for Rio Tinto and Glencore declined to comment.  Rio hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce to sell all or part of its 59 percent stake in  Iron
Ore Co. of Canada , a person familiar with the matter said in
March. Deutsche Bank AG analysts valued the stake at $1.8
billion, in a March 8 note.  Iron Ore Co. operations are located in Labrador City,
Newfoundland and Labrador,  Canada ’s easternmost province. About
a quarter of its output is shipped to steel mills in Asia, the
Pacific region and the Middle East. Its owns a 420-kilometer
(261-mile) railway and port on the Gulf of St. Lawrence.  The Wall Street Journal reported Glencore’s interest
earlier.  Glencore completed the all-share $29 billion takeover of
Xstrata Plc last month to add coal, copper, zinc and nickel
mines to its commodities trading operations. The company
invested in  Brazil ’s Ferrous Resources Ltd. in February, its
first investment in a producing iron ore asset.  Rio Tinto is seeking to dispose of more mining operations
after selling more than 20 assets for $12 billion to help cut
debt. IOC’s reserves are sufficient for more than 20 years at
current production rates, according to Rio’s website.  Rio advanced 0.8 percent to 2,880 pence by the close in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  