-- Glencore Xstrata Fires 1,000 Miners Over South African Strike
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/glencore-xstrata-fires-1-000-south-african-miners-after-strike.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
fourth-biggest mining company, said it fired about 1,000 workers
who participated in an unauthorized strike at three South
African chrome production sites.  All dismissed employees have the right to appeal against
the decision by today, Christopher Tsatsawane, a spokesman for
the company, said by phone. “We condemn any form of violence or
intimidation and we will continue to work with the authorities
to resolve the situation peacefully.” He declined to say how
many remain on strike.  A strike started May 28 at the Helena mine in the North-West province after an employee who is a member of the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union accused a
shift supervisor of assault, Tsatsawane said. After about 200
workers at the operation, the action spread to the Magareng and
Thorncliffe mines. All three are on the Bushveld Complex, an ore
body that contains chrome and has the world’s richest seam of
platinum ore.  The mines remained shut following talks between the company
and the AMCU on May 31, the union’s Treasurer Jimmy Gama said.
“Nothing has changed,” he said by phone yesterday.  Employees in  South Africa  may strike legally, with their
jobs protected, if an independent mediator agrees to a stoppage
and after talks between unions and companies fail. Strikes that
haven’t followed this process can be deemed unlawful and lead to
workers being fired.  Management has put the employee and supervisor on special
leave “to ensure the smooth running and finalization of the
investigation,” Tsatsawane said yesterday, declining to comment
further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  