-- Google Glass’s Scary Vision
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/google-s-rose-colored-glass.html
The advent of Google Glass
establishes one incontrovertible fact and raises at least two
unanswerable questions. The fact: Yes, you do look  fairly
ridiculous  wearing it. The questions: Are we finally becoming
cyborgs? And is this a good thing?  Glass is a computer that can be worn like a pair of
spectacles, with a small screen above one eye. It can record
video, audio and location data. It can connect wirelessly to a
smart phone, so you can send text messages, check e-mail, make
phone calls and use maps without reaching into your pocket.
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  hopes that developers, a few thousand of whom now
have the devices, will dream up even more wondrous uses.  Glass is just the latest experiment in the burgeoning field
of “wearable computing,” which could be worth $6 billion by 2016
and also includes such things as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s coming “ iWatch .”
In many ways, these technological advances are exhilarating. A
few scarier uses are also becoming clear, however, and if Google
and other technology companies won’t confront them directly, the
government will have to.  Panoptic Surveillance  One concern is that recording other people will probably
get easier. There are plenty of spaces where furtive filming and
recording would be unsettling. Never mind the bar or gym; as the
Electronic Privacy Information Center  notes , Google Glass “gives
stalkers, harassers, and creeps the ability to take invasive
photos of women in public without their knowledge.”  Are these fears overblown? After all, anxiety about
ubiquitous surveillance is  not new : From the Kodak camera to
binoculars to mobile-phone videos, the introduction of new
technology has led to mostly unfounded fears of the panopticon.
Many states have robust privacy laws. And can’t we already film
and record everyone with our phones?  All true. But new technology has a way of raising new
questions -- or giving old ones new urgency. Unlike cameras, for
example, which must be raised and pointed, Glass may allow users
to take photos  merely by winking . No wonder bars, casinos and
strips clubs are  preemptively banning  the devices. Google will
need to make it extremely obvious when someone is filming or
recording. Even so, what’s to prevent a hacker from getting
around such safeguards?  More worryingly, what about all that data you’ll be
generating -- all that audio and video of yourself and others --
which  will be stored  on Google’s cloud servers? Surely hackers
will be interested in that, too. So will marketers. How will
Google protect it?  Most disconcerting is the  potentially sinister nexus  of
cloud data, social networks and facial-recognition technology. A
company called Lambda Labs Inc. recently  announced  that it was
offering a service to help developers build a facial-recognition
app for Glass. Imagine, someday soon, a Glass wearer able to
call up the Facebook and LinkedIn profile of everyone he sees on
a bus, or starts a conversation with, simply by looking at them.  It isn’t hard to foresee how this power could be abused.
Just ask  Eric Schmidt , Google’s executive chairman. At various
times, Schmidt has called facial-recognition technology “ very
concerning ,” “ just too creepy ” and something people could use in
“ a very, very bad way .” With such worries no doubt in mind,
Google announced last week that it won’t be approving facial-recognition apps for Glass “at this time.”  The rest of the  statement , posted on the project’s website,
was intended to be reassuring: “As Google has said for several
years, we won’t add facial recognition features to our products
without having strong privacy protections in place.” Sounds
great. All that’s left is for everyone to agree on definitions
for “strong,” “privacy,” “protections” and “in place.”  Pointed Questions  So maybe the federal government needs to be more assertive
in this realm. The Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus has
already  sent a letter  to Google asking some pointed questions
about Glass, a good start. The  Electronic Privacy Information
Center  recommends a temporary moratorium on facial-recognition
technology, which is also wise.  The larger question Glass raises is how to protect privacy
in the age of wearable computing -- and do so without unduly
burdening legitimate innovators. The  Consumer Privacy Bill of
Rights  proposed by President  Barack Obama ’s administration takes
a big step in the right direction. It would start giving
consumers a lot more control over the data that is collected
about them, and require much more transparency from companies
that trade in personal information. If the White House is
serious about protecting privacy, it should submit this bill to
Congress as a legislative proposal.  Of course, government intervention -- even with the best of
intentions -- isn’t always helpful. Laws have  unintended
consequences , regulations beget regulations, and promising new
technologies are smothered before they can flourish. In an ideal
world, companies such as Google would help themselves by
instituting privacy policies that don’t make a mockery of the
term, and by being clearer with the public about exactly what
data they’re collecting and why.  Nothing in recent history, however, suggests this is likely
to happen.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 