-- Greek Bonds Rise as Japonica Offers to Buy $3.8 Billion of Debt
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-03T14:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/greek-bonds-rise-as-japonica-offers-to-buy-3-8-billion-of-debt.html
Greek  government bonds  advanced after
a U.S. investment firm offered to buy as much as 2.9 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) of the securities.  Japonica Partners & Co.  said it would purchase the Greek
bonds issued last year through a tender offer that expires July
1, according to a statement released by the Providence, Rhode
Island-based firm today. Japonica said it planned to purchase
almost 10 percent of the total debt outstanding, which has a
face value of 29.6 billion euros.  The yield on Greek bonds due in February 2042 fell 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.53 percent at 3:17 p.m.
London time. The price of the nation’s 30-year bonds was less
than 47 cents on the euro, reflecting concern that a shrinking
economy and political strife over budget cuts will hamper
efforts to repay debt.  “They have a long-term perspective on  Greece ,” Xander Heijnen, a spokesman for Japonica at Munich-based CNC
Communications & Network Consulting, said in a phone interview.
“People who don’t like the volatility will have to consider
this offer. Japonica is basically saying to the market, tender
now and tender low.”  Greek government bonds returned 29 percent this quarter
through yesterday, the best-performing securities among the 26
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. The bonds rallied amid signs the
nation has taken steps to tackle its deficit, with  Fitch Ratings 
upgrading Greece one level to B- from CCC last month.  Dutch Auction  The 10-year Greek  yield  fell 11 basis points to 9.28
percent today after surging to as high as 44.21 percent before
private bondholders agreed to write off more than 100 billion
euros as part of a restructuring of the nation’s debt in March
2012. Greece agreed in December to pay 11.3 billion euros to buy
back 32 billion euros of bonds, reducing its debt burden.  The market for Greek bonds doesn’t reflect their intrinsic
value, due to volatility and illiquidity, Japonica said in
today’s statement.  Japonica wants to buy the securities through a Dutch
auction, in which investors can specify the price, within a set
range, at which they are willing to sell Greek securities. The
minimum purchase price Japonica will offer is 45 percent of the
bond’s principal amount, according to the statement.  Heijnen declined to comment on how much money Japonica
manages, whether it already owns Greek debt or any discussions
the company has held with other bondholders. The firm doesn’t
plan to appoint any banks to oversee the Dutch auction, he said.  Japonica is headed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Paul Kazarian, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  investment
banker. The company was founded in 1988, according to its
website. Its previous investments include the $630 million
purchase of Alleghany International and leading a $250 million
initial public offering of Sunbeam-Oster after the maker of home
appliances declared bankruptcy, according to the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  