-- GSW Chief Boosts Acquisition Plan on Berlin Home Boom Hopes
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-03T14:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/gsw-chief-boosts-acquisition-plan-on-berlin-housing-boom-hopes.html
German landlord  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) 
plans to take advantage of Berlin’s booming housing market by
purchasing as many as 7,000 apartments this year, Chief
Executive Officer Bernd Kottmann said in an interview.  GSW, the biggest publicly traded owner of Berlin homes,
said last month it had funds to buy 4,000 apartments.  “Last year, we bought 7,000 apartments and I’d be happy if
we bought portfolios on a similar scale this year,” Kottmann,
who became CEO on April 16, said by phone. “The boom in Berlin
has just begun.”  GSW has most of its apartments in the German capital, where
rents rose 7 percent in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by online broker ImmobilienScout 24. While there are no
plans for a capital increase, the company would consider one to
raise funds for acquisitions, the CEO said.  Kottmann replaced Thomas Zinnoecker amid complaints by
investors that the supervisory board didn’t conduct an adequate
search to fill the position.  On May 15, shareholder PGGM NV called for the resignations
of Kottmann and GSW Supervisory Board Chairman Eckart John von Freyend, who oversaw the appointment. The Dutch pension fund and
 owner  of about 3 percent of GSW criticized the pair for their
track record at  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , a German real estate company
that reported a net loss of about 452 million euros ($588
million) for 2008 under their management.  ‘Legally Sound’  “The supervisory board has clearly described that a
transparent, extensive and legally sound search process with
numerous candidates took place,” Kottmann said. “The board
also showed that there is no personal or financial relationship
between Eckart John von Freyend and myself that would create a
conflict of interest.”  GSW plans to fight PGGM’s proposals, Freyend said by
telephone on May 15.  Kottmann worked at IVG from 1997 to 2009, first as chief
operating officer and then as chief financial officer starting
in 2007. The company has  lost about 98 percent  of its market
value since 2008 and is in talks to restructure more than 3
billion euros of debt.  “I worked at IVG very successfully for 10 years, and I
won’t have my track record reduced to the two years that I was
CFO during the worst financial crisis in history,” Kottmann
said. “I find that quite unfair.”  Bafin’s Investigation  German financial watchdog Bafin is investigating whether
GSW reported the possible CEO change early enough, a spokeswoman
said by telephone on May 17. Kottmann said Bafin hasn’t
contacted the company and GSW will fully cooperate with the
investigation if asked.  Kottmann said he plans to focus on expanding GSW’s
portfolio, first in Berlin and then beyond, if the opportunity
arises. The company will definitely surpass 100,000 apartments
in the medium- to long-term, he said.  “We own just 3 percent of the apartments in Berlin, but in
other big cities the largest landlords have a much higher market
share,” he said.  GSW has considered expanding outside of Berlin in the past,
and may buy a residential-property company in another city where
rents are rising if its biggest market slows, he said. Those
cities include Hamburg, Cologne, Munich and Dresden, where GSW
considered buying 38,000 apartments from rival  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  last
year. An expansion is not yet in sight.  “We believe we can continue to grow significantly in
Berlin,” he said. “Our focus on Berlin is absolutely right.”  Property Company  GSW may also grow by building apartment blocks, Kottmann
said. The company, which hasn’t constructed homes for about 20
years, will make a decision this year, he said.  German publicly traded property companies are likely to
seek mergers in the coming years because there are currently too
many competing for the same property portfolios and investor
funds. That won’t happen immediately, though, because shares are
expensive, he said. The  EPRA FTSE/NAREIT of German property
stocks  has gained about 45 percent in the past three years.  As a result, German residential property stocks such as
GSW,  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWN)  and  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG)  trade at or above
the value of their assets, making a takeover unprofitable,
Kottmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  