-- IGas Jumps as Shale May Quadruple U.K. Reserves: London Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-06-03T09:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/igas-jumps-as-shale-may-quadruple-u-k-reserves-london-mover.html
IGas Energy Plc (IGAS)  surged the most in
five months in London trading after saying a study of the 300
square miles of northwest  England  it’s licensed to drill show a
“very significant” shale-gas resource.  The shares surged as much as 15 percent, the most since
Jan. 2, after IGas estimated its licenses probably hold about
102 trillion cubic feet of gas. Should 30 percent be
extractable, U.K. reserves would jump by about 30 tcf compared
with  BP Plc (BP/) ’s estimate now of 7 tcf.  “Gas in place of about 100 tcf is highly significant, both
relative to IGas’s existing resource base and the U.K.’s
existing gas reserves,” said Laura Loppacher, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC in  London . “U.S. shale recovery factors are
generally estimated to be 10 percent to 30 percent with current
technology.”  The IGas estimate of gas in place on its licenses comes on
top of rival Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.’s estimate its fields may
hold as much as 200 trillion cubic feet in the same region. The
announcement may add to pressure to provide tax breaks and other
incentives to spur drilling as reserves in the U.K. North Sea
dwindle.  IGas, which plans to start drilling this year, rose 7.5
percent to 100 pence by 9:58 a.m.  The government lifted an 18-month moratorium on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, used to exploit shale deposits in
December after the completion of an investigation into two small
earthquakes near Blackpool caused by Cuadrilla’s drilling. The
company has delayed exploratory testing until next year to carry
out environmental assessments.  IGas’s study of its resources “supports our view that
these licenses have a very significant shale gas resource with
the potential to transform the company and materially benefit
the communities in which we operate,” IGas Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Austin said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  