-- IIFM Issues Global Standards for Shariah Wakalah Agreements
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2013-06-03T09:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/iifm-issues-global-standards-for-shariah-wakalah-agreements.html
The  International Islamic Financial
Market , a Bahrain-based standards-setting body, issued global
guidelines that will provide a universal reference point for
Shariah-compliant contracts banks can use to manage funds.  The documentation for unrestricted wakalah agreements will
broaden the range of liquidity-management products, Ijlal Ahmed Alvi, the institution’s chief executive officer, told the World
Islamic Banking Conference in  Singapore  today. The aim is to
help spur new money-market instruments in which lenders can park
some $600 billion of excess cash, he said in an interview.  The initiative is aimed at reducing the industry’s reliance
on commodity-backed contracts, which are suffering from limited
supply of suitable goods used in such agreements that comply
with Koranic principles. Assets in the Shariah-compliant
financial-services industry grew 20 percent in 2012 to $1.6
trillion, according to a 2013 stability  report  published by the
Islamic Financial Services Board. That included $1.27 trillion
in banking assets and $229 billion of outstanding sukuk.  “The options for liquidity management are still small and
limited for banks,” Alvi said in the interview. “The use of
wakalah is an important initiative. We are doing regulatory
analysis and accounting assessment” that can add to best
practices on a bigger scale in more countries, he said.  Wakalah Thrust  Islamic law prohibits the payment of interest and bans
investment in industries such as gambling and alcohol deemed as
unethical. Shariah-compliant bonds, or sukuk, pay returns on
assets that comply with religious tenets.  An unrestricted wakalah is a specific contract used by
Islamic lenders to manage their treasury operations, a document
that defines roles and obligations of principals and agents for
matters including due diligence, profit warning, insolvency and
contract termination, according to a paper handed out at the
presentation.  A murabaha contract used in commodity transactions is a
three-party agreement between a customer, a supplier and a
financial institution that buys the goods and sells them at a
markup.  “We are quite confident on the acceptability of this
document,” Kamal Abdelkarim Hassan, manager of treasury and
financial institutions at Kuwait Finance House, the nation’s
biggest Islamic lender, said in an interview today. “The
Shariah scholars have signed off on this document. I don’t
foresee any acceptability problem.”  Non-Dollar Sukuk  IIFM was  established  in 2002 by the monetary authorities of
Bahrain,  Malaysia , Brunei,  Indonesia  and  Sudan , as well as the
 Islamic Development Bank  based in  Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia , to focus
on global Shariah-compliant capital and money markets, according
to its website.  Global sales of Islamic bonds climbed 4 percent to $18.2
billion in 2013 from a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The securities returned 0.5 percent this year, the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index shows. Emerging-market
debt lost 3.4 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index.  Alvi said growth in non-dollar sukuk issuance will increase
among the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. The  Singapore
dollar  and Chinese  yuan  will be currencies of choice because of
their stable economies and appreciation outlook, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  