-- Illinois Awaits Further Credit Cut After Latest Pension Flop
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-03T13:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/illinois-awaits-further-credit-cut-after-latest-pension-failure.html
With handshakes, hugs and a few
kisses, Illinois lawmakers left the capitol May 31 without
repairing a leaking pension system that they have been saying
for years must be fixed.  Now they wait to discover the consequences of inaction;
Illinois, already the lowest-graded state in the nation, faces
yet another credit-rating cut.  “They’ve moved another notch in the wrong direction, which
justifies a bond downgrade and a slippage in bond prices,” said
 Richard Ciccarone , managing director at Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management LLC, which oversees $8
billion in municipal debt. “Credit erosion will continue until
they show a willingness to address this problem.”  When lawmakers ended their 2012 session in January without
a pension overhaul, Standard & Poor’s reduced the state to A-,
four steps above junk, and said more cuts would follow if the
systems weren’t improved. Another downgrade from the New York-based company would give Illinois the lowest credit rating for a
state since  California  in  2004 , and further penalize its cities,
counties and school districts, which already face the highest
borrowing costs among 19 states tracked by Bloomberg.  Expensive Deliberations  The five  Illinois  pension systems -- the worst-funded among
U.S. states at about 43 percent -- are saddled with liabilities
of almost $100 billion. Legislative attempts to fix them have
come to nought. Labor and business interests have clashed while
lawmakers seek solutions designed to cause the least discomfort
for one constituency or another. In the meantime, the pension
shortfall grows about $17 million a day.  The most recent collapse of pension-rescue efforts was the
result of a standoff between the legislature’s two most powerful
Democrats -- House Speaker Michael Madigan and Senate President
John Cullerton, who backed competing measures.  Madigan’s bill would have required retirees to accept cuts
in pension benefits, saving $187 billion over 30 years, he said.
Cullerton said that approach was unconstitutional and instead
proposed giving employees a choice of pension or health-care
reductions that would save an estimated $50 billion.  Both houses adjourned until late October, though Democratic
Governor Pat Quinn said May 31 he would call legislative leaders 
``together in the coming week to forge a comprehensive 
pension-reform agreement.”  It’s the third time in the past year that
gridlock prevented a pension resolution. The previous two
failures -- in January and August -- led to S&P downgrades. S&P,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all have negative
outlooks on the state.  Olayinka Fadahunsi, an S&P spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the company’s recent reports on the state.  Going Nowhere  “I don’t think the politicians feel any pain from that,”
said David Yepsen, director of the Paul Simon Public Policy
Institute at Southern Illinois University Carbondale. “They
know the state of Illinois will not go away, unlike a business
with a low credit rating that might go out of business.”  Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a
Chicago-based nonprofit that specializes in government finance,
said he fears it will take “the actual collapse of one of our
governments or a pension fund” to prompt lawmakers to act.  “These continued short-sighted actions end up having
enormous long-term consequences,” Msall said.  Buying Opportunity  Those costs may come from the higher interest rates the
state and its localities pay in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market. Investors demand an extra  1.4 percentage points  of yield
over AAAs to own 10-year bonds from Illinois issuers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. By comparison, buyers require only
 1.06 percentage points  more for securities in the lowest
investment-grade tier.  People who intend to hold bonds to maturity should buy
Illinois debt if the state’s yield penalty increases in the
event of a downgrade or investor frustration, according to Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. The state still will face “above
average volatility” amid questions about the pensions, he said
today in a report.  S&P has said that even though it’s unusual for states to
fall below the single-A tier, “lack of action on pension
reform” could prompt another cut. California was rated BBB in
2004, two steps above junk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  