-- Illinois Bond Grade Cut as Lawmakers Can’t Fix Pensions
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-03T22:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/illinois-bond-grade-cut-as-lawmakers-can-t-fix-pensions.html
Illinois had its  credit rating  cut
one level after lawmakers failed to restructure state pensions
saddled with almost $100 billion in unfunded liabilities.  Fitch Ratings  cut the state’s $27.5 billion in general-obligation bonds to A- from A today, citing the inaction in the
legislative session that ended May 31.  Lawmakers adjourned without taking final votes on proposals
to reduce an unfunded pension liability that grows by $17
million a day. As they left the capitol in Springfield, with
plans to return in late October, members of both parties
acknowledged a credit cut was almost unavoidable. Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat, called the leaders of the state House of
Representatives and the Senate to a meeting tomorrow.  “If I could issue an executive order to resolve the
pension crisis, I would have done it a long time ago,” Quinn,
64, said in a statement from his office in Chicago. He called
the credit cut “no surprise.”  The governor said the meeting with House Speaker Michael Madigan, 71, and Senate President John Cullerton, 64, both
Democrats, would be held to discuss a possible means to
resolving the $97 billion in unfunded pension obligations.  “I cannot act alone,” Quinn said in the statement.
“Legislators must send me a bill to get this job done.”  Protected Benefits  Attempts to reach a solution in the legislature were
complicated by constitutional protections afforded to pension
benefits in  Illinois , and by competing plans backed by Cullerton
and Madigan. The retirement systems cover state workers,
teachers, university employees, judges and lawmakers. The
pensions had about 43 percent of the assets needed to pay for
projected obligations as of 2011, compared with a national
median of about 72 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It is disgraceful that this year’s legislative session
ended without a new  pension plan ,” Treasurer Dan Rutherford, a
58-year-old Republican who is running for governor in 2014, said
in a statement. The failure “costs the state millions of
dollars each day, plus these downgrades could continue to make
borrowing additional funds even more expensive.”  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market don’t treat
states equally. Buyers  demanded  1.41 percentage points of extra
yield yesterday over AAA rated debt to own bonds issued by
Illinois, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They need
just 0.53 percentage point more  yield  on those issued by
 California , graded the same by Fitch and a step higher by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, relative to
top-level securities.  ‘Unsustainable’ Gap  Illinois’s growing pension deficit is “unsustainable,”
Fitch analysts led by Karen Krop, a senior director in  New York ,
said in a statement. The inaction by lawmakers raises questions
about the state’s ability to deal with “numerous fiscal
challenges.” They also cited a growing backlog of unpaid bills
and borrowing to cover operational costs, indicating another cut
may be forthcoming.  The new Fitch grade, six steps from top-rated, puts its
score for Illinois in line with S&P, while Moody’s has it one
level higher at A2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  