-- Time Running Short for Middle East Peace Pact, Kerry Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-04T19:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/time-running-short-for-middle-east-peace-pact-kerry-says.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
said time is running short for Israelis to negotiate a peace
with Palestinians and that any sense of security with the status
quo is illusory.  “What is static today will not be static tomorrow,” Kerry
said yesterday in remarks to a conference in  Washington 
sponsored by  AJC , a Jewish advocacy group. Those who find
comfort “because there’s a fence, and because there’s greater
security and fewer people hurt, are lulling themselves into a
delusion that that somehow can be sustained. It cannot be.”  Kerry said that if Israelis and Palestinians can’t reach
agreement, the consequences include a failed Palestinian
Authority, radical extremism in the West Bank and a further
delegitimizing of Israel within the Arab world.  Kerry is set to travel to Israel next week, according to an
administration official who wasn’t authorized to speak for
attribution. The stop will be his fifth trip there since
becoming the top U.S. diplomat early this year.  In his speech, Kerry said the present moment may provide
the best chance for an agreement as he, like U.S. officials
before him, tries to nudge the two sides toward a peace deal.
Israeli and Palestinian leaders haven’t engaged in direct talks
since 2010.  Dwindling Possibilities  “What happens in the coming days will actually dictate
what happens in the coming decades,” he said. “We’re running
out of time, we’re running out of possibilities.  Let’s be
clear, if we do not succeed now -- and I know I’m raising the
stakes -- we may not get another chance.”  Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said today he
agreed with Kerry’s assessment.  “I share entirely the analysis made by Secretary Kerry
yesterday night when he said this is the best time and maybe the
last time for the state of  Israel  to engage in a serious
dialogue with the Palestinians,” Olmert said in remarks at the
Wilson Center, a Washington policy group.  The former premier also suggested the White House could do
more to support the push for Israeli-Palestinian talks, saying
he hopes Kerry “will be successful in mobilizing the support,
the more active support of the president on a daily basis.”  Opportunity Offered  In his remarks yesterday, Kerry expressed understanding for
Israelis who think that protests across the Arab world make it
too difficult a time to negotiate a settlement. Still, he
expressed impatience for “cynicism” -- which he said “has
never solved anything” -- and asserted that the region’s
upheaval presented an opportunity.  “The dawn of a new era in the region is exactly the kind
of time to recast Israel’s relationships, to change the
narrative with a new generation that is starting to make its
voice heard,” he said.  Before his speech, Kerry told reporters that he might
decide to “push a little bit” on both sides if he sensed
momentum was flagging in his efforts to get the parties back to
talks. The two groups are “seriously weighing the choices they
have in front of them,” he said.  In addition to stopping in  Jerusalem  and the West Bank,
Kerry may also make stops in Jordan and  Kuwait , the official
said, saying the schedule isn’t set in stone.  Kerry asked Israelis to imagine the situation if the
Palestinian Authority fails, its security forces dissolve and
the West Bank economy implodes.  “The failure of the modern Palestinian leadership could
very well invite the rise of the very thing we want to avoid,
the same extremism in the West Bank that we have seen in Gaza or
from southern Lebanon,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  