-- IMF Wants ‘Rigorous’ Steps to Strengthen Spanish Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-03T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/imf-wants-rigorous-steps-to-strengthen-spanish-banks.html
The International Monetary Fund said
Spanish and euro-area authorities must do more to strengthen the
country’s financial system and pressed for “rigorous” steps to
ensure banks can cope with losses on loans.  “Risks to the economy and hence to the financial sector
remain elevated as Spain continues to undergo a difficult
process of correcting large pre-crisis imbalances,” the
Washington-based IMF said in a report today on Spain’s
compliance with the terms of a banking bailout. In a separate
statement, the European Commission and European Central Bank
said Spain’s banking system still requires “close monitoring.”  Spain sought aid for lenders last year on concern that
losses at former savings banks such as the  Bankia (BKIA)  group would
damage the finances of the government. While the IMF, the ECB
and the commission said today the government is meeting the
terms of the program and market sentiment has improved, they all
highlighted that risks remain.  Spanish banks continue to face challenges as the country’s
economic slump grinds on into a sixth year,  sapping demand  for
credit and  driving up  bad loans. Spanish lenders have refinanced
or restructured 208.2 billion euros ($270 billion) of loans, the 
Bank of Spain said last month.  The IMF said it welcomes the Bank of Spain’s recent
clarification of criteria for determining the classification of
refinanced and restructured loans. It said the central bank must
use these to ensure losses are covered properly.  Refinanced Loans  “Rigorous application of these criteria should help ensure
adequate provisioning for loan losses,” it said. In their
statement, the ECB and the commission said an “ongoing
diagnostics of evolution of asset quality, the solvency
situation and resilience of Spanish banks remains important.”  At the same time, regulators should also make sure efforts
to bolster banks’ solvency don’t further restrict the already-tight credit conditions in Spain, according to the fund.  Europe can help alleviate the risks facing the Spanish
economy and its banks by pushing through rules on banking union
and keeping  monetary policy  sufficiently loose to foster growth,
the IMF said.  Luis de Guindos, Spain’s Economy Minister, has ruled out
enacting more decrees to make banks recognize losses by
accelerating provisions for souring assets as he did twice last
year for real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  