-- Indian Bonds Drop on Concern Weakening Rupee Will Spur Inflation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-03T13:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/india-s-bonds-gain-as-yields-at-two-week-high-attract-investors.html
Indian bonds dropped for a fifth
straight day on concern a weakening rupee will stoke inflation.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last week
said retail  inflation  is still high and that the nation’s
balance of payments is under stress. The rupee fell to an 11-month low today. The lack of debt purchases by the central bank
also damped sentiment, said Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income
trader at  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai.  “Bonds are down as the governor has raised concerns about
the current-account deficit and inflation,” he said.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government notes due June
2022 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.46
percent in Mumbai, the highest level since May 15, according to
the central bank’s trading system.  After market hours, the central bank announced that it will
purchase as much as 70 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) of
government notes on June 7. The monetary authority could buy
about 750 billion rupees of bonds in the first half of the
fiscal year that began April 1, Barclays Plc analysts including
Singapore-based Rohit Arora wrote in a research note today.  The shortfall in the current  account , the broadest measure
of trade, may be about 5 percent of gross domestic product for
the 12 months through March 2013, Subbarao said last week.  Inflation based on wholesale prices eased to 4.89 percent
in April, a 41-month low. The consumer gauge rose 9.39 percent
in the same month from a year earlier.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.20 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  