-- Indonesian Coal Output Seen Missing Forecast Amid Mine Stoppages
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-06-03T01:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/indonesian-coal-output-seen-missing-forecast-amid-mine-stoppages.html
Coal output from Indonesia, the
world’s largest exporter of the fuel for power stations, may be
2.5 percent lower than initial forecasts this year as miners
slow expansion amid lower prices.  Indonesia may produce 390 million metric tons this year,
lower than a forecast of 400 million made in February,  Bob Kamandanu , the chairman of the Indonesian Coal Mining
Association, said in an interview last week before addressing
the annual Coaltrans  Asia  conference in Bali today. Low prices
have hurt smaller miners, prompting them to close or temporary
suspend their business, he said.  “Growth is still happening in big producers, however, idle
capacity in other mines offsets this production growth,”
Kamandanu said. The country’s production may grow by around 3
percent annually, slowing from an average 7 percent in previous
years, he said.  Asia’s benchmark coal prices have fallen more than half
since a peak in mid-2008 because of slowing Chinese imports and
rising output from miners. While Indonesia’s domestic production
growth slows, the country is also facing weaker demand from its
biggest buyer as  China  considers banning lower-quality imports.  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle was $87.35
a ton in the week ended May 24, according to data from IHS
McCloskey. The price touched $192.50 a ton in July 2008.
Indonesian bituminous coal with a calorific value of 5,800
kilocalories a kilogram and as much as 2 percent sulfur averaged
$69.70 a ton in the week ended May 24, down from $72.50 a week
earlier, according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey of five traders.  Newcastle Price  “The Newcastle price will average from $90 to $95 a ton
this year,” Kamandanu said. “It won’t reach $100 as there are
still uncertainties in the market.”  China may ban purchases of coal with a heating value below
about 4,540 kilocalories a kilogram, a sulfur content above 1
percent and ash above 25 percent, a draft National Energy
Administration regulation obtained by  Bloomberg News  shows. It
doesn’t specify when the ban would be implemented. China was
Indonesia’s top coal buyer last year. India and  Japan  ranked
second and third respectively.  About 25 percent of Indonesia’s  output  of almost 400
million tons last year had a calorific content below 4,000
kilocalories a kilogram, according to R. Sukhyar, the head of
the energy and mineral ministry’s geology agency. The country’s
total exports were 347 million tons in 2012, Deutsche Bank AG
estimated in a May 9 report. It supplied 119 million tons, or 41
percent, of China’s imports, the Chinese customs data show.  Power Projects  Indonesia needs to spur the development of  power plants  to
boost consumption amid China’s planned ban, Kamandanu said.
Indonesia ships around 30 million to 40 million tons of low
heating value coal to China every year and the ban could prompt
miners to stop operations, he said.  “We have to speed up power-plant projects,” he said.
“The important thing is we can still sell the coal.” A 1,000-megawatt plant can burn 4 million tons of low-quality coal while
a utility with the same capacity can only burn 3 million tons of
higher-quality fuel, he said.  Indonesia is trying to complete a program to add 10,000
megawatts of additional coal-fired generating capacity by 2014
as it seeks to sustain economic growth. About 4,520 megawatts of
capacity was completed by the end of 2012 since the program
began in 2006 amid difficulties in acquiring land and
engineering, according to data from the energy and mineral
resources ministry.  Utilities and factories in  Indonesia  may burn 85 million
tons of coal this year, or 22 percent of the country’s output,
according to data from the energy and mineral ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  