-- Indonesia Trade Deficit Rises to Near Record on Commodity Slump
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-06-03T09:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/indonesia-trade-deficit-rises-to-near-record-on-commodity-slump.html
Indonesia ’s  trade deficit  was near a
record in April as exports dropped amid lower commodity prices,
adding pressure on the government to narrow the gap.  The shortfall was $1.6 billion, compared with a revised
$138 million surplus in March, the Statistics Department said in
Jakarta today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a $51 million surplus. Exports fell 9.1 percent from a
year earlier, outpacing a 3.7 percent slide in imports.  Indonesia, a net oil importer, spent 211.9 trillion rupiah
($21 billion) on fuel subsidies last year, spurring demand for
energy products that contributed to its largest-ever trade
deficit of $1.88 billion in October. Failure to lower subsidies
in 2012 drained government finances and led to a record current-account gap, hurting the rupiah as foreign investors lost
confidence.  “Large monthly trade deficits would keep the current-account deficit wide and thus strengthen the case for an urgent
cut in subsidies,” Roland Randall and  Daniel Wilson , economists
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore ,
wrote in a note today. “Currency and debt markets will pay
attention to any failure to control current-account deficits.”  In April, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  delayed a plan
to raise fuel costs as he sought Parliament approval on a
compensation program for the poor. Spending on energy subsidies
may climb to 297.7 trillion rupiah without an increase in prices,
Yudhoyono said April 30.  Rupiah Weakens  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating outlook on Indonesia’s
debt to stable from positive on May 2, saying a stalling of
reform momentum and a weaker external profile had reduced the
chance of an upgrade over the next 12 months. The rupiah touched
9,905 against the dollar on May 29, the weakest level since Sept.
15, 2009, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s oil and gas imports in April fell 7.8 percent
from March, data from the statistics office showed. Still, that
accounts for 22 percent of total imports for April, according to
the data.  Indonesia’s  trade balance  will remain “volatile” until the
end of 2013 as lower commodity prices remain the key risk to
export growth and the country’s trade account, said  Gundy
Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore.  “The proposed fuel price hike may help to boost trade
balance, at least on the margin, but we think that given the
underlying robustness in domestic demand, Indonesia may not see
a significant recovery in its trade balance until early or mid-2014,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  