-- Mississippi Ricin Suspect Pleads Not Guilty to Indictment
-- B y   M a r t y   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-06-05T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/mississippi-ricin-suspect-indicted-for-letter-to-obama.html
An ex-martial arts instructor in
Mississippi pleaded not guilty to charges he sent letters
containing the poison ricin to President  Barack Obama , a U.S.
senator and a state judge.  James Everett Dutschke, 41, was indicted May 31 for
allegedly developing, producing and possessing a biological
agent as a weapon; threatening the president and two others by
mail; and covering up his scheme to make it appear that someone
else had sent the threatening letters. He faces as long as life
in prison if convicted.  Dutschke waived his right to a hearing in Oxford,
Mississippi, federal court, according to a filing made public
today. A trial date was set for July 29 in Aberdeen,
Mississippi, according to a court filing today.  A resident of Tupelo, he was arrested April 27 four days
after charges were dropped against a Corinth,  Mississippi  man
whose initials were on the letters. That man’s lawyer, Christi
McCoy, said in an April 22 preliminary hearing that her client
may have been framed by Dutschke.  Dutschke’s actions “potentially put at risk the lives of
the President of the  United States , a U.S. senator and a
Mississippi judge and those handling the U.S. mail,” the grand
jury said in the indictment.  In May, a Spokane,  Washington , man was arrested in
connection with a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  probe that
confirmed ricin was found in letters postmarked from that city
to a federal judge there, the local post office, a nearby U.S.
Air Force base and Obama.  Anonymous Letters  The FBI also is investigating anonymous letters threatening
 New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  that tested positive for
ricin and were sent from Shreveport,  Louisiana , and similar
correspondence to Obama and Mayors Against Illegal Guns in
Washington. Bloomberg, co-chairman of the coalition, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested.  The FBI said its agents saw Dutschke on April 22 trying to
dispose of items he’s suspected of using to make ricin. A mobile
surveillance team watched him as he visited his former Taekwondo
business in Tupelo, exited with several items and then drove a
short distance before dumping them in a public trash bin,
according to an FBI affidavit.  Coffee-Grinder  Agents recovered a coffee-grinder box, latex gloves and an
empty bucket, as well as a dust mask that tested positive for
ricin, according to the court filing. Preliminary tests also
confirmed the presence of ricin inside the studio, the FBI said.  Ricin poisoning symptoms depend on the purity, route of
exposure and the dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as
early as four to six hours after the exposure, and include
difficulty breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Dutschke, 13-cr-00081, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marty Russell in Oxford, Mississippi, at
 marty.russell56@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  