-- IVG Slides After Proposing Debt to Equity Swap
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-03T16:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ivg-slides-after-proposing-debt-to-equity-swap.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , the German real
estate investment company restructuring 3 billion euros ($3.9
billion) of debt, fell the most in almost a month in  Frankfurt 
after saying it plans to issue shares to pay creditors.  IVG was down 17 percent to 32 cents at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trading, the biggest decline since May 8, cutting its  market
value  to 67 million euros. The Bonn-based company is proposing
to swap loans and bonds for new shares to reduce liabilities by
as much as 1.75 billion euros, according to a statement on May
31 after markets closed.  IVG, once  Germany ’s largest commercial-property company,
has lost about 97 percent of its  market  value since 2008
following property writedowns and difficulties paying debt. The
company and its funds own buildings valued at 21 billion euros,
including about a 50 percent stake in  London ’s Gherkin tower.  “The planned debt/equity swap will lead to a significant
dilution of the current shareholders,”  Jochen Rothenbacher , an
Equinet analyst who has a sell recommendation on the stock,
wrote in a report today.  The company’s annual shareholders meeting, where it aims to
present a restructuring proposal, was delayed to Aug. 30 from
Aug. 14, the company said in the May 31 statement.  IVG will begin restructuring talks with creditors May 31,
two people with knowledge of the matter said that day.  The company has 3.2 billion euros of debt due by the end of
next year, most of it borrowed to fund operations and acquire
property, according to its  annual report .  IVG declined the most ever in Frankfurt trading March 27
after the company said it would need a financial restructuring.
At the same time IVG reported a 2012 net loss of 98.7 million
euros and said its loan-to-value ratio, a measure of
indebtedness, was higher than planned at 70.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  