-- Japan Fails to Plow Yen Profits Back Into Capital Spending
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2013-06-04T08:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/japan-fails-to-plow-weak-yen-profits-back-into-capital-spending.html
The Abenomics euphoria that’s boosted
the Japanese  stock market  31 percent this year has yet to
convince chief executives to invest more in factories and
equipment in the world’s third-largest  economy .  In the first full quarter of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
tenure,  capital spending  excluding software fell 5.2 percent
from a year earlier, according to a survey from the Ministry of
Finance released yesterday. Spending by  Japan ’s biggest
companies dropped 4.9 percent in January-March, the biggest
decline since the quarter after the March 2011 earthquake.  Unprecedented monetary easing by the  Bank of Japan  has
weakened the yen 18 percent versus the dollar since Dec. 3,
helping exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  report improved
earnings through March and hoist profit targets for the fiscal
year that started in April. Yet weak capital spending places
fresh importance on Abe unveiling structural reforms within
weeks that economists say are needed to revive Japan Inc.  “For companies to want to invest they need more than
monetary and fiscal stimulus, they need actual reform,” said
 Hiroshi Shiraishi , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo .  In earnings forecasts, companies ranging from Honda Motor
Co. to  Sony Corp. (6758)  estimated aggregate operating income of 19.7
trillion yen ($196 billion) this fiscal year, based on 178
forecasts from  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  companies compiled by
Bloomberg. The Topix index climbed 2.6 percent in Tokyo,
extending its advance this year to 31 percent.  Corporate Profits  That’s more than a third higher than the 14.6 trillion yen
profit they reported in the 12 months ended March 2012, during
which the yen neared post-World War II peaks against the dollar.  Companies may boost spending on equipment and goods in
coming months as exports rise, said Kohei Okazaki, an economist
at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. There are also some plans to
raise compensation. Major Japanese companies may boost summer
bonuses by 7.4 percent, the most since 1990, according to a
survey published last week by  Keidanren , the country’s biggest
business lobby.  Exactly how and when companies spend money to replace and
refurbish equipment may foreshadow the success or failure of
Abe’s efforts to revive the Japanese economy after more than 10
years of deflation. Japanese companies must increase capital
spending and boost basic wages for the prime minister’s plan to
succeed, said Mitsumaru Kumagai, chief economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research.  Though a lagging indicator, the numbers in the January-March survey show how much ground must be made. As well as the
4.9 percent drop among companies with more than 1 billion yen of
capital, comprising 62 percent of the capital outlays surveyed,
spending by the small businesses that make up more than a fifth
of Japan’s corporations also contracted.  Third Arrow  Companies with 10 million to 100 million yen in capital
invested 2.7 percent less on plant and equipment than in the
same quarter a year earlier, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Abe has pledged to spark investment and growth in Japan
through his so-called third arrow of regulatory reform and
deregulation. In March, the prime minister announced his
intention to join talks on a regional trade pact that may help
domestic auto and electronics makers compete with rivals in
 South Korea .  Companies have already outlined plans to use part of higher
profits to return money to shareholders. Toyota, which has
surged 45 percent this year, almost doubled its  dividend  to 90
yen from 50 yen a share a year ago. Including interim dividends,
the company plans to spend 285 billion yen in such payments to
 shareholders  this year.  Overseas Risk  “How Japanese companies spend this increased profit will
play an essential part in realizing the Japanese economic
recovery,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “The risk is that some
companies may prefer to re-invest overseas profit abroad in fear
of the possible strong yen in the future.”  Overseas investment by Japan’s manufacturers will increase
by about 20 percent this year to 2.7 trillion yen, according to
a survey by the Nikkei newspaper. Investment by Japanese
manufacturers in the U.S. alone will rise 30 percent to about
440 billion yen, the Nikkei reported.  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  said May 14 it will raise  capital
spending  almost three-quarters this year to 100 billion yen,
with about half going toward expanding output and sales in
overseas markets including Southeast Asia, China, and  India .  “We are trying to pursue a structure where we build cars
where they are sold,” Toyota’s Vice President Nobuyori Kodaira
said, when the company announced its dividend plan on May 8. The
company doesn’t necessarily plan to increase exports from Japan,
he said.  Electronics Struggle  Not everyone is seeing a quick upturn in fortunes. Japanese
electronics companies have suffered more from international
competition and are struggling to generate profits even with a
weaker yen.  Sony reported annual  profit  for the first time in five
years after Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  used job cuts,
asset sales and blockbuster movies to stem losses. South Korea’s
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  smartphones outsold Sony’s 7-to-1 last
year, and its flat-panel TVs generated more than triple Sony’s
revenue. Samsung’s  capital expenditure  at 23 trillion won ($20
billion) last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
outstrips that of its Japanese rivals.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  postponed a “sizable investment” because
of its financial situation, Kazunori Takami, head of the
company’s appliance unit, told reporters in  Osaka  yesterday.
“We’re trying to decide whether to wait till the right time to
make a sizable investment or to make small investments over
time,” he said.  Japan Market  Exports account for about 16 percent of the Japanese
economy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies
listed on Tokyo’s 1,711-member  Topix Index (TPX)  rely on Japan for
more than 80 percent of sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Many of these companies are much smaller than those that
comprise the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. They also sell fewer
products overseas, meaning the yen’s slide has less impact on
their profitability.  For utilities and energy companies that import commodities
like oil and natural gas, a weaker yen has boosted expenses,
curbing income gains. Operating profit for 31 materials
companies, including  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406)  and Mitsubishi Materials
Corp., is forecast to increase 19 percent this fiscal year from
2012, below the growth forecast in other sectors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Virtuous Cycle  There are some signs that Abe’s policies are beginning to
change corporate behavior with regards to wages.  Toyota, which employs almost 70,000 workers in Japan,
approved the biggest salary bonus in five years in agreeing to a
union proposal for a 2013 average bonus of about 2.05 million
yen, compared with 1.77 million yen in 2012, the company said
March 13. The carmaker’s pay increase follows similar raises by
Honda Motor Co. and electronics group Hitachi Ltd.  In one early response to Abenomics, convenience store
operator Lawson Inc. said in February that it will raise the
basic wage of some employees by about 3 percent.  Seven & I
Holdings Co. (3382) , owner of the 7-Eleven convenience-store brand,
said in March it will raise wages of about 50,000 employees at
its 54 group companies.  Japan’s wages  rose by the most in a year in April, the
Labor Ministry said today. Monthly pay including overtime and
bonuses rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier to 273,427 yen.  “The most important thing in order to continue with the
virtuous cycle is to raise wages,” said Mitsumaru Kumagai,
chief economist at Daiwa Institute of Research. “A pay hike is
the core for successful Abenomics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Clark in Tokyo at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  