-- Japan Capital Spending Falls in Challenge for Abe’s Campaign
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-06-03T02:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/japanese-capital-spending-slides-in-challenge-for-abe-s-campaign.html
Japanese companies’  capital spending 
fell 5.2 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
underscoring the challenge the government faces in sustaining
momentum in the world’s third-biggest economy.  The decline in  spending  excluding software compared with a
7.2 percent slide in the previous quarter, a Ministry of Finance
 report  showed in  Tokyo  today. The median forecast of six
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 5.5 percent
decrease. Investment fell 0.9 percent from the prior quarter,
according to the report.  Campaigning to boost company outlays and wages through
fiscal and monetary stimulus and a loosening of business
regulations, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe needs to sustain
confidence amid weakness in the global economy and volatility in
Japanese stock and bond markets. Abe has pledged to restore
annual private investment to the 70 trillion yen ($695 billion)
level before the 2008 financial crisis.  “Companies are not confident in the economic outlook as we
haven’t seen a clear signal of a solid global recovery,” Daiju Aoki, a Tokyo-based economist at UBS AG. said. “This will
pressure the Abe government to come up with measures to support
businesses in the growth strategy” due this month, he said.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell  2.4 percent  as of 10:54
a.m. after dropping  5.7 percent last week . The yen was down 0.1
at 100.56 per dollar.  Company profits rose for a fifth quarter, up 6 percent from
a year earlier, today’s report showed, while sales fell 5.8
percent, down for a fourth quarter.  A second reading of first quarter gross domestic product is
 due next week , after the first showed  Japan ’s  economy  expanded
at the fastest pace in a year as plans for monetary easing
weakened the yen and boosted stocks. GDP may be revised down
slightly on public investment, with today’s report suggesting
that the estimate of capital spending may be unchanged, said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  