-- Japanese Shares Extend Declines; Exporters, Nomura Drop
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-03T06:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/japanese-shares-decline-as-exporters-drop-on-stronger-yen.html
Japanese shares fell, with the  Topix
index (TPX)  deepening its correction, as Nomura Holdings Inc. paced
declines among brokerages and a stronger yen weighed on
exporters’ earnings outlook.  The Topix lost 3.4 percent to 1,096.95 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , with all of its 33 industry groups falling.
The gauge is down 14 percent from its recent high on May 22. The
index sank 2.5 percent in May, its first  monthly drop  since
August. Measures of real estate companies and brokerages, the
two Topix industry groups that led the rally from November, have
fallen more than 25 percent from recent highs.  “ Japan  is somewhat of an overcrowded trade since a lot of
investors have been buying in,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based
head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
Ltd., which manages about $51 billion. “ Hedge funds  probably
needed to lock in profits. We’re still overweight on Japanese
equities.”  Nomura tumbled 8.4 percent as brokerages  dropped  the most
on the Topix. SoftBank Corp. slid 4.8 percent after a
shareholder advisory firm opposed the carrier’s takeover of
Sprint Nextel Corp. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
carmaker, lost 3.3 percent as the yen traded near its highest
level since May 9. Mitsubishi Estate Co., the country’s biggest
developer, slid 7.5 percent to pace a decline among property
stocks.  Nikkei Drops  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average sank 3.7 percent to 13,261.82,
its lowest close since April 18, with volume 12 percent below
the 30-day intraday average. The measure has fallen 15 percent
from its May 22 high. Fast Retailing Co., which accounts for
about 10 percent of the gauge, sank 6.3 percent.  Eight of the 33 industry  groups  on the Topix have retreated
more than 20 percent from recent highs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s broadest equity measure closed 14
percent below the level on May 22. The gauge has fallen more
than 3 percent on five occasions this year, four of which
occured in the last eight trading days.  “The correction is continuing, and the market is trying to
find its bottom,” said  Toshiyuki Kanayama , senior market
analyst at Tokyo-based Monex Inc. “I think the Nikkei 225
should bottom at about 13,000.”  Japanese equities are still the best performing among the
major developed markets this year, with the Topix and Nikkei 225
up about 28 percent. Shares have rallied since mid-November on
optimism the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in league
with the  Bank of Japan  will beat 15 years of deflation.  The Topix will reach 1,231 at the end of the year,
according to the average forecast of 17 strategists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  last month. That’s a gain of 12 percent from
today’s close.  Relative Value  Shares on the Topix trade at 1.19 times  book value ,
compared with a low of 0.82 times on June 4 last year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trades for 2.4 times and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index for 1.6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A reading above 1 means a company is worth more than
the value of its net assets.  Futures on the  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent. The measure
lost 1.4 percent on May 31 as better-than-forecast data on
business activity and  consumer confidence  bolstered concern the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus.  A gauge of  options prices  for the Nikkei 225 climbed 2.2
percent to 37.59, indicating traders expect a swing of about 11
percent in the gauge in the next 30 days.  The excitement over ‘Abenomics,’ a term-coined after the
prime minister’s policies to boost the economy, has ended and
now fundamentals will become the key driver of equity markets,
Hisao Matsuura, Nomura’s vice president equity strategist said
in an interview on May 30.  ‘Waiting to Sell’  “As the markets have fallen this deep, investors who
bought shares at the levels higher than now are waiting to sell,
weighing on the markets,” said Makoto Kikuchi, Chief Executive
Officer of Myojo Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund
advisory firm. “I think the current markets are not in a
correction, but at the beginning of bearish market.”  Nomura lost 8.4 percent to 723 yen, and Daiwa Securities
Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest investment bank, fell 11
percent to 764 yen. The  Topix Securities and Commodity Futures 
Index tumbled 9 percent.  “Brokerages fell because the market reached an inflexion
point, and investors reckon their fees from investment trust
sales to individuals will fall,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
 fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Japanese stocks have risen too much, and now we’re seeing a
backlash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  