-- Johns Hopkins Men’s Lacrosse Moving to Big Ten After 130 Years
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-03T17:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/johns-hopkins-men-s-lacrosse-moving-to-big-ten-after-130-years.html
Johns Hopkins University , with the
most wins in college lacrosse history, is joining the Big Ten’s
new circuit after 130 years as an independent.  The Park Ridge, Illinois-based conference today announced
in an e-mailed statement that it will add men’s and women’s
lacrosse as its 27th and 28th official sports. Johns Hopkins
will join as an affiliate member in men’s lacrosse only, and
both leagues will begin play in the 2014-15 academic year,
according to the release.  The Blue Jays finished 9-5 this season, failing to make the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament for the
first time since 1971. An independent since its first game in
1883, the Baltimore-based school has won nine NCAA men’s
lacrosse titles, second to Syracuse’s 10, and its 922 wins are a
record for the college sport, according to the school.  “This decision may represent the single greatest change in
Johns Hopkins men’s lacrosse in more than a century,”
university President Ronald Daniels said today in a release on
the school’s athletics page. “I am grateful for the thoughtful
process that has led us to this historic place, and I am
confident in the success of our shared endeavor in the years to
come.”  The moves are the latest expansion of lacrosse from its
traditional roots in New York and the Middle Atlantic states.
Duke defeated Syracuse for the NCAA championship last week.  Lacrosse Legacy  The private research institution has about 5,000
undergraduate students. Its $2.6 billion endowment as of June
30, 2012, was the 26th largest, according to a survey by the
National Association of College and University Business Officers
and Commonfund Institute, the school says on its website.  Last month, a seven-member special committee recommended
that the university seek conference affiliation, according to
the Baltimore Sun.  “Johns Hopkins is an outstanding institution with a legacy
of success in men’s lacrosse that is simply unmatched in
intercollegiate athletics,” Big Ten Commissioner James E. Delany said in the release.  The Blue Jays will join  Michigan , Ohio State, Penn State
and two other new conference members, Rutgers and Maryland, in
the Big Ten men’s league, according to the release. The
Terrapins, based in College Park about 40 miles south of
Baltimore, are leaving the Atlantic Coast Conference, while the
Scarlet Knights of New Brunswick, New Jersey, are leaving the
Big East.  Playing in the same conference will allow the Terrapins and
the Blue Jays to continue their in-state rivalry, which began in
1895 and reached its 110th meeting this year. Since Johns
Hopkins plays Division III in all sports except lacrosse, it is
the only NCAA sport in which the two schools compete against
each other.  ‘Greatest Rivalry’  “This move allows us to maintain the greatest rivalry in
college lacrosse with the University of  Maryland , add several
nationally recognized programs to our schedule and maintain a
number of national and local rivalries we have in place,” Johns
Hopkins coach Dave Pietramala said.  With the addition of lacrosse, the Big Ten said its 14
member schools will sponsor almost 350 teams in 42 sports, with
almost 9,500 athletes, more than any other conference. The Big
Ten will officially add men’s ice hockey this year. The most
recent women’s sport added by the conference Ten was rowing in
the 1999-2000 academic year.  “Lacrosse is an emerging sport among our current schools
and is a long-held passion among our East Coast institutions,”
Delany said. “With the addition of Maryland and Rutgers in all
sports and Johns Hopkins for men’s lacrosse, we will have the
requisite number of institutions to make men’s and women’s
lacrosse official conference sports, building upon our tradition
of broad-based sports competition.”  Tournament Route  Hopkins’ move may also give the Blue Jays a new route to
the 16-team NCAA tournament, which gives out automatic
qualifying berths to the winners of eight conferences. With six
member schools, the Big Ten will receive one of the automatic
bids to the postseason, according to the school’s release. The
Blue Jays’ 41-year tournament-appearance streak ended this year,
when four of their five losses came against NCAA tournament
teams.  The Big Ten women’s lacrosse conference will consist of
Maryland, Penn State, Michigan, Ohio State, Rutgers and
Northwestern. Big Ten rules allow for a conference championship
when six institutions sponsor a program, according to the
release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  