-- Jose Mourinho Returns for Second Stint as Chelsea Manager
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-03T13:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/jose-mourinho-returns-for-second-stint-as-chelsea-manager.html
Chelsea hired  Jose Mourinho  as
manager on a four-year contract, bringing one of the most
successful Premier League soccer coaches back for a second stint
at the London club.  Mourinho, 50, replaces interim manager  Rafael Benitez , who
won the Europa League this year though was never accepted by
Blues fans. Mourinho’s appointment comes two days after his last
game in charge of Real  Madrid , which he agreed to leave by
mutual consent at the end of the season on May 20.  Mourinho guided Chelsea to two Premier League titles in his
first three-year tenure, along with one F.A. Cup and two League
Cups. He left in September 2007 after clashes with billionaire
owner  Roman Abramovich .  The Portuguese, who described himself as a “special one”
when he arrived at  Stamford  Bridge in 2004, is a fan favorite at
the west London club. The seven managers who followed him would
never gain the same allegiance from the supporters, who still
sing his name during matches.  “I am delighted to welcome Jose back to Chelsea,” club
Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said on the team’s website.
“His continued success, drive and ambition made him the
outstanding candidate. It is our aim to keep the club moving
forward to achieve greater success in the future and Jose is our
No. 1 choice as we believe he is the right manager to do just
that.”  Interim Managers  Benitez was appointed as interim manager Nov. 21 after the
firing of Roberto Di Matteo, who won the  Champions League  last
year. U.K. newspaper reports said at the time that the short-term move might pave the way for the hiring of former Barcelona
coach Pep Guardiola. The Spaniard has since signed a contract to
take over at  Bayern Munich .  Benitez, who guided Liverpool to the 2005 Champions League
title, was booed and jeered during his tenure by Blues fans who
opposed his hiring. When he announced Feb. 27 he would leave
after the season, he criticized a section of supporters who he
said had an agenda against him. Benitez has since joined Italy’s
Napoli on a two-season contract.  After winning its first European Cup in May 2012, Chelsea
became the first titleholder eliminated in the group stage the
following season. The Blues dropped into the Europa League,
where they beat Benfica for the title May 15. They also finished
third in the Premier League to qualify for next season’s
Champions League.  Mourinho left Real after a third season that he described
as a failure. The record nine-time European champion didn’t win
a major trophy, failing to retain its Spanish league title,
losing to  Borussia Dortmund (BVB)  in the Champions League semifinals
and getting beaten by  Atletico Madrid  in the Copa del Rey final.  Mourinho guided Real to the 2011-12 La Liga championship,
ending a three-year streak by Barcelona, which regained the
title this season with four games to spare. He also led the club
to three straight Champions League semifinals.  Mourinho won the Champions League with Porto in 2004 and
 Inter Milan  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  