-- Kazakh Fugitive Banker’s Family Snatched in Nighttime Italy Raid
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-06-03T13:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/kazakh-fugitive-banker-s-family-snatched-in-nighttime-italy-raid.html
Former BTA Bank Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov ’s wife and daughter were deported to  Kazakhstan  from
 Italy  on June 1 in the latest blow to the fugitive banker.  Alma Shalabayeva and Ablyazov’s 6-year-old daughter Alua
were detained in a suburb of  Rome  during an attempt to arrest
him by Italian police, the Prosecutor General’s Office in the
Kazakh capital, Astana, said in a  statement  today. Italian
authorities handed them over to Kazakhstan after determining
that Ablyazov’s wife used a fake passport issued by the Central
African Republic in the name of Ayan Alma, the office said.  Ablyazov, who has been in hiding since last year, said on
his Facebook Inc.  page  that his family was living in Italy
legally and called the transfer “kidnapping” and “hostage
taking” ordered by Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev .  Kazakh prosecutors issued an international arrest warrant
for Ablyazov in March 2009 on suspicion he embezzled money from
BTA and laundered it through loans to fictitious companies. BTA,
the country’s biggest lender before it was taken over by
sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna four years ago, has filed a
series of civil suits against its former chairman claiming he
took more than $5 billion from the Almaty-based bank using fake
loans, back-dated documents and offshore companies. Ablyazov has
denied the accusations, saying the lawsuits against him are
politically motivated.  The Prosecutor General’s Office said in the statement that
all charges made by Ablyazov about infractions by Italy during
his family’s arrest and handover were “groundless.”
Nazarbayev’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request seeking comment. Ablyazov, whose whereabouts are
unknown, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Italian Raid  Ablyazov, 50, said his wife and daughter were living in
Italy using valid residency permits issued in  Latvia , a member
of the European Union, and both had Kazakh passports received in
2007. They weren’t allowed to show their identification
documents and were removed without any arrest warrant or
accusations against them by Italian officials, he said, adding
the raid was conducted by about 30 armed police officers at 4:30
a.m. on May 29.  Kazakh authorities leased a  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Challenger
aircraft owned by Avcon Jet AG in  Austria  to transport his
family, Ablyazov said on his Facebook page. Avcon Jet declined
to comment. Ablyazov said his family is now with relatives in
Almaty.  Passports, Bribes  Kazakhstan uncovered evidence that Ablyazov’s relatives
including his wife and daughter were illegally issued passports
in exchange for bribes, and a case against Atyrau immigration
officials is now in court, the Prosecutor General’s Office said.
The officials are also investigating Shalabayeva’s role in the
alleged crime and barred her from leaving Almaty, the country’s
commercial capital, according to the statement.  Ablyazov, who was granted asylum in Britain two years ago,
fled the U.K. in February 2012 after being sentenced to 22
months in prison for contempt of court. BTA won judgments
against him for about $3.7 billion and  London ’s High Court last
month ordered the sale of several luxury properties in Britain
that belonged to Ablyazov, according to a May 21 statement by
the bank.  Italian law-enforcement agencies are continuing efforts to
locate and detain the banker, Kazakh prosecutors said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  