-- Nadal Joins Djokovic in French Quarterfinals, Mattek’s Run Ends
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-03T16:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/nadal-joins-djokovic-in-french-quarterfinals-mattek-s-run-ends.html
Defending champion Rafael Nadal
played his best match of the tournament as he joined top seed
Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals.  Nadal celebrated his 27th birthday by beating  Japan ’s Kei
Nishikori, the No. 13 seed, 6-4, 6-1, 6-3 as the wind swirled
around the main Court Philippe Chatrier. The Spaniard had his
worst start to the French Open, dropping 48 games in the first
three rounds.  “It’s a very special moment to celebrate my birthday here
on the center court at Roland Garros,” Nadal said as he was
presented with a five-tier cake topped with rackets and balls.
“It’s very special. Today I played a little bit better than the
previous day, which is important to me.”  Earlier today, Djokovic overcame an early slump against No.
16 seed Philipp Kohlschreiber, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. He’ll play
35-year-old Tommy Haas in the quarterfinals.  After the match, Djokovic paid tribute to his former coach,
Jelena Gencic, who died at the age of 76 last weekend. After
winning his previous round two days ago, Djokovic canceled his
post-match press conference because he was upset about her
death. Gencic, who discovered him at age 6, also coached Grand
Slam champions Monica Seles and Goran Ivanisevic.  “It hasn’t been easy, but this is life,” Djokovic said,
when asked how Gencic’s death affected him. He called her “the
best coach” for generations of young tennis players and “an
inspiration” to him.  ‘Great Success’  Haas earlier today beat  Russia ’s Mikhail Youzhny, 6-1, 6-1,
6-3, to become the oldest men’s quarterfinalist at Roland Garros
since 1971.  “What I’m really proud of is that I reached the quarters
here for the first time, not knowing if that was ever going to
be possible,” Haas told reporters. “It’s a great success for
me.”  Russia’s No. 12 seed, Maria Kirilenko, ended the run of
unseeded American Bethanie Mattek-Sands, 7-5, 6-4.  Mattek-Sands, one of four American women in the fourth
round, had ousted former champion Li Na of  China  last week. The
28-year-old Minnesota-born player is coming back after dropping
out of the top 200 early in the season because of injuries last
year.  Kirilenko’s next opponent is Australian Open champion
Victoria Azarenka, who eased past former title holder Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , 6-3, 6-0.  ‘Right Way’  “It’s been always the most challenging for me, but I feel
like I’m finally understanding what I need to do to improve,”
the third-seeded Azarenka, who has never reached the last four
in Paris, told reporters. “And I feel it’s a process, but I’m
on the right way.”  Kohlschreiber beat Djokovic in the third round of the 2009
French Open, the last time the two met on the Parisian clay.
Since then, Djokovic, a six-time major winner, hasn’t lost
before the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament.  Haas dropped out of the top 800 two years ago when he
struggled with hip and shoulder injuries. After climbing to No.
2 in the rankings in 2002, he missed the entire 2003 season
because of a shoulder injury that needed surgery twice.  Youzhny was so frustrated by his performance today that he
smashed his racket into pieces on his bench. Last year, he wrote
“sorry” in the clay after taking only four games against David Ferrer in a third-round match.  Haas, who squandered 12 match points in his previous round
against John Isner, made his first Grand Slam quarterfinal at
the 1999 Australian Open, when Djokovic was 11 years old. Haas
has beaten the 26-year-old three times in seven meetings,
including on hard court in Miami this season.  Defending women’s champion Maria Sharapova of Russia is
playing Sloane Stephens, the No. 17 seed from the U.S., today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  