-- Niagara Falls Near Junk as Casino Spat Drains Cash
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/niagara-falls-near-junk-as-casino-spat-drains-cash.html
Niagara Falls, the New York tourist
mecca caught in the middle of a $600 million casino dispute
between the state and the Seneca Nation of Indians, may run out
of cash as soon as November. Investors are pushing the city’s
borrowing costs to a 10-month high.  New York’s biggest Indian tribe stopped paying the state
its 22 percent share of slot-machine revenue in 2009 after
nontribal lottery terminals were allowed inside the tribe’s
10,500-square-mile (27,200-square-kilometer) exclusivity zone.
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said last month that the tribe owes New
York $600 million and there’s little chance of reaching a
settlement before an arbitration panel rules.  Niagara Falls stands to get $60 million of the state’s
take from Seneca casinos, including one in the city of 50,000.
Moody’s Investors Service cut Niagara to one step above junk on
May 13 and warned that it could act again if the city doesn’t
get its share. The city hasn’t had a speculative rating since
2006. The yield spread on some Niagara debt is the highest since
August.  “If they weren’t insured, we might be selling them,”
Clark Wagner, who oversees $1.6 billion of municipal debt as
director of fixed income at First Investors Management Co. in
 New York , said of his Niagara Falls bonds. “The potential
headaches are pretty large. We thought they could run out of
money as early as July.”  Power Bailout  Moody’s said that probably won’t happen until at least
November. Mayor Paul Dyster, a Democrat, said by telephone that
the state has arranged a $13.45 million bailout by speeding up
annual payments from the New York Power Authority. The city
hasn’t tapped the cash, said Connie Cullen, an NYPA spokeswoman.
Still, the extra funds may not stop Moody’s from lowering
Niagara Falls if the casino revenue doesn’t come through,
Moody’s said.  Cuomo wants to turn around the upstate economy using casino
revenue and by encouraging municipalities to merge services. The
region’s cost of government grew 47 percent as the population
fell 1.4 percent from 2000 to 2010, he says. The governor is
pushing a plan for three upstate casinos as cities from
 Pennsylvania  to Iowa count on gambling revenue to fill budget
gaps after the recession that ended in 2009.  Top 10  One of those casinos may be located near Niagara Falls,
giving the city a chance at a share of the 10 percent of the
state’s take that Cuomo wants to set aside for localities, the
55-year-old Democrat has said.  The city is home to Niagara Falls State Park, the nation’s
oldest. The falls, which straddle the U.S.- Canada  border, get
more than 22 million visitors annually, making them one of the
world’s 10 most popular tourist attractions, according to Travel
and Leisure magazine.  Dyster has said he’ll go along with Cuomo’s casino plan for
the region if the cash from the Senecas doesn’t come through.
Investors aren’t as optimistic.  The yield on tax-exempt Niagara Falls bonds callable in
December 2017 reached 4.45 percent on May 17, the highest since
December 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread over
benchmark munis grew to about 3.2 percentage points last week,
the widest since August, according to BVAL pricing analysis.  Balance Wipeout  The bonds are insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
giving them an A2 Moody’s rating, sixth-highest. They’re graded
Baa3, the lowest investment rank, without that protection. A
reduction to the first tier of junk would mean principal and
interest payments are “not well safeguarded during both good
and bad times,” according to Moody’s.  The loss of Seneca payments drained a $20 million reserve
the city had in 2011, Dyster said. Median  household income  from
2007 to 2011 was $32,617, compared with about $57,000 statewide,
Census data show.  “The delays in casino revenue took their general-fund
balances and pretty much wiped them out,” said Dennis Derby,
who helps oversee about $34 billion in munis, including some
city bonds maturing in 2014 and 2016, at Wells Capital
Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . “Niagara Falls is in
tough enough shape right now, and the longer this gets drawn
out, the more painful it is for them.”  Job Creator  Susan Asquith, a spokeswoman for the Seneca Nation, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or phone call. The tribe has a population
of more than 8,000 and is the fifth-largest employer in Western
New York. Its Niagara Casino & Hotel complex has 604 rooms,
4,000  slot machines  and more than 100 live table games, its
website says.  Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call.  There’s no publicly available timeline for when the
arbitration board may rule, according to Patrick Sullivan, an
attorney at Dickinson Wright PLLC in  Washington  who specializes
in gaming and Indian law.  “Arbitration can take months, as this one has,” he said.
“Everybody is waiting to find out how that’s going to go.”  As Cuomo has pushed his upstate casino proposal, the
Oneidas in central New York and the Mohawks in the north near
Canada struck revenue-sharing deals with the state and
surrounding counties. They also won exclusivity zones around
their gambling halls.  ‘Nowhere Near’  “We’re nowhere near a deal with the Senecas,” Cuomo said
in a May 23 radio interview. “We plan to bid out western New
York.”  New York has been battling the Senecas over money and
sovereignty for decades. In 2010, the two sides fought in court
over the state’s plan to implement a new tax on cigarette
purchases made on the reservation. In the 1990s, the dispute
over tobacco levies turned violent as Senecas blocked the New
York Thruway, burning tires and skirmishing with state troopers.  Neighboring  Massachusetts  leads municipalities issuing a
combined $5.5 billion this week, Bloomberg  data  show.  At  2.16 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to a 15-month high, and compare with  2.13 percent  for
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative
value, is about 101 percent, after exceeding 100 percent last
week for the first time since May 8. The higher the figure, the
cheaper munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  