-- North Sea Forties at Two-Week High; Buzzard Oil Field to Restart
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-06-03T16:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/north-sea-forties-at-two-week-high-buzzard-oil-field-to-restart.html
North Sea  Forties crude rose to the
highest in more than two weeks as Petroineos, the joint venture
between PetroChina Co. and Ineos Group Holdings SA, bought the
grade. BP Plc sold a cargo of Oseberg.  The Buzzard oil field will start in the middle of this week
after equipment failure caused production to be halted,
according to Nexen Inc., the platform’s operator.  North Sea  Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold Forties to Petroineos for June
16 to June 18 at parity to Dated Brent, according to a Bloomberg
survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing
window. That compares with its sale on May 31 at a 20 cent
discount and is the most since May 20.  BP also failed to sell a June 24 to June 26 cargo at 15
cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, according to the survey.  Statoil ASA bought Oseberg for June 17 to June 19 at 80
cents a barrel more than Dated Brent from BP, according to the
survey. Both the Forties and Oseberg consignments that traded
today were deferred, by three and one day respectively,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be identified as the information is confidential.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days rose by 1 cents to a discount of 12 cents a barrel
to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for July settlement traded at $101.93 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $101.04 in the previous session. The August contract was at
$101.66 at the same time today, a discount of 27 cents to July.  “Buzzard production over the weekend was intermittent due
to equipment failure,” Karen Fordyce, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based spokeswoman for Nexen, said today by telephone. “We are
preparing to restart the plant and expect production to return
to normal mid-week.”  Platts cut the quality premium for Oseberg and Ekofisk
crudes for July to 66.02 cents a barrel and 63.13 cents a barrel
respectively, the oil pricing agency said in an e-mailed not
today. That compares with 98.05 cents for Oseberg and 88.06
cents for Ekofisk for this month.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals grade, the
Platts survey showed.  Urals in the Mediterranean rose by 6 cents to a discount of
39 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. In northwest Europe, the  discount  narrowed by 5 cents a
barrel to the benchmark. That’s the highest since Aug. 16.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 3 cents to $2.20
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. That’s the least since Feb. 21.  Nigeria ’s Usan crude will resume shipments within a few
days after repairs following a technical fault, Abiye Membere,
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.’s executive director for
exploration and production, said in an interview in Vienna on
May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  