-- NYSE Takeover by IntercontinentalExchange Approved by Holders
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-06-03T14:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/nyse-takeover-by-intercontinentalexchange-approved-by-holders.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s plan
to acquire NYSE Euronext, a proposal that preceded a $7 billion
expansion in the companies’ combined market value, was approved
by shareholders today.  The $9.7 billion takeover by Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Sprecher ’s 12-year-old futures venue was ratified by
99.7 percent of shares voted at a special meeting of Atlanta-based ICE and about 99 percent at NYSE, according to statements.
Shares of the New York Stock Exchange operator have rallied 67
percent and IntercontinentalExchange, known as ICE, climbed 33
percent since the deal was announced through May 31.  Sprecher’s acquisition shows how fast the American trading
landscape been transformed in the past decade amid regulation to
spur competition and the emergence of electronic markets. The
NYSE, which along with the Nasdaq Stock Market handled almost
all U.S. share transactions for most of its history, now
accounts for less than 30 percent.  The takeover, still subject to regulatory approval in the
U.S. and Europe, follows more than two years in which almost no
deals were completed amid a global wave of proposed buyouts that
exceeded $30 billion worth of offers. European regulators
blocked the acquisition of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
in February 2012 while a bid by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  for
Australia’s market operator was rejected by the government.  ICE, which bought the New York Board of Trade in 2007 and
renamed it ICE Futures U.S., has said it will keep the NYSE
Euronext brand. The merged company will maintain dual
headquarters in Atlanta and New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  