-- O’Driscoll Leads Lions Against Force in Australia Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-03T10:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/o-driscoll-to-lead-lions-against-force-in-australia-tour-opener.html
Brian O’Driscoll  will lead the
British and Irish Lions against the Western Force in two days,
the first of five games in Australia before the touring team
takes on the Wallabies in a Test series.  Ireland center O’Driscoll, 34, takes over as skipper from
national teammate Paul O’Connell, who led the combined squad to
a 59-8 win over the Barbarians in Hong Kong two days ago. The
starting lineup to face the Force doesn’t include any players
who began that match.  “The lads who played in Hong Kong put down a marker as
they performed extremely well in very tough conditions,” Lions
tour manager Andy Irvine said at the team announcement. “I told
the team in  Hong Kong  that they were custodians of the red
jersey. That responsibility is now with this group of players
and I am confident they will give their all against the Force.”  The Lions, a selection of players from the U.K. and Ireland
that tours every four years, arrived in Perth this morning. Tour
captain Sam Warburton will continue to rest the knee he injured
in the lead-up to the Hong Kong match.  The game against the Force Super Rugby team at Patersons
Stadium is the first of nine in Australia for the Lions, who
haven’t won a Test series since beating South Africa in 1997.
The Lions face the Wallabies in a best-of-three contest starting
June 22 in Brisbane.  Wallabies second-rower Sitaleki Timani has been ruled out
of the series as he needs surgery on a broken thumb. He was
injured during the New South Wales Waratahs’ 23-22 Super Rugby
defeat to Canterbury Crusaders last week.  Melbourne Rebels forward  Scott Higginbotham  will be
reassessed later this week on a dislocated right shoulder
sustained in a 33-20 defeat to the Queensland Reds two days ago.  LIONS TEAM TO FACE WESTERN FORCE ON JUNE 5: Leigh
Halfpenny, Tommy Bowe, Brian O’Driscoll (captain), Manu Tuilagi,
 George North , Jonathan Sexton,  Conor Murray ,  Jamie Heaslip , Sean
O’Brien,  Tom Croft , Ian Evans, Alun Wyn Jones, Dan Cole, Rory
Best, Cian Healy.  Replacements: Tom Youngs, Mako Vunipola, Matt Stevens,
Geoff Parling, Toby Faletau, Ben Youngs, Owen Farrell, Sean
Maitland.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  