-- Obama Prods Republicans With Picks for Appeals Panel
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-04T19:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/obama-said-to-plan-three-nominations-for-d-c-court-of-appeals.html
President  Barack Obama  nominated
three lawyers to serve on the U.S. appeals court in Washington,
setting up a potential fight with Republicans who are trying to
block him from naming more judges to the influential court.  Speaking in the Rose Garden today, Obama asked Senate
Republicans to stop what he called partisan obstruction, saying
that holding up his judicial nominees is harming the federal
court system.  “This is not about principled opposition; this about
political obstruction,” he said. “For the good of the American
people, it has to stop.”  The unusual public announcement of three judges at once to
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  is part
of a White House effort to pressure Republicans into quickly
taking up the nominations and allow the president to make his
mark on the government’s judicial branch. In the past, Obama has
announced his judicial picks with news releases, and sent
nominations to the Senate for confirmation individually.  “There is no reason aside from politics for Republicans to
block these individuals from getting an up-or-down vote,” he
said, calling continued Republican opposition to many of his
appointments a “blatant political move.”  The nominations could anger Republicans, who’ve repeatedly
used the threat of Senate procedural tactics to block
confirmation of Obama’s judicial and Cabinet nominees.  Three Vacancies  Patricia Ann Millett, a partner at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
& Feld LLP, Cornelia Pillard, a law professor at  Georgetown
University  in Washington, and District Court Judge Robert Wilkins would fill the three open positions on the 11-member
bench.  While the nominees might not raise partisan hackles on
their own -- Wilkins was confirmed without opposition in 2010
and Millett worked in Republican President  George W. Bush ’s
administration -- the District of Columbia court is at the
center of the broader battle between the parties.  Often called the second-highest in the country because of
its influence, the appeals court handles cases on constitutional
questions and on the decisions and rulemaking by many federal
agencies. The court has overturned parts of Obama’s agenda,
including environmental and financial regulations.  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  and other Senate Republicans are
proposing legislation that would reduce the size of the court by
eliminating three seats. Other courts, they argue, need the
additional judges to handle their workloads.  Court Packing  “It’s hard to imagine the rationale for nominating three
judges at once for this court given the many vacant emergency
seats across the country, unless your goal is to pack the court
to advance a certain policy agenda,” said Grassley, in a
statement last night.  Senator  Mike Lee , a Republican from  Utah  who opposes the
nominees, said in a statement today: “Today’s nominations are
nothing more than a political ploy to advance a partisan
agenda.”  Democrats reject that criticism, noting that Republicans
filled those vacancies when Bush was president. Republicans,
they say, are trying to block Obama from influencing the
direction of the court.  “I’m going to move those just as quick as I can,” Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  told reporters today.  Obama’s last nominee to the court, Sri Srinivasan, was
approved by the Senate last month. With that confirmation, the
court currently is split between four Democratic and four
Republican appointees. Another six, semi-retired senior judges
also regularly hear cases. Five of those were nominated by
Republican presidents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  