-- Obama Says Mental Health Illness Must Come Out of Shadows
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-06-03T15:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/obama-says-u-s-must-take-mental-health-treatment-out-of-shadows.html
President  Barack Obama  said he wants
mental health issues elevated to a national discussion as he
convened a conference today that follows up on last December’s
shootings at a Connecticut elementary school that killed 20
children and six educators.  Obama said his goal is to “bring mental illness out of the
shadows.”  “We want to let people living with mental health
challenges know they aren’t alone,” Obama said at the White
House as he opened the one-day meeting with Cabinet members and
advocates.  The issue affects many returning veterans and millions of
people who suffer in isolation or without treatment, he said.
While Obama didn’t directly mention the Connecticut shootings,
he said the impact can be seen “in the tragedies that we have
the power to prevent.”  Actors Glenn Close and  Bradley Cooper  were joined by about
150 health-care providers, mental health experts and advocates,
lawmakers, religious leaders and representatives of state and
local government.  Close, in a workshop session, said Americans must end the
“backbone of stigma.” This includes people who say they don’t
want people with mental illness living next door, don’t want
them “teaching my children,” don’t want them supervising the
workforce, believing they will be violent and unpredictable, and
“don’t want them taking care of my children.”  Behavioral Changes  “That is the reality of what people are still thinking in
this country and across the world,” Close said, adding that
will take “changes in behavior.”  The main goal of the workshop sessions is “to reduce
stigma and help the millions of Americans struggling with mental
health problems recognize the importance of reaching out for
assistance,” the White House said in a statement.  Close, the Emmy, Golden Globe and Tony award-winning
actress, will highlight Bring Change 2 Mind, a non-profit
organization she co-founded in 2009 that’s dedicated to ending
the stigma and discrimination associated with mental illness.  Close has battled mental illness within her family. Her
sister, Jessie, is living with bipolar disorder and her nephew,
Calen, is living with schizoaffective disorder. The organization
produces public service announcements aimed at tackling the
stigma and discrimination of mental illness.  Common Malady  Depression is the most common form of mental illness,
affecting more than 26 percent of U.S. adults, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Other illnesses
include anxiety, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, mental
distress and  Alzheimer’s disease .  The day-long conference, one of 23 executive orders signed
by the president after the Connecticut shootings, comes after
the Senate rejected Obama’s proposal plan to widen background
checks for firearms purchases and ban assault weapons.  Obama said the Veterans Affairs department will conduct
conferences at its 151 health-care centers between Jul1 and
September 15 to help boost awareness of mental health programs
for veterans.  The conference sparked commitments from many organizations.
The  National Association of Broadcasters  is creating a public
service campaign to change attitudes about mental illness
through radio and television ads and social media. Former U.S.
Senator  Gordon Smith , now chief executive officer of the NAB,
lost his son to suicide a decade ago.  Raising Awareness  Other groups promised educational campaigns to raise
awareness of mental health problems and need for treatment,
including MTV Television, Blue Star Families, National Parent
Teacher Association, YMCA of USA, Boys and Girls Club of America
and the  American Medical Association , among others.  The government started a new website today,
www.mentalhealth.gov, a clearing house for information,
including a section on how to get help.  The mental health conference was being led by Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  and Education
Secretary Arne Duncan. Both were leading workshops, joined by
Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki. Vice President  Joe Biden  was to offer closing remarks later in the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  