-- Obama Authorizes New Iran Sanctions Targeting Currency
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-04T04:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/obama-authorizes-new-iran-sanctions-targeting-currency.html
President  Barack Obama  is targeting
Iran’s currency for the first time under sanctions authorized
yesterday as the U.S. increases economic pressure on the Islamic
Republic to halt its nuclear program.  Obama signed an executive order that would impose penalties
on “foreign financial institutions that knowingly conduct or
facilitate significant transactions for the purchase or sale of
the Iranian rial,” according to a statement yesterday from
White House press secretary  Jay Carney . It was the ninth
executive order that Obama has signed sanctioning Iran, which
will hold presidential elections June 14.  “While the rial has lost half of its value since the
beginning of 2012 as a result of our comprehensive sanctions,
this is the first time that trade in the rial has been targeted
directly for sanctions,” Carney said.  Iran has been hit by financial and trade sanctions as the
U.S. and the European Union accuse its government of seeking to
build a nuclear weapon. Iran, with the world’s No. 4 proven oil
reserves, contends its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes
and has refused to back down from what it calls its right to
pursue the technology.  Iran ’s economy has suffered under the international
sanctions. The currency has plunged and inflation has surged to
32.3 percent in the past year while oil output is the lowest
since the 1980s. Iran exported 1.1 million barrels a day in
March, about 50 percent less than a year earlier, according to
International Energy Agency estimates. Iran’s oil revenues fell
27 percent last year, the U.S. Energy Department said April 26.  Iran Election  The timing of the U.S. move was not specifically related to
next week’s election, according to an Obama administration
official, who asked not to be identified to discuss the move.
The administration’s dual-track strategy on Iran seeks to impose
sanctions while offering the Iranian government an opportunity
to restart talks on its nuclear programs, according to the
official.  Yesterday’s sanctions, which take effect July 1, also
target Iran’s automotive sector, penalizing companies that sell
goods or services to Iran for vehicle manufacturing.  The latest round of sanctions were announced the same day
that officials of the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
Iran’s lack of cooperation has hindered an investigation into
the country’s nuclear work. The Iranian government has denied
IAEA inspectors access to places and to people, and it has
altered the terrain around a military  site  suspected of housing
nuclear weapons work.  Petrochemical Industry  Last week, the Obama administration imposed sanctions
intended to restrict Iran’s petrochemical industry, and the
State Department in an annual report on terrorism said Iran’s
sponsorship of terrorism and terrorist activity by Hezbollah,
which Iran backs, “have reached a tempo unseen since the 1990s,
with attacks plotted in  Southeast Asia ,  Europe , and  Africa .”  At the same time, the administration has eased some
measures against Iran. Last week, the U.S. lifted sanctions that
bar the sale of consumer communications equipment, in order to
make it easier for Iranians communicate through social media and
text messaging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  