-- Lobbyists for Banks to Beets Fight Over $1 Trillion Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/lobbyists-for-banks-to-beets-fight-over-1-trillion-bill.html
After his side lost a fight over
federal sugar aid in the Senate last month, Bob Simpson, the
president of Jelly Belly Candy Co. of Fairfield,  California ,
made plans to take his message directly to Congress.  “I need to get in front of our elected representatives,”
said Simpson, who is also the chairman of the National
Confectioners Association.  Simpson is likely to find the Capitol’s hallways crowded.
With almost $1 trillion in federal spending over the next decade
at stake, interest groups ranging from dairy farmers to crop
insurers are converging on Washington. The insurers want to
expand the number of crops they cover; cotton-growers want new
protections against price swings; and almost everyone is playing
defense against threatened budget cuts.  The rewrite of agriculture policy known as the farm bill,
which resumes today in the Senate, typically occurs at five-year
intervals and affects a wide range of businesses that can’t
afford to stay away.  “The government is tightening its belt everywhere except
the farm bill -- it’s the poster child for special interests,”
said Andy Roth, vice president of government affairs for the
anti-tax Club for Growth, who calls the measure “a cesspool for
logrolling.”  Lobbying Dollars  Lobbying by agriculture interests increased to $138 million
last year from $112 million in 2007, the year before the last
farm bill passed, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks spending
on lobbying. Agriculture-industry employees spent $91 million on
the 2012 elections, up from $70 million in 2008. Much of that
spending is concentrated on members of the House and Senate
agriculture committees, which are dominated by rural lawmakers
sensitive to farmer and agribusiness interests.  Lawmakers who supported the status quo on sugar aid, for
example, received almost three times as much campaign cash from
growers opposed to change than from users who want a new policy.  Crop subsidies benefiting buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and funding food stamps used for purchases at
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  are prime targets for lawmakers seeking cuts in
the bill, which reauthorizes all U.S. Department of Agriculture
programs for five years. Projected over a decade, the Senate
plan would cost $955 billion, while a House version that may be
debated later this month is estimated at $940 billion.  Senate Debate  The Senate today will start debating amendments, including
a boost in U.S. international food aid and a possible insurance
program for alfalfa, with a goal of passing a bill this week,
according to Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat. An
unrelated plan to stave off a jump in student loan rates will
also be attached to it, he said. Nutrition assistance, the
source of about three-quarters of proposed spending, is the
central controversy in what would be the most expensive non-appropriations legislation to pass the Senate this year.  Leaders of both the House and Senate agriculture committees
tout their plans as saving money. By ending a farm-subsidy
program that costs $5 billion annually and restricting some
food-stamp payments, the Senate version would carve $23 billion
over 10 years from spending under current programs. Some of the
farm-aid cuts would go into expanded crop insurance.  “If every committee focused on streamlining and setting
priorities and making tough decisions and saving money, I think
we’d be pretty close to a balanced budget,” Senate Agriculture
Committee Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, told
reporters.  Lobbying Power  At a time of budget cuts, it’s a test of lobbying power
versus fiscal discipline, and special interests are winning,
said Josh Sewell, a senior policy analyst with Taxpayers for
Common Sense in  Washington , a group advocating less federal
spending.  “It shows narrow interests can really marshal their power
where it matters for them,” Sewell said.  Sugar is a case in point, said Larry Graham, chairman of
the Coalition for Sugar Reform, an umbrella group of sweetener
users and organizations including the the Club for Growth, the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of
Manufacturers.  Graham’s coalition includes organizations, such as the
chamber, credited with helping to shift the House to Republican
control in 2010. So far, the group has been unable to defeat the
American Sugar Alliance, a collection of grower groups.  Producer Spending  Sugar producers spent at least $2.9 million on lobbying in
the first three months of this year, according to filings with
the Secretary of the Senate, and unlike the behemoths fighting
them, “this is the only thing they care about,” Graham said.
“Lawmakers don’t really know what’s in the legislation, but
they’re thinking they want to support farmers. That makes it an
uphill battle for us.”  An amendment to curtail sugar aid failed 45-54 in the
Senate last month, with opposition from cane-state senators,
including Republican Marco Rubio of  Florida , and from Democrat
Al Franken of Minnesota, the top U.S. state in production of
beet sugar.  Senators who voted to keep sugar aid as-is averaged $9,045
in campaign donations from the sugar industry in 2011-12,
according to a Bloomberg News analysis of Center for Responsive
Politics data. The senators who voted to cut the program
averaged $3,314.  For sugar growers, continuing current policies may be a
matter of survival, as surpluses that have pushed prices down by
almost half in the past 10 months and may trigger federal
payouts this year, said Jack Roney, the sugar alliance’s
economics director in Washington. The group has taken out
advertisements in major newspapers supporting current policy.  Price Pressure  Sugar aid doesn’t cost taxpayer dollars most years because
of higher prices, although an Iowa State University study
suggests current supply restrictions may cost consumers  $3.5
billion  a year in higher grocery prices.  “There is value in supporting stable supplies of high-quality sugar,” he said.  This week, challenges may rise against a new dairy program
that would boost prices by restricting supplies. Opposition may
also emerge against crop insurance aid, including an attempt to
strip out language in the bill that would keep the government
from gaining savings from any negotiations with crop insurers.  Dairy interests spent at least $1.5 million in the first
quarter of this year, Senate filings show, while crop insurance,
backed by companies, including San Francisco-based bank  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , attracts lobbying from the financial sector.  “The 2013 farm bill is very important legislation for our
many agriculture customers,” said Angenette Lau, a Wells Fargo
spokeswoman. “We’ve expressed our views in support of crop
insurance.”  Senate Bill  The Senate committee’s bill, which largely resembles a plan
that passed last year on a 64-35 bipartisan vote, is expected to
be approved by the full chamber this week. From there it will
have to be reconciled with whatever may pass in the House, a
process sure to provoke more lobbying.  Spending opponents can already claim one victory: an
amendment co-sponsored by Senators Richard Durbin of  Illinois ,
the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, and Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma
Republican, to lower the government’s share of crop insurance
premiums for farmers with adjusted gross incomes of more than
$750,000. That was approved earlier, 59-33.  Still, some attention is already turning toward the House,
where farm legislation stalled last year. A bill has moved out
of the agriculture committee and the debate in the full chamber
may begin the week of June 17, said Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota , the committee’s top Democrat. The floor
battles will rage on terrain generally more hostile to
subsidies, he said.  Simpson, the Jelly Belly president, said he can take
another fight.  “Our coalition is strong,” said Simpson, whose candies
were a favorite of President Ronald Reagan. “We can turn this
around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  