-- Offshore Yuan Rises Most in Three Weeks as China Output Expands
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-03T09:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/offshore-yuan-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-china-output-expands.html
The  yuan  climbed the most in three
weeks in  Hong Kong ’s offshore trading after a report showed
manufacturing picked up in May and the central bank indicated it
won’t target a weakening of the currency.  The currency snapped a four-day drop in Shanghai after an
official Purchasing Managers’ Index released June 1 rose to 50.8
from 50.6 in April. President  Xi Jinping  said expansion is on a
“more stable footing,” the Xinhua News Agency reported May 31.
The central bank will not intentionally depreciate its currency
to increase competitiveness, People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan was cited as saying by China Central Television
today.  “The official PMI released on Saturday came out
significantly better than expected,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore. “That’s
giving the yuan a lift today. The jury is still very much out on
the medium-term outlook for China.”  The yuan climbed 0.2 percent in offshore trading to 6.1374
per dollar as of 5:17 p.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest gain since
May 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards gained 0.2 percent to 6.2509.  Investors should buy the offshore yuan against the Japanese
yen because the PBOC is one of the few central banks comfortable
with a stronger currency, Commonwealth Bank of Australia
strategists  Joseph Capurso  and Andy Ji wrote in a report today.  In onshore trading, the yuan advanced 0.05 percent to
6.1317, according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices.
It reached 6.1210 on May 27 in Shanghai, the strongest level
since the government unified official and market exchange rates
at the end of 1993.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.95 percent.  A report released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics suggested China’s manufacturing shrank in May by the
most since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  