-- Oil-Price Assessors Say Post-Libor Rules to Harm Market
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-06-04T17:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/oil-price-assessors-say-post-libor-rules-will-harm-markets.html
Energy price-reporting companies
including Platts said rules proposed by global regulators to
safeguard against manipulation of financial benchmarks would
make markets less transparent.  Oil traders will stop submitting their transactions to
firms that establish benchmark energy prices if those deals are
burdened by additional regulation, Platts, a unit of McGraw Hill
Financial Inc., said in a  response  to proposals from the
International Organization of Securities Commissions, or Iosco,
on setting rules for global benchmarks.  “Platts believes that an overly prescriptive imposition of
external oversight and other regulatory requirements on data
submitters runs the risk of unintended consequence -- the
primary one being a retreat from participation in price
formation,” Platts said in a letter released by Iosco
yesterday.  The comments come as European Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia ,  Europe ’s top antitrust official, is
investigating possible collusion to manipulate benchmark energy
assessments. Last month, investigators searched the offices of
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) , BP Plc and Platts, and
requested records from some of Europe’s biggest trading houses,
including Vitol Group, Gunvor Group Ltd. and  Glencore Xstrata
Plc. (GLEN)  Platts publishes the Dated Brent benchmark that helps
determine the price of more than half the world’s oil.  Global Scrutiny  Pricing mechanisms are under scrutiny around the world
after U.S and U.K. investigators uncovered widespread attempts
by banks to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, the benchmark lending rate tied to $300 trillion in
securities worldwide.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined $2.5 billion and at least a
dozen firms remain under investigation. Regulators are also
looking for evidence of price fixing in ISDAfix, the benchmark
rate for the $379 trillion swaps market.  “The investigations and enforcement actions raised
concerns over the fragility of certain benchmarks,” Iosco said
in an April report outlining potential guidelines for the
industry.  The organization said last month that regulators should
increase oversight and eliminate conflicts of interest in
setting benchmark lending rates. The proposal may clash with
rules the group developed last year to govern conduct at price-reporting companies, said Platts, Argus Media Ltd. and Reed
Business Information’s ICIS in letters to Iosco published
yesterday.  ICIS Comment  Several of the principles in the proposed rules for
financial benchmarks “are inappropriate to the environments in
which we operate, as well in certain cases potentially actually
harmful to commodity markets,” said Richard Street, head of
regulation and compliance for ICIS, in a letter.  Iosco  said last year that oil price assessments could be
vulnerable to manipulation because traders could selectively
submit transactions that are used to determine a benchmark,
leaving out those that might hurt their bets in related
contracts. The organization sought the industry’s feedback on
establishing principles for price reporters, including the
imposition of regulatory oversight and a requirement that
traders report every deal.  Opaque Markets  Platts and Argus objected, saying such constraints would
prompt companies to stop reporting trades, making the market
more opaque. Iosco didn’t include the provision in its
“ Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies ,” which was
published in October.  Iosco’s report last month resurrects that requirement, said
 Simon Smith , head of government and regulatory affairs for
Argus, in a letter.  “Argus Media is concerned that certain of the draft
Principles for Financial Benchmarks are inconsistent with and
seek to reintroduce provisions that were considered and
ultimately rejected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 