-- Venezuela’s Toilet Paper Crisis Igniting Bond Sale Talk
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x ,   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-06-03T17:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/toilet-paper-less-venezuela-fueling-bond-sale-talk-andes-credit.html
Venezuelan Finance Minister Nelson Merentes is planning the nation’s first overseas meetings with
creditors in nine years as a scarcity of dollars exacerbates
shortages of everything from toilet paper to soap.  While Venezuela’s borrowing costs have fallen more than 400
basis points, or 4 percentage points, since its last sale of
dollar-denominated bonds in October 2011, the 10.65 percent
yield is double the average in  emerging markets . Merentes said
May 30 his trip to the U.S. and  Europe  this month is intended to
clarify the fundamentals of the economy with investors to help
lower the  perceived risk  in holding the oil producer’s debt.  Pressure has increased on President Nicolas Maduro’s 3-month-old government to accelerate the approval of foreign
currency for imports after the political and economic upheaval
left behind by  Hugo Chavez , who died of cancer in March after a
14-year rule, sparked the Western Hemisphere’s fastest surge in
consumer prices. Merentes, who took office last month after
running the central bank, will be the first finance minister to
visit investors abroad since 2004, increasing speculation
Venezuela is preparing to sell bonds, according to Barclays Plc.  “The government’s strongest option is to issue debt to
finance imports,” Munir Jalil, the head analyst at Citigroup
Inc.’s Colombian unit, said in a phone interview from Bogota.
“Finance ministers do roadshows to measure the appetite in the
market for more debt and always make these trips when they’re
thinking of issuing debt in the near future.”  Banker Meetings  Merentes told reporters May 30 that his meetings aren’t
aimed at selling debt and that he will answer questions to help
reduce borrowing costs. He said that he has already met with
seven investment banks since taking over as finance minister.  Venezuelan dollar debt had its worst start to a year since
2008. Venezuelan notes, which returned 46 percent last year,
rose just 1.1 percent in the first quarter, according to data
from Bank of America Corp.  Lack of confidence in  Venezuela ’s ability to meet its debt
obligations is due to misinformation, Merentes said. Central
Bank President Edmee Betancourt said that Chavez’s death created
“turmoil” in the economy and has “disturbed” the whole
country.  Venezuela, which has the world’s  largest oil reserves , uses
much of its oil production to repay loans from  China  or to
subsidize allies including Cuba.  Imports Plunge  Venezuela, where about 70 percent of products consumed are
imported or assembled from raw material shipped from abroad, is
now facing shortages as the currency weakens and the lack of
dollars means importers can’t pay.  Brazil ’s beef exporters
association said shipments to Venezuela would fall 20 percent in
May because they are not receiving dollars from Venezuelan
importers.  The supply of dollars is drying up after Venezuela’s oil
exports fell 13.4 percent to a two-year low in the first quarter
and the government suspended dollar sales.  Private-sector imports fell 11 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier due to the country’s economic slowdown and
the curtailed access to hard currency, the central bank said on
May 31.  The central bank’s scarcity index, which measures the
amount of goods that are out of stock, rose to 21.3 percent last
month, its highest level since January 2008.  Imports may have fallen 30 percent in March, according to
estimates from Bank of America economist  Francisco Rodriguez ,
who extrapolated from published data on exports to Venezuela
from six of the country’s trade partners.  ‘Soviet Type’  Previous declines of at least 10 percent in imports to
Venezuela have signaled deep recessions, he wrote in a report on
May 28.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest growth since 2010. The
median forecast of economists in a  Bloomberg survey  was that
activity expanded 1.1 percent.  “It’s a planned economy of the Soviet type we saw last
century and the results are similar,”  Alberto Ramos , the chief
Latin American economist at Goldman Sachs in  New York , said in a
phone interview. “They get billions of dollars from oil but
they have to import everything else, which means there’s
increasing demand for a finite and scarce supply of dollars.”  Bolivar Devaluation  On Feb. 8, the government announced a 32 percent
devaluation of the bolivar to narrow the fiscal deficit and
boost the supply of dollars.  The government also scrapped a central bank-administered
market where government and state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  bonds were traded to provide currency to importers
and replaced it with a cash-auction system.  Less than a month later, Chavez died, prompting the second
presidential election in six months. Since then, there has only
been one dollar auction of $200 million under the new exchange
system while shortages in stores have worsened, pushing  annual
consumer prices  up 29.4 percent in April, the most among 128
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  Iran ’s annual inflation was 41
percent in March, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Venezuela’s fiscal deficit in 2012 was estimated at 11
percent of GDP by Moody’s Investors Service after Chavez
increased spending before elections in October.  ‘Don’t Want’  While Chavez handed bondholders a return of 692 percent
during his 14 years as president, Merentes may struggle to
convince investors that Venezuela deserves lower borrowing
costs, according to Siobhan Morden, the head of fixed-income
strategy at Jefferies Group LLC.  “If you have a double-digit yield, it’s because people
don’t want to provide you with credit,” Morden said in a phone
interview from New York. “I don’t know what they could bring to
the table to change our minds. If they’re going to convert
people they need to change the speech.”  The bolivar has weakened 39 percent to 28.43 per dollar
against the dollar on the black market this year, according to
 Dolar Today , a website that tracks the  exchange rate  on the
Venezuelan border with  Colombia . The official exchange rate for
essential imports such as medicines is 6.3.  Government dollar bonds due in 2022 currently yield 11.07
percent, compared with 2.94 percent for similar-maturity bonds
in  Chile  and 3.47 percent in Brazil.  The cost to insure Venezuelan debt against default for five
years rose eight basis points to 851 basis points at 12:55 p.m.
in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Other Solution’  Providing more dollars to the economy would boost imports,
ease shortages and help slow inflation, said Kathryn Rooney, a
strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets LP. The debate is over
how to get those dollars.  “They’re going to issue bonds this year,” Rooney said in
a telephone interview from Miami. “The question is when. The
other solution is a devaluation which would ramp up inflation,
which the government won’t want to do because it’s unpopular.
Unless they want rioting in the streets, they’re going to have
to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  