-- Tombini Says Weak Real Has Little Impact on Brazil Inflation
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-03T13:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/tombini-says-weak-real-has-little-impact-on-brazil-inflation-1-.html
The depreciation of the real, which
fell to a four-year low last week, probably will have a limited
impact on Brazilian inflation, said Alexandre Tombini, the
central bank president.  “Our depreciation has been more moderate than some other
countries,” Tombini said yesterday in an interview at a
conference in Istanbul. “As far as pass-through to inflation,
provided the exchange regime is flexible, as is the case in
 Brazil , so the pass-through should be limited.”  The real gained 0.49 percent to 2.1313 against the dollar
at 10:15 a.m. local time after sliding 4.2 percent last week,
the worst performance after the South African rand among the 16
most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency had
weakened even after policy makers on May 29 unexpectedly
accelerated the pace of rate increases in a bid to tame
inflation that has damped an economic recovery.  Tombini reiterated that the central bank will step into the
currency market during times of excess volatility, and that the
real’s depreciation was part of a global movement by the dollar.  The real touched 2.1495 against the U.S dollar on May 31,
the weakest intraday level since May 2009, spurring the central
bank to intervene in the  currency market  for the first time
since March.  Bank Survey  While economists in a central bank survey published today
cut their 2013 GDP growth forecast, the weaker currency led them
to increase their 12-month inflation estimates by 1 basis point
to 5.67 percent, said Jose Goncalves, chief economist at Banco
Fator.  “There’s concern with the currency and therefore with
inflation,” Goncalves said.  Latin America ’s biggest economy is prepared to handle a
U.S. shift from easy monetary conditions because of near-record
high international reserves and a financial sector that has low
reliance on external funding, Tombini said.  “A very extreme change in the  exchange rate  will lead to
basically no banks turning insolvent,” Tombini told the
 Istanbul School of Central Banking .  The central bank’s board last week raised their benchmark
 Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by 50 basis points to 8 percent, surprising 38 of 57
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who expected a second
consecutive 25 basis points increase. The move was anticipated
by 19 economists.  Key Rate  Policy makers have increased the key rate by 75 basis
points since April, after keeping it at record low 7.25 percent
for six months.  Swap rates on the contract due in January climbed 3 basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.46 percent at 10:15 a.m.,
as traders increased bets the central bank will continue to lift
the benchmark  interest rate  by increments of 50 basis points.  Annual inflation  in Latin America’s biggest economy
accelerated for nine straight months through March to 6.59
percent, above the top of the central bank’s target range of 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent. In April, year-on-year inflation eased
to 6.49 percent. Inflation has helped undermine Brazil’s decade-long consumer-led boom as families struggle to pay off rising
debt and higher prices erode purchasing power.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.55 percent in the first
quarter, less than 0.9 percent median forecast in Bloomberg
survey of 45 economists.  Asked about comments he made last week regarding the
backing of President  Dilma Rousseff , Tombini said in the
interview, “I didn’t say we had the approval. I said the
central bank had the support of the government. Otherwise, I
wouldn’t be there.”  Rousseff agreed with the need for the central bank to adopt
a more aggressive tone against inflation and fully supported its
monetary policy, a government official knowledgeable of economic
policy said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  