-- Tiananmen Protesters Mark Crackdown in Annual Hong Kong Vigil
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g ,   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-04T16:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hong-kong-tiananmen-vigil-organizers-call-on-xi-to-speed-reforms.html
Thousands gathered in pouring rain in
Hong Kong yesterday evening to commemorate the 1989  Tiananmen
Square  crackdown as organizers call on Chinese President Xi
Jinping to improve human rights and advance democracy.  With many dressed in the traditional mourning colors of
white and black, demonstrators arrived in Hong Kong’s  Victoria
Park  for the annual candlelit vigil to remember people killed by
troops 24 years ago after students calling for democracy and an
end to official corruption defied orders to leave the square.
About 54,000 people participated in yesterday’s vigil, according
to the city’s Police Public Relations Branch.  Vigil organizers estimated the crowed at 150,000 people,
the South China Morning Post  reported  on its website. The event
ended at 9 p.m. local time, an hour earlier than scheduled, 
because of the rain, the Hong Kong-based newspaper said.  Xi, who took over leadership of the 82-million member
Communist Party in November, has pledged to share the benefits
of  economic growth  more equally and began a campaign against
corruption, as discontent increases over the country’s widening
wealth gap.  “We’ve only seen tightening instead of relaxation since Xi
Jinping came on stage,” Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the  Hong
Kong  Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in
China, said on June 3. “China hasn’t taken a step further in
its reform on human rights and democracy.”  Last night’s memorial is the first since China’s once-a-decade leadership transition that ended with Xi replacing  Hu Jintao  as president in March. China doesn’t allow events to
commemorate the crackdown on the mainland.  Protests in China  China sees between 30,000 to 50,000 protests every year
over issues including environmental pollution and land disputes,
Chen Jiping, a former leading member of the party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  Without mentioning Tiananmen, users of  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo
microblog service yesterday reposted a news article with remarks
Premier  Li Keqiang  made in  Germany  last month, when he said:
“Only if you properly look at history can you create the
future.”  Sina removed the image of a candle -- widely used on the
service to express mourning or convey blessings -- from a group
of icons that users can post on their microblogs. Search terms
blocked on Weibo yesterday included “that day,” “special
day,” “massacre,” and “candle,” according to the Berkeley,
Calif.-based China Digital Times website.  Tiananmen Scene  Thousands of tourists thronged Tiananmen Square on a smoggy
morning yesterday, taking photos of the Gate of Heavenly Peace
and its portrait of  Mao Zedong , the founder of the People’s
Republic. Traffic flowed smoothly as police vehicles stood
sentry at the approaches to the square on the Avenue of Eternal
Peace as they do every day.  China’s leaders and people must repudiate the crackdown,
said Bao Tong, a senior party official at the time who was
arrested days before the crackdown and spent seven years in
prison, according to an article published June 3 in the  South
China Morning Post . The crackdown put an end to anti-corruption
efforts, Bao said, according to the newspaper.  “Corruption, exploitation, the lack of respect for law,
these had the support of tanks and machine guns,” Bao said,
according to the SCMP.  In Hong Kong, about 1 million people marched in protest
after the crackdown 24 years ago and vigils have occurred
annually since then, with police saying that 85,000 attended in
2012. Estimates of the death toll from the crackdown ranged from
between 300 and 2,600, Ezra Vogel wrote in “ Deng Xiaoping and
the Transformation of China .”  ‘Core Message’  “The core message that vigil participants want to convey
is that they hope to see democracy in China and the vindication
of June 4,” Linda Li, a professor of political science at the
 City University  of Hong Kong, said by phone. “No matter who’s
running the Chinese government, the message that Hong Kong
people want to send to them would still be the same.”  The Hong Kong demonstration has created debate of its own.
The slogan for this year’s protest -- “Love the country, love
the people. That’s the Hong Kong spirit. Reverse the June 4
verdict. We will never give up.” -- drew complaints from people
concerned it was meant to foster patriotism for China.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying scrapped plans
for national education classes last year after students camped
out at the city legislature for days in opposition. They said
the classes would paint an overly favorable picture of Communist
Party rule in  China .  Focused Theme  “We will refocus the theme on vindicating June 4 as ‘Love
the Country’ has irritated the nerve of some Hong Kong people,”
the Hong Kong Alliance’s Lee said. “Patriotism has become a
dirty word today.”  Leung was chosen as chief executive last year by a
committee mainly comprised of businessmen, lawmakers and
academics. His term runs until 2017, when China, which inherited
rule of Hong Kong from Britain in 1997, has pledged to allow the
city’s people to elect their own leaders.  At the vigil, demonstrators braved a torrential downpour to
listen to speeches and watch performances.  “It’s definitely something symbolic,” said Joshua Lee,
who works in a private equity firm and has attended the event
for the past five years. “It’s really a symbol of the freedom
that we enjoy here, the only city in China that has that.”  For Howard Cheng, an assistant at the city’s legislative
council, attending the vigil is a show of solidarity with the
Chinese people.  “I believe that democracy in China and the freedom of the
Chinese people is very important for Hong Kong,” Cheng said.
“We’re facing the same situation.”  China’s Definition  Over the years, the Chinese government has changed the way
it described the Tiananmen crackdown. It was initially called a
counter-revolutionary rebellion, then a riot, then political
turmoil and finally the 1989 storm, according to Vogel’s book.  In a May 31 statement, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the U.S. calls on China to stop harassing those who
took part in the Tiananmen protests and end the “harassment of
human rights activists and their families.” Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou issued a statement yesterday calling on China to
respect human rights and tolerate dissent.  China has reached a “very clear conclusion about the
political turmoil and all relevant issues in the late 1980s,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing in
Beijing on June 3. “Chinese people enjoy broad freedom and
human rights. This is a fact everyone can see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  