-- Lonmin NUM Union Member Killed, Another Wounded in Mine Shooting
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-03T12:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/lonmin-num-union-member-killed-another-wounded-in-mine-shooting.html
A National Union of Mineworkers
member was killed and a second wounded in a shooting near  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine in northwestern South Africa.  The shooting took place in an NUM office, Sue Vey, a Lonmin
spokeswoman, said in a text message today. Officers are at the
scene and no other details are immediately available, Sabata
Mokgwabone, a police spokesman, said by phone. Lonmin fell 3.9
percent to 283.5 pence in London trading by 1:22 p.m., on course
for its biggest drop in two weeks.  Lonmin’s operations have been a battleground between the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union and the NUM as
the organizations compete for membership. The NUM, an ally of
the ruling African National Congress, has been usurped as the
majority union at Lonmin by AMCU, which now represents 70
percent of workers in lower-skilled jobs compared with its
rival’s 20 percent.  The NUM has until July 16 to regain its majority or lose
its office and associated privileges, a Johannesburg labor court
has ruled, after Lonmin attempted to expedite the process “in
the interests of peace and security on the ground,” the company
said on May 29.  “One has been fatally wounded and one has been taken to
hospital,” NUM Regional Secretary Sydwell Dokolwana said by
mobile phone. “He was shot right inside the office,” he said,
referring to one of his union’s members.  Tavern Shooting  The AMCU and Lonmin have failed to agree on how unions will
be recognized in formal agreements between the company and labor
organizations. South Africa’s Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration has scheduled a hearing on June 26 to
rule in the dispute.  AMCU has also had members killed in recent shootings.
Mawethu Khululekile Stevens, 46, a local organizer for the
union, was shot dead May 11 at a tavern near the Marikana mine,
about 70 miles (120 kilometers) from Johannesburg, the union
said last month.  Violence at Lonmin’s Marikana mine in August that stemmed
from a dispute over pay left at least 44 people dead, including
34 protesters shot by police in a single day.  AMCU treasurer Jimmy Gama said in a phone interview that he
wasn’t aware of the shooting at Lonmin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  