-- Topix Profits Tripling World Even in $400 Billion Wipeout
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-06-04T06:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/topix-profits-tripling-world-even-in-400-billion-wipeout.html
Japan ’s biggest  stock rally  in a
quarter century has been fueled by earnings growth that is three
times faster than the world average, not just speculation Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will end two decades of deflation.  Profits for the Topix index will climb 57 percent to 74.78
yen a share in 2013, compared with the global average of 19
percent, according to more than 5,000 analyst forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg. While gains are being aided by everything from
overseas acquisitions to the weakening yen and depressed results
last year, rising profits will add to economic growth.  Improving earnings and speculation Abe will succeed in
spurring inflation are underpinning a rally that lured overseas
investors and spurred record trading by individuals before $400
billion was erased from share values in the last two weeks.
 Jesper Koll , the JPMorgan Chase & Co. head of Japan equity
research who had the most bullish target for the Topix last
September, says profit growth will drive the gauge up another 60
percent in two years.  “These growth strategies by individual companies are going
to lead to very, very positive earnings momentum,” Koll said in
an interview from  Tokyo  on May 29. “We are waiting for Abe’s
growth strategy for the country, but companies basically began
this process 2 1/2 years ago.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, said May
8 that profit and sales will climb to the highest level in six
years in the 12 months ending March 2014. The shares have almost
doubled since Nov. 14. Nomura Holdings Inc., the country’s No. 1
brokerage and the best-performing stock among the Topix’s  30-biggest (8604)  companies, rose 4.1 percent on April 30 after posting
profits that more than tripled to the highest in seven years.  Biggest Rally  As much as $1.24 trillion was added to the value of Tokyo-traded shares since Nov. 14, when elections that brought Abe to
power were announced. The Topix’s 52 percent rally since then
lifted all 33 industry  groups  and 1,656 of its 1,709 companies,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Among markets in 72 countries
tracked by MSCI’s benchmark global indexes, the seven-month
advance in Japan is the biggest.  Concern Chinese manufacturing growth is slowing and signs
the U.S. Federal Reserve will consider curbing bond purchases
should the economy improve have spurred the biggest Topix price
swings since the 2011 earthquake. Shares traded in an average
range of about 3.8 percent a day since May 23, when the gauge
lost 6.9 percent.  Topix shares, which touched a 29-year low one year ago this
week, entered a so-called correction on May 30, having dropped
more than 10 percent from a five-year high on May 22. The gauge
fell 3.4 percent yesterday, extending the loss to 14 percent.
The Topix rose 2.6 percent, the most in almost a month, to
1,125.47 at close in Tokyo today.  Earnings Engine  “It’s natural that stocks will move randomly,” Abe
adviser Koichi Hamada told reporters in Tokyo on May 30.
“Excessive upward or downward moves can happen any time.”  Profits for Japanese companies are expanding faster than
the rest of the world for a second year. The 57 percent
estimated growth rate comes after a 74 percent expansion in
2012, when earnings in the MSCI All-Country World Index posted a
3.1 percent contraction, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Topix earnings declined for more than a year through
September 2012, they bounced back in the fourth quarter,
increasing fourfold. It was the second-best quarterly expansion
since at least 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts
project earnings will more than double again next quarter.  They boosted 2013 income projections 10 percent last month,
compared with a 2.5 percent increase for the MSCI index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The increase has left
the index trading for  14.67 times  projected income, about 14
percent cheaper than the average since the start of 2010.  ‘Continued Reflation’  “There has been an ongoing structural change among
companies but a lot of that was underappreciated,” Adrian Hickey, who helps oversee $421 billion at Pictet Asset
Management in  London , said in a telephone interview on May 30.
Abe’s stimulus plans “unlocked the value that was there,” he
said. “The change of policy was the catalyst for that value to
be realized.”  Abe’s stimulus follows the biggest year for Japanese
takeovers on record. Softbank Corp. led companies announcing 858
overseas acquisitions worth more than $120 billion in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The third-largest wireless carrier
agreed in October to buy a 70 percent stake in Sprint Nextel
Corp. for $20.1 billion amid a shrinking local market.  Profit margins from the international operations of
Japanese companies are almost twice those at home, according to
government data. Earnings represent about 5.9 percent of sales
overseas compared with 3.3 percent domestically, the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry said in April.  Currency Effects  Those returns are being amplified by a more than 20 percent
decline in the yen since Abe’s arrival in November. A weaker yen
makes earnings from overseas more valuable when repatriated.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the biggest flash-memory maker after Samsung
Electronics Co., has used acquisitions to bolster the company’s
smart-energy and chipmaking operations, leading to two years of
profitability after a record loss in the year ended March 2009.  The Tokyo-based company, which supplies chips to Apple
Inc., bought San Antonio-based energy-technology management
company Consert Inc. for more than 1 billion yen ($10 million)
in February and Swiss electronic-metering company Landis+Gyr AG
in 2011 to boost energy-management sales.  Dentsu Inc., the 111-year-old Japanese advertising company,
reported May 14 that earnings for the year ended March 31
increased 23 percent. The Tokyo-based firm completed a 3.16
billion-pound ($4.8 billion) takeover of Aegis Group Plc on
March 27, its fourth acquisition announced last year, as it
expands globally and seeks to meet its target to boost operating
profit to 70 billion yen next year.  Easy Comparisons  While Japanese earnings are rising, the rate of increase is
being helped by comparisons to depressed year-ago periods. In
2012, Japanese companies were in the early stages of a recovery
after being battered by the March 2011 earthquake disaster,
floods in  Thailand  that disrupted supply chains and the yen
trading close to its highest levels since World War II.  Profit per share retreated for five straight quarters
through the end of September last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trailing 12-month earnings for the Topix
totaled 51.47 yen last week, 14 percent below the level on the
day of the 2011 earthquake.  “The equity market rally has not been driven by a belief
that corporate earnings will recover, but simply by the
recycling of QE proceeds into equities,” Guy Stephens, who
helps oversee $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at RD
Signature in Bristol,  England , said in e-mailed comments on May
30. “Early indications are of an improvement but this is purely
driven by currency at this stage.”  Rate Policy  Gains in earnings and central bank easing may not be enough
to protect stocks from their fate during every surge  since 1989 ,
when Japan’s asset bubble burst. Each of the three times since
then that the Topix has advanced more than 40 percent, it later
slipped to a fresh low.  “If the market is going to be supported just from monetary
stimulus, then we may peak out around here,”  Ayako Sera , a
strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has the
equivalent of $325 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview on May 30.  Investors plunged into Japanese shares as Abe’s government
passed a 13.1 trillion yen ($130 billion) supplementary budget
to pay for his so-called “three arrows” policy of monetary
easing,  government spending  on reconstruction and
infrastructure, and tax relief. The  Bank of Japan , led by
 Haruhiko Kuroda , said April 4 that it will double the country’s
monetary base by the end of 2014.  Abe Optimism  A global poll by Bloomberg released May 17 showed investors
are more confident in a Japanese leader than any time since at
least September 2010, with optimism about Abe’s policies
exceeding that for counterparts in the U.S. and  Europe . The
government said last week that gross domestic product rose 3.5
percent at an annualized pace, the most in a year, propelled by
 consumer spending  and export gains.  Japan’s industrial production rose 1.7 percent in April
from March, exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey and quickening from 0.9 percent the previous month,
according to Trade Ministry data released May 31. National
consumer prices fell for a sixth month in April, separate data
showed. At the same time, a price gauge for the city of Tokyo
rose in May for the first time in four years, a gain that may
point to a shift in the next national reading, according to SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc.  Bull Run  “I don’t think the bull run in Japan is over,” Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management Asia Ltd., whose Japan-based parent oversees about
$165 billion, said on May 30. “Abenomics will help ensure
stronger economic growth. There’s this new determination from
the government to fix the deflation problem. That should help
encourage increased investments from companies.”  Overseas investors bought and sold a record 23.4 trillion
yen worth of Japanese shares in the week ended May 24, according
to Tokyo Stock Exchange data. Average daily trading  volume  on
the Topix index, Japan’s broadest stocks measure, surged to 3.9
billion shares since the end of December, compared with about
1.9 billion a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Turnover has averaged 2.7 trillion yen this year.  Individual investors’ share of weekly  stock trading  rose to
 35 percent  in the week ended May 17, the highest ever, according
to Tokyo Stock Exchange data going back to May 2007. That’s
almost three times a record low of 12.5 percent struck in July.  Data from Kabu.com, an internet brokerage used by
individual investors, shows that while the number of accounts
has grown by about 5 percent since November, commissions from
stock trading have quadrupled and those from the buying and
selling of options and futures contracts have more than doubled.  “After this correction, I am still bullish, have not
changed my Topix target of 1400 over the next 12 months, not
changed my medium- and longer-term forecast,” said Kathy Matsui, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief Japan strategist, on
May 30. “I have Topix EPS basically doubling between March 2013
and March 2016.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  