-- Orient Express Readies Company for Mergers, Acquisitions
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-06-03T14:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/orient-express-readies-company-for-mergers-acquisitions.html
Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , the
property owner that rejected a takeover offer from  Indian Hotels
Co. (IH)  last year, is focusing on increasing profits and its share
price before considering mergers, according to its chief
executive officer.  John Scott, hired in November after the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company rejected the Indian Hotels bid, is renovating and
expanding Orient-Express’s portfolio of more than  30 luxury
hotels  along with trains, riverboats and restaurants that
include the Copacabana Palace in Rio de Janeiro and the Venice
Simplon-Orient-Express train.  “My job is to make sure we have a solid business model and
that we are growing earnings and getting our stock price up,”
Scott said in a telephone interview. “If we do that, it leads
to opportunities. Then we can look at mergers and acquisitions
more aggressively. If approached at that point, the board would
take it seriously.”  Indian Hotels, in collaboration with other entities
associated with Mumbai-based  Tata Group , in October offered to
buy the 93.1 percent of Orient-Express it doesn’t already own
for $12.63 a share. The unsolicited bid was 43 percent higher
than Orient-Express’s 20-day average price at the time, a record
premium for the industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Orient-Express peaked at $64.80 in October 2007,
before the global financial crisis, and has since plunged more
than 80 percent. It closed at $11.84 on May 31.  Board Deliberated  “The board deliberated on the offer and concluded that it
was not the right price nor the right time from a macro and
micro perspective,” Scott said. “We had a number of openings
going on when the takeover offer came in but our Ebtida was down
based on renovations that were ongoing,” he said, referring to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Orient-Express -- which in March opened the  El Encanto  in
 Santa Barbara ,  California , after spending more than two years
rebuilding the luxury boutique hotel -- is searching for
management and ownership deals in regions where it already
operates.  In North America, the company is focused on  New York ,  Los
Angeles  and Miami, and in  Europe  the company is in “active
talks” for two hotel management contracts in London and on a
“couple of different opportunities” in  Rome , said Scott, who
was president and CEO of luxury-hotel chain Rosewood Hotels &
Resorts before joining Orient-Express. The company, which owns
New York’s 21 Club restaurant and Hotel Cipriani in Venice,
 Italy , also is looking to expand its luxury-train service in
Europe, Scott said.  Asset Sales  Aside from new management contracts and the completion of
renovations, which include adding and updating rooms or
converting them into higher-priced suites, Orient-Express also
is trying to sell some assets it doesn’t consider essential,
Scott said. The company said in a May 3  filing  that it plans to
seek buyers for as many as three properties, giving it proceeds
of as much as $70 million.  Indian Hotels -- the country’s biggest hotel operator, with
properties including the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai and the
 Pierre Hotel  in New York -- has held a portion of Orient-Express
since 2007, when it paid $211.3 million for a stake in the
company. Soon after the purchase, Orient-Express rejected an
attempt by Indian Hotels to pursue strategic discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  