-- Most Doctors Don’t Meet U.S. Push for Electronic Records
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/most-doctors-don-t-meet-u-s-push-for-electronic-records.html
Fewer than 1 in 10 doctors used
electronic records last year to U.S. standards, according to a
survey that shows the challenge facing a multibillion-dollar
effort to digitize the health system for improved patient care.  Only 9.8 percent of 1,820 primary-care and specialty
doctors said they had electronic systems that met U.S. rules for
“meaningful use,” a list of tasks such as tracking referrals
or filling prescriptions online. Less than half all those
surveyed, or 44 percent, had any system in place, according to
the report published by the journal  Annals of Internal Medicine .  The Obama administration has spent about $15 billion since
2009 to help doctors and hospitals adopt electronic health
records, fueling growth for vendors such as  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  and
 Cerner Corp. (CERN)  In March, the administration said it was
considering new regulations, amid complaints that the systems
are hard to use and don’t share information easily.  The survey “ should be of concern to policy makers,” said
the authors, led by Catherine M. DesRoches of Mathematica Policy
Research Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “Significant
progress needs to be made before such systems are believed to be
usable by most physicians.”  The researchers surveyed the physicians from late 2011
through early last year. A third or less had an electronic
system for tracking referrals, generating reports on quality of
care, sending patients reminders for preventive or follow-up
meetings or generating lists of those who had missed
appointments or were overdue for care.  Rising Use  The study released yesterday did find a rise in the number
of physicians using computer records from 34 percent in 2011.
Still, more than half of doctors surveyed found it hard for
their systems to meet some or all of the “meaningful use”
standards, which the federal government requires for subsidy
payments.  As of April, about 295,000 health-care providers had
received  $14.6 billion  through the program, according to the
U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.  The survey shows the federal government needs to set higher
standards for vendors, Ross Koppel, a sociologist at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, said in an
accompanying editorial.  “What these findings illustrate, unfortunately, is that
efforts intended to improve quality and reduce health-care costs
instead seem to have stimulated sales and implementations of
systems that do not work very well,” Koppel wrote. If the
systems are to fulfill their promise, “we must shift from
cheering health information technology implementations to
demanding health information technology utility.”  The report was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
of Princeton, New Jersey, and the Commonwealth Fund, based in
New York. Both nonprofit groups study health policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  