-- Most Slovenians Say Bratusek Will Fail With Overhaul, Poll Shows
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-03T08:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/most-slovenians-say-bratusek-will-fail-with-overhaul-poll-shows.html
A majority of Slovenians say the
government will fail to complete its economic overhaul program
that includes a plan to recapitalize banks and clean up lenders’
balance sheets, a poll showed.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents said the Cabinet of Prime
Minister Alenka Bratusek won’t implement the announced measures,
compared with 34 percent who disagreed, according to a poll
conducted by  Delo Stik agency  and published by Ljubljana-based
Delo newspaper today. The survey was carried out May 29-30 among
401 people. No margin of error was given.  The overhaul push was presented May 9 in an effort to
reassure investors and the European Union that Slovenia can pull
itself out of the crisis with no outside intervention. The
program includes tax increases, state-assets sales and cuts to
public-sector wages.  The European Commission, which extended the budget deficit
deadline for Slovenia to 2015, said last week the plan is on the
right track even as the authorities need to provide an outside
assessment of the banking industry’s assets and be ready to
inject more capital.  Slovenia’s export-driven  economy  plunged the most in the
first quarter since 2009 as the government’s austerity measures
hurt domestic demand. Gross domestic product in the period
shrank 4.8 percent from a year earlier after a 3 percent decline
in the last quarter of 2012.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds due
October 2022 was near the highest in six weeks, losing two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.89 percent at 10:44 a.m.
in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  