-- Paulinho’s Goal Saves Brazil From Defeat in Maracana Reopening
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-03T03:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/paulinho-s-goal-saves-brazil-from-defeat-in-maracana-reopening.html
Brazil  and  England  drew 2-2 at the
reopening of  Rio de Janeiro ’s iconic Maracana stadium, which
will host the soccer World Cup final in 13 months.  A crowd of 66,050 watched as England, which was outplayed
for much of yesterday’s exhibition game, took a 2-1 lead with 11
minutes left on  Wayne Rooney ’s deflected shot. Paulinho’s volley
three minutes later ensured that home fans in the revamped
Maracana didn’t leave on a downer. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain had
earlier tied Fred’s second-half opener.  The match marked the end of a troubled renovation program
for the 63-year-old arena. The Maracana’s rebuilding missed two
deadlines and finished over budget at a cost of more than $500
million. Yesterday’s game had been thrown into doubt four days
ago when the stadium’s reopening was suspended by a judge who
said it didn’t have the required safety certificate.  “The Maracana is an emblem,” Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari said in a post-match press conference. “We feel
something different when we arrive. It’s magical.”  The stadium, one of the most well-known in soccer, holds
the record attendance for a  World Cup  match when more than
170,000 spectators crammed into the facility to watch Uruguay
upset Brazil in the 1950 final. That was the only previous time
Brazil hosted soccer’s four-yearly championship.  Lilah Batista do Nascimento, who attended the 1950 final,
was among those in attendance yesterday.  “It was absolutely marvelous,” do Nascimento, 82, said in
an interview after the game. “But I have my doubts about
whether Brazil can win the World Cup.”  Hard Hats  Workers in hard hats and heavy machinery were still at the
stadium on the eve of the match, the second of two games between
England and Brazil in four months arranged to mark the English
Football Association’s 150th anniversary.  Scolari, whose team was playing its final exhibition before
Brazil hosts next month’s  Confederations Cup , a tuneup event for
the World Cup, praised the quality of the facilities.  “We value what’s been done,” the coach said. “The grass
is fantastic, our changing rooms are amazing, it’s very, very
good. Obviously some things will improve and they will be ready
during the Confederations Cup and even better afterwards.”  Getting stadiums ready has been one of the biggest
challenges for organizers of sport’s most-watched event. Delays
in construction meant soccer’s governing body FIFA backtracked
on an earlier demand stipulating the six stadiums being used for
the Confederations Cup stage a minimum of three games before the
June 15 tournament opener in Brasilia.  Assigned Seats  Yesterday’s match also heralded an adjustment for Brazilian
spectators used to sitting where they liked. A numbered
ticketing system was largely respected, though fans including
Adilson Martins, 67, said others had refused to shift from seats
that weren’t assigned to them.  They watched a scoreless first half that Brazil dominated
as England goalkeeper  Joe Hart  produced a series of saves. The
home team had 17 scoring attempts to three by England.  The second half started in near silence after authorities
banned musical instruments from the stadium, meaning the absence
of the samba drums that typically accompany Brazil’s national
team. The atmosphere picked up after Fred scored off a rebound
in the 57th minute when Anderson Hernanes hit the bar with a
long range strike.  Oxlade-Chamberlain made it 1-1 with a low shot from outside
the area with 23 minutes to go before Rooney silenced the
stadium with a 25-yard shot that took a deflection off a
Brazilian defender and ended up in the top corner.  Three minutes later the noise was back as Paulinho’s volley
ensured the Maracana’s reopening didn’t end in defeat.  “It is big to play here,” England coach  Roy Hodgson  told
reporters. “The clever money would have had us struggling to
get any sort of result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  