-- PDVSA Signs $4 Billion China Loan to Boost Orinoco Field Output
-- B y   P i e t r o   D .   P i t t s
-- 2013-06-03T20:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/pdvsa-signs-4-billion-china-loan-to-boost-orinoco-field-output.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, the state-owned oil producer, said it signed a $4.02 billion loan
agreement with China’s Development Bank Corp. to  increase
production  at the Sinovensa heavy oil joint venture in the
country’s Orinoco belt.  The accord was signed in Beijing by PDVSA President  Rafael
Ramirez , Sinovensa President Erwin Hernandez and CDBC Vice
President Wang Yongshen, the Caracas-based company known as
PDVSA said today in a statement on its website. Financing
details weren’t provided.  Chinese companies, including China National Petroleum
Corp., have agreements with PDVSA that aim to increase their
portion of Venezuela’s production to as much as 1 million
barrels a day by the end of 2019.  “A key variable to watch will be whether Ramirez, who has
good relations with Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro , has
enough power and autonomy to tweak the policy framework or grant
some degree of greater autonomy for PDVSA’s partners to manage
joint venture operations,”  Daniel Kerner , director of Latin
America Research for Eurasia Group, said in a research note to
clients today.  Proceeds from the  China  development bank loan will be used
to almost triple oil production at Sinovensa to 330,000 barrels
a day from 140,000 barrels per day, PDVSA said. The company
holds a majority 64.25 percent stake in Sinovensa while CNPC
owns the remaining 35.75 percent stake.  Production Concerns  PDVSA’s business plan for 2013-2019 calls for the company
to increase total Venezuelan production to 6 million barrels a
day by the end of 2019, up from 2.910 million barrels at the end
of 2012.  “PDVSA has committed to using these resources exclusively
towards meeting production goals, and the Maduro administration
is clearly concerned about stagnant production,” Kerner said.  PDVSA will allow joint ventures with CNPC and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
to manage $6 billion in loans designed to boost output, a PDVSA
official said May 17. The transactions will be signed by the end
of June, said the person, who isn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pietro D. Pitts in Houston at 
 ppitts2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  