-- Philippine Stocks Hit 2-Month Low After Bond Yields Jump
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-03T08:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/philippine-stocks-post-biggest-decline-in-asia.html
Philippine stocks  fell to a two-month
low after bond yields jumped and concern grew that shares were 
expensive as valuations outpaced Asian rivals.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slumped 3.7 percent to
6,763.38 at the close in  Manila , the lowest level since April 8.
The measure is valued at 20 times this year’s estimated
earnings, the highest among 15 Asia-Pacific markets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its 10-day  volatility , a measure
of price swings, rose to the highest level since October 2011.
The nation’s bond yields surged to the highest level in almost
three months.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May as the  U.S. dollar  rallied and stocks reached
record highs amid speculation a strengthening U.S. economy will
allow the  Federal Reserve  to reduce its monetary stimulus.  “Bonds are getting attractive because yields are rising”
on speculation that so-called quantitative easing will be
tapered, Jerome Gonzalez, who helps manage $237 million at
Philequity Management Inc., said in phone interview today from
Manila. “That’s causing some funds to shift away from risk
assets like commodities and equities, which are deemed
expensive.”  The Philippine  index  has rallied 16 percent this year and
closed at a record 7,392.20 on May 15 as economic growth
accelerated, the peso strengthened and the nation won
investment-grade credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. The index’s price-earnings ratio that day was at the
highest since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2006.  SM Prime  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)   slid  7.3 percent today, the sharpest loss
since Sept. 23, 2011, after an explosion at one of its
residential developments on May 31 killed three people.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , the nation’s largest shopping mall
developer, fell 6.4 percent, the most since November 2010, after
the company said property assets and ventures of parent SM
Investments Corp. will be consolidated with the company. SM
Prime shares are still up 11 percent for the year.  “The market as a whole is consolidating along with
bonds,” said Gonzalez.  The yield on the 6.125 percent bond due October 2037 rose
40 basis points, or 0.40 percentage point, to 4.75 percent, the
highest level since March 8, according to Tradition Financial
Services prices as of 3:51 p.m. in Manila. The rate rose the
most since the notes were first sold in October.  Bernanke Testimony  The government’s borrowing costs from three months to a
year rose for a second straight Treasury bill auction. The peso
gained 0.5 percent to 42.055 per dollar at the close in Manila,
it’s biggest increase since April 10, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc.
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said following Congressional
testimony on May 22 that the central bank could consider
reducing the amount of Treasuries and mortgage debt it buys
within “the next few meetings” if officials see signs of
sustained improvement in the labor market.  The Bureau of the Treasury may sell bonds targeting
individuals in the second half as Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
limited access to its special deposit accounts, BusinessWorld
reported, citing Treasurer Rosalia de Leon. The Treasury will
auction 20 billion pesos of notes due in three months to a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  