-- Pirates Seen Helping Boeing Boost Orders for Patrol Jets
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-03T16:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/pirates-seen-helping-boeing-boost-orders-for-patrol-jets.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  expects governments
combating pirates and drug runners on the open seas will create
a new market for long-range patrol jets, boosting demand 50
percent higher than the U.S. military’s purchases.  Foreign sales of the  P-8 , a military version of Boeing’s
best-selling 737 single-aisle jet, are estimated at more than 60
over the next decade, said Egan Greenstein, business development
director for the P-8 program. That would add to the U.S. Navy’s
plans to purchase 117 of the planes.  Piracy “is part of a growing market trend,” Greenstein
said in a presentation at Boeing’s Renton, Washington, factory.
“We’re getting interest from countries that have never had
fixed-wing maritime patrol.”  Boeing’s  defense unit  is pushing for more sales abroad to
make up for budget cuts that have curbed sales at home. While a
coordinated crackdown on pirates operating off the Somali coast
has reduced attacks on ships, governments are more attuned to
the risk and equipping themselves to deal with it, said Cyrus Mody, assistant director for the International Maritime Bureau,
which has been monitoring piracy since 1992.  “The threat is still present,” Mody said in a telephone
interview from his London office today. “There are still pirate
groups being reported on the water.”  This year through May 23,  106 incidents  of maritime piracy
have been reported, according to the maritime bureau, which is
part of the International Chamber of Commerce. Last year,  297
ships  were attacked, down from 439 in 2011.  Aerial Surveillance  The best way to combat piracy is through aerial
surveillance coupled with patrol ships, Mody said. Countries
along the African coastline can’t rely solely on the navies of
developed nations, he said.  “At the end of the day, it would have to be the individual
country or a region that comes together to protect its own
waters,” Mody said. “As the capacity in the region increases,
they will need to have these sorts of surveillance tools
available to them.”  India  has ordered eight of Boeing’s patrol planes, with the
first delivered on May 15.  Australia  has signed an agreement to
order the aircraft and may take from eight to 12, Greenstein
said in last week’s presentation. International sales now make
up 28 percent of revenue at Chicago-based Boeing’s defense unit,
compared with 7 percent in 2004.  Military Derivative  The P-8 is the first military derivative of a commercial
airplane that has its own designated production line, Greenstein
said. In the past, Boeing’s defense unit took fully produced
jets and modified them for military uses. The P-8 production
system laid the groundwork for Boeing’s manufacture of the KC-46
tanker plane on the 767 commercial jet line.  In September, the Navy awarded Boeing a  $1.9 billion
contract  for 11 P-8 planes, valuing them at about $172 million
each and bringing the total under contract to 24 aircraft. The
U.S. Navy’s version of the plane is designed for anti-submarine
and anti-surface warfare as well as surveillance.  Along with pirates and smugglers, border disputes,
terrorism and protection of fishing rights are also driving
demand for the plane, especially on the African coasts and South
China Sea, Greenstein said.  “It’s a growing market,” he said. “I have been surprised
-- as I have been in this business for 10 years -- of the
countries who I would have not have thought of having a
requirement, that are embracing maritime patrol as something
important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  