-- Pistorius Appears as Prosecutor Seeks Time to Investigate
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/pistorius-appears-as-prosecutor-seeks-time-to-investigate.html
Oscar Pistorius , the Paralympian gold
medalist who killed his model girlfriend, will appear in court
today as prosecutors request hearings in his premeditated murder
case be postponed to give them more time to investigate.  The proceedings at the Pretoria Magistrates Court will
probably last less than 10 minutes as Pistorius’s legal team
won’t oppose the delay, according to the National Prosecuting
Authority. The case is likely to be put off until August, it
said.  Pistorius, known as the  Blade Runner  because of his
prosthetic running blades, was released on 1 million rand
($100,000) bail on Feb. 22 after a four-day hearing. Prosecutors
accuse him of deliberately shooting Reeva Steenkamp, 29, on Feb.
14, Valentine’s Day, in a bathroom at his Pretoria home. The
athlete says that he mistook her for an intruder.  Pistorius, 26, was the first amputee runner to compete at
an  Olympic Games , taking part at the London event last year. He
was included in Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most
influential people. Pistorius, who won six Paralympic gold
medals, was born without fibulas and had both legs amputated
below the knee at 11 months old.  “We continue to have great faith in the South African
legal justice system and believe that Oscar’s account of what
happened on that terrible night in February will be borne out by
the evidence that the defense team will lead in court,”
Pistorius’s family said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Pistorius, who had his bail conditions eased to allow him
to compete internationally, hasn’t resumed training, his agent
Peet van Zyl said in April.  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company,
 Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley and Clarins SA’s Thierry Mugler
perfume brand have all ended sponsorship deals with Pistorius
since the shooting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  