-- Prague Flooded as Regional Storms Kill 6, Shut Rivers
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-06-03T13:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/prague-flooded-as-regional-storms-kill-6-shut-rivers.html
Floodwaters inundated Prague for the
second time in 11 years as storms blanketing central  Europe 
disrupted river traffic from the Rhine to the Danube, leaving at
least six dead and driving thousands from their homes.  Rescue workers struggled to protect the Czech capital’s
subway network, shops and apartments near the Vltava river,
which breached its banks in some areas and will crest today.
Germany suffered from the heaviest deluge in more than 50 years
that left parts of the city of Passau under water. Vienna was
bracing for more rainfall as the Danube rose to the highest
level in a decade.  “It will take two or three days for all the rivers to
crest, so the risk still endures,” Petr Dvorak, a spokesman for
the Czech state weather service, said by phone.  Authorities are striving to cope with flooding similar to
2002, when high water in western Bohemia and  Austria  spread to
 Germany  and costs insurers billions of dollars in damage claims.
Rhine River traffic was closed today upstream of Koblenz,
Germany, hindering the transport of oil and other commodities.
About 5,000 Prague residents are without power and CEZ AS, the
biggest Czech power utility, cut off supply to another 4,000
outside the city.  Rains in Bohemia, which borders Germany and Austria, will
ease today and end by midweek, Dvorak said. Another 15
millimeters (two-thirds of an inch) is expected by the end of
today after more than twice pounded the countryside yesterday.  Prague Crest  The Vltava will reach its highest level this afternoon as
it continues to swell along with its tributaries, river
authority spokeswoman Michaela Pohunkova said by phone today.
There’s no forecast as to when the water may start to subside.  In the Czech Republic, an unidentified woman and a man died
yesterday in Trebenice, about 30 kilometers (18 miles) outside
 Prague , when water seepage undermined the foundation of a summer
cottage, causing the wooden building to collapse over them, fire
brigade spokeswoman Nicole Zaoralova said.  Three others have perished, according to Zaoralova, who
didn’t immediately have details of the incidents, and another
four are missing. About 700 Prague residents were told to leave
their homes in suburbs and in the city center, with more
expected by the evening, and a downtown hospital was evacuated.  Meanwhile, Staropramen Brewery, Czech second-largest beer
producer, stopped work at its Smichov site today because of
floods, spokesman Pavel Barvik said by phone today.  Schools Closed  All downtown grammar schools were shuttered, as was the
underground  Metro system  in the center. The city closed the
historic Charles Bridge to foot traffic. More than 7,000 people
in the  Czech Republic  have been evacuated, the fire brigade
press service said.  Hana Spirkova, the owner of a flower shop nestled under a
medieval building two streets from the Charles Bridge, recalled
she had almost six feet of water in the ground level of her
store in 2002.  The earlier flood “came so quickly, there was no chance to
react,” she said today. “What’s incredible is that this is
happening so soon after the last floods. When you call it a 100-year flood, you sort of expect it to come after 100 years, not
10 or 11.”  In Germany, states of emergency were declared, evacuations
ordered and soldiers deployed in the states of Bavaria,
Thuringia and Saxony. Water levels for the Danube in Passau
exceeded the record 12.20 meters measured in 1954, said
Siegfried Ratzinger, a spokesman of the city’s crisis center.  German Evacuation  In Passau, shops and homes were evacuated and power
supplies in some parts were cut off as a precaution, Ratzinger
said.  Germany’s national meteorological service,  Deutscher
Wetterdienst , expected more heavy rainfall between Saxony in the
east of the country and the Bavarian Alps in the south today.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  suspended production at its plant in the town
of Zwickau as a result of the flooding, with plans to resume
output during the night shift later today.  Five cruise ships were stranded in  Frankfurt  as the surging
Main River prevented their departure from Germany’s banking
capital.  Rhine Flooding  The Rhine River, an important inland navigation route, rose
to the highest level since at least 2006 near the town of Kaub
in western Germany, according to data from the  German Federal
Institute of Hydrology .  On the Rhine, barges won’t be able to navigate until June
5, said Joachim Hessler, the operations manager a Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft.  Viking Flusskreuzfahrten GmbH, which operates seven  cruise
ships  on various rivers flowing through Germany, canceled one
trip from Berlin to Prague via the river Elbe.  Train disruptions in southern Bavaria were also reported by
Deutsche Bahn AG. Routes between Prague and Berlin to the north
have two-hour delays, the company said on its website.  A fifth death from the storms was recorded in the Salzburg
province of Austria, where a man died after landslides and three
others are missing, a government official said. The railroad
connection between Vienna and Salzburg was partially shut down
after floods damaged the tracks.  ‘Getting Worse’  While the situation in the western part of the country has
eased since yesterday, the Danube is expected to swell in the
east to the levels of the 2002 flood that caused about 3 billion
euros ($4 billion) in damage. Heavy rainfall will end today and
tomorrow, according to the national weather forecasting service.  “It is still getting worse,” Austrian Vice Chancellor
Michael Spindelegger told journalists today. The flood along the
Danube will probably reach its peak on Tuesday, he said.  Downriver on the Danube, Bratislava, the Slovak capital, is
setting up metal barriers along the riverside promenade.
Budapest mayor Istvan Tarlos ordered a second-stage alert as the
Danube’s water level is expected to be as high as the record set
in 2002, the mayor’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.  In Prague, the lower half of the Prague Zoo, where the 2002
floods killed animals including an elephant that was trapped in
a pen as water rushed in, was closed. Workers transported
animals, including gorillas and tigers to higher ground.  “Everything went smoothly apart from one accident where
one flamengo broke a leg,” Zoo spokesman Michal Stastny said
by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  