-- Pressure Intensifies on Cameron for Earlier Carbon Target
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/pressure-intensifies-on-cameron-for-earlier-carbon-target.html
More than 300 lawmakers favor an
earlier target to cut pollution in the U.K. than Prime Minister
 David Cameron  is proposing, Friends of the Earth said, adding to
the risk the government loses a vote on the matter today.  Since yesterday, two Liberal Democrat and a Conservative
lawmaker confirmed their support, and others signaled they may
vote for the target, the environmental group said in an
statement. More than 20 members of Parliament from within the
coalition have said they will vote for the goal, the group said.  Members of Parliament are due to vote today on whether to
back a rebellion by members of Cameron’s party and opposition
lawmakers who want the government to set a target for reductions
in carbon emissions from utilities by April 1. The government
wants to postpone that decision until 2016.  “MPs from all parties must vote in favor of a clean power
target, as well as tackling  climate change  and creating
thousands of jobs, as it will save householders billions of
pounds compared to a dash for gas,” Andrew Pendleton, head of
campaigns at Friends of the Earth, said in the statement.  The rebel from within Cameron’s  Conservative Party  and
Liberal Democrats who serve in the coalition government are
concerned Britain risks delaying the investment needed to curb
emissions blamed for global warming. Cameron, backed by some
utilities and the Treasury, wants to wait for the economy to
recover before establishing a target.  Binding Goal  “It will be a very tight vote,” Barry Gardiner, a Labour
lawmaker who is co-author of the proposal, said in an interview.
“If we don’t pass this amendment and put in place a clear 2030
target, it’s going to make it extremely difficult to meet our
obligations to reduce  carbon emissions .”  The target was recommended by the government’s own adviser
on carbon policy, the Committee on Climate Change. It recommends
ministers set a goal to reduce carbon from power output by 90
percent to 50 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour in 2030.  “We have listened to views and added a clause to enable us
to set a decarbonization target for the power sector in 2016,”
Energy Secretary Edward Davey said in a separate statement sent
by his department of energy and climate change yesterday. “No
political party had this issue in their manifesto, and this will
be a world first, an issue that this Coalition Government has
addressed head on.”  The legislation is aimed at stimulating 110 billion pounds
($168 billion) of investment required in power stations and the
electric grid as aging generators retire. Since 2010, Britain
has won 29 billion pounds of that sum, DECC said in a separate
statement. The bill will help spur 250,000 jobs and ensure the
U.K. can cut greenhouse gas emissions 50 percent by 2025, DECC
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  