-- Queen Marks 60 Years Since Coronation With Abbey Service
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-04T11:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/queen-marks-60-years-since-coronation-with-abbey-service.html
Queen Elizabeth II  marked 60 years
since her coronation with a service in London’s Westminster
Abbey, where she was crowned, underlining her religious
dedication in her role as U.K. head of state.  The hour-long service for 2,000 guests this morning was
conducted by the Dean of Westminster,  John Hall , and the address
was given by the Anglican faith’s most senior cleric, the
Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. As monarch, Elizabeth,
87, is head of the Church of  England .  “Here today we gather to give thanks to almighty God for
the faithful ministry and dutiful service the queen continues
to offer God and the people of this nation, the overseas
territories and the realms, and as head of the Commonwealth,”
the dean told the congregation.  In her first annual  Christmas Day address  to the nation in
1952, Elizabeth, who was then yet to be crowned, spoke to her
subjects emphasizing the religious nature of her commitment on
her coronation day. It was broadcast on BBC radio.  “You will be keeping it as a holiday but I want to ask you
all, whatever your religion may be, to pray for me on that day -
- to pray that God may give me wisdom and strength to carry out
the solemn promises I shall be making, and that I may faithfully
serve him, and you, all the days of my life,” she said.  Cameron Reading  Prime Minister  David Cameron  gave a reading during today’s
service, as did the secretary general of the  Commonwealth ,
Kamalesh Sharma, representing the 54 nations in the grouping of
which the Queen is head, mostly former British colonies.  A poem by the poet laureate, Carol Ann Duffy, that was
specially written for the anniversary was read by actress Claire
Skinner, star of the BBC television comedy “Outnumbered.”  The queen’s husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, otherwise known
as Prince Philip, attended even though he withdrew from an
engagement last night after becoming unwell.  The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, otherwise known as
 Prince William  and his wife Kate, also took part. She is
pregnant with the future third in line to the throne, due in
July.  Today’s service was divided into parts called the
recognition, anointing, homage and thanksgiving, reflecting the
coronation ceremony.  St. Edward’s Crown , which was used in 1953, rested on the
High Altar, the first time it had left the Tower of  London ,
where royal jewels are kept, since the coronation. Made of gold
and decorated with precious and semi-precious stones, including
sapphires, tourmalines, amethysts, topazes and citrines, it
weighs 2.23 kilograms (4.9 pounds).  Holy Oil  Dating from 1661, the ampulla, a gold, eagle-shaped bottle
from which the holy oil was poured for anointing the queen in
the most religious part of the service, also stood on the altar
in the abbey. A flask of aromatic oil taken from the same batch
made for the coronation was carried through the abbey in
procession by representatives of the people of Britain.  The monarch was crowned on June 2, 1953, at the age of 27.
More than 8,200 witnessed the coronation in the abbey, which was
broadcast in one of the first set-piece television events in
British history. Only Victoria, who was on the throne from 1837
to 1901, reigned for longer.  In Kenya  The then Princess Elizabeth received the news of her father
George VI’s death and her own accession to the throne while
staying in a remote part of  Kenya  on Feb. 6, 1952. She flew home
as queen, with the coronation taking place 16 months later.  Last year, the U.K. celebrated the Diamond Jubilee, marking
Elizabeth’s 60 years as queen with a pageant on the  River Thames 
in London involving a flotilla of 1,000 boats, a music concert
in front of Buckingham Palace and a service of thanksgiving at
 St. Paul’s Cathedral .  Further events are being organized to celebrate the
queen’s 60 years. A four-day Coronation Festival will be held in
the gardens of Buckingham Palace from July 11 to July 14.
Evening galas will include performances by Katherine Jenkins,
Russell Watson, Katie Melua and The Feeling.  For its annual summer opening this year,  Buckingham Palace 
will put on an exhibition of coronation outfits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  