-- RBS Turns Over Libor Records in Canada Competition Bureau Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-06-03T20:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rbs-turns-over-libor-records-in-canada-competition-bureau-probe.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has
started turning over documents to  Canada ’s Competition Bureau as
the regulator probes possible manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate, court records show.  The Canadian unit of the Edinburgh-based bank delivered on
May 22 “most” documents the antitrust regulator had requested,
according to an affidavit filed in an Ontario court last week by
 Affleck Greene McMurtry LLP , the Toronto-based  law firm 
representing RBS.  The bank provided the records after deciding to abandon its
challenge to a May 2011 court order to produce them. Canadian
officials are probing the conduct of at least seven firms
including Deutsche Bank AG and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to determine
whether they conspired to fix prices on derivatives linked to
the Yen.  “RBS continues to cooperate with Canada’s Competition
Bureau in this matter,” spokesman  Ed Canaday  said in an e-mail.
Gabrielle Tasse, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said she can’t
comment on an ongoing investigation.  The RBS move to abandon its challenge “allows the bureau
to move forward with its investigation of alleged collusive
conduct into the setting of Yen Libor rates,” the Competition
Bureau said in a May 31 statement from Ottawa. RBS has until
June 28 to comply with the order, the bureau said.  An Ontario Superior Court judge granted an order in May
2011 compelling the firms under investigation to turn over
records such as communications between derivatives traders and
individuals responsible for making Libor submissions.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association that
asks firms to estimate how much it would cost to borrow from
each other for different periods and in different currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  