-- Treasuries Decline as Fed’s Williams Says QE May End This Year
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-03T12:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/treasuries-fall-following-pickup-in-china-manufacturing-growth.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year yields
at almost the highest in more than a year, after Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said the central
bank’s bond buying under quantitative easing may end this year.  Thirty-year bonds declined for a third day amid speculation
data this week will add to evidence the U.S. recovery is keeping
its momentum. An index of U.S. factory output held steady in
May, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey,
while a separate forecast says the  U.S. economy  added 166,000
jobs to nonfarm payrolls last month. The 10-year term premium, a
measure of expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation, rose.  “With all with rhetoric going back and forth on Fed
tapering or not, you really need to see NFP north of 200,000 to
continue to see a bearish move in Treasuries,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  increased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.16 percent at 8:53 a.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the
1.75 percent note due May 2023 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 96 10/32. The yield on 30-year bonds climbed
four basis points to 3.31 percent.  The 10-year yield rose to 2.23 percent on May 29, the
 highest  since April 2012. It’s still less than the average of
3.58 percent for the past decade.  Tapering Purchases  Williams, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
told reporters in  Stockholm  that the Fed may start reducing the
purchases by the summer and potentially conclude the
quantitative-easing plan by year-end.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a
month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
interest rates. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the central
bank could cut the pace of its purchases if officials see signs
of sustained improvement in growth.  “Williams’ comments created a stir because he was seen by
some as a dove,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-income
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New
York. “The U.S. data we’ve seen recently is in line with higher
bond yields. We expect the tapering to take place in September,
and the program to end mid-2014, with 10-year Treasury yields
rising to 2.85 percent by the end of the year.”  Bond Slump  U.S. government debt  tumbled 2 percent last month, the most
since December 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Employment gains and increases in housing and  consumer
confidence  suggested the recovery in the U.S. economy, the
world’s largest, is gaining momentum, prompting traders to
increase bets the Fed will scale back its asset purchases.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index, which tracks more than $40 trillion of
bonds, fell 1.5 percent.  The U.S. economy’s projected new jobs in May more than
matched the 165,000 gain in April, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
Labor Department report on June 7. Figures today may indicate
manufacturing growth failed to pick up.  May’s bond rout has still left global yields short of the
tipping point that would signal a bear market.  Half Average  Yields on U.S. Treasuries, German bunds and Japanese
 government bonds  are about one standard deviation above their
historical norm. Treasury 10-year rates have reached two
standard deviations above the average twice since 2009, and each
time the notes rallied. While sovereign yields at 1.39 percent
are above the record low of 1.14 percent set May 2, they are
about half the 3.64 percent average of the past 20 years, based
on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Government Index.  Bonds tumbled in May after Fed policy makers sent mixed
signals about whether they would slow the pace of their debt
buying this year. Tame  inflation  indicates the world’s central
banks won’t pull back anytime soon, averting a further rout.  “You’d need much more than these sort of yield increases
to hang your hat on to say this is a start of a bond  bear
market ,” Robin Marshall, a director of fixed income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in  London , which oversees about
$21 billion, said in a May 30 phone interview. “I’ve seen one
in the early 1980s, and this doesn’t look like it. Inflation is
still very low, and we need to see more convincing evidence of
the economy strengthening, not just in the U.S. but elsewhere.”  Global inflation expectations, as measured by the gap in
yields between index-linked and nominal government bonds, fell
to 1.44 percentage points on May 31, the lowest in nine months,
from a two-year high of 1.73 percentage points in April,
according to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  