-- Treasury Yields at Almost 14-Month Highs Amid Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-03T21:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/treasuries-erase-gains-as-fed-s-lockhart-raises-tapering-concern.html
Treasury  yields (USGG10YR)  traded at almost 14-month highs as the heads of the Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta
and  San Francisco  renewed concern the central bank may end its
bond-buying program this year.  Benchmark  10-year notes  had rallied earlier after an
unexpected decline in U.S. manufacturing in May prompted a
paring of bets on a slowing of quantitative easing. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he wouldn’t rule out a reduction
of QE in the next few months although today’s ISM data suggest
the economy isn’t strong enough to justify a reduction in bond
buying. His comments followed remarks from  John Williams  of the
San Francisco Fed that the purchase program may end this year.  “The Lockhart comments provided further negative
impetus,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We expect the
range to hold between 2.08 to 2.23 percent.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.12 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.75
percent security due in May 2023 gained 2/32 or $0.63 per $1,000
face amount to 96 22/32.  The yield dropped earlier by as much as six basis points.
It climbed on May 29 to 2.23 percent, the highest level since
April 2012.  Fed View  Volatility as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
MOVE index was at 79.23. The level rose to 81.22 May 29, the
highest level in almost a year.  “I’d tend to be a little more cautious, and say maybe
August, September or later in the year” would be time to
consider slowing purchases, the Fed’s Lockhart said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “The issue can be on the table
in any of those meetings.”  Yields began climbing earlier after the Fed’s Williams, who
doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, told reporters in
 Stockholm  the U.S. central bank may start reducing its bond
buying by “this summer” and potentially conclude it by year-end. Williams was one of the first Fed officials to advocate
that the Fed buy bonds without setting a limit on the duration
or total for such purchases.  “Williams’s comments created a stir because he was seen by
some as a dove,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-income
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New
York.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
 interest rates . The central bank purchased $1.5 billion of
Treasuries due between February 2036 and February 2043 today.  Yields Surge  Treasuries are set to extend losses and price swings may
intensify as growth allows central banks to withdraw stimulus,
the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “Yields will go up as the economy recovers,” Stephen Cecchetti, economic adviser and head of the monetary and
economic department at the BIS in Basel,  Switzerland , told
reporters on a conference call on May 31. “The ride to
normality will almost surely be bumpy, with yields going through
calm and volatile periods.”  Ten-year yields climbed 46 basis points in May, the most
since December 2010, amid debate on the Fed’s timing in
curtailing the monetary stimulus and stronger-than-forecast
economic data.  A Labor Department report on May 3 showed the  unemployment 
rate unexpectedly fell in April to a four-year low of 7.5
percent and U.S. employers added 165,000 jobs, more than
projected. Nonfarm payrolls increased by 168,000 jobs in May,
economists forecast before a June 7 Labor Department report.  Jobs Watch  “The big event of the week should be payrolls,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “If this is a strong number, the idea of QE tapering
could be sooner than later.”  Sales of new and previously owned homes rose in April and
 consumer confidence  climbed, other data showed.  At the same time, a gauge tracked by the Fed known as the
personal consumption expenditure deflator fell by 0.3 percent in
April, the biggest drop since December 2008, a government report
said May 31.  Treasuries rose earlier after the ISM data showed
contraction. The ISM’s factory index fell to a reading of 49,
from the prior month’s 50.7, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed today. Fifty is the dividing line between growth
and contraction. The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an advance to 51.  The  gap  between 10-year Treasury yields and similar
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, an indicator
of traders’ inflation outlook known as the 10-year break-even
rate, was 2.19 percentage points today after narrowing to 2.15
percentage points on May 30, the lowest level since July 2012.
The average this year is 2.45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  