-- Reed Elsevier Sells French Unit to BNP, Rothschild Funds
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-03T09:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/reed-elsevier-sells-french-media-unit-to-bnp-rothschild-funds.html
Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , owner of the
LexisNexis database, sold its French media unit RBI  France  to
funds belonging to Edmond de Rothschild Group and BNP Paribas
Developpement to reduce its dependence on advertising revenue.  The funds bought a 75 percent stake of RBI France, while
the remaining 25 percent was purchased by managers Jean-Pierre
Seguret and Alexandre Sidommo, Reed Elsevier said in a statement
today. RBI France was sold for 40 million pounds ($61 million),
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be named because the financial details are confidential.  RBI France is the latest disposal by the Anglo-Dutch
publisher as it moves away from cyclical markets to focus on
electronic data services and research offerings. The company
sold its Australian media business in January and the Variety
Hollywood trade magazine in October. In April, Reed Elsevier
bought Mendeley Ltd., a cloud-based research and collaboration
service, to add to scientific, technical and medical publishing.  London-based Reed Elsevier said in February it expects to
post growth in underlying revenue, profit and earnings in 2013,
even as the market remains “mixed.” About 20 percent of Reed
Elsevier revenue in 2012 came from print products.  The funds’ “common goal is now to enable RBI to seize
growth opportunities in its markets,” Pierre-Yves Poirier, a
partner at Edmond de Rothschild Investment Partners, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Laura Barkatz, a Rothschild representative, declined to
comment on the amount of the purchase. Spokesmen at BNP Paribas
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Reed Elsevier shares fell 0.1 percent to 740 pence at 10:25
a.m. in  London .  RBI France publishes titles including Strategies,
Directions and Coiffure de Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  