-- Reliance Capital’s Singhania Expects India Profit Surprise
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-03T12:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/reliance-capital-s-singhania-sees-india-profit-surprise-in-2014.html
Reliance Capital Asset Management
Ltd.,  India ’s second-biggest money manager, expects earnings at
the nation’s biggest companies to expand more than 15 percent
because of falling commodity prices and lower borrowing costs.  Profit growth in the year to March 2014 has the “potential
of surprising” the 12 percent to 15 percent gain forecast by
analysts on the “upside,” Sunil Singhania, head of equities at
Reliance Capital Asset, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV
India today. Singhania, whose mutual fund unit had $17 billion
of assets as of March 31, said he favors drugmakers and software
companies.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  advanced to more than a two-year
high on May 17 as tumbling prices of oil and gold help trim the
import costs of a nation that buys more than 80 percent of its
crude from abroad and is the world’s top bullion buyer. Profit
at just eight, or 27 percent, of the 30 companies in the Sensex
have  missed  forecasts for the March quarter, compared with 43
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 and 40 percent in the
previous two quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Fewer number of companies disappointed this March than in
the last four quarters,” said Singhania, whose Reliance Growth
Fund has beaten 98 percent of its peers over the past decade.
“With declining commodity prices and falling interest rates
things should start to improve on the bottom line from June.”  Singhania joins JPMorgan Chase & Co. in forecasting an
improving outlook for Indian corporate earnings.  “We have seen the worst of the earning cycle downgrade,”
 Adrian Mowat , chief Asian and emerging-market strategist at
JPMorgan, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India on May 30.  Beating Estimates  Profits at companies including  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the
Indian unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods
company, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., the largest producer of
sport-utility vehicles, beat analysts’ estimates in the quarter
ended March amid lower raw-material costs.  The Sensex measure has climbed 1 percent this year as
overseas funds purchased a net $15.1 billion of Indian shares
and a drop in commodity costs improved the outlook on the state
of the nation’s public finances.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  measure of 24 raw materials has
slid 9 percent from its high this year reached in February as
slowing growth in  China  crimped demand for commodities.  Brent
crude  has declined 9.1 percent in 2013 and gold has plunged 17
percent. Declines in oil and gold may help cut India’s import
costs by almost $7 billion in the 12 months to March 2014,
Barclays Plc said in an April 17 note.  ‘Best Position’  “India is in the best position,” said Singhania. “We
have a surge in liquidity -- we need those dollars -- and we
have soft commodity prices. For the first time in years we are
seeing commodities soften despite a surge in liquidity, which
points to the fact that commodities are fundamentally weak.”  Indian stocks are influenced by fund from abroad. Inflows
climbed to a record $29.3 billion in 2010, making the Sensex the
best performer among the world’s 10 top markets that year. The
largest-ever outflow in 2008, during the global financial
crisis, triggered the biggest annual  slump  in the gauge of 52
percent. Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in
just two of the past 13 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2000.  “It is possible that in the near term flows might slow or
turn negative but on an annual basis our view is that inflows
will be quite strong,” said Singhania.  ‘Rupee Concern’  The weakness in the rupee may weigh on equity prices in the
near term, he said. The Sensex retreated to a one-month low
today, after tumbling the most in 14 months May 31, amid a drop
in the rupee to an 11-month low to 56.7650. A weak currency
fuels consumer prices and makes imports costlier for a nation
whose current-account gap is at a record.  “Some uncertainty you are viewing in the market might be
reflective of the” rupee’s move over 56, he said. “The rupee
has not depreciated to that extent against other currencies, but
still anything above 56 definitely causes a bit of concern.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India last cut the  repurchase rate  by
25 basis points on May 3 to 7.25 percent, extending this year’s
decrease to 75 basis points. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said May
14 the latest data showing inflation eased to a 41-month low in
April will be factored into policy decisions on June 17.  Asia ’s
third-largest  economy  grew a decade-low 5 percent in the year
ended March 31, official data showed on May 31.  “We had a period of time where Indian growth was poor and
inflation was high, and now that poor growth is translating into
less inflation the central bank has a lot of flexibility to cut
rates,” said JPMorgan’s Mowat.  Software Companies  Singhania said he favors drugmakers over consumer stocks
because of valuations. The S&P BSE Fast Moving Consumer Goods
Index trades at 31.1 times projected 12-month profits compared
with 19.5 times for the S&P BSE India Healthcare Index.
Pharmaceuticals accounted for 15.3 percent of  Reliance Growth
Fund (RELGROF) ’s assets on April 30, followed by lenders and beverage
producers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singhania said he also likes software makers, without
naming any. The S&P BSE Infotech Index has climbed 10.4 percent
in the past year and is valued at a price-to-earnings multiple
of 15.6 times. The 50-stock CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  index has rallied 23
percent in the period and trades at 16 times reported earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For the first time in the last eight to 10 years the IT
sector is trading at a PE lower than the CNX Nifty index. It
definitely makes sense to have it in the portfolio.”  Reliance Growth Fund, which held 47 billion rupees in
assets at the end of April, has  returned  29 percent annually in
the 10-year period through May 31, compared with a 22 percent
annual gain in the Sensex, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  