-- Rengan Rajaratnam Had Plea Talks Over Insider Charges
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-03T22:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rengan-rajaratnam-had-plea-talks-over-insider-charges.html
Rengan Rajaratnam, younger brother of
imprisoned hedge-fund founder  Raj Rajaratnam , has been in plea
to resolve his criminal insider-trading prosecution, the U.S.
said.  Rajaratnam, was indicted in March and accused of conspiring
with his brother to trade on material nonpublic information
about  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  The U.S.
charged him with one count of conspiracy to commit  securities
fraud  and six counts of securities fraud. Conspiracy carries a
maximum five-year prison sentence, fraud a 20-year maximum.  At his arraignment on March 25 before U.S. District Judge
Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan, Rajaratnam pleaded not
guilty. He was arraigned after being taken into custody the day
before when he arrived at  John F. Kennedy International Airport 
from Brazil.  In a May 30 letter, Assistant U.S. Attorney David Massey
asked the judge for a delay in the case, which she granted
today. Massey said that after Rajaratnam was arraigned, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office provided evidence compiled by the government,
including wiretap transcripts, summaries and trading records to
his defense lawyers, “in order to facilitate plea discussions
with the defense.”  “Thereafter the parties’ counsel met at the U.S.
Attorney’s Office to discuss the possible resolution of the case
short of trial,” Massey said. “The parties have agreed that it
would be very helpful to have additional time for these
discussions before the next conference.”  Defense Lawyer  Vinoo Varghese, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, said last week
that a scheduled June 4 hearing probably will be delayed in
order for the defense to review the evidence. Varghese today
declined in an e-mail to comment about plea negotiations.  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan Rajaratnam, while working
as a  fund manager  at Galleon Group LLC, made almost $1.2 million
from trades that occurred in 2008 based on tips provided by his
brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was implicated during
his brother’s trial, where wiretapped conversations between the
two men were played in court.  Rengan Rajaratnam co-founded Sedna Capital Management LLC,
a hedge fund advisory firm, after leaving SAC Capital Advisors
LP where he worked as an analyst from May 2003 to January 2004.
An American citizen born in Sri Lanka, Rajaratnam, is free on a
$1 million bond.  Civil Suit  A parallel insider-trading lawsuit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission against Rengan Rajaratnam
described a conspiracy that allegedly began in 2006 and lasted
until 2008.  Rengan Rajaratnam reaped more than $3 million in illicit
gains for Galleon and his proprietary account, the SEC alleged.
The SEC said its investigation is continuing. The case was
assigned to U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl .  A graduate of the  University of Pennsylvania  and  Stanford
University ’s business school, he has also worked at  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  The SEC said that after he closed down Sedna he worked
for as a portfolio manager at Galleon from 2007 to 2009, when
the fund closed after his brother’s arrest.  Raj Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence after
being convicted in 2011 on 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York 
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 