-- RHJ Defends Deutsche Bank Deal as Investor Seek Break Up
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-06-03T15:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rhj-defends-deutsche-bank-deal-as-investor-seek-break-up.html
RHJ International (RHJI)  defended its
planned purchase of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s BHF-Bank after a group of
investors called for the Belgian investment firm focusing on
banking and financial services to be broken up.  “Investments made now enable us to position the company
effectively for a future upturn,” Brussels-based RHJ said in a
statement on its website today. “Calls for a break-up of the
business, therefore, seem unconstructive and damaging.  Germany ’s
BHF-Bank would deliver a strong strategic and cultural fit.”  RHJ’s Kleinwort Benson Group unit is waiting for approval
from German regulators after agreeing to buy wealth manager BHF-Bank from Deutsche Bank in September to complement its services
in the U.K., the  Channel Islands  and Ireland. The “ill-considered and drawn out” deal presents risks to RHJ, five of
the Belgian company’s shareholders said in a joint statement
made public last week, outlining resolutions they want put to
the annual general meeting on June 18.  RHJ said it has “contractual commitments in respect of the
BHF transaction to both Deutsche Bank, as the seller, and to our
co-investors, the violation of which might expose RHJI to claims
for damages by Deutsche Bank and our co-investors.”  The investors -- Equilibria Capital Management Ltd.,  Polar
Capital Holdings Plc (POLR) , Mantra Investissement, Alpha Plus and
Overseas Asset Management Ltd. -- blamed losses and share
declines at RHJ on “erratic strategy, poor execution and a
burdensome corporate structure.” They hold 4 percent of RHJ,
according to their statement.  Shareholders should reject the group’s proposals, RHJ’s
board said in its statement today. The outcome of the purchase
of BHF-Bank “will be determined at the latest by the end of
this summer,” RHJ said.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, which is continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank by assets, agreed to sell BHF-Bank to RHJ
for 384 million euros ($500 million) after the Belgian company
found co-investors for the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  