-- Rising Junk-Debt Loads Erode Credit Quality, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-06-03T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rising-junk-debt-loads-erode-credit-quality-morgan-stanley-says.html
The record pace of U.S. junk-bond
sales is weakening the credit quality of speculative-grade
companies as debt loads expand and cash piles erode, according
to Morgan Stanley.  U.S. junk companies increased borrowings by 10 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier while the ratio of cash to
debt fell to 9.6 from almost 15 percent in 2010 and is
approaching the long-term average of 8.7 percent, strategists
led by Adam Richmond in  New York  wrote in a note to clients
dated today. Even as earnings growth slows the economic
expansion sputters, companies are “no longer feeling the need
to hoard cash,”  they wrote.  “Low rates have served as both a positive and a negative
driver of corporate fundamentals,” the analysts wrote. While
“low rates have allowed companies to lower coupon payments, in
some cases quite dramatically, and push out upcoming maturities
in the process,” they wrote, “today’s record low cost of debt
has given companies the incentive to issue debt and increase
leverage.”  Yields on junk debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , have jumped 37
basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, from a record low of
5.98 percent on May 9, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Index data. Yields have climbed as investors weigh whether
the  Federal Reserve  may start scaling back unprecedented
stimulus efforts that suppressed interest rates and pushed
investors into riskier types of debt to boost yields.  Cheapest Ever  The average ratio of debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or Ebitda, has climbed to
3.92 times from 3.42 at the end of 2011, according to Morgan
Stanley data. The gap between leverage ratios of higher- and
lower-rated junk companies also is converging as higher-ranked
firms issue at a faster pace, the strategists wrote.  High-yield companies have issued $192.5 billion of debt
this year, ahead of the $140.7 billion issued by this time in
2012, when a record $358.5 billion was sold, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “As long as rates and volatility both stay modestly low,
we do not think leverage will start dropping,” the Morgan
Stanley strategists said. “Any increase in Ebitda will likely
be matched by a proportionate increase in total debt, as
companies continue taking advantage of highly attractive new
issue markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  