-- Cotton Rises, Snaps Longest Slump in a Year: Cocoa Gains
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-06-03T20:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/robusta-coffee-extends-declines-on-speculation-of-more-supplies.html
Cotton snapped the longest slide in a
year on signs that demand will climb in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer.  In the week ended May 23, U.S.  export sales  of upland
cotton increased 16 percent from a week earlier with purchases
led by  China , Department of Agriculture data show. Futures fell
in the previous nine sessions, touching a four-month low on May
31, amid concern that slowing U.S. expansion would trim demand.  Prices have climbed 9.6 percent this year, the biggest gain
after natural gas among the 24 commodities tracked by the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index. In the season starting Aug.
1, global production will drop 2.6 percent while demand climbs
2.1 percent, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Dry
weather is hampering crops in  Texas , the biggest growing state.  “China remains the big story, and they are still buying
everywhere, especially after the technical breach we had in the
past two weeks,” Peter Egli, a Chicago-based risk manager for
Plexus Cotton Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “I see no
signs of China letting up.”  Cotton for July delivery rose 3 cents, the most allowed by
the exchange, to settle at 82.36 cents a pound at 2:30 p.m. on
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . That’s the biggest gain for a
most-active contract since October.  Drier-than-normal conditions prevailed last month in west
Texas, while rain will delay plantings in the next six to 10
days in Mississippi and  Tennessee , according to Commodity
Weather Group, in Bethesda,  Maryland . As of May 26, 59 percent
of intended cotton acres were planted compared with 76 percent a
year earlier, the government said last week.  With the unfavorable weather still affecting U.S. crops,
“it’s already too late for much of the acreage,” O.A. Cleveland, an agricultural economics professor at  Mississippi
State University  in Starkville, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  