-- Roche Drops as Bristol-Myers Leads New Cancer Race: Zurich Mover
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-06-03T15:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/roche-drops-as-bristol-myers-leads-new-cancer-race-zurich-mover.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  had its longest
streak of declines since 2011 as some analysts put  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  ahead in the race to develop the top drug in a new
class of cancer immunotherapies.  The shares fell 3.7 percent, the most since Nov. 21, 2011,
to 230.30 Swiss francs at the close of trading in Zurich today.
It was the sixth day of declines, the longest streak since Nov.
24, 2011.  Bristol-Myers is “well in the lead” with a combination of
Yervoy, a medicine already on the market, with its experimental
immune therapy nivolumab, Chris Schott, a New York-based analyst
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors today.
Meanwhile, U.S. drugmaker  Merck & Co. (MRK)  is rolling forward “the
next agent to watch,” Schott wrote.  “Roche now seems to be number three,” said Birgit Kulhoff, a  fund manager  with Rahn & Bodmer Co. in Zurich. “That
seems to say they probably haven’t left the race, but they
definitely are not leading.”  Roche’s version looked to be less effective than its U.S.
competitors in trials presented at the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology  annual meeting in  Chicago , Kulhoff said.  The Roche, Bristol-Myers and Merck drugs all work by
preventing cancer cells from using an off-switch called PD-1 to
block the body’s immune T-cells from attacking. The therapies
from  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck and New York-based Bristol-Myers interact directly with PD-1.  ‘Attack Mode’  Roche’s therapy takes a slightly different tactic, instead
blocking PD-L1, a protein that a cancer cell can use as a “stop
sign” for the T-cell’s PD-1, Niko Andre, Roche’s global head of
medical affairs, said in an interview before the conference.  “The T-cell can go directly into attack mode,” Andre
said. The strategy could be used to attack a broad variety of
different types of tumors, he said.  Roche’s version looked “somewhat less active but
potentially safer,” Leerink Swann LLC analysts led by Boston-based  Seamus Fernandez  wrote in a report. The Bristol-Myers
drugs “set a new standard” for their speedy and effective
shrinkage of tumors, while Merck’s experimental treatment beat
expectations, the Leerink Swann team wrote.  Roche’s third-best-selling cancer drug Avastin also saw
mixed results in studies at the cancer conference over the
weekend, failing to help brain tumor patients live longer but
benefiting women with cervical cancer. German drugmaker Merck
KGaA’s Erbitux also helped patients live longer than Avastin did
in the first head-to-head test of the drug in people with
metastatic  colon cancer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  