-- Rockwell Seen Assembling $16 Billion Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-06-03T13:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rockwell-seen-assembling-16-billion-deal-real-m-a.html
Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)  is proving
that demand for assembly-line components could pave the way for
the second-biggest U.S. industrial acquisition on record.  The company’s profit from parts and technology used in
factories that produce everything from cars to packaged food has
made it a recurring subject of takeover speculation. Now, an
industrial conglomerate such as  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  or
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  may become interested, MKM Partners
LLC said. Nomura Holdings Inc. said private-equity firms also
could be drawn to Milwaukee-based Rockwell’s low debt and free
cash flow yield, which topped 92 percent of manufacturing
equipment providers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rockwell is  projected  to boost profit and revenue for a
fourth straight year and offers the highest return on equity
among makers of measurement-technology and factory automation
controls. The $12 billion company, which also could appeal to
Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  as a way to expand its U.S. presence, may
command a takeover price of about $115 a share, 31 percent more
than last week’s closing level, shareholder New Amsterdam
Partners LLC said. That would be the second-biggest deal for a
U.S. industrial company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’re a high-quality, pure-play automation company and
they have a sparkling balance sheet,”  Shannon O’Callaghan , a
New York-based analyst at Nomura, said in a telephone interview.
“When you start talking companies that could be acquired, this
is always going to be in the conversation because of those
things.”  Sensors, Switches  John Bernaden, a spokesman for Rockwell, wrote in an e-mail
that “the highest value for Rockwell Automation shareholders
will be realized by Rockwell Automation remaining an independent
company and executing our growth and performance strategy. This
is the viewpoint of our board of directors and management.”  Rockwell  produces  sensors, switches and lighting technology
used to make factory operations safer and more efficient. Net
income and revenue at the robotics manufacturer are  poised  to
rise for the fourth straight year in fiscal 2013 to $753 million
and $6.4 billion, respectively, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Rockwell is one damn good industrial automation
business,”  Brian Langenberg , principal and director of research
at Chicago-based Langenberg & Co., said in a phone interview.
“It’s attractive, it’s growing. They’ve run it well.”  Deal Appetite  Rockwell has been speculated as a potential takeover target
since at least 2008, when Gabelli & Co. said the company could
be attractive to strategic buyers after its stock price had
declined. While a deal may not be imminent, Josh Pokrzywinski of
MKM said suitors could be tempted to step forward amid a record
buildup of cash at U.S. corporations.  “You could make the case that some of these larger-cap
names may say, ‘Look, organic growth is underwhelming, but we
generate a lot of cash. We don’t have a lot we can do with it,
let’s look at larger deals,”’ Pokrzywinski, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based analyst, said in a phone interview. “I do
think that Rockwell plays into that notion really well and there
are some strategic buyers who would look at Rockwell
favorably.”  Rockwell’s return on equity, a measure of profitability, is
the highest among peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rockwell’s rate of 36 percent last quarter compares
with a median of 13 percent for measurement instrument
manufacturers and automation controls and equipment makers
valued at more than $1 billion, the data show.  Likely Buyers  That high rate of return, combined with Rockwell’s growth
prospects, could be attractive to buyers, said Michelle Clayman,
the chief investment officer at New York-based New Amsterdam
Partners, which oversees about $2.5 billion including Rockwell
shares.  Clayman said ABB, the world’s largest maker of power grids,
would be the most likely buyer of Rockwell, lured by the chance
to expand in the U.S. industrial market.  While ABB’s Joe Hogan said in February that the company
wasn’t interested in purchasing Rockwell, the chief executive
officer stepped down from his post last month and it’s unclear
whether his replacement will feel the same way, according to
O’Callaghan of Nomura.  “It’s always made sense,” he said of an ABB bid for
Rockwell.  Rockwell’s focus on robotics and technology for the
manufacturing of specialized goods such as medical devices and
semiconductors would fill a hole for Emerson, whose operations
in those fields aren’t as developed, according to Nick Heymann,
a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co.  Good Fit  “It’d be a totally complementary fit with virtually no
overlap,” Heymann said in a phone interview. “The automation
business for Rockwell is thriving today.”  Honeywell, a maker of cockpit controls and thermostats,
could also be interested in a deal for Rockwell to bolster its
automation businesses, Pokrzywinski of MKM said.  Representatives for ABB, St. Louis-based Emerson and  Morris
Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell declined to comment on
whether their companies would be interested in buying Rockwell.  With relatively low debt and strong free  cash flow ,
Rockwell could even appeal to private-equity suitors, according
to O’Callaghan of Nomura.  ‘Premier Asset’  Rockwell has $1.1 billion in  debt , less than 10 percent of
its market value, and boasts a free cash flow yield of about 7
percent, higher than all but two of 24 peers for whom
information is available, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s a premier asset with an underlevered  balance
sheet ,” O’Callaghan said. “What more do you need than that if
you’re a private-equity guy and you can borrow at low  interest
rates ?”  While the company is likely to appeal to suitors, Rockwell
management has been successful at growing the business and may
prefer to remain independent, he said. Chief Executive Officer
Keith Nosbusch said at a conference last week that the company
was seeking “catalytic” acquisitions to stimulate growth.  With the  shares  up 21 percent in the last 12 months,
Nosbusch “has earned the right not to have to sell” if he
doesn’t want to, Langenberg said. For potential buyers, “it’s a
nice-looking girl that they’d like to go out with, but they’re
not going to get there.”  High Price  The price tag of a potential deal may deter suitors, said
Steven Soranno, a Bethesda, Maryland-based analyst at Calvert
Investments Inc., which oversees more than $12 billion,
including Rockwell shares.  Clayman’s estimated takeover price of about $115 a share
would give Rockwell an equity value of $16.08 billion, making an
acquisition the largest deal for a U.S. industrial company since
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. bought Burlington Northern Sante Fe
Corp. in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Rockwell shares rose 3 cents to $88.05 at 9:53 a.m.
 New York  time.  Still, Rockwell is small enough and its business is focused
enough to be digestible for larger industrial conglomerates,
said Pokrzywinski of MKM. Emerson has a market value of $41
billion, while ABB is valued at $51 billion and Honeywell at $62
billion.  “Their position as a pure play says they’re takeout-ready,” Pokrzywinski said. “To the extent they want to sell,
there would be people lining up to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  