-- Rousseff Aims $2.85 Billion at Energy Research: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-06-03T14:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rousseff-aims-2-85-billion-at-energy-research-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil  will pour 6.1 billion reais
($2.85 billion) to fund renewable-power and biofuel technology
research, accelerating its efforts to modernize its  energy
industry  and shift away from a commodity-export based economy.  The country plans to triple funds for companies including
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Petroleo Brasileiro SA that are developing
processes to turn sugar cane into high-margin chemicals and
boost ethanol output, said Alexandre Tanaka, an official with
Brazil’s research-financing agency  Finep .  Brazil’s ambition is to lead development of the next
generation of biofuels after a decade of hyperinflation stymied
research budgets. The country is seeking to become a supplier of
fuel-production technology and processes rather than purchasing
them from other countries, Tanaka said. Its position as the
world’s top producer of sugar cane may help it succeed with an
approach some U.S. companies have abandoned.  “Brazil has traditionally had a policy of substituting
imported technology and prioritizing commodities in its  trade
balance ,” Tanaka said by phone from Brasilia. When the
country’s economic policies were shaped by hyperinflation “it
was unthinkable to invest in projects that yield returns over
long periods. Technology innovation is a long-term investment.”  Tanaka’s comments are the most detailed to date on the
progress of investment programs under President  Dilma Rousseff .  Low Interest  Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos, as the innovation
agency is officially known, and the state-development bank BNDES
will provide 5.2 billion reais of loans under its PAISS program
and another government effort announced in April called  Inova
Energia , Tanaka said. The debt will carry  interest rates  as low
as 3.5 percent, less than half the benchmark interest rate.
Finep will also offer 300 million reais of grants.  The PAISS program, announced in 2011 with a budget of 1
billion reais, was expanded to meet demand and 3.1 billion reais
of loans have been approved to companies including Dow Chemical
Co. and Petrobras for research into projects like converting
cane waste into cellulosic ethanol. The leftover stalks and
leaves are typically discarded or burned. That will boost output
at cellulosic refineries by 45 percent, according to GranBio
Investimentos SA.  The agriculture companies are also starting to convert cane
into specialty chemicals used in consumer products including
skin lotion and industrial lubricants. Some of these high-margin
chemicals sell for $20 a liter, compared to about 50 cents for a
liter of ethanol. Press officials with Dow, Bunge and Petrobras
didn’t reply to e-mailed questions about government funding
programs.  Shares of Petrobras rose 0.2 percent to 20.08 reais at
11:54 am time in Sao Paulo, while Bunge fell 0.2 percent to
$69.48 in  New York .  Biofuel Research  Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica , Brazil’s power
regulator, expects utilities to channel 600 million reais into
projects in the Inova Energia program. The companies are
required to invest 1 percent of net operating revenue on
research and development as well as energy-efficiency programs.  Brazil is investing in biofuel research while companies in
 North America  are having second thoughts about converting non-food crops into fuel.  Venture capital  and private equity investment in next-generation biofuel companies in the U.S. fell 17 percent to $698
million last year from its peak in 2008, said Alejandro Zamorano Cadavid, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New York.
Investment in production plants dropped to $560 million last
year from a peak of $1.2 billion in 2010.  Coskata Inc., a U.S. biofuel company withdrew plans for an
initial public offering in March, after reevaluating its
business model last year. The company was developing systems to
turn wood waste into ethanol, and said in July that it would
switch to  natural gas  as its feedstock because it would be more
economical than using biomass.  Natural Gas  Calysta Energy LLC is also developing gas-to-fuel systems.
It’s run by Chief Executive Officer Alan Shaw, who led a six-year effort to develop enzymes to turn inedible crops into fuel
as CEO of Codexis Inc. He said biomass may not be an
economically viable feedstock because there isn’t enough readily
available. The enzyme company’s program was backed by Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, and abandoned in August.  “Cellulosic fuels and chemicals are not widely
manufactured at commercial scale because their unit production
economics have not yet been shown to be competitive with
incumbent petroleum,” Codexis said in its April 2 annual
report.  Making ethanol from crop waste may be economical in Brazil
because sugar-cane stems are discarded at the mill and growers
don’t have to return to the field after harvests to collect
residues, Zamorano said.  ‘Biotechnology Revolution’  “Brazil has the best conditions to lead a biotechnology
revolution in second-generation ethanol,” according to Bernardo
Gradin, chief executive officer of GranBio, a Sao Paulo-based
company that was approved on May 7 for a 300 million-real BNDES
loan to build a plant that will make ethanol from crop waste.  “We need companies to take a risk on innovation,” Ricardo
Rivera, a manager at national development lender BNDES’s
department for information technology and communication, said in
an interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “We had some macroeconomic
problems in Brazil which sapped the spirit of innovation here.”  Ethanol Prices  The PAISS program will increase income at mills by
extracting more value from cane, said Alexandre Comin, director
of the department of industrial competitiveness for the Ministry
of Development, Industry and  Foreign Trade . That will boost
margins as rising production costs and depressed ethanol prices
eat away at profits.  “We’re trying to boost investment in research in areas
that we think Brazil can be competitive in,” Comin said in an
interview from Rio de Janeiro. “We need to drive up the
competitiveness of ethanol without subsidizing it” like they do
in the U.S.  The PAISS and Inova Energia funding programs are meant to
lure companies into committing to long-term research projects
that eventually yield patents, Comin said. About 90 percent of
investment in Brazilian renewable-energy research projects were
made by governments last year, compared to 68 percent in  China 
and 58 percent in the U.S, according to Bloomberg.  Research Investments  Government agencies and businesses in Brazil invested
$112.6 million last year in researching renewable-energy
technologies, up 15 percent since 2009, while China spent $2.53
billion,  India  spent $145.2 million and the U.S. spent $8.63
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s hyperinflation years, from the mid-1980s to 1994,
saw consumer prices  rise  by as much as 7,000 percent a year.  Inflation (BZPIIPCY)  accelerated to 6.59 percent in March before
easing to 6.49 percent in April. The country’s annual gross
domestic product  grew  by 1.9 percent in the first quarter. The
MSCI Brazil Energy Index, a equity index that tracks five
Brazilian energy companies, has fallen 4.5 percent this year.  Solazyme Inc., a U.S. renewable-fuels company that’s
slumped more than 30 percent since its May 2011 initial public
offering, and agribusiness Bunge have been approved a loan for a
project that will use bioengineered algae, which feeds on sugar
in fermentation tanks, to produce high-value chemicals, Tanaka
said. The $145 million plant will be installed at Bunge’s Moema
sugar-cane mill in the fourth quarter and is forecast to produce
100,000 tons of its algal oil a year.  “We’re rich in natural resources but not in knowledge
industries, which makes us vulnerable to changes in commodity
prices,” Mauricio Tolmasquim, Rio de Janeiro-based president of
the government energy-research agency Empresa de Pesquisa
Energetica, said in an interview .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  