-- Rubber Extends Fourth Monthly Decline on Oil Drop, Chinese Data
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-06-03T08:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/rubber-declines-to-one-month-low-as-oil-s-drop-reduces-appeal.html
Rubber extended a fourth monthly
decline as a drop in oil and weaker-than-expected Chinese
economic data cut the appeal of the commodity as an alternative
to synthetic products used in tires.  Rubber for delivery in November dropped 0.5 percent to end
at 257 yen a kilogram ($2,566 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange. Futures lost 1.6 percent in May and have
declined 15 percent this year.  Brent crude  dropped below $100 a barrel for the first time
in a month and WTI declined amid speculation that stockpiles
will climb after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries kept its production target unchanged. China’s private
manufacturing index today fell more than forecast to 49.2, an
eight-month low, from 50.4. Levels below 50 signal contraction,
according to the government data.  “Sharp falls in crude  oil prices  and a slowdown in Chinese
economic data hurt  market sentiment , driving a decline on
Tocom,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow Enterprise
Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  Japan ’s currency traded near a three-week high against the
dollar, cutting the appeal of the yen-denominated futures, as a
decline in global stocks raised investor appetite for the haven.  “Rubber came under pressure as it lost support from the
currency and energy markets,” Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at
research company JSC Corp., said by phone.  Thai rubber free-on-board fell 3.8 percent to 88.40 baht
($2.91) a kilogram today, the lowest level since May 3,
according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  Rubber for delivery in September on the  Shanghai  Futures
Exchange rose 1.2 percent to close at 18,955  yuan  ($3,091) a ton.
Natural-rubber  inventories  dropped for a fourth week, by 0.6
percent, to 114,225 tons, the bourse said on May 31, based on a
survey of nine warehouses in Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan
and Tianjin, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  