-- Russia Cancels OFZ Auction With Yields Rising to Six-Month High
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-06-03T14:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/russia-cancels-ofz-auction-with-yields-rising-to-six-month-high.html
Russia scrapped an auction of
 government bonds  ahead of schedule for the first time in more
than a year as speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will
reduce monetary stimulus damped appetite for riskier assets.  The  Finance Ministry  canceled the June 5 sale because of
market conditions, according to a  statement  on its website
today. The yield on the benchmark OFZ due February 2027
increased 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage point, last month
and traded up four basis points more today at 7.58 percent, the
highest since November.  Russia’s government  bonds  fell the most since February 2009
last month, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes, after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could reduce the
pace of its asset purchases if officials see signs of sustained
improvement in growth. The Russian government axed an auction on
May 22 because of a lack of competitive bids, while it sold only
934 million rubles of OFZs due Jan. 2018 out of 20 billion
rubles offered the next week.  “The Finance Ministry decided not to add fire to the sell-off,” Vladimir Kolychev, head of research at OAO  Rosbank (ROSB) , said
in e-mailed comments.  The ruble was little changed against Bank Rossii’s dollar-euro basket at 36.2575. The Russian currency added less than 0.1
percent versus the dollar to 31.9925 by 6:32 p.m. in Moscow.  Ruble bonds rallied in April on speculation the central
bank would cut  interest rates  to boost the economy, which is
growing at the slowest pace since a 2009 contraction. While Bank
Rossii cut some secondary-market rates for a second consecutive
month in May, policy makers left its main rates unchanged,
citing inflation exceeding the regulator’s inflation target
range of 5 percent to 6 percent.  The Federal Statistics Service is scheduled to report
consumer-price data for May either tomorrow or on June 5.
Inflation accelerated to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent in April,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  