-- S&P Seeks to Throw Out California False-Claims Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-04T02:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/s-p-seeks-to-throw-out-california-false-claims-lawsuit.html
Standard & Poor’s  told a judge that
 California ’s lawsuit over state pension fund losses from
mortgage-backed securities should be thrown out because it
doesn’t meet requirements for a false-claims case.  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  and its S&P unit also said in a
state court filing in  San Francisco  that California Attorney
General  Kamala Harris  filed her lawsuit too late. The lawsuit is
one of more than a dozen over S&P giving the highest credit
ratings to mortgage-backed securities whose value evaporated
after the U.S. housing bubble burst.  “While there are a number of federal and state securities
laws that are specifically designed to address possible
misstatements in the context of securities transactions, false
claim statutes, like the California False Claims Act, are not
among them,” the companies said in their May 31 filing.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the
California State Teachers Retirement System lost about
$1 billion after the housing market collapsed in 2007 and the
securities backed by residential mortgages were downgraded to
junk status, Harris, a Democrat, said after her office filed the
complaint on Feb. 5.  The state complaint was filed one day after the U.S.
 Justice Department  sued the company, alleging it lied to
investors about its credit ratings for residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized-debt obligations being free
of conflicts of interest. On April 22, S&P requested that the
U.S. case in federal court in Santa Ana, California, be
dismissed.  Ratings Driver  The California lawsuit echoed the Justice Department’s
claims that S&P investment-grade ratings were driven by the
desire for business rather than by an objective evaluation of
the credit risks of the securities.  Nick Pacilio, a spokesman for Harris, had no immediate
comment yesterday on the filing.  Lawsuits against S&P alleging it inflated securities
ratings were also filed in February by Arizona, Arkansas,
Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Iowa, Maine, Missouri,  North
Carolina , Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Washington
and the  District of Columbia . Mississippi had sued earlier.  McGraw Hill and S&P removed all of the cases except
California’s from the state courts where they were filed to
their geographically overlapping federal courts as a prelude to
a bid to get them grouped for pretrial proceedings in New York.  At a May 30 hearing in Louisville,  Kentucky , S&P lawyer
 Floyd Abrams  told the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
that the state lawsuits have almost identical claims and are
based on the same underlying facts, making them suitable for
consolidation before one judge. The panel hasn’t issued a
decision on S&P’s request yet.  Possible Penalities  Justice Department officials said in February they may seek
more than $5 billion in penalties from S&P based on the losses
suffered by federally insured financial institutions that relied
on S&P’s investment-grade ratings to buy securities that were
subsequently downgraded or were exposed to defaults.  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt
obligations from September 2004 through October 2007, according
to the Justice Department’s complaint.  S&P downplayed the risks on portions of the securities to
gain more business from the investment banks that issued them,
the U.S. said in its complaint filed in  Los Angeles  federal
court Feb. 4.  The collapse in value of securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers led to a credit seizure
starting in 2007 that sent the world’s largest economy into its
longest recession since 1933, as defaults soared and home values
plummeted.  S&P, based in New York, said in its April 22 request to
dismiss the Justice Department’s lawsuit that its public
statements about its ratings being free of conflicts of interest
couldn’t form the basis of fraud allegations.  The case is the People v. McGraw-Hill Cos., CGC-13-528491,
San Francisco County Superior Court. The U.S. case is U.S. v.
McGraw-Hill, 13-cv-00779, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California ( Santa Ana ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  