-- Sanofi Ends Iniparib Research, Plans $285 Million Charge
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-06-03T17:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/sanofi-ends-iniparib-research-plans-285-million-charge.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s experimental cancer
treatment iniparib failed to help lung-cancer patients in a
late-stage trial, prompting the company to end research into the
once-promising compound and take a $285 million charge.  Development of an anti-coagulant, otamixaban, also will be
halted after the drug showed no benefit over existing therapies
in a study, the French drugmaker said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  reorganized
Sanofi’s oncology business into a full-fledged division soon
after taking over in December 2008, touting iniparib as a key
program for the company’s transformation. Sanofi got the
compound, also known as BSI-201, through the 2009 purchase of
BiPar Sciences Inc. The French company agreed to pay as much as
$500 million if iniparib met development goals.  It’s “a drug that had great phase-two results, was picked
as kind of the  rising star  at ASCO in 2009, but you have to be
humble in front of science,” Viehbacher said in an interview on
the sidelines of an event at Sanofi’s headquarters in Paris
today, in reference to the  American Society of Clinical Oncology 
meeting, which takes place every year. “Even when you have
great phase two data it doesn’t always mean it’s going to play
out in phase three.”  Previous Failure  Iniparib failed in a key study in  breast cancer  in 2011,
prompting Viehbacher to say the company wasn’t giving up on it.  At the time of the BiPar acquisition, iniparib was viewed
as possibly the most advanced drug in a new family of medicines
known as parp inhibitors.  Most cancer drugs work by blasting DNA in the malignant
cells with chemotherapy or radiation. The malignant cells can
fight back by using defenses called parp enzymes to fix damaged
strands of DNA within tumors. The new medicines are designed to
block the enzymes, helping standard treatments to kill the
cancer.  Recent research has showed iniparib cannot inhibit PARP 1
at pharmacological concentrations, Sanofi said in today’s
statement.  “In the case of iniparib, there may be an active drug in
there somewhere, but at the moment there is no clear path for
development,” Viehbacher said today. Sanofi remains committed
to building up its oncology business, he added.  “Originally the acquisition of BiPar was to also really
show we were still committed to oncology,” Viehbacher said.
“This one didn’t work out, but it led to us to being able to
recruit lots of other people and motivate our teams to say yes,
we are still interested.”  Sanofi  shares  fell 1.5 percent to close at 81.25 euros in
Paris, giving the company a market value of 107.6 billion euros
($140.8 billion). The stock has returned 57 percent in the past
year including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 36 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  