-- Santander, RBS Lead Drop in Lending by BOE Credit Program
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-03T10:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/santander-rbs-lead-drop-in-lending-through-boe-credit-program.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  led a drop in U.K. lending in the first
quarter as overall credit declined, the  Bank of England  said.  Lending by the banks fell a combined 3.9 billion pounds ($6
billion) from the fourth quarter, the BOE said in a statement in
London today on usage of its Funding for Lending Scheme. Total
FLS net lending fell 300 million pounds, less than the 2.4
billion-pound drop in the final three months of 2012, and the
BOE said it expects a further improvement later this year.  The central bank and the U.K. Treasury in April extended
the program by a year and increased incentives to get credit to
smaller companies to provide additional support to the economy.
The BOE said today many lenders intend to participate in the
extension and the plan will prevent the drop in lending this
year it had previously expected.  “The picture of flat lending growth overall is broadly as
expected at this stage reflecting reductions in some legacy
portfolios being roughly offset in aggregate by expanding new
lending,” BOE Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said. “The plans of
the FLS participants suggest that net lending volumes will pick
up gradually through the remainder of 2013.”  FLS participants drew down a net 2.6 billion pounds from
the program in the first quarter after 9.5 billion pounds in the
fourth quarter. Aggregate outstanding drawings were 16.5 billion
pounds.  ‘Disappointing’  The FLS was unveiled by BOE Governor  Mervyn King  and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last June. Cumulative
net lending fell 1.8 billion pounds since the end of June 2012,
according to today’s report. King will lead his last Monetary
Policy Committee meeting this week before he retires at the end
of the month and is succeeded by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  The data “can only be described as disappointing,”  Jens Larsen , economist at  RBC Capital Markets  and a former central
bank official, said in a statement. “For now, we do not expect
further action, but policies to enhance credit growth will
surely be one of Mark Carney’s key concerns when he takes over
at the Bank of England on July 1.”  Nationwide Building Society  led lending in the first
quarter, with 1.2 billion pounds of positive net flows, and it
borrowed 500 million pounds from the plan.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  didn’t
use the FLS in the first quarter, and made 1.1 billion pounds of
loans. Co-Operative Bank Plc led users of the facility,
borrowing 900 million pounds, while its lending fell 12 million
pounds.  “Barclays welcomes anybody who needs finance to come and
talk to us,”  Daniel Hunter , spokesman for Barclays, said in an
e-mailed statement.  FLS Extension  Lending by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  fell 983 million pounds
in the first quarter and it didn’t use the FLS, today’s report
showed. Lloyds said it is increasing lending to small- and
medium-sized companies and that as part of this focus it is
“running down certain non-core parts of our business.” The
decline in lending reported in the BOE data “is entirely the
result of this shift,” it said in a statement.  The program started in August and allows banks to borrow
treasury bills from the central bank to fund lending. Under the
original plan, they had 18 months to use the facility. That plan
also only allowed banks with access to the BOE’s discount-window
facility to use the program.  The April overhaul of the FLS extended it to January 2015
and allows banks to borrow 10 pounds next year for every 1 pound
they lend to small companies this year. If they wait to extend
the loan until next year, the amount they can borrow under the
plan is halved to 5 pounds for every pound loaned. The plan was
also expanded to allow access to some non-bank lenders such as
financial leasing corporations, which provide credit to smaller
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  