-- Semapa Focuses on Brazil Cement Plant as Portugal Market Shrinks
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/semapa-focuses-on-brazil-cement-plant-as-portugal-market-shrinks.html
Semapa-Sociedade de Investimento e
Gestao  SGPS SA, the Portuguese holding company that controls
cement maker Secil, is focused on building a cement plant in
 Brazil  as home consumption continues to slow, a board member
said.  Semapa entered  South America ’s biggest economy by buying a
50 percent stake in  Supremo Cimentos SA  in the first quarter of
2012. A new plant in the state of Parana, scheduled to start
operations next year, will increase Supremo’s cement capacity to
1.7 million tons per year from about 400,000 tons, Jose Miguel Paredes said in an interview yesterday.  “At this moment we are focused on building the plant in
Brazil,” Paredes said. “There is a growing tendency for our
cement sales from outside  Portugal  to increase.”  With Portugal’s infrastructure projects on hold after the
country received a bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2011, Portuguese cement and
building companies have been increasing their presence in Brazil
before the country’s 2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic
Games . Secil already derives 52 percent of its revenue from
foreign markets, according to Semapa’s first-quarter earnings
 report .  Portugal’s government predicts the economy will shrink 2.3
percent this year, twice its earlier forecast, before returning
to growth in 2014. The country’s economic growth has averaged
less than 1 percent a year for the past decade, while demand for
cement in January and February fell about 34 percent, according
to Semapa.  “The demand for cement in Portugal dropped again with
negative consequences for the profitability of this business
area,” said Paredes.  Dividend Policy  Semapa, which also owns paper producer Portucel-Empresa
Produtora de Pasta e Papel, posted a 73 percent drop in first-quarter net income to 12.2 million euros ($16 million). Paredes
declined to say how much Secil plans to invest in the new
Brazilian plant.  The lower earnings shouldn’t change the company’s dividend
payout policy, Paredes said. Semapa will pay this month an
annual  dividend  of 25.5 cents for the sixth straight year.  Semapa also has no plans to sell assets or carry out
acquisitions, and the company’s financing needs are secured
until 2015, according to Paredes.  “For now, we don’t plan to issue debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  