-- Senators Draft Plan to Abolish Fannie Mae, Shrink Backstop
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-06-04T15:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/senators-near-plan-to-abolish-fannie-mae-shrink-government-role.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
is putting the final touches on a bill that would liquidate
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and replace them with a government
reinsurer of mortgage securities behind private capital.  The legislation, written by Tennessee Republican Bob Corker
and Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner  with input from other
senators, is likely to be the first detailed blueprint
reflecting a growing consensus in  Washington  that the U.S. role
in mortgage finance should be limited to assuming risk only in
catastrophic circumstances. It also reflects the prevailing view
among lawmakers that the two government-sponsored enterprises
should cease to exist, according to a discussion draft obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  As a serious bipartisan effort written by members of the
Senate Banking Committee, the measure could restart the long-stalled debate over the future of the mortgage-finance system.
Still, it represents only a first step in what is likely to be a
long legislative process, and it’s unclear how much support the
authors will get from their colleagues.  “We expect the bill to change over time, as that is what
happens when legislation is debated,”  Jaret Seiberg , an analyst
at Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington Research Group, said
today in a note to clients. “We continue to believe that GSE
reform may not cross the finish line until after the next
president is inaugurated” in 2017.  First-Loss Position  The draft bill would require private financiers to take a
first-loss position adequate to cover price declines as steep as
those seen during recessions over the past century.  Housing-industry participants who have seen the draft have
been critical of the amount of risk that private capital would
assume. Meanwhile, small lenders have expressed concern that the
measure would place the burden of securitizing loans on banks
without adequate resources.  The proposal reflects the broad outlines of a plan issued
in February by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a group headed by
former Democratic and Republican senators and housing officials.
That plan has gained attention in Congress and in President
 Barack Obama ’s administration, which has yet to issue
recommendations on a path forward on housing.  “A bipartisan bill that’s thorough becomes, at a minimum,
a good baseline to begin the process of the full debate that
could go through Congress,”  David Stevens , president of the
 Mortgage Bankers Association , said in an interview.  Assume Responsibility  According to the draft, Washington-based Fannie Mae and
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  would be liquidated within
five years and the  U.S. Treasury  would assume responsibility for
their existing mortgage guarantees. The two companies, which
have been under U.S. conservatorship since 2008, package
mortgages into securities on which they guarantee payment of
principal and interest.  The two government-sponsored enterprises have begun posting
record profits after drawing a total of $187.5 billion in aid
from taxpayers to stay afloat after the housing crisis brought
them to the brink of bankruptcy. Heartened by the change of
fortune,  hedge funds  including Paulson & Co Inc. and Claren Road
Asset Management LLC have been buying shares of the companies’
junior preferred stock and urging lawmakers to drop plans for
abolishing them.  The discussion draft of the bill says any proceeds from the
liquidation first would go to the U.S. government as the senior
preferred shareholder in each of the companies, and then to
holders of junior preferred shares, followed by holders of the
common shares.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s 8.25 percent of preferred shares were trading
at $8.75 at 11 a.m., up 7 percent from yesterday’s close of
$8.20. They have climbed from $1.67 at the end of last year. The
securities have a par value of $25.  Securitization Platform  The new agency, to be named the Federal Mortgage Insurance
Corp., would continue existing efforts to build a common
securitization platform and would have the capacity to help
small lenders issue securities. The agency would continue Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac’s existing multifamily housing guarantees.  “We continue to work on a responsible and bipartisan
proposal that will maintain the availability of mortgage credit,
expand the role of the private sector in housing finance, and
better protect the taxpayers,” Kevin Hall, a spokesman for
Warner, said in an e-mail.  Laura Herzog, a Corker spokeswoman, said it would be
premature to discuss specifics of the bill “because the process
is still very fluid.”  “We hope to find something that materially improves from
the past system where gains were privatized, losses were left
for the taxpayer to clean up, and the system was way too thinly
capitalized against downturns,” she wrote in an e-mail.  The process is likely to take time.  “Given the size and complexity and government-dominance of
the mortgage market, lawmakers have to move slowly and really
take note of input from various stakeholders,” Isaac Boltansky,
an analyst at Compass Point Research and Trading, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  