-- Sharapova Joins Nadal, Djokovic in French Quarterfinals
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-03T23:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/sharapova-joins-nadal-djokovic-in-french-quarterfinals.html
Defending champions  Rafael Nadal  and
 Maria Sharapova  joined men’s top seed Novak Djokovic in the
quarterfinals of the French Open without dropping a set.  Nadal celebrated his 27th birthday by beating Japan’s Kei Nishikori, the No. 13 seed, 6-4, 6-1, 6-3 yesterday as the wind
swirled around the main Court Philippe Chatrier. The Spaniard
had his worst start to the French Open, dropping 48 games in the
first three rounds.  “It’s a very special moment to celebrate my birthday here
on the center court at Roland Garros,” Nadal said as he was
presented with a five-tier cake topped with rackets and balls.
“Today I played a little bit better than the previous day,
which is important to me.”  Nadal next plays Switzerland’s  Stanislas Wawrinka , who
overcame a two-set deficit to beat No. 7 Richard Gasquet of
France 6-7 (5-7), 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 8-6. Wawrinka is the most
successful clay-court player this season after Nadal, with 23
wins. He has yet to beat the Spaniard in nine meetings.  Russia’s Sharapova had no problem against Sloane Stephens,
the No. 17 seed from the U.S., winning 6-4, 6-3. Stephens, 20,
the youngest woman inside the top 20, reached the Australian
Open semifinals at the start of the season by beating women’s
top seed  Serena Williams , who plays Svetlana Kuznetsova of
Russia today in a quarterfinal matchup of former champions.  Italy’s Sara Errani, last year’s runner-up at Roland
Garros, faces  Agnieszka Radwanska , the No. 4 seed from Poland.  Men’s No. 2 seed  Roger Federer  of Switzerland takes on
France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the last eight today, when
fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  plays fellow Spaniard and No. 32
Tommy Robredo.  Djokovic’s Tribute  Earlier yesterday, Djokovic overcame a slow start before
beating No. 16 seed Philipp Kohlschreiber 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4.
He’ll play 35-year-old  Tommy Haas  in the quarterfinals.  After the match, Djokovic paid tribute to his former coach,
Jelena Gencic, who died at the age of 76 last weekend. After
winning his previous round, Djokovic canceled his post-match
news conference because he was upset about her death. Gencic,
who discovered him at age 6, also coached Grand Slam champions
 Monica Seles  and Goran Ivanisevic.  “It hasn’t been easy, but this is life,” Djokovic said,
when asked how Gencic’s death affected him. He called her “the
best coach” for generations of young tennis players and “an
inspiration” to him.  Haas beat Russia’s Mikhail Youzhny 6-1, 6-1, 6-3 to become
the oldest men’s quarterfinalist at  Roland Garros  since 1971.  ‘Great Success’  Haas dropped out of the top 800 two years ago when he
struggled with hip and shoulder injuries. After climbing to No.
2 in the rankings in 2002, he missed the entire 2003 season
because of a shoulder injury that needed surgery twice.  “What I’m really proud of is that I reached the quarters
here for the first time, not knowing if that was ever going to
be possible,” Haas said. “It’s a great success for me.”  Youzhny was so frustrated by his performance yesterday that
he smashed his racket into pieces on his bench. Last year, he
wrote “sorry” in the clay after taking only four games against
Ferrer in a third-round match.  In the women’s draw, Russia’s No. 12 seed  Maria Kirilenko 
ended the run of unseeded American Bethanie Mattek-Sands, 7-5,
6-4.  Mattek-Sands, one of four U.S. women in the fourth round,
ousted former champion Li Na of China last week. The 28-year-old
Minnesota-born player is coming back after dropping out of the
top 200 early in the season because of injuries last year.  “I have a lot to build on from this, so I’m happy with my
tournament,” Mattek-Sands said in a news conference.  Azarenka Advances  Kirilenko’s next opponent is Australian Open champion
 Victoria Azarenka , who eased past former title holder  Francesca Schiavone  of Italy, 6-3, 6-0. Unseeded  Jamie Hampton  of the U.S.
lost 6-0, 6-2 to former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia .  “It’s been always the most challenging for me, but I feel
like I’m finally understanding what I need to do to improve,”
the third-seeded Azarenka, who has never reached the last four
in Paris, told reporters. “I feel it’s a process, but I’m on
the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Paris at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  