-- Shire, Oprah, Fred Perry, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-03T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/shire-oprah-fred-perry-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  settled a patent lawsuit
against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , paving the way for
lower-cost generic copies of the drug Intuniv, used to treat
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  Teva, the world’s largest generic-drug company, will get a
license to market a version of the drug, Dublin-based Shire said
in a May 31 statement. The license takes effect once another
generic-drug maker,  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , has sold the drug for six
months starting in December 2014.  Shire sued Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, in April 2010 alleging
infringement of two patents for Intuniv. Shire previously
settled with Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis over the
patents. A trial of the litigation against Teva and Actavis was
held in September.  The Teva settlement couldn’t immediately be confirmed in
court papers. Shire said it submitted the agreements with Teva
and Actavis to the Federal Trade Commission for review.  Teva officials didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on Shire’s statement.  The case is Shire LLC v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 10-cv-00329, U.S. District Court, District of  Delaware 
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Oprah Winfrey’s ‘Own Your Power’ Trademark Win Overturned  Oprah Winfrey’s victory in a trademark-infringement case
brought against her over the phrase “Own Your Power” was
overturned by a federal appeals court.  The district court was incorrect in finding that Winfrey’s
use of the phrase in her magazine, on her website and in an
event constituted fair use under trademark law, the U.S. Court
of Appeals in New York said May 31. The appeals judges sent the
case back to the lower court.  Simone Kelly-Brown sued Winfrey and her company, Harpo
Productions Inc., and her magazine publisher,  Hearst Corp .,
claiming they violated Kelly-Brown’s trademark for “Own Your
Power,” which she uses for a motivational services company. She
also sued corporations including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Estee Lauder
Cos. (EL) , Clinique Laboratories LLC and  Chico’s FAS Inc. (CHS)  that
sponsored Winfrey’s Own Your Power event.  “The defendants have not adequately established a fair use
defense,” U.S. Circuit Judge Chester Straub wrote in his
opinion.  The appeals judges also overturned the lower-court rulings
in Winfrey’s favor on the claims of reverse confusion and false
designation of origin. They affirmed U.S. District Judge Paul
Crotty’s order dismissing the claims for counterfeiting,
vicarious infringement and contributory infringement.  Nicole Nichols, a spokeswoman for Winfrey and Harpo, and
Lisa Bagley, a spokeswoman for New York-based Hearst, didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment on the ruling.
Calls to Kelly-Brown’s company, Own Your Power Communications
Inc., for comment weren’t immediately returned.  Kelly-Brown hosts a radio show, conferences and a blog that
promote the message of personal empowerment.  Straub wrote in his opinion that Winfrey sought to
trademark her new enterprise, Oprah Winfrey Network, or OWN,
about the same time that Kelly-Brown registered her trademark.  Kelly-Brown sued in New Jersey federal court in July 2011
and in November the case was transferred to New York. The
defendants made a motion to dismiss all the claims. Crotty
granted that motion in its entirety in March 2012.  “There was no chance that an observer of the magazine or
event could believe that they were created by Kelly-Brown and
her company,” the defendants said in their motion.  The appeals case is Kelly-Brown v. Winfrey, 12-1207, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  Fred Perry Wins U.K. Trademark Dispute With Secret Sales  Fred Perry Ltd., the British sportswear company, won a
trademark dispute with Secret Sales Ltd., a London retailer that
sells products on TV and through the Internet, the U.K.’s Retail
Gazette  reported .  The sportswear company claimed Secret Source sold fake
merchandise bearing the Fred Perry laurel-wreath logo without
authorization, according to Retail Gazette.  The publication reported that Secret Sales agreed to pay
damages and litigation costs and promised not to sell infringing
merchandise in the future.  South Africa Professor Calls Tobacco Logo Ban Unconstitutional  A professor at Stellenbosch University’s Faculty of Law in
Matieland, South Africa, said a ban on the use of trademarks on
tobacco products would be unconstitutional and ineffective.  Speaking at his inaugural lecture at the university,
 Professor Owen Dean  criticized his nation’s proposed ban on the
use of logos on cigarette packages. He said this constituted an
arbitrary deprivation of property -- trademarks -- and an
illegal taking of a company’s asset.  “Preventing a trademark from being used leads to it being
extinguished and this amounts to the destruction of an item of
property,” he said, according to a university  statement .  He also warned that once the use of trademarks on tobacco
products is restricted, similar bans may be sought with regard
to trademarks for liquor and other products.  Dean is a former senior partner in and remains a  consultant 
to Spoor & Fisher, a Praetoria, South Africa-based IP specialty
firm.  Coach’s $5 Million Infringement Award Upheld by Appeals Court  A $5 million judgment awarded to  Coach Inc. (COH)  in a trademark-infringement suit was upheld by a federal appeals court May 31.  The leather goods maker sued Frederick Goodfellow, the
operator of Southwest Flea Market in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , in
federal court in that city in June 2010. Goodfellow was accused
of knowingly permitting vendors of counterfeit Coach products to
sell their goods from stalls in the market.  A jury awarded Coach $5.04 million in damages in March
2012, and also granted the New York-based company $186,666.61 in
attorney fees and litigation costs. Goodfellow appealed.  In its May 31 ruling, the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said any evidence of remedial efforts Goodfellow made to halt
the sale of the fake products “is hardly compelling evidence of
a reasonable response.”  Goodfellow engaged in “ostrich-like behavior,” treating
infringing activities with “knowledge and willful blindness,”
the appeals court said.  The attorney fee award was also appropriate, according to
the appeals court opinion. The lower court was “well within its
discretion” in finding Goodfellow’s actions fell into the
category of “intentional, deliberate, or willful ignorance” of
the sale of infringing good, according to the appeals court
ruling.  The appeal is Coach Inc. v. Goodfellow, 12-5666, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court case is
Coach Inc. v. 3rd Street Flea Market, 2:10-cv-02410-dkv, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Tennessee (Memphis).  The market was shut down in 2011 and Goodfellow was
arrested, WREG-TV  reported  on its website.  In June, Goodfellow pleaded guilty to smuggling charges
with respect to counterfeit  Rolex  watches sold at the market. He
was sentenced to one year home detention, three years of
supervised release, 20 hours of community service a week for the
duration of his house arrest and community service and a $5,000
fine.  That case is U.S. v. Goodfellow, 2:12-cr-20152-JTF, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Tennessee (Memphis).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom Wins Release of Some Seized Computers in New Zealand  Kim Dotcom, founder of the cloud-storage service
Megaupload.com that the U.S. shut down on copyright-infringement
charges, won the release of some computers and data seized by
New Zealand police.  New Zealand High Court Justice Helen Winkelmann had ruled
that police used illegal search warrants in a January 2012 raid
on Dotcom’s home. The judge, ruling May 31, rejected police
claims that the breaches were technical and it would be too
difficult and expensive to return and give Dotcom access to the
seized computers and data.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in January 2012 in  Virginia  on
charges of racketeering, money laundering, copyright
infringement and wire fraud through the Megaupload website, with
the U.S. calling it the biggest copyright-infringement case in
the country’s history. The Internet entrepreneur is scheduled in
August to face an extradition hearing to the U.S. from New
Zealand, where he is a resident.  Police used helicopters and a police assault team during a
raid on Dotcom’s home in a suburb of Auckland, seizing 18 luxury
vehicles, including a 1959 pink Cadillac, art, cash, computers
and hard drives.  “A miscarriage of justice did result,” Winkelmann wrote
in the May 31 ruling.  The judge said removal of cloned data from New Zealand to
the U.S. was illegal and ordered the police to ask U.S.
authorities to destroy material that’s not relevant to the
alleged crimes.  Items in New Zealand must be reviewed by police at their
cost and irrelevant material returned to Dotcom, the judge said.
None of the items in New Zealand is allowed to leave the
country, she said.  While police can retain storage devices containing a mix of
relevant and irrelevant data they should provide a clone of
those devices to Dotcom, the judge said.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General, CIV2012-404-001928, High Court of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is USA v. Dotcom, 12-cr-00003, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Merchant Ivory, Janus Settle Film Distribution Copyright Dispute  Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd., the maker of films such as
“A Room With a View,” settled a copyright dispute with New
York-based movie distributor  Janus Films LLC .  The production company filed suit in federal court in
Manhattan in August 2012, complaining that the distributor
infringed the copyrights by distributing films after their
licensing deals expired.  The agreement for all films except “Howards End” expired
in December 2011 and London-based Merchant Ivory accused Janus
of continuing to distribute them.  The closely held production company asked the court to stop
Janus from reproducing the films or otherwise using the
copyrighted materials and sought damages including all profit
related to the alleged infringement.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the May 24
filing dismissing the case. The court document did say that each
party was to pay its own litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. v. Janus Films
LLC, 1:12-cv-06325, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 