-- Janzen Disqualified From U.S. Open Qualifying for Metal Spikes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-03T20:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/singh-withdraws-from-u-s-open-sectional-as-gardiner-loses-clubs.html
Two-time  U.S. Open  champion Lee Janzen was ejected from a sectional qualifying event today in
Rockville, Maryland, for wearing metal spikes on his golf shoes.  Janzen shot 75 during the first of two rounds at Woodmont
Country Club before being notified that he violated a local club
rule barring metal cleats.  Janzen is one of more than 800 golfers competing today in
11 sectional events for 57 spots in next week’s U.S. Open
championship at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania . The
number of spots grew by one today when Richard Sterne withdrew
from the Open.  While professional golfers are permitted to wear metal
spikes, most U.S. courses only allow players to use soft,
plastic spikes on their shoes to prevent damage to putting
surfaces.  “It’s the player’s responsibility to know the rules of
competition,” Michael Cumberpatch, a U.S. Golf Association
rules official overseeing the Rockville qualifying event, said
on the Golf Channel. “The shock from most people here is that a
player would wear metal spikes and not know they weren’t
allowed. Somehow he fell through the crack.”  An e-mail was sent to all players informing them of the
course rules before the sectionals. Janzen acknowledged on
Twitter that he received the e-mail.  After this weekend’s Memorial Tournament in Dublin, Ohio,
many players remained in the area and teed off at one of two
qualifying sites in Columbus, Ohio. A total of 120 players,
including 1997 PGA Championship winner  Davis Love III , Masters
Tournament winners Mike Weir and  Trevor Immelman  and 1996 U.S.
Open champion Steve Jones, are among those competing for 15
spots in the championship at Merion, outside of Philadelphia.  Borrowed Clubs  Vijay Singh , who is suing the U.S.  PGA Tour  after he was
suspended for using deer-antler spray, withdrew from the field
in Columbus, while U.S. PGA Tour rookie Scott Gardiner is
playing with a set of clubs pieced together by an assistant pro
at the Lakes Golf & Country Club. Gardiner’s clubs failed to
arrive on his overnight flight. He had to purchase shoes from
the club’s pro shop, the U.S. Golf Association said on its
 website . Gardiner shot a 7-under 65 in his first of two rounds
with the borrowed clubs.  At Lakewood Country Club in  Dallas , 68 players are
competing for four spots.  British Open  champions Justin Leonard
and Todd Hamilton are in the field, as is two-time U.S. Junior
Amateur champion Jordan Spieth, who holds the course record of
62, shot during the 2009 Byron Nelson Junior Championship.  Champions’ Sons  In Newport Beach,  California , Steve Irwin, the 38-year-old
son of three-time U.S. Open champion Hale Irwin, and Andy
Miller, the 35-year-old son of 1973 champion Johnny Miller, are
among 102 players competing for five spots. Beau Hossler, 18, is
attempting to qualify for his third consecutive U.S. Open. Last
year at the Olympic Club in  San Francisco , Hossler briefly held
the lead during the second round before finishing tied for 29th.  Casey Martin, the  University of Oregon  men’s golf coach who
successfully sued the U.S. PGA Tour in 2001 for the right to
ride a cart because of a degenerative circulatory disorder, is
among 34 players competing for two spots in Cle Elum,
 Washington . Martin, 41, qualified for last year’s Open six years
after ending his professional career. He also played in the Open
in 1998.  The first two qualifying events took place in England and
Japan a week ago. England’s  Paul Casey  and two-time Masters
winner Jose Maria Olazabal qualified at England’s Walton Heath
Golf Club.  The U.S. Open, golf’s second of four annual major
tournaments, is scheduled for June 13-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  