-- Singapore Ex-Law Professor Jailed on Corruption Charges
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-06-03T03:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/singapore-ex-law-professor-jailed-on-corruption-charges.html
Tey Tsun Hang, a former associate
professor of law at  National University of Singapore , was
sentenced to five months in prison for abusing his position by
having sex with a student and accepting gifts from her.  “Corruption must be stamped out effectively and swiftly,”
Chief District Judge  Tan Siong Thye  said in imposing the
sentence at a Singapore subordinate court today.  Tan imposed a longer term than had been sought by
prosecutors, who had recommended that Tey, 42, be jailed for at
least 12 weeks for violating the “sacred” position of a
teacher and undermining the university’s reputation. Tey’s
lawyer Peter Low had sought only a fine for his client, or if
necessary, he said, a short jail term.  Tan raised Tey’s bail to S$150,000 ($119,000) from
S$100,000. Tey was handcuffed and led away by four police
officers.  Low said his client will be released once the bail is
processed and will appeal.  Tey was sentenced to three months in jail for having sex
with the student and two months for accepting the gifts, to be
served consecutively. He was given the same terms for a second
sex charge and three other charges of accepting gifts, which are
to run concurrently. Each charge carried a maximum sentence of
five years in jail and a S$100,000 fine.  Tey, fired by the university after his conviction, had said
the gifts and sex were part of a consensual relationship he had
in 2010 with the student, now 23.  ‘Tricked’ Student  Tey sought expensive gifts, including a S$740 Montblanc
pen, and “tricked” the student into having sex because he
could influence her grades, Tan said today. Tey had confessed to
officers of the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau that he
boosted the student’s grades. He retracted the statement during
his trial.  The former law lecturer intentionally abused his position
and also made her pay for an abortion, Tan said.  Tey, who was paid S$225,000 a year at the university, was
stripped of his tenured professorship and  Singapore  permanent
resident status, Low said on May 28.  He has suffered “extreme shame” from the publicity
surrounding his lapse of judgment, his lawyer said.  The case is Prosecutor v. Tey Tsun Hang. DAC027011/2012.
The Subordinate Courts of Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  