-- Smithfield Investor Continental Grain Supports China Deal
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-06-04T07:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/smithfield-investor-continental-grain-supports-china-deal.html
Continental Grain Co., the  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD)  investor that called for a breakup of the pork
supplier, said it supports the $4.7 billion takeover offer from
Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.  Continental will exit its shareholding following the bid,
the closely held-company said yesterday in a statement.
Continental Grain has a 5.8 percent stake in Smithfield, making
it the largest investor after BlackRock Inc., according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Smithfield, the world’s largest hog producer, should be
split into three businesses after its shares lagged behind those
of competitors including  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL)  and Tyson Foods
Inc., Continental Grain said in a March 7 letter. The investor
said April 25 a breakup of the Smithfield, Virginia-based
company would achieve a stock price of $40 within three years.
Smithfield last week agreed to a $34-a-share takeover offer from
Shuanghui.  “We have been advocating for value creation and are
pleased that the Smithfield board of directors and management
are being proactive in realizing value for the benefit of all of
its shareholders,” Continental Chief Executive Officer Paul J. Fribourg said in the statement.  Fribourg resigned from Smithfield’s board in 2009 after he
disagreed with a $250 million share sale by the company.  ‘Too Expensive’  Buying Smithfield would give Hong Kong-based Shuanghui,
 China ’s top pork producer, access to more advanced production
technology as well as 460 farms that raise about 15.8 million
hogs a year. The deal, valued at about $7.1 billion including
debt, would be the largest for a meat producer and China’s
biggest takeover of a U.S. company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The U.S. producer had 30 days to continue talks with
possible buyers Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl and JBS SA, according
to a person familiar with the matter said last week.  JBS, the third-largest U.S. hog producer, didn’t bid for
Smithfield because the price was too high, CEO Wesley Batista
said yesterday.  “Smithfield was interesting, but too expensive and it
didn’t made sense price-wise,” Batista said in an interview at
an event in  Sao Paulo . “Hypothetically, we would be willing to
pay much less than the Chinese offered,” he said, declining to
elaborate.  Shuanghui International is a holding company that counts
among its shareholders CDH Investments Fund Management Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., New Horizon Capital, Kerry Group and
Temasek Holdings Pte., as well as Shuanghui employees and
management, according to its website.  Other Owners  The management, headed by Chairman Wan Long, has 36.23
percent of the shares of Shuanghui International, CDH has 33.7
percent and Goldman Sachs holds 5.18 percent, according to a
document filed in November 2011 to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange
by Citic Securities Co., which was hired to advise on a
restructuring.  Management’s shares have twice the  voting rights , giving it
overall control of Shuanghui International, according to the
document. An e-mailed request to Shuanghui International for an
updated shareholder list hasn’t been answered.  Shuanghui Group, a unit of Shuanghui International, has
been known as Shineway Industry Group Co., and some of its pork
ribs are sold under the Shineway brand, according to the  website 
of Shuanghui Group.  Smithfield rose 0.1 percent to $32.98 yesterday in  New
York . Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., Shuanghui’s
listed unit, climbed 0.8 percent to 41.43  yuan  at 2 p.m. in
Shenzhen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  