-- S. Korea Issues Power Shortage Alert Amid Nuclear Stoppages
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-06-03T09:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/south-korea-issues-power-shortage-warning-amid-nuclear-stoppages.html
South Korea  issued a preliminary
power-shortage warning as rising temperatures boosted the use of
air-conditioning while the shutdown of two nuclear reactors cut
electricity supply.  Companies including Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai
Motor Co. will adopt power-saving measures to help the country
avert shortages, the Energy Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement following a meeting between executives and Energy
Minister Yoon Sang Jick.  Electricity reserves fell below a threshold of 5 million
kilowatts today, prompting Korea Power Exchange to issue a level
1 alert at about 1:31 p.m. local time, according to the website
of the state-run electricity distributor. That’s the lowest
warning level.  South Korea, which depends on nuclear energy for more than
30 percent of its electricity, halted two nuclear reactors last
week and delayed the start of operations at another after
discovering that the facilities were using components whose
quality certificates were faked. The country may face
“unprecedented” power shortages during the summer, Vice
Minister for Energy Han Jin Hyun said May 28.  Samsung Electronics (005930)  will adopt measures including
maintaining office temperature above 28 degrees Celsius (82
degrees Fahrenheit), according to the Energy Ministry’s
statement. Hyundai Motor will reduce power consumption without
affecting production, while steelmaker Posco will maximize use
of its generators during peak demand hours, the ministry said.  Other companies adopting power-saving steps include GS
Caltex Corp., and SK Energy Co., according to the statement.  Temperatures in cities including Gwangju and Daegu reached
29 degrees Celsius today, according to the Korea Meteorological
Administration. Temperatures in South Korea in June and August
will be higher than in previous years, according to the weather
agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  