-- South African Airways Aims to Make Widebody Order Within 90 Days
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-06-03T14:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/south-african-airways-aims-to-make-widebody-order-within-90-days.html
South African Airways  plans to place
an order for 25 to 35 wide-body airliners within 90 days as the
carrier looks to replace its aging fleet with more efficient
aircraft.  The airline is considering both the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 and the
Airbus SAS A350, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Nico Bezuidenhout said today in an interview in  Cape Town . The new
jets will be phased in starting in 2017, the executive said.  “For everyone advantage that you can name on the one
manufacturer you can name a counter advantage on the other,”
Bezuidenhout said at the annual general meeting of the IATA
industry body. “It’s kind of like airline food in a sense:
everything tastes like chicken eventually.”  Monwabisi Kalawe took over as chief executive officer of
 Africa ’s biggest airline on June 1 with the task of returning
the carrier to profit. Johannesburg-based SAA had a loss of 1.36
billion rand ($140 million) for the year ending March 2012 and
has faced management upheaval, as well as calls by the nation’s
opposition party for a sale. A turnaround has been submitted and
is being considered by the government.  “The crucial thing is to turn the finances of the airline
around and ensure we bring it back to sustainability and
viability over the next year or two,” said  Malusi Gigaba ,  South
Africa ’s Minister of Public Enterprises. A sale of the carrier
is not under consideration by the government, he said.  SAA has arranged funding for the first ten of the next
twenty A320 deliveries on a sale-and-lease-back basis,
Bezuidenhout said. Future orders may be financed with
shareholder or public debt market funding, he said.  The mid-sized Airbus A350 variant sells for about $288
million at list price, compared with $243.5 million for the
787-9. Companies typically get discounts on large deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  