-- Sprint Says Dish’s Clearwire Bid Isn’t Actionable or Legal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-03T20:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/sprint-says-dish-s-clearwire-counterbid-not-actionable-or-legal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , trying to ward
off a  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  counteroffer for takeover target
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , said the Dish bid isn’t “actionable” because
it would break the law and Clearwire’s equity holder agreement.  “Several rights demanded by Dish, including a contractual
agreement to designate at least three Clearwire board members
and the right to veto certain Clearwire actions, are violations
of the EHA or  Delaware  law,”  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint
said today in a statement.  Dish, the satellite-TV provider controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , topped Sprint’s bid for Clearwire last week by 29
percent. Dish offered $4.40 a share, compared with Sprint’s
$3.40 price. Dish’s deal would value all of the shares in
Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire, including a stake already
held by Sprint, at about $6.5 billion.  Sprint, which owns slightly more than 50 percent of
Clearwire, has been attempting to buy the rest since December.
It increased its offer last month to $3.40 a share, seeking to
satisfy a bloc of investors who oppose the deal. A full takeover
of Clearwire would let Sprint tap the company’s wireless
spectrum, helping the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier
bolster its network.  “It’s hard to see how Dish gets it done,” said Jennifer
Fritzsche, an analyst with Wells Fargo & Co.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment.  ‘Open, Competitive’  Crest Financial, the largest independent minority Clearwire
shareholder, opposes the Sprint deal and said again today that
it wants an “open, competitive” bidding process for Clearwire.  Clearwire shares  fell 1.3 percent to $4.42 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 53 percent this year, lifted by
the bidding war.  Dish kicked off the takeover fight in January when it bid
$3.30 a share for Clearwire, topping Sprint’s $2.97 price. The
satellite company then made a bid for all of Sprint in April,
offering $25.5 billion for the carrier in an effort to expand
into the mobile-phone business. Dish said last week that its
pursuit of Clearwire doesn’t diminish its interest in merging
with Sprint.  Clearwire, which had scheduled a vote on the Sprint
takeover deal for May 31, adjourned the meeting and said it
would reconvene on June 13. A special board committee is
studying the Dish offer.  “The special committee noted that while the most recent
Dish proposal raises issues that need to be discussed with Dish,
the proposal appears to be more actionable than Dish’s previous
proposal,” Clearwire said in a statement on May 30.  Board Members  Sprint disputed that idea today, pointing to the law in
Delaware, where Clearwire is incorporated. Dish’s proposal
depends on obtaining at least 25 percent of Clearwire’s shares
and would let the satellite company appoint three or more
directors to the board.  “Clearwire’s granting the governance rights required by
Dish would effectively require Sprint to give up certain
bargained-for rights in clear violation of Delaware law,”
Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said in the statement.  The deal also would violate an equity holders’ agreement
forged in 2008 when Clearwire was created as a joint venture
between Sprint and other companies. The rules wouldn’t allow the
Dish offer to proceed, Sprint said.  “Having invested billions, I am sure you understand why
Sprint is not willing to give up rights that were fundamental to
the investment it made,” Hesse said.  Full Review  Mike DiGioia, a Clearwire spokesman, acknowledged the
Sprint letter today and said his company is still analyzing the
Dish proposal.  “The special committee has not made any determination to
change its recommendation of the current Sprint transaction, and
we will have no further comment until they have finished their
full review,” DiGioia said.  Dish has implied they are open to some sort of partnership,
while at the same time maneuvering against Sprint for more
control of Clearwire, said Fritzsche.  “Dish has done an amazing job of creating options for
itself, so I don’t want to say it, but it looks like they’ve
been out-lawyered,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  