-- States to Lose $8.4 Billion Without Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/states-to-lose-8-4-billion-without-medicaid-expansion.html
Texas , Louisiana and 12 other U.S.
states that are declining to expand Medicaid under President
 Barack Obama ’s health overhaul will lose at least $8.4 billion
in federal funding in 2016 alone, a study found.  About 3.6 million people who would have been eligible for
Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act will be left
without health insurance, costing the 14 states an additional $1
billion in uncompensated care, according to  research  from the
Rand Corp. published in the journal Health Affairs. States
“would do best to expand Medicaid,” the researchers said.  “State policy makers should be aware that if they do not
expand Medicaid, fewer people will have health insurance and
state and local governments will have to bear higher costs for
uncompensated care,” wrote  Carter Price  and  Christine Eibner ,
researchers with the Rand Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  About 25 million Americans are projected to gain insurance
under the health-care law, including 13 million through the
state-federal Medicaid program for the poor and the rest through
new marketplaces selling subsidized health plans to people who
don’t get coverage at their jobs. Most Republican governors have
balked at the Medicaid expansion, citing costs to their states
despite the federal government’s plans to cover 100 percent of
the tab for the first three years and at least 90 percent in the
years following.  ‘Hollow’ Promise  “The federal government’s promise of billions of dollars
in the coming years is hollow,” said U.S. Representative Joseph Pitts of  Pennsylvania , a Republican who chairs the health
subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “These
projections are based on a government already trillions of
dollars in debt finding a way to pay for a massive expansion of
state programs.”  Pennsylvania has so far chosen not to participate in the
Medicaid expansion.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, has resisted calls
to expand Medicaid in his state, where a higher proportion of
the population is uninsured than anywhere else in the country.
The expansion would cost taxpayers too much, he said.  “They tell us to take the money -- in the case of Texas,
$4 billion -- because it’s free,” Perry said in a speech on
March 14 in Washington. “But there is nothing free. This is our
money, or at least money that we’ve tacked onto the national
debt either by borrowing from  China  or by pulling it right off
the printing presses.”  While the Rand researchers assume 14 states would refuse to
expand Medicaid, as many as 20 have yet to act, according to
data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit group based
in Menlo Park,  California , that  tracks  the progress of the
health law.  Eligibility Rules  The health law makes all Americans eligible for Medicaid if
their incomes don’t exceed 138 percent of the federal poverty
level, or about $32,500 for a family of four this year. In
states that don’t expand the program, people earning poverty-level wages and higher who don’t get insurance at their jobs
will be able to buy policies on the new health exchanges. To
help pay premiums, they’ll get subsidies that diminish as their
income rises to 400 percent of the poverty level, or about
$94,200 for a family of four.  Working-age adults who earn less than the poverty line and
live in states that don’t expand Medicaid are unlikely to
qualify for the program because of “restrictive eligibility
requirements,” the Rand researchers said yesterday in their
report. Most states currently don’t offer Medicaid to childless
adults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  