-- Stephens Overcomes Slump, Williams Controversy in Paris
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-03T00:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/stephens-overcomes-slump-williams-controversy-in-paris.html
Sloane Stephens just wants to let her
tennis do the talking at the French Open.  Little known outside of the sport until January, the 20-year-old was thrown into the spotlight at the Australian Open,
where she reached her first Grand Slam semifinal by beating
fellow American Serena Williams.  Lauded as the successor to the 15-time major champion,
Stephens’s form slumped after  Melbourne . Instead, her comment
that world No. 1 Williams had been cold to her drew more
attention than her tennis.  “Lesson learned,” Stephens said in an interview in Rome
shortly before Roland Garros.  Stephens was cited as saying by ESPN The Magazine last
month that Williams hadn’t said hello to her since  Australia ,
unfollowed her on Twitter and deleted her as a BlackBerry
messenger contact.  Although the 17th-seeded Stephens, the youngest woman
inside the top 20, said she hadn’t read the article and “won’t
ever read it,” she didn’t deny making the remarks. She said she
and Williams talked face-to-face when the two were both playing
in  Madrid  last month.  Williams said the pair have discussed the controversy.  “It’s between us and I think it’s just best kept that
way,” Williams said in  Rome .  ‘Tough Time’  Between Melbourne and Rome last month, Stephens failed to
win back-to-back matches on the women’s tour.  “It was all a lot more demanding,” Stephens said. “I
played so much, I needed a break. It was definitely a tough time
for me.”  U.S. Fed Cup captain Mary Jo Fernandez said that Stephens
had to adjust her expectations following a season when
“everything was a bonus.”  “Every match she won was an achievement,” Fernandez said
in an interview. “Now that she’s won matches and is inside the
top 20, she’s expected to win and the pressure changes. People
are now looking to beat you, you are now the one with the target
on your back.”  At Roland Garros, Stephens has been in the headlines again
-- this time for her tennis. For the second year in a row, she’s
made the fourth round in Paris, where she’ll play defending
champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  today.  She’s not just sharing the spotlight with Williams this
time round.  American Women  Stephens is one of four U.S. women to make the last 16, the
country’s best showing in any major since the 2004 U.S. Open.
There no American men in the fourth round.  Bethanie Mattek-Sands, who ousted former champion Li Na of
 China , faces Russia’s Maria Kirilenko. After beating 2011
Wimbledon winner  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic,  Jamie
Hampton  faces Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia . Williams yesterday
moved to the quarterfinals with a 6-1, 6-3 win against  Italy ’s
Roberta Vinci.  When asked if Stephens has the potential to win a Grand
Slam tournament, Fernandez said “why not?”  “A Grand Slam champion is always so hard to predict, but
she’s got the weapons,” said Fernandez, who is working at
Roland Garros for broadcaster ESPN. “I always look for someone
that can run, that can defend and that has a shot they can hurt
you with. And she’s got that. It really comes down to the mental
side of it. When you see people who have won majors in the past,
I’d say 99 percent of them were all very mentally tough.”  Family Tragedies  Stephens has had to overcome a number of challenges in her
private life.  Spurred on by her mother, Sybil Smith -- an All-American
swimmer at Boston University -- and her stepfather Sheldon
Farrell, Stephens started playing tennis at age nine. Since
marrying Smith in 1997, Farrell had helped raised her. He died
of cancer in 2007. Two years later, Stephens’s biological father
John Stephens -- a former New England Patriots running back --
was killed in a car accident.  The family moved to  Florida  from  California  when Stephens
was 11 so she could train at Saviano High Performance Tennis
Academy in Fort Lauderdale. Eight years later, she became the
first U.S. teenager to reach a Grand Slam semifinal since
Williams at the 2001 U.S. Open.  “Not very many kids at my age dealt with losing two dads
pretty close in time,” Stephens told reporters at Roland Garros
after her first-round win. “It’s just me and my mom and
brother, so it’s definitely a learning experience for all of us.
Tough time, but got through it and came out on top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  