-- Stocks in Switzerland Drop to Their Lowest in Six Weeks
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-03T15:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/stocks-in-switzerland-decline-as-roche-ubs-shares-drop.html
Swiss stocks  fell, with the Swiss
Market Index dropping to its lowest level in six weeks, as a
gauge of Chinese manufacturing slipped and concern grew that the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce its debt purchases.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  slid the most in 18 months after a study
showed that its Avastin drug failed to extend the lives of
patients with a type of  brain cancer .  Addex Therapeutics Ltd. (ADXN) 
slumped 30 percent.  SGS (SGSN)  SA, the world’s biggest product
inspector, advanced 1.1 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  retreated 2.1 percent to 7,780.98 at the close of
trading in Zurich, its lowest level since April 22. The gauge
posted a 2.7 percent decline last week, its biggest since
November. The benchmark measure still rose 0.5 percent last
month, completing its longest streak of gains since 1997. The
Swiss Performance Index lost 2 percent today.  “Just as we’ve seen in the U.S. on Friday and this morning
in Asia, it’s especially the fear of an end of the loose
monetary policy of the Fed that weighs on markets,” said Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,
Switzerland. “This fear is present and will increase until we
get the U.S. labor data on Friday. Investors are rather cautious
at the moment. Most of them probably expect a continuation of
the correction or a sideways market in the next few days.”  U.S. stocks dropped on May 31 as better-than-forecast data
on business activity and  consumer confidence  intensified concern
that the Fed will scale back stimulus. A Labor Department report
on Friday may show that the world’s biggest economy created
167,000 jobs last month, beating the gain in April, according to
the median forecast from 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Volumes Rise  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 17 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said their Chinese
manufacturing index, released today, fell to 49.2 in May from
50.4 in April. A reading below 50 means that activity
contracted. The  official index  for the industry, released on
June 1, rose to 50.8 from 50.6.  The  final reading  of a purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area climbed to 48.3 in May.
That exceeded the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey for a reading of 47.8.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index  fell to 49 last month from 50.7 in April. That missed the
median forecast of economists for a reading of 51.  Roche Retreats  Roche declined 3.7 percent to 230.30 Swiss francs,
contributing the most to the  SMI’s drop . The world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs presented the results of a study into
Avastin’s effectiveness for people with glioblastoma at a
meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. A separate
study showed the treatment helped prolong the lives of women
with an aggressive form of cervical cancer.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  slid 1.9 percent to 67.70 francs, while
 Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  lost 1.4 percent to 56.45 francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
declined 3.1 percent to 27.86 francs, while  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER)  lost 1.3 percent to 37.49 francs.  Addex tumbled 30 percent to 4.50 francs. Chief Executive
Officer Bharatt Chowrira will step down, with Chairman Andre Mueller taking over in the interim, the company said on May 31
after European markets closed. Addex added that it has reduced
its staff to only two employees.  SGS climbed 1.1 percent to 2,185 francs. Exor SpA, a
holding company owned by the Agnelli family, sold its stake in
SGS to Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA for 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion). Exor, which also holds the family’s shares in  Fiat
SpA (F) , will use the proceeds from the sale of its 15 percent
holding to pursue new investments, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  