-- Storm With Chance to Turn Tropical May Curb Florida Heat
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-03T20:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/storm-with-chance-to-turn-tropical-may-curb-florida-heat.html
A weak low-pressure system with a
one-in-five chance of becoming tropical is drifting northeast
through the  Gulf of Mexico  and may keep temperatures lower in
 Florida  and the South, damping energy demand, forecasters say.  Any strengthening of the storm currently off  Mexico ’s
Yucatan Peninsula is likely to be slow because of “marginally
favorable” conditions, according to the U.S.  National Hurricane
Center  in Miami. Cooler weather may keep air conditioning use
down, lessening the need for fuels such as natural gas to
produce electricity, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “It has a very short window to do something,” Rogers said
in a telephone interview. “My main concern is that it will be a
demand killer.”  The system may be bring clouds and moisture to Florida and
the Southeast, Rogers said.  Wind shear, which can disrupt the structure of tropical
systems, may weaken a bit by June 6, giving the system a brief
chance to become Andrea, the Atlantic season’s first tropical
storm, said Dan Kottlowski, a tropical weather expert for
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  As it continues to move east, it will encounter more wind
shear and cooler waters, both of which will rob it of its
ability to maintain the characteristics of a tropical storm, he
said.  “Systems like this, even though they are really
disorganized, they can produce a lot of rainfall,” Kottlowski
said by telephone.  Miami Forecast  High temperatures are expected to range between 83 and 85
degrees Fahrenheit (28 and 29 Celsius) in Miami this week,
according to the  National Weather Service . The normal high for
this time of year is 89. Last year, the temperature was above 90
four times in the first seven days of June.  The  Atlantic hurricane season  began on June 1 and ends on
Nov. 30. Forecasters are expecting more than 12 storms, the 30-year average, will form in the Atlantic this year.  The eastern Pacific season began on May 15 and has already
produced two storms off the west coast of Mexico.  Today,  Colorado State University  restated its prediction
from April that 18 named storms would form in the Atlantic, nine
of which could become hurricanes. A system gets a name when its
sustained winds reach 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour and it
becomes a tropical storm.  Last month, the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  predicted there would be 13 to 20 storms this
year. The 30-year average is 12 and for each of the last three
years there have been 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  