-- Swiss Franc Weakens Against All Major Currencies
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-06-03T12:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/swiss-franc-weakens-against-all-major-currencies.html
The franc weakened for the first time
in four days against the euro as signs  Europe ’s economy is
stabilizing damped demand for Swiss assets as a haven.  The franc declined at least 0.2 percent against all of its
16 major peers after a report showed manufacturing in the euro
region fell at a slower pace than initially estimated in May.
Readings for Switzerland,  Norway , Sweden and the U.K. also
exceeded analyst predictions. The currency is still “highly
valued” after sliding against the euro and dollar this year,
Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said, according to
an interview with the Schweiz am Sonntag published yesterday.  “If we continue to see a stabilization within some of the
core European data, then that’s going to provide some support
for the financial markets and lead to an unwinding of safe-haven
positions,” said  Ian Stannard , the head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “That will leave
the  Swiss franc  exposed.”  The Swiss currency fell 0.4 percent to 1.2458 per euro at
2:48 p.m. in Zurich. The franc, which investors buy at times of
uncertainty, has declined 3.1 percent against the euro this year
as the 17-nation bloc’s fiscal crisis abated.  Switzerland’s currency slid 0.3 percent to 95.77 centimes
per dollar.  “The Swiss franc’s use as a safe haven, particularly from
the developments within Europe, is now likely to start
declining,” Stannard said. “That then could see its status
change from a haven into a funding currency and that’s when it
will really start to come under pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  