-- Synta Falls as Study Shows Less Cancer Survival Benefit
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-03T20:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/synta-lung-cancer-treatment-helps-boost-survival-study-shows.html
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. (SNTA)  plunged
the most in four years after its experimental lung cancer drug
showed less benefit than anticipated in a study.  Synta  fell  34 percent to $4.87 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest single-day drop since February 2009. The shares have
declined 4.5 percent in the past 12 months.  Patients given the company’s ganetespib treatment along
with docetaxel, a standard chemotherapy for lung cancer, had a
32 percent increase in survival compared with those given
docetaxel only, Synta said. The results from the company-funded
study, presented today at the  American Society of Clinical
Oncology meeting in Chicago , showed less benefit than the
previous update of the study, released in October at another
scientific meeting.  The shorter survival result “was considered a
disappointment by investors, leading to today’s sell-off,”
George Zavoico, an analyst with MLV & Co. in New York, said in a
note to clients. “However, it is our view that even a 4-plus
month improvement in median overall survival in this difficult-to-treat patient population is a significant achievement that
must now be confirmed.”  252 Patients  Researchers in the study included 252 patients with
advanced non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma. Adenocarcinoma
accounts for almost half of the 170,000 cases of non-small cell
lung malignancies diagnosed in the U.S. each year, according to
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology . Half of the patients
in the trial received ganetespib plus docetaxel, while the other
half were given just docetaxel.  Those given ganetespib had survival of 9.8 months compared
with 7.4 months in the docetaxel-only group. The group reported
an 18 percent reduction in the risk of death, which wasn’t
statistically significant. Previously, research presented at the
European Society for Medical Oncology on Oct. 1, showed a
reduction in death risk of 31 percent.  Ganetespib works by blocking a protein, known as heat shock
protein 90, that helps activate many cancer-promoting compounds
in the body and supports the growth and survival of tumor cells.
Results reported today were from the second of three stages of
human testing generally required for marketing approval.  Leading Cause  About 228,190 new cases of  lung cancer , the leading cause
of cancer death in men and women, will be diagnosed this year in
the U.S., according to the  American Cancer Society . If approved,
ganetespib may be the first new drug for  non-small cell lung
adenocarcinoma  in almost a decade, said Safi Bahcall, chief
executive officer of Lexington, Massachusetts-based Synta.  “This is the first time we’re seeing a real survival
advantage in this setting,” Bahcall said in a telephone
interview. “This is a patient population where there hasn’t
been a new drug in nine years. These results suggest real
potential that this drug can move the needle on survival for
these patients.”  Bahcall said the company could seek U.S. Food and Drug
Administration clearance for the treatment in the next two years
if a bigger trial, now under way, shows similar results. Synta
also is studying the treatment in cancers of the breast, colon
and blood.  Docetaxel, a generic medicine, is also sold by  Sanofi (SAN)  under
the name Taxotere. Survival for patients in the ganetespib group
who were diagnosed with their disease at least six months prior
to treatment rose about 67 percent, the study showed. These
patients are being studied in a separate trial.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  