-- U.A.E. Plans to Merge Aluminum Makers in $15 Billion Venture
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-06-04T08:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-a-e-aluminum-smelters-plan-merger-to-form-15-billion-venture.html
Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co.
will buy a stake in state-owned Dubai Aluminium Co. to merge the
 United Arab Emirates ’ two aluminum smelters and create a $15
billion joint venture, a person with knowledge of the plan said.  Mubadala will pay an undisclosed sum, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the plan is confidential. It
will team up with state-owned Investment Corp. of Dubai to join
Dubai Aluminium with Abu Dhabi-based smelter Emirates Aluminium
Co. in an equally owned venture, Mubadala and ICD said.  Aluminum producers worldwide are contending with oversupply
that’s squeezing profits, while nations in the  Persian Gulf  are
developing metals to petrochemicals to cut reliance on oil sales
and add jobs. Dubai and state-linked companies are preparing to
repay about $20 billion in debt in 2014 in what Moody’s
Investors Service has called a “pivotal year” for the emirate.  “The No. 1 reason for doing a deal like this has got to be
more on the financial side, in that this may help them better
raise funds to expand,” Kenneth Hoffman, a senior metals
analyst with Bloomberg Industries, said by telephone. “Here you
have two very young companies with very low-cost facilities, so
this is a venture that’s going to consolidate to expand.”  Emirates Aluminium, or Emal, is currently held between
Mubadala and Dubai Aluminium, or Dubal.  Output Growth  The new joint venture, Emirates Global Aluminium, will have
an enterprise value of more than $15 billion, Mubadala and ICD
said in a statement yesterday. It will be the fifth-largest
global aluminum maker once Emal completes an expansion in 2014,
they said. Emal is raising annual output to 1.3 million metric
tons from 800,000 tons. Dubal produces 1 million tons a year.  “The creation of a new global industrial champion anchored
in the U.A.E. is an important step towards realizing our vision
for a diversified and sustainable economy,” Mubadala Chief
Executive Officer Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak said in the
statement. Mubarak, also chairman of Emal, will take the same
role at Emirates Global. Dubal CEO Abdulla Kalban will be
managing director and CEO of the merged company and Emal CEO
Saeed Al Mazrooei will head its U.A.E. operations.  Officials at Dubal couldn’t be reached by telephone at the
company’s Dubai offices to comment further on the transaction.
The merger is set to be completed next year, the partners said.  Dubai Debt  Dubai pulled itself back from the brink of default in 2009
with the help of $20 billion from Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital
and its largest sheikhdom, and the national central bank. The
second-largest emirate needed the bailout after state-linked
companies that borrowed to help build Dubai into a tourism and
commercial hub saw access to funds dry up in the global
financial crisis and as property prices plunged.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Dubai accumulated
about $113 billion of debt as it grew. The government has $26
billion of principal payments outstanding on bonds, including
$17.9 billion maturing next year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Dubai World is among state-linked companies with impending
debt repayments. The company, which holds port operator  DP World
Ltd. (DPW) , has $4.5 billion in debt due in 2015, Bloomberg data show.  The smelter deal “should help quieten the doomsayers who
like to exaggerate the competition between the two emirates,”
Chavan Bhogaita, head of markets strategy at  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , said yesterday. “Not only does this deal
benefit the two emirates, but it firmly places the federation on
the map as a major player in the aluminium industry.”  Earlier Approach  It’s not the first time Mubadala has sought to acquire a
holding in Dubal. Gulf News reported in March 2011 that the
 investment company  had offered to buy a stake. The Dubai smelter
was valued at $7 billion at the time, the newspaper said, citing
Vice Chairman Ahmad Humaid Al Tayer.  Combining the U.A.E.’s metals producers may help create a
company with the scale needed to get better prices when
accessing capital or raw materials such as bauxite, according to
Bloomberg’s Hoffman and Aleksandar Stojanovski, a Dubai-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. Mubadala is seeking bauxite through
ventures such as its Guinea Alumina Corp. partnership.  Emal intends to spend about $4.5 billion on the planned
capacity expansion. It raised a $3.4 billion loan in April, a
banker familiar with the deal said at the time. It may sell a
bond this year to fund the work, Mubadala officials have said.  Unprofitable Operations  About 20 percent of the world’s aluminum is produced at a
loss, United Co. Rusal, the biggest manufacturer, said last
month. Global output has exceeded demand for the past eight
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The industry
will produce a surplus through 2015, according to Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond, Virginia.  The metal is the third-worst performer on the UBS Bloomberg
CMCI index of commodities in the past five years.  Falling prices contributed to last week’s decision by
Moody’s Investors Service to reduce its ratings on  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,
the largest U.S. aluminum producer. The long-term rating on $8.6
billion of debt was lowered to Ba1 from Baa3, one level below
investment grade.  “There’s a lot of overcapacity in the market, so in the
interim it’s a challenge for the companies,” said Stojanovski
of Deutsche Bank. “The largest amount of overcapacity is
located in  China  and doesn’t look like it will be closing, so
it’s difficult to see prices going anywhere any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  