-- U.K. Gas Reserves May Quadruple From IGas Shale Licenses
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-06-03T16:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-k-natural-gas-reserves-may-quadruple-from-igas-shale-licenses.html
The U.K. may more than quadruple its
natural gas reserves, based on  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) ’s estimate of the
fuel held within the 300 square miles of shale formations the
company is licensed to drill in the northwest of  England .  IGas Energy, which plans to start drilling this year,
surged 13 percent to 104.75 pence in London, the most since Jan.
2. Its licenses probably hold about 102 trillion cubic feet of
gas, the company said today in a statement. Should 30 percent be
extractable, U.K. reserves would jump about 30 tcf compared with
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s estimate now of 7 tcf.  “Gas in place of about 100 tcf is highly significant, both
relative to IGas’s existing resource base and the U.K.’s
existing gas reserves,” said Laura Loppacher, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC in  London . “U.S. shale recovery factors are
generally estimated to be 10 percent to 30 percent with current
technology.”  The IGas estimate of gas in place on its licenses comes on
top of rival Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. saying its fields may hold
as much as 200 tcf in the same region. The announcement may add
to pressure to provide tax breaks and other incentives to spur
drilling as reserves in the U.K. North Sea dwindle.  Prime Minister  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said today that rules on
energy drilling should be changed to make shale production
easier. “Old rules” designed for offshore drilling must not
“hold us back today,” he told lawmakers in a statement.  The government lifted an 18-month moratorium on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, used to exploit shale deposits in
December after the completion of an investigation into two small
earthquakes near Blackpool caused by Cuadrilla’s drilling. The
company has delayed exploratory testing until next year to carry
out environmental assessments.  IGas’s study of its resources “supports our view that
these licenses have a very significant shale gas resource with
the potential to transform the company and materially benefit
the communities in which we operate,” IGas Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Austin said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  