-- U.K. Energy Secretary Attacks Climate Skeptics Before Bill Vote
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-03T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-k-energy-secretary-attacks-climate-skeptics-before-bill-vote.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  will
make his strongest attack yet on  climate change  skeptics he
accuses of purveying a what he calls a “seductive” and
“dangerous” message that global warming has stopped.  His comments are aimed at portions of the press that give
an “uncritical campaigning platform” to lobbies and
individuals who reject that climate change is caused by humans,
according to parts of his speech released by his office today.  “This is destructive and loudly clamoring skepticism born
of vested interest, nimbyism, publicity seeking contraversialism
or sheer blinkered, dogmatic, political bloody mindedness,”
Davey will say in  London .  His comments come as the debate over climate change and its
causes intensifies. The U.K. Met Office lowered its forecast for
warming temperatures over the next five years in January, citing
natural variability in the global climate. Former Chancellor
 Nigel Lawson , a Conservative who started the Global Warming
Policy Foundation that shares concerns about the costs of
policies to address climate change, wrote in a Feb. 25 letter on
its website that he aimed to draw attention to a warming trend
that “appears to have ceased.”  Davey will say the pause in surface temperature is a
“false summit” and that temperatures are increasing caused by
greenhouse gas emissions trapped in the atmosphere. He’ll point
to last month, when the amount of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere briefly surpassed a threshold not seen for 3 million
years, noting extreme weather events and rising sea levels.  Massive Gamble  “Those who argue against all the actions we are taking to
reduce emissions, without any serious and viable alternative,
are asking us to take a massive gamble with the planet our
children will inherit, in the face of all the evidence, against
overwhelming odds,” Davey will say. “No government worth its
salt would take that gamble.”  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, also speaks before a vote on an
amendment to energy legislation tomorrow that’s designed to spur
110 billion pounds ($168 billion) of investment in power
stations and electric grid needed as aging generators retire.  The government faces a rebellion as members of the ruling
Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties plan to join with the
Labour opposition to demand the government set by April 1 a
target for removing most  carbon emissions  from power generation
by 2030. The government wants to postpone the decision to 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  