-- U.K. Retail Sales Rose in May on Furniture Demand, BRC Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-k-retail-sales-rose-in-may-on-furniture-demand-brc-says.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose in May as
demand for furniture and flooring increased and temporary
discounts lured shoppers, the British Retail Consortium said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
increased 1.8 percent from a year earlier, the London-based
trade group and KPMG said in an e-mailed report today. Total
sales rose 3.4 percent.  Today’s report is the latest to indicate the recovery may
be gathering pace, after Markit Economics said yesterday that a
 factory gauge  surged in May and the British Chambers of Commerce
raised its economic forecasts last week. The improving outlook
may prompt the Bank of England to keep its  stimulus target 
unchanged this week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  “While sales didn’t soar through the roof, this is still a
very creditable performance from U.K. retailers,” said David
McCorquodale, head of retail at  KPMG . “Promoting the right
product at the right price made the difference in May.”  The increase in sales came in spite of changeable
temperatures last month, according to the report. Online sales
were up 11 percent from a year earlier.  The BRC report also showed that in the quarter through May,
same-store retail sales rose 0.7 percent from a year earlier.
Food sales gained 0.7 percent, with demand for non-food
increasing by the same amount. The BRC said that while customers
are “responding well” to discounting, “volatile economic
conditions mean that this will remain a delicate balancing act
for some time to come.”  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee will keep quantitative
easing at 375 billion pounds ($575 billion) on June 6, according
to the median of 43 forecasts in a Bloomberg News poll. The MPC
will also keep its key interest rate at 0.5 percent, another
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  