-- AIG, Prudential Named Systemically Important by Panel
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-04T14:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-regulators-vote-to-label-some-non-banks-systemically-risky.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and a unit of  General Electric Co. (GE) 
were identified by U.S. regulators as potential risks to the
financial system in a step toward putting the firms under
tighter government scrutiny.  AIG and Prudential, in statements issued yesterday after a
meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, said they
were notified of the proposed designations.  Russell Wilkerson , a
spokesman for  GE Capital , said in an e-mail that his company
also received a notice.  The council didn’t identify the companies it decided should
be subjected to heightened Federal Reserve oversight. AIG,
Prudential and GE Capital had previously said they were in the
final stage of review.  “The council took another important step forward by
exercising one of its principal authorities to protect
taxpayers, reduce risk in the financial system and promote
financial stability,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a
statement.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, said it
is evaluating whether to appeal the decision. AIG previously
said it wouldn’t oppose such a ruling.  The vote marks the first time the council, which is led by
Lew and includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , has designated
companies systemically important, meaning they could pose a risk
to the broader financial system if they were to fail. The panel
was created by the Dodd-Frank law three years ago to help
prevent another financial crisis.  Shares of AIG increased 0.6 percent to $45.03 at 10:06 a.m.
in  New York , Prudential gained 0.8 percent to $70.14 and General
Electric rose 0.1 to $23.67.  30 Days  Designated companies have 30 days to appeal. The council’s
final vote will take place after the companies have a chance to
challenge. The council, or FSOC, doesn’t release company names
until the final designation is made, in part because of “the
potential for market participants to misinterpret such an
announcement,” according to the council’s rules.  “The number of firms that will be affected is very
limited,” Stephen Myrow, managing director at Washington-based
ACG Analytics Inc., said in a phone interview. “Those firms had
plenty of time to prepare for the consequences.”  Myrow, a former Treasury official under the George W. Bush
administration, said “it’s too optimistic to think that we’re
going to prevent future crises, but the goal is to mitigate the
consequences of those.”  The panel’s decision was criticized by the chairman of the
House Financial Services Committee.  Taxpayer Risk  The council’s move puts taxpayers at “greater risk of
being forced to fund yet another Wall Street bailout,”  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, said in a statement.
“Designating any company as ‘too big to fail’ is bad policy and
even worse economics.”  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  told the
council in November that the insurer wouldn’t oppose
designation. Regulators are working to prevent a repeat of 2008
bailouts such as AIG’s by subjecting some firms to added
oversight. AIG received a rescue that swelled to $182.3 billion
after bets on housing soured amid the financial crisis. The
insurer finished repaying the U.S. in December.  GE Capital, based in Norwalk,  Connecticut , is a savings-and-loan holding company regulated by the Fed. It had $538
billion of assets at the end of last year, making it larger than
all but six U.S. banks, Fed data show. It sold $32.1 billion of
bonds in the U.S. last year, more than any other company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Dwindled  General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt pledged to shrink GE
Capital after its access to credit dwindled in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy. He has since
exited businesses such as Irish mortgage lending and sold
Canadian real estate holdings.  Immelt cut GE’s dividend for the first time since the Great
Depression and tapped  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
for a $3 billion investment to stabilize the company as the
finance unit struggled. GE Capital sold $59 billion of bonds
backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and tapped the
Fed’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility to issue $16 billion in
short-term debt.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, wasn’t
included in the final stage of review with AIG, Prudential and
GE Capital because it was already regulated by the Fed due to
its size and ownership of a deposit-taking institution. The New
York-based insurer sold its deposits to end the oversight, and
said it could eventually be named a systemically important
financial institution, or SIFI.  Regulating Insurers  U.S. insurers are overseen by state regulators. The Fed
hasn’t yet written final rules for oversight of non-bank SIFIs,
so it’s not clear what the designation will require, Ed Mills,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, wrote in a research note. The
Fed will probably tailor the regulations to insurers, rather
than using rules written for banks, he said.  Dodd-Frank puts bank-holding companies with more than $50
billion in assets, such as  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo
& Co ., under increased Fed supervision. It gives the council the
responsibility to decide which non-bank financial companies
warrant heightened Fed supervision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  