-- U.S. Fails to Join Allies in Signing UN Weapons Treaty
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-06-03T16:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-fails-to-join-allies-in-signing-un-weapons-treaty.html
The U.S. didn’t join the U.K.,  France 
and other major Western allies at the  United Nations  today to
sign the first  international treaty  regulating the $85 billion-a-year global arms trade.  The absence of the world’s top arms dealer at a morning
ceremony in  New York  drawing about 60 nations casts a shadow
over a decades-long push to stop illegal cross-border shipments
of conventional weapons. Some of the world’s most violent
nations, from drug-plagued  Mexico  to the war-torn Democratic
Republic of Congo, are among the signatories.  While supporters say the treaty wouldn’t affect U.S.
domestic sales or impinge on the constitutional right to bear
arms, it would be a political minefield at home. The accord
wouldn’t muster enough votes for approval by the U.S. Senate,
and the  National Rifle Association , which says it has more than
4.5 million members, has lobbied against it.  “I suspect they probably took a decision that,
politically, it made sense not to completely alienate people in
Congress on something that, in their opinion, doesn’t matter
when they sign it as long as they sign it,” said Adotei Akwei,
 Amnesty International  USA’s managing director for government
relations, in a May 31 telephone interview.  After years of stalled discussions about a multilateral
arms sales agreement, it wasn’t until Obama took office in 2009
that the U.S. reversed long-standing opposition to a treaty.  No Rush  Even as he broke with tradition, Obama is in no rush to
sign it.  “We look forward to signing it as soon as the process of
conforming the official translations is completed
satisfactorily,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said today
in a statement.  Advocates of the treaty, which requires ratification by at
least 50 nations to go into effect, are under no illusion about
an early Senate ratification even when the current
administration gets around to signing it later this year, as
predicted by nongovernmental bodies such as Amnesty
International and Oxfam.  The atmosphere on  Capitol Hill  toward treaty ratifications
is “absolutely toxic,” Akwei said. The U.S. also isn’t a party
to the  International Criminal Court  in The Hague that seeks to
bring war criminals to trial.  “Ratification by the U.S. is a long-term strategy and it
can take 10 to 15 years,” he said.  For now, the U.S. is happy to lend its symbolic seal of
approval while reiterating that much of the regulation outlined
in the treaty has already been put in practice by the U.S. in
its overseas sales of small arms, missile launchers, tanks,
warships and attack helicopters.  UN Vote  The treaty was approved two months ago by more than two-thirds of the 193-member UN General Assembly even as  Iran ,  Syria 
and  North Korea  voted against the accord, and 23 countries,
including Russia, a major arms dealer, abstained.  The next step is for UN members to sign it, as many are
doing today, and then for their legislators to ratify the pact.  In the  U.S. Senate , a two-thirds majority would be needed
for Senate ratification. On March 23, senators voted 53-46 for a
symbolic  measure  opposing U.S. participation in the treaty.
Eight Democrats and all 45 Senate Republicans opposed it.  Thomas Countryman, the assistant secretary of state for
international security and nonproliferation who led the U.S.
delegation at the treaty negotiations, told the Atlantic Council
in  Washington  on May 15 that the U.S. “will sign in the very
near future.”  Black Market  As the U.S. point person on the treaty, Countryman has said
the agreement would reduce worldwide violence by curbing black-market arms sales. The U.S. already has the highest standards in
the world for regulating weaponry, he said.  While the treaty seeks to prevent conventional arms from
falling in the wrong hands, it won’t have an immediate effect on
current conflicts such as the crisis in Syria, where a two-year
conflict has killed at least 80,000 people.  Yet the mere signing of such a treaty “gives hope to the
millions affected by armed violence every day,” said Anna
MacDonald, Oxfam’s head of  arms control .  “Gunrunners and dictators have been sent a clear message
that their time of easy access to weapons is up,” she said in a
statement. “For generations the arms trade has been shrouded in
secrecy, but from now on it will be open to scrutiny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  