-- U.S. House Passes Bill to Find, Track Counterfeit Drugs
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2013-06-03T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-house-passes-bill-to-find-track-counterfeit-drugs.html
The U.S. House passed, by voice vote,
legislation which would direct the  Food and Drug Administration 
to establish national standards for monitoring the distribution
of  prescription drugs .  The bill, H.R. 1919, would impose new regulatory
requirements on the network of companies that produce, handle,
distribute and dispense drug products. Entities in the
distribution chain would be required to provide notification to
state and federal regulators about products that may be
unsuitable to distribute and would be required to comply with
record-keeping standards.  Congress is focusing on protecting the U.S. drug supply
after a fungal meningitis outbreak last year killed more than 50
people. The outbreak was traced to contaminated compound drugs.  The measure “is an important step to ensure greater
 patient safety  for all Americans,” Ohio Republican Bob Latta,
who introduced the bill, said during debate on the House floor.
He said it will replace “the current patchwork” of state and
federal rules to “protect against the threat posed by
counterfeit drugs.”  The FDA would establish a licensing program for third-party
providers of logistics services, and would be permitted to
collect fees and spend the money to cover the program’s costs.
Pharmaceutical tracing requirements for drug lots would be
established for makers, wholesale distributors, pharmacies and
repackagers.  Supplier Requirements  Drug suppliers, including third-party logistics providers,
would be required to do business only with registered or
licensed entities. Makers would have to serialize prescription
drugs at the unit level.  California Democrat  Henry Waxman  said the bill “falls far
short” of adequately protecting the drug supply chain, adding
that “it preempts important existing state safeguards.”  It may be a challenge to reconcile the legislation with a
Senate version, S. 959, which would tighten manufacturing rules
to crack down on counterfeit drugs and clarify the FDA’s
authority over commercial compounding manufacturers, said Brian Rye, an analyst with Bloomberg Government.  “ House Republicans  view last fall’s deadly meningitis
outbreak as a failure to enforce existing, adequate laws, and
aren’t in favor of giving federal authorities greater
oversight,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  