-- U.S. Stocks Rise as Fed Official Says FOMC Backs Stimulus
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-03T20:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-factory-data.html
U.S. stocks  rose, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index erasing earlier losses, after Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said central bank
officials are committed to record stimulus measures.  Merck & Co. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. jumped at least
3.4 percent as a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst said the
companies’ experimental cancer drugs show promise.  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
surged 4 percent after FBR Capital Markets  upgraded  the
chipmaker’s shares. Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan dropped
at least 0.2 for the only losses among the 30 companies in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average .  The  S&P 500  rose 0.6 percent to 1,640.42 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The Dow added 138.46 points, or 0.9 percent, to 15,254.03.
Almost 7.7 billion shares traded hands on U.S. exchanges today,
23 percent higher than the three-month average.  “There certainly seems to be an acute fixation on the
timing of any adjustment to the asset purchase program and I
guess I would just encourage everyone to not lose sight of the
bigger picture,” Lockhart said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview in New York with  Michael McKee . “Any adjustment is
not a major policy shift. The high level of accommodation will
stay in place.”  The S&P 500  declined  1.1 percent last week, with stocks
alternating between gains and losses during the four sessions,
amid data showing uneven performance in the economy. Federal
Open Market Committee members have been weighing economic data
to determine whether to expand or taper bond purchases that,
along with better-than-expected corporate earnings, have
propelled the  bull market  in U.S. equities into a fifth year and
driven the S&P 500 up 142 percent from a 12-year low in 2009.  Manufacturing Data  Data today fueled concern that economic growth could slow,
as a report from the  Institute for Supply Management  showed
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in May at the fastest pace
in four years. A separate report from the Commerce Department
showed construction spending climbed in April, as private
projects rose and public spending slumped.  The S&P 500 initially traded higher on the reports before
retreating as much as 0.5 percent. The index pared losses in the
early afternoon before charging higher after Lockhart’s remarks.  “Bad news can only be good news for so long for stock
prices,”  John Lynch , the Charlotte-based regional chief
investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank, said by
telephone. His firm manages $170 billion. “At some point it
will impact earnings and market levels. I prefer for this market
to be more data-dependent going forward, but I think the market
is using this report as another reason to say that one man’s
speed bump is another man’s stepping stone. So the market is
suddenly not concerned about tapering.”  Data ‘Mixed’  Lockhart said the ISM report is a ‘good example’ that
economic data remains ‘very mixed’ and suggests the economy
isn’t strong enough to justify a reduction in bond buying.  “I’m not getting a clear picture of an economy that really
is tracking with considerable momentum,” he said. “I’d tend to
be a little more cautious, and say maybe August, September or
later in the year” would be time to consider slowing purchases,
he said.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , fell 0.1 percent to 16.28. The equity volatility gauge,
which moves in the opposite direction as the S&P 500 about 80
percent of the time, has fallen 9.7 percent this year.  All 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced, with producers
of consumer staples and energy rising at least 1 percent.  Merck, Bristol  Health-care companies added 0.6 percent. Merck rose 3.8
percent to $48.45 and Bristol-Myers Squibb added 3.4 percent to
$48.11 after New York-based JPMorgan analyst Chris Schott said
the two have promising cancer immunotherpaies.  Bristol-Myers is “well in the lead” with a combination of
Yervoy, a medicine already on the market, with its experimental
immune therapy nivolumab, Schott wrote in a note to investors
today. Meanwhile, Merck is rolling forward “the next agent to
watch,” he wrote.  Clovis Oncology Inc. soared 104 percent to a record $74.59.
The biotechnology company reported positive early results in a
trial of its ovarian cancer drug.  A gauge of computer-chip makers gained 1.8 percent, the
most among 24  industries  in the  S&P 500, (SPX)  led by Intel.  The chipmaker rallied 4 percent to $25.24, the highest
level since August. FBR Capital Markets raised its rating on the
stock to the equivalent of buy, saying the world’s largest
chipmaker’s development of mobile technology gives it “enough
new avenues of growth.”  Banks, Homebuilders  Financial stocks added 0.2 percent for the smallest gain in
among 10 groups in the S&P 500. Bank of America dropped 0.8
percent to $13.55 and JPMorgan slid 0.2 percent to $54.49 for
the only drops in the Dow.  An index that tracks homebuilder stocks plunged 1.2
percent, paring a loss of as much as 3.4 percent. Eight of 11
members in the gauge retreated. PulteGroup Inc. slid 1.3 percent
to $21.32 and D.R. Horton Inc. slumped 2.4 percent to $23.78.  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  declined 4.9 percent to $79.16 for the
biggest drop in the S&P 500. Morgan Stanley  downgraded  its
rating on the maker of data-management equipment to equal
weight, similar to a neutral rating, from overweight.  Pandora Inc. slumped 11 percent to $15.22. The biggest
online radio provider fell after CNET and the New York Times
reported Apple Inc. aims to unveil a competing service as early
as next week.  Zynga Inc. tumbled 12 percent to $2.99. The biggest maker
of online social games said it will cut 520 jobs, or 18 percent
of its staff, and close some offices amid disappointing results
from its titles outside the Farmville series.  Further Gains  The S&P 500 gained 2.1 percent in May, pushing its winning
streak to seven months of advances, the longest stretch since
September 2009. The rally, combined with the index’s strong
start to the year, may indicate further gains for stocks in
June, according to  Sam Stovall , S&P’s New York-based chief
equity strategist.  A seven-month winning streak has happened 13 times since
1945 and it has led to advances of 0.4 percent on average in the
eighth month as stock prices rose 62 percent of the time,
Stovall wrote in a note today. The S&P 500’s advances in January
and February may also help, as the benchmark U.S. equity index
has returned annual gains in each of the 26 years with such a
positive start since World War II. The strong starts to the year
have been followed by increases of 1 percent in June compared
with its normal flat performance.  “Could sell in May have started in the end of the month,
rather than the usual? One could easily infer that from the
performance of the last three days,” the strategist wrote,
referring to the gauge’s 1.8 percent drop in the month’s closing
days. “However, history says, but does not guarantee, that the
S&P 500’s performance in June could surprise to the upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  