-- U.S. Considering Training Libyan Forces With NATO Allies
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-03T14:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-considering-training-libyan-forces-with-nato-allies.html
The U.S. and NATO allies will
consider whether to train  Libya ’s armed forces at a meeting of
alliance defense ministers in Brussels tomorrow, according to
two U.S. defense officials.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization ministers, who are also
discussing the alliance’s future role in Afghanistan, added
Libya to their agenda after Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zaidan
 visited NATO  a week ago as the country sought assistance, said
the officials, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  No decision has been made and any such training by NATO
forces might not take place within Libya, one official said.  President  Barack Obama  hinted at a potential NATO training
role for Libya’s fledgling government last week after meeting
with NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen at the White
House. The alliance’s military intervention in Libya helped oust
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011.  “We now have a Libyan government that is in a transition
process,” Obama said at a May 31 White House appearance with
Rasmussen. “And part of where we think we can be helpful is to
ensure that a democratically elected Libyan government has the
capacity to control its borders to ensure that it does not
become a safe haven for terrorism. And I think NATO has an
important role to play on that front.”  Rasmussen discussed possible assistance with Libya’s prime
minister, Obama said.  ‘Strong Partners’  “We are very supportive of those efforts because we think
it’s critical that we have strong partners in places like North
Africa that are able to meet the security needs of their own
people but are also working with the international community to
meet the security needs of all of us,” Obama said.  NATO’s possible willingness to further engage in Libya
stands in contrast to the alliance’s posture toward  Syria , where
a civil war has killed more than 70,000 people.  NATO hasn’t conducted any military planning for Syria
except for some preliminary plans on how to secure chemical
weapons, one defense official said.  Syria won’t be on the formal agenda for NATO defense
ministers, although it may come up informally, the official
said.  Much of the June 4-5 defense ministers’ meeting at NATO
headquarters will focus on defining a mission for alliance
forces in Afghanistan after 2014, when NATO’s combat mission
will have ended. NATO officials have talked previously of
retaining a force of 8,000 to 12,000 troops to train, advise and
assist the Afghan army. How to provide that supporting role will
be discussed this week, one official said.  Afghan Troops  The U.S. hasn’t said how many troops it will keep in
 Afghanistan  after 2014, when Afghans will take responsibility
for securing their country. The official said the U.S. may want
to evaluate conditions on the ground over the coming year before
making a specific commitment to troop numbers.  Many of the critical decisions on Afghanistan may not be
made until a 2014 NATO summit that Obama announced last week.
That summit is designed to plan for “this final chapter in our
Afghan operations,” Obama said.  The ministers will also devote a formal session at the
conference to protecting against computer hacking attacks, in
what one official described as an important first step toward
devoting more attention to the issue. The session will focus
mainly on protecting NATO’s own computer networks, the official
said.  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who took office in
February, will be making his first appearance at a NATO defense
ministerial meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Brussels at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  