-- U.S. Approves 520 Megawatts of Solar, Geothermal Energy Projects
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-06-03T20:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/u-s-approves-520-megawatts-of-solar-geothermal-energy-projects.html
The U.S. approved three renewable-energy projects to be built on federal land in  Arizona  and
Nevada.  The two solar farms and one geothermal project will total
520 megawatts of capacity, enough to power more than 200,000
homes, the U.S. Interior Department today in a statement on its
website. Costs weren’t disclosed and the expected power
customers weren’t named.  The U.S. doubled its use of renewable-energy during the
past four years. The three projects approved today are part of
the Obama administration’s strategy of promoting wider use of
solar, wind and geothermal energy on federal lands.  Closely held SolarReserve LLC’s 100-megawatt  Quartzsite
Solar Project  is planned for a site in La Paz County, Arizona,
and will use mirrors to focus sunlight on a boiler and generate
steam to drive a turbine.  Closely held Terra-Gen Power LLC received approval for its
70-megawatt  New York Canyon Geothermal Project  planned for a
site in Pershing County,  Nevada , that will tap into underground
heat to produce electricity.  The agency also approved transmission facilities on federal
lands as part of a solar project planned for private lands near
Boulder City, Nevada. The 350-megawatt  Midland  project, proposed
by a unit of  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , will use conventional
photovoltaic panels to produce power.  The agency has approved 45 utility-scale solar, wind and
geothermal facilities on federal land since 2009, and they may
total more than 12,500 megawatts of capacity when built, enough
to power more than 4.4 million homes, according to the
statement. It plans to complete review of 15 more renewable
energy proposals this year and next, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  