-- UBS’s O’Connor Is Said to Cut 16 Jobs in Long-Short Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/ubs-o-connor-said-to-cut-16-jobs-in-equity-long-short-fund-1-.html
UBS O’Connor LLC, the $5.7 billion
hedge-fund unit within the biggest Swiss bank, is cutting 16 of
46 positions at an equity fund and plans to triple a corporate
credit fund’s workforce, a person familiar with the plans said.  The cuts to the fundamental long-short team mostly affect
employees in the U.S., said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the details aren’t public. O’Connor, which
employs about 80 people globally across all of its funds, also
seeks to expand the five-person corporate credit relative value
team to 15 people, the person said.  “We regularly review our business mix to address market
changes and focus our resources where we see the most attractive
risk-adjusted investment opportunities,” said Megan Stinson, a
spokeswoman for Zurich-based bank  UBS AG. (UBSN)  “We are actively
expanding in areas that marry strong investor demand with our
talented investment professionals.”  UBS O’Connor lost at least six equity traders this year to
Millennium Management LLC, BlueCrest Capital Management LLP and
Tudor Investment Corp., people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. The departures occurred after UBS revamped its
compensation structure across the entire bank in February,
paying some bonuses in bonds that only vest after five years and
whose value is tied to the firm’s capital ratio.  The job reductions at O’Connor aren’t tied to the bank’s
goal of paring costs, which includes a plan announced last year
to cut 10,000 positions, according to the person.  Last week, UBS started informing staff within its
investment bank that they’d be getting higher salaries, three
people familiar with the matter said at the time. The bank,
which last year reduced the size of bonuses, intends to keep
overall compensation the same if business conditions don’t
change, one of the people said.  Dealbreaker.com reported yesterday that UBS O’Connor was
cutting jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  