-- Muddy Waters to Jupiter Seek Profit as Risk Rises: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-03T03:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/muddy-waters-to-jupiter-seek-profit-as-risk-rises-china-credit.html
China’s bond risk rose the most in a
year in May and investors from Muddy Waters LLC’s  Carson Block 
to Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. are seeking to profit from an
economic slowdown as policy makers rein in debt.  The cost of insuring sovereign bonds against non-payment
rose 15 basis points in May to an eight-month high of 86, as
economists queried discrepancies in the nation’s data releases.
Credit-default swaps on  State Bank of India (SBIN) , a proxy for the
nation, fell 6 basis points last month, according to CMA, which
compiles data in the privately negotiated market.  Concern that loans will sour have escalated as falling
commodity prices point to flagging  growth  and inflated export
data suggest the economy isn’t as strong as official figures
indicate. Varying estimates over the scale of borrowing by local
governments and the shadow banking system used to bypass loan
curbs compound the risk, according to Jupiter Asset.  “The problem is the lack of transparency,” said Ariel Bezalel, who helps oversee about $44 billion as a portfolio
manager at the fund manager in  London . “No one really seems to
know or have a good handle on the shadow banking system in terms
of how large, how severe the non-performing loans situation
is.”  Bezalel said he’s buying sovereign bonds in  Australia ,
where the central bank has cut rates 2 percentage points in 20
months, to profit from a slowdown in  China . While it’s worth
keeping an eye on the banking system, “it’s not something that
is going to bring down the economic system in China,” he said.  Economic Slowdown  Economic growth weakened to 7.7 percent in the first
quarter from 7.9 percent in the previous three-month period.
That slowdown came as the government’s broadest measure of
credit rose 58 percent from a year earlier to a record 6.16
trillion yuan ($1 trillion) in the first quarter, an indication
that lending is becoming less effective in stoking expansion.  The official Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing,
released June 1, accelerated to 50.8 in May, beating all
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of 30 analysts. That
contrasts with a 49.2 reading for a separate index compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, showing a contraction.  The difference between the two indexes may be that the
privately compiled survey is weighted more toward smaller
businesses.  Trade data is also showing discrepancies. The government
reported $145 billion of exports to Hong Kong for the first four
months of this year. By contrast, Hong Kong’s figure for the
shipments was $76.7 billion.  Trade Statistics  The government limits capital flows, so the disguising of
exchange-rate speculation as trade contracts may have affected
the figures, according to Lu Ting, Bank of America Corp.’s head
of Greater China economics. The true  surplus  for the first four
months of the year may be only a tenth of the $61 billion
reported by the government, according to Lu.  Other signs of weakness include an unexpected deceleration
in fixed-asset investment and falling commodity prices. The cost
of power-station coal fell to the lowest in almost four years,
the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association said May
27. Futures contracts for steel reinforcement bars are at an
eight-month low.  “It’s been clear for at least several years that China’s
official data is unreliable, but many Kool-aid seeking investors
and economists chose to minimize or ignore this problem,” said
Block, whose reports starting in 2010 triggered $7 billion in
losses for Chinese stocks in two years.  Short Selling  The short-seller who runs Isleton, California-based Muddy
Waters said last month he bought default swaps on the debt of
 Standard Chartered Bank Plc (STAN)  as a way to profit from a “China
unwind.” Block gained fame for his short-selling calls after
regulators halted trading in four of the first five companies he
targeted starting in June 2010. Hedge fund manager John Paulson
sold his Sino-Forest Corp. stake at a loss after Block accused
the company of overstating its plantation assets. Sino-Forest
filed for bankruptcy protection in 2012.  Holders of emerging market debt are growing cautious as the
Federal Reserve signals it may scale back stimulus, driving U.S.
currency yields higher. CDS are often bought as a hedge against
rate increases. The average yield premium for Chinese dollar
bonds over Treasuries climbed 13 basis points last week to 312
basis points, according to an HSBC index.  ‘Choose Carefully’  Domestic markets are showing few signs of stress. Yields
for 10-year government debt were little changed in May at
3.4419. Similar maturity AAA-rated corporate bonds yielded
5.0434 as of May 31, falling 8 basis points last month.  The yuan rose 0.5 percent in May to 6.1345 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
Shanghai Composite index of shares climbed 5.6 percent.  “China has great companies but you have to choose
carefully,” said  David Loevinger , an  emerging markets  analyst
at TCW Group Inc., which manages about $130 billion of assets.
“Some have too much debt and not enough transparency.”  TCW doesn’t own the nation’s default swaps and isn’t
worried about its sovereign risk, said Loevinger, a former
senior coordinator for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury
Department. “We are looking closely at China’s rising
leverage,” he said.  Lending Effect  Surging debt is a threat to growth, according to Charlene Chu, head of China financial institutions for Fitch Ratings,
which in April cut the nation’s long-term local-currency rating.
She estimates total lending by banks and other financial
institutions was 198 percent of gross domestic product last
year, compared with 125 percent four years earlier.  Chu calculated total credit by adding off-balance-sheet
assets and financing by non-bank institutions, known as shadow
banking, to offshore loans by foreign banks and  aggregate
financing  data published by the central bank.  Francis Cheung, head of China and Hong Kong strategy at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, estimates total corporate, household
and government debt at 205 percent of GDP. The government
doesn’t release a figure for total credit.  China is taking steps to rein in shadow banking. In March,
regulators capped how much client money banks can invest in less
regulated forms of lending. Estimates for the size of the
financing range from the Financial Stability Board’s about 2
trillion  yuan , published in November, to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
36 trillion yuan based on data from the end of 2012.  Authorities have also increased scrutiny of companies set
up by local governments to finance roads and bridges. Regional
authorities, banned from directly selling bonds, may have more
than 20 trillion yuan of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April. That’s almost double the National Audit
Office’s 2011 estimate of 10.7 trillion yuan.  “People don’t have a great deal of clarity about the
current state of the economy and there’s a fear there could be a
more significant slowdown,” said Tim Condon, head of Asian
research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore . “When people have doubts
about growth, because of the importance of China, people just
fear that all asset classes are going to be affected.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  