-- Hugh P. Lowenstein, Investor, Bloomberg LP Director, Dies at 82
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-03T00:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hugh-p-lowenstein-investor-bloomberg-lp-director-dies-at-82.html
Hugh P. Lowenstein, founder of a
Bermuda-based investment firm and a director of Bloomberg LP,
parent company of  Bloomberg News , for more than 15 years, has
died. He was 82.  He died yesterday at his home in Lake Wales,  Florida , after
a long illness, his wife, Sandy, said yesterday in an interview.
The family also has residences in  Manhattan  and Linville,  North
Carolina .  Lowenstein was a longtime friend of  New York  City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
and was formerly his neighbor in Bermuda.  In his 1997 memoir, “Bloomberg by Bloomberg,” written
with  Matthew Winkler , Bloomberg News editor-in-chief, the future
mayor called Lowenstein a friend from his “play hard/work
hard” days in the 1960s and 1970s, when he “traveled with a
big expense account” at what was then Salomon Brothers &
Hutzler on  Wall Street .  With bachelor friends such as Lowenstein, “I set new
records in ‘burning the candle at both ends,’” Bloomberg wrote.
“There was never enough time in the day to do it all -- but I
always did.”                                Lowenstein at the time was a trader on the floor of the
New York Stock Exchange, his wife said. A mutual acquaintance,
 John Gutfreund , then a partner at Salomon and the firm’s future
chairman and chief executive officer, introduced Lowenstein,
recently divorced from his first wife, and Bloomberg, who was
then single and an up-and-comer at Salomon. They became “best,
best, best, best friends,” Sandy said.  'Laser-Sharp Mind'  As a managing director of investment firm Donaldson, Lufkin
& Jenrette in the 1990s, Lowenstein worked with Peter Grauer,
who was a senior managing director. Grauer joined Michael
Bloomberg and attorney Richard DeScherer on the board of
Bloomberg LP in 1996, and soon after, Bloomberg personally
brought in Lowenstein as a fourth member.  Lowenstein combined “years and years of experience on Wall
Street with a laser-sharp mind, a mind that thought about things
differently than conventional thinking would,” Grauer said
yesterday in an interview.  The board was further expanded in 2001, when Bloomberg
stepped down to prepare his first run for mayor. Without
Lowenstein, the current board consists of nine members,
including Grauer, who is company chairman; DeScherer, the chief
legal and compliance officer; Winkler; and Daniel Doctoroff,
president and CEO.  Independent Voice  Lowenstein was on the board’s executive and management
committees for the past 12 years and “was an adviser who could
be counted on for his independence and contributions,” Grauer
said in a statement.  Sandy Lowenstein said  Michael Bloomberg  used to describe
her husband as a Detective Columbo-like figure on the board,
someone who would “sit in meetings and not say much, and as
everyone got up to leave he’d say, ‘I have a question,’ and it
would be the question nobody wanted to address.”  Hugh Price Lowenstein was born on Nov. 11, 1930, in
Manhattan, one of three sons of Melvin G. Lowenstein and the
former Katherine Price Goldsmith. His family owned textile mills
in North Carolina that were bought by apparel maker Burlington
Industries Inc., his wife said.  He graduated from the Salisbury School in Salisbury,
 Connecticut , and attended  North Carolina State University  in
Raleigh,North Carolina. He served in the U.S. Army during the 
 Korean War  and saw combat on the front lines, according to his 
wife.  Career Path  He began his career in 1954 at Burlington Industries Inc.,
where he was assistant to the chairman.  In 1968, he moved to Wall Street, where he got ribbed about
his prior work.  “At Burlington they were famous for socks,” Sandy
Lowenstein said. “So everyone on Wall Street teased him that he
went from socks to stocks.”  He was a partner and managing director at investment-banking firm L.F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin from 1977 to
1987, and managing director at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from
1987 to 1994.  As founder of Shore Capital Ltd. in  Bermuda , which he
managed from 1994 to 2001, he served as a consultant and
investment adviser primarily to clients in Bermuda. From 2000 to
2005 he was chairman of Cheyne Capital International Ltd., a
London-based hedge-fund manager.  His community work included serving on the board of the
Bermuda Biological Station for Research, now the Bermuda
Institute of Ocean Sciences, a research and education
organization.  With his first wife, the former Jane Wray, he had two
children, Michael and Margaret, who is known as Maggie. That
marriage ended in divorce. He had a stepdaughter, Lauren de
Lavalette, through his 36-year marriage to the former Sandy
Wilson.  Additional survivors include brothers Peter Lowenstein and
James Lowenstein, who was  U.S. ambassador  to Luxembourg under
President  Jimmy Carter , and seven grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  