-- Turkish Yields Surge Most on Record as Protests Hit Lira, Stocks
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-03T15:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/turkish-bonds-lose-most-since-2008-as-protests-hit-lira-stocks.html
Turkish bond yields surged the most
on record and the lira and stocks tumbled after a weekend of
street demonstrations against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government.  The yield on benchmark  two-year lira bonds  rose 71 basis
points to 6.78 percent, the biggest jump since at least April
2005 when Bloomberg began compiling the data. The benchmark
stock  index  plunged 10 percent, the most in a decade, and the
lira weakened for a fifth day, sliding 0.8 percent to 1.8903 per
dollar at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul, a 17-month low.  Clashes in Istanbul began May 31 and continued late
yesterday in Ankara and Istanbul as protesters took to the
streets calling for Erdogan, who has led the country since 2003,
to resign. The unrest was ignited by police tear-gassing a park
in Istanbul occupied by people who opposed plans to tear it down
for a government redevelopment project. By June 1, tens of
thousands had poured into the central Taksim Square, which
demonstrators have now barricaded to keep police forces out.  “The markets are scared,” Jerome Broex, a currency and
fixed income trader at Turkish Bank in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “Nobody knows what’s going to happen next.”  Erdogan showed no sign of backing down as he responded to
reporters’ questions before leaving Istanbul for  Morocco , the
first stop of a three-day regional visit. He blamed the
opposition  Republican People’s Party  of “being in solidarity”
with what he said were extremist groups. The prime minister said
he’s “restraining” his own supporters from taking to the
streets in response.  Already Sliding  Five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost to insure the
nation’s debt against default for the period, jumped 12 basis
points to 143, the highest intraday level since April 4 and the
biggest increase since September 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The unrest occurred after a week in which stocks, bonds and
the lira had already been sliding as the prospect of tighter
monetary policy in the U.S. led investors to pull money out of
emerging markets.  The yield on  Turkey ’s two-year note rose 28 basis points to
6.07 percent on May 31 after a report showed the trade deficit
unexpectedly widened in April. The rate climbed 80 basis points
last week, the steepest increase among major emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg and compared with the second-biggest jump
of 50 basis points for similar-maturity South African debt.  Lira Weakens  The yield on the 10-year notes surged 31 basis points today
to 7.15 percent after climbing 52 basis points last week. The
lira depreciated 1.5 percent last week, its fourth weekly drop.  “I would expect the Turkish authorities, particularly the
central bank, to be active in re-assuring investors,” Tim Ash,
chief emerging market economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London ,
said by e-mail today. “The problem is that the lira was weak
last week on global market concerns, so the backdrop is not
supportive.”  Demonstrators have complained of what they say is Erdogan’s
Islamic-rooted government’s increasingly autocratic style. They
point to police brutality, curbs on alcohol sales and labor
unions, and the jailing of army officers and journalists on
charges of plotting against the government.  The protests coming amid the downturn in  emerging markets 
“gave the sell-off an extra kick,” Turkish Bank’s Broex said.
The lira will weaken to as low as 1.92 per dollar in the short
term and bond yields will “definitely go up,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  