-- Virgin Media Bets on Speed Over Content as Malone Vote Nears
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-03T20:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/virgin-media-bets-on-speed-over-content-as-malone-vote-nears-1-.html
As  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  duke it out over sports content and rights in
one of Europe’s most competitive pay-TV markets,  Virgin Media 
Inc. is counting on a different edge: speed.  The seven-year-old U.K. cable company that’s being acquired
by  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  is selling broadband
connections at 120 megabits per second -- fast enough to
download a high-quality movie in less than 90 seconds -- to
trump more content-focused offers by its rivals.  At the end of last year, 54 percent of British households
subscribed to pay TV, compared with more than 90 percent in the
U.S., giving Virgin Media, BT and BSkyB room for growth.
Broadband is increasingly key as mobile devices like tablets and
smartphones eat up data through streamed videos and high-definition services.  “It’s a land grab based upon price,” said  Alex DeGroote ,
a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in  London . “You have
three very-well capitalized players with deep pockets.”  Virgin Media  shareholders  are scheduled to vote tomorrow on
the company’s takeover by Liberty Global. The $16 billion cash-and-stock transaction valued Virgin Media at $47.87 per share
when it was announced Feb. 5, or a premium of 24 percent before
the company said it was considering a deal. Virgin Media rose
0.3 percent to $49.79 at the close in  New York  as Liberty Global
gained 0.4 percent to $74.  Shareholder Vote  Liberty Global shareholders voting today in Littleton,
Colorado, approved the purchase.  Tom Mockridge , who led
Murdoch’s U.K. news unit during phone-hacking allegations, was
appointed to head Virgin Media, replacing Neil Berkett once the
deal is complete. Berkett was named chairman of Guardian Media
Group Plc today, taking over for the retiring Amelia Fawcett.  As broadband and pay-TV competition heats up, the U.K.
companies have lined up celebrity pitchmen. BSkyB, about 40
percent controlled by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , had former
“Friends” star  Jennifer Aniston  switching to its broadband
service in one ad, while Virgin Group Ltd. founder Richard Branson teams with British Broadcasting Corp.’s time-travel
series “Doctor Who” star David Tennant to marvel over Virgin
Media’s set-top box TiVo. Samantha Bond, who has appeared on
“Downton Abbey” and played Miss Moneypenny in James Bond
films, appears for BT.  Superfast Broadband  Virgin Media’s 120 megabits per second make it Britain’s
fastest and “superfast broadband” subscribers account for 58
percent of its customers.  BT reported 6.7 million broadband clients in the first
quarter, to Virgin Media’s 4.5 million and BSkyB’s 4.4 million,
according to data compiled by Rob Gallagher, head of broadband
and TV research at  Informa Telecoms & Media . Fourth was  TalkTalk
Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  with 4.1 million users.  “The demand for data is just growing and people are using
all sorts of devices, and the thing they have in common all
depends on having a good connection,” said Paul Richmond,
executive director of corporate affairs at Virgin Media.  Global Internet traffic could grow threefold between 2012
and 2017 and reach more than 1 trillion gigabytes a year,  Cisco
Systems Inc. said  May 29. It forecast 3.6 billion  Internet users 
by 2017, almost half the world’s projected population.  BT Sport  The rivalry intensified last month when BT unveiled three
sports channels that will be free to broadband customers, a year
after it acquired rights to 38 British Premier League soccer
games. Sky had held the rights exclusively for years.  “The move into sports rights is a big bet for BT,” said
Graham McWilliam, director of corporate affairs at BSkyB. “As
BT has admitted, it’s about defending its home communications
business in response to losing customers to competitors.”  BT has spent about 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) on
programming since last March, BT’s TV chief Marc Watson said in
an interview. Sky spends about 2 billion pounds a year on buying
and producing content. Virgin Media spends very little in this
area and instead prefers the role as a platform for other’s
content, which includes Sky channels.  “Some people out there have belittled us for our approach
and said it’s about broadband,” Watson said. “The economics
are in broadband, it’s true, but content gives customers a
reason to buy broadband.”  Building Scale  Liberty Global  doesn’t see Virgin Media as a “turnaround”
story and wants to “build scale” rather than change, Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said last month. It doesn’t plan to
compete over sports rights or production, and it’s in talks to
add streaming services like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Lovefilm to the platform, as more TV viewers sign up to the paid
services, which are mostly archives of TV and film.  “The content disadvantage Virgin has is they don’t even
really make a lot of money now by reselling content from
others,” said Stuart Gordon, a media analyst at Berenberg Bank
in London. “But they are competing very happily as being the
fiber option in the U.K.”  How much the U.K. landscape will change may come down to
BT’s aggressive venture into sports and broadband, he said.  “I see everyone potentially at risk with BT,” Gordon
said. “If BT Sport is phenomenal and successful it will start
taking everyone’s customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 