-- Volvo Is China Latecomer as Li Misreads Home Advantage
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T08:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/volvo-becomes-china-latecomer-as-li-miscalculates-home-advantage.html
Three years after buying Volvo Cars,
Chinese tycoon  Li Shufu  may get to compete with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG on a more level playing
field in his own country.  Volvo Cars, a unit of Li’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co., has begun test runs at its first factory in  China  and a
second plant may open late next year, Lars Danielson, senior
vice president at Volvo Cars China, told reporters today. The
company had so far brought in its cars from overseas --
subjecting them to the nation’s 25 percent import tariff -- or
produced them in limited quantities at a Ford Motor Co. plant in
Chongqing, China.  The three years it took to open the factory shows how Li,
49, miscalculated the edge he would have in his home country as
the Chinese government subjected the Swedish brand to the same
regulatory approval procedures as all foreign automakers. Still,
the plant paves the way for Volvo to double sales to 800,000 by
the end of the decade as China heads toward becoming the world’s
largest market for premium vehicles.  “If they fail in China, I don’t really see where they can
gain volume significantly,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based
analyst at IHS Automotive. “If they can do China right, they
will gain strong momentum.”  Volvo posted a loss last year as global sales fell 6.1
percent to 421,951 units, with the biggest decline in  Sweden . In
China, sales dropped 11 percent, while deliveries at Audi and
BMW climbed 40 percent and 30 percent, respectively.  Expensive SUV  Volvo’s share of China’s luxury vehicle market fell to 3.4
percent last year from 5.3 percent in 2009, the year before the
Geely takeover, according to estimates at IHS. By comparison,
Audi and BMW saw their market shares rise to 33 percent and 24
percent, respectively, according to the researcher.  One reason for Volvo’s under-performance is price. For
example, its XC60 sport utility vehicle starts in China from
389,900  yuan  ($64,000), or 8.8 percent higher than a China-produced Audi Q5, according to Autohome.com.cn, China’s most-visited car comparison website. In the U.S., the sticker price
on the Volvo starts at 4.3 percent lower than the Audi Q5.  Volvo also has to compete for premium buyers with other
newcomers like  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac, Nissan Motor Co.’s
Infiniti and Honda Motor Co.’s Acura, which have all announced
plans to produce models in China.  ‘Nothing Special’  Denny Shen, a Shanghai-based entrepreneur, says Volvo’s
challenges stretch beyond price. The brand has no distinguishing
features that help it stand out in China’s competitive car
market and even its name, pronounced “wo’erwo” in Mandarin,
sounds awkward for Chinese speakers, he said.  “What is Volvo’s brand identity?” said Shen, 28, who has
cars including a BMW M3 and Jaguar XF. “There’s nothing special
about it, and the look of the cars is very average. It doesn’t
appeal to young people like me.”  Late last year, Li reshuffled Volvo’s management, hiring
former MAN SE Chief Executive Officer Hakan Samuelsson to
replace Stefan Jacoby as CEO. Samuelsson has pledged to add
another 100 Volvo dealers in China over the next two to three
years to its existing 150 outlets and focus on smaller Chinese
cities to boost sales.  Volvo’s reputation for safety, Scandinavian design and
environmental care and performance will help it attract the
growing number of Chinese consumers seeking to embrace a “more
understated luxury,” spokesman Per-Ake Froberg said.  ‘Politically Incorrect’  “The Volvo brand is a relative newcomer,” Froberg said.
“Increasing awareness about the Volvo brand among the right
segments of Chinese consumers is at the top of our priority
list.”  Volvo’s low-key image may be an advantage these days in
China, where the government is campaigning for officials to rein
in lavish spending, according to  John Zeng , Shanghai-based
managing director at LMC Automotive.  “At the moment, driving a high profile luxury car to show
off is considered politically incorrect,” he said. “For people
hoping to keep a low profile, a brand like Volvo would be a
better option.”  In April, Volvo sales in China  rose  30 percent and even
surpassed those of the U.S. for the first time. For the first
four months, deliveries in China have climbed 28 percent, faster
than in any other market, according to the company.  A4 Competitor  The new factory, which will be able to make 125,000 cars a
year and located in the south central city of  Chengdu , starting
with a stretched version of the S60 -- an Audi A4 competitor --
and full production will probably begin in the fourth quarter,
according to Danielson. The second plant will be located in the
northeastern oil city of Daqing, he said.  The expansion is part of plans for the Swedish brand to
sell 200,000 vehicles in China. Though the company had
previously said it may reach that target in 2015, that goal was
“a little bit too ambitious” and will likely be achieved in
about 2020, give or take a year, Danielson said.  Volvo, which sold fewer than 42,000 units in China last
year, expects growth of at least 20 percent in 2013, said Fu
Qiang, chief executive of the China distribution business. The
company aims to have 140 dealers across 80 cities by the end of
the year, from the current 126, Fu said.  Marrying Self  For Li, getting approval for the Chengdu plant was a long
awaited step. Though Geely agreed in 2010 to buy Volvo from Ford
for $1.8 billion -- the biggest overseas acquisition by a
Chinese automaker -- it took him years to get the necessary
regulatory approvals to build cars at home. Even  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover, which set up a Chinese venture two
years after Geely bought Volvo Cars, took less time in gaining
permission to manufacture cars in the country.  “When I first acquired Volvo, we were very clear, Volvo
will be a Chinese enterprise, a company under Geely and will
enjoy some of China’s policies,” Li told Economic Daily in a
televised interview in 2012. “But now we have to be a joint
venture, Geely cooperates with itself, marries itself, signs a
contract with itself.”  Li, who used to photograph tourists and manufacture
compressors for refrigerators before entering the automotive
industry in 1989 by producing motorcycles, has become one the
wealthiest Chinese auto executives today, as he controls a 45
percent stake in Hong Kong-listed  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) 
currently valued at about $1.8 billion. Geely’s earnings are on
the rise, with analysts estimating profit to rise 24 percent to
a record 2.5 billion yuan this year.  Further success in China will depend on more than setting
up a local factory as the company faces heavy competition and
deals with problems that have been unresolved for years, such as
its brand positioning and insufficient volume for each platform
said Max Warburton, a Singapore-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd.  “Volvo products have yet to really resonate with Chinese
consumers,” Warburton said. “In recent years, it’s been more
of a struggle. Mr. Li himself is out there making public
statements about why that might be, they felt that the product
did not yet tailor to Chinese taste.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  