-- Wal-Mart to Refund Shoppers Dissatisfied With Produce
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-06-03T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/wal-mart-to-refund-shoppers-dissatisfied-with-produce.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , in an effort to
sell more groceries, is reminding customers that it offers full
refunds on fruits and vegetables.  Shoppers are required to present only receipts for full
refunds, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today in a
statement. To ensure quality, the world’s largest retailer said
independent auditors will conduct weekly store checks.  Wal-Mart wants to persuade customers their money is well-spent and that the produce is as good as it is elsewhere, said
Eli Portnoy, chief executive officer of Miami-based retail
consulting group CultureRanch LLC.  The company is putting “a stake in the ground,” he said.  While Wal-Mart has always accepted returns on produce, “we
are so confident in the quality of produce that we want our
customers to be aware of our money back guarantee –- no
questions asked and no need to bring back the produce,” Danit
Marquardt, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Unlike the retailer’s “Ad Match Guarantee,” which takes
place at the register, the produce returns must be completed at
the customer service desk, Marquardt said.  Store-level implementation could prove challenging, Portnoy
said.  “If something rots in the refrigerator before you eat it
and all you have to do is prove that you bought it, there could
be a temptation to abuse it,” he said.  Price-Conscious Shoppers  While only a fraction of shoppers use policies such as
price-matching and quality refunds, Wal-Mart’s price-conscious
shoppers are more apt to follow through than those who shop at
higher-end competitors, Portnoy said.  Wal-Mart has no concerns with its produce-return policy,
Marquardt said.  As part of its produce initiative, Wal-Mart, which aims to
double its  sales  of locally grown produce by the end of 2015,
said today it hired personnel to work with growers. The company
is training 70,000 store workers how to handle fruits and
vegetables.  Wal-Mart also said it would oversee “independent weekly
checks” of the quality of its fruits and vegetables in its more
than 3,400 produce-selling stores.  The shares  rose  1.1 percent to $75.69 at the close in New
York. Wal-Mart has advanced 11 percent this year compared with a
15 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  