-- Wells Fargo CFO Says Mortgage Standards Keep Bubble at Bay
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-03T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/wells-fargo-cfo-says-mortgage-standards-keep-new-bubble-at-bay.html
     June 3 (Bloomberg) -- Wells Fargo & Co. Chief Financial
Officer Tim Sloan said he doesn’t foresee a new housing bubble
even as  home prices  rise at more than 10 percent annually.  Banks are maintaining standards and nobody is doing the
kind of  subprime lending  that prevailed before the 2008 credit
crisis, Sloan said today during a Bloomberg Television
interview. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo is the largest U.S.
mortgage lender.  “Whenever you see a double-digit rise in the valuations of
any  asset , whether it is a house or stock or anything, it is
cause for some level of concern,” said Sloan, 53. “Overall,
when you look at home prices relative to where they peaked in
2006 or 2007, we have a fair ways to go.”  Wells Fargo is among the largest beneficiaries of the
housing market’s rebound. Home prices rose  11 percent  in March
from a year earlier, the most in seven years, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values . That’s prompted
speculation that another bubble has formed and that it could pop
if  interest rates  rise.  The  Federal Reserve  has been buying bonds to hold down
rates and help the economy. The resulting drop in  mortgage rates 
to record lows has led borrowers to refinance existing loans or
purchase new homes.  Housing Outlook  While home lending probably will slow as rates rise, the
mortgage market will stay strong this year, Sloan said. An
easier-to-understand mortgage market, led by simpler loan
applications, may help, he said.  Wells Fargo, which is also expanding its investment bank,
doesn’t need to buy another firm to compete with the largest in
the industry, Sloan said. The bank would be a logical buyer for
a boutique investment bank such as  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) , Mark T. Williams, a former Federal Reserve bank examiner, has said.  “We are very happy with the progress we have had in terms
of growing the business,” Sloan said. It’s a “big opportunity
for us,” he said. Still, “we do not need to make acquisitions
in the investment-banking business to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  