-- Welsh Carson Said Close to Selling Triple Point for $800 Million
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-06-03T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/welsh-carson-said-close-to-selling-triple-point-for-800-million.html
Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe is
close to an agreement to sell software provider Triple Point
Technology Inc. to Ion Trading for about $800 million, people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The deal may be announced within a month, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private. A
final agreement hasn’t been reached and the talks may fall
through, the people said.  Welsh Carson bought Westport, Connecticut-based Triple
Point, whose software is used to manage commodities and risks
tied to commodities, for $500 million in October 2011. The New
York-based private-equity firm hired  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  to sell the company, people familiar with the matter
told  Bloomberg News  in April.  Ion Trading, a software provider backed by private-equity
firm  TA Associates Inc. , provides fixed-income trading software
to banks and other financial institutions, according to its
website. Ion is based in Dublin.  A representative for Welsh Carson declined to comment.
Representatives for  TA Associates , Barclays and Deutsche Bank
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Ion’s operating subsidiary, Ion Trading Technologies Ltd.,
raised more than $1 billion in May to retire debt and pay a
dividend, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Welsh Carson is seeking a sale for at least 10 times the
$75 million Triple Point is estimated to earn this year before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, one person
familiar with the matter said in April.  Triple Point has more than 400 customers in over 35
countries, according to its  website . Welsh Carson acquired the
company from ABRY Partners LLC, a Boston-based private-equity
firm that kept a minority stake, according to a  press release 
announcing that deal. JMI Equity, a buyout firm with offices in
Baltimore and  San Diego , invested in Triple Point at that time
as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  