-- West Point Rugby Team Punished for Demeaning Women
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-04T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/west-point-rugby-team-punished-for-demeaning-e-mail-chain.html
The men’s rugby team at the U.S.
Military Academy at  West Point  was disbanded temporarily after
players took part in e-mailed exchanges demeaning to women, a
school spokesman said.  “It was locker-room conversation of the worst degree”
reflecting a “behavior and mindset we don’t tolerate here,”
Lieutenant Colonel Webster Wright, a spokesman for the academy
in  New York  state, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“They were mocking each other to some degree, but there was
also derogatory comments toward women, degrading comments.”  The move against the rugby team, a perennial collegiate
powerhouse, comes as the U.S. military is seeking to stem what
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has called a “huge problem” of
sexual assaults and harassment. He told graduates at West Point
last month that solving it will require “your complete
commitment to building a culture of respect and dignity.”  Among those attending the ceremony Hagel addressed on May
25 were the 15 seniors on the 60-player rugby team, who were
permitted to graduate after completing disciplinary actions that
included “an intense respect rehabilitation program,”
according to Francis DeMaro, another academy spokesman.  While the investigation of the e-mail chain “did not find
any evidence of sexual assault” or “inappropriate pictures of
female cadets,” players were disciplined partly “to address
the cultural issues with their actions,” DeMaro said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Senate Hearing  The Pentagon has been roiled by a succession of cases
involving alleged sexual misconduct, including among service
members who work in sexual-assault prevention programs, and an
anonymous survey of troops found that most such assaults go
unreported.  The Senate Armed Services Committee has scheduled a hearing
for today with the Joint Chiefs of Staff to discuss pending
legislation intended to improve the investigation and
prosecution of sexual-assault cases.  In another case that has fueled debate over the military’s
culture, the Army is investigating allegations by soldiers that
sexual affairs were condoned at Fort Greely in  Alaska , creating
what they called a “toxic environment” on the remote base that
provides the main U.S. defense against a missile attack.  The issue first touched West Point last month, when the
Army disclosed that a sergeant on the academy’s staff, Michael
McClendon, faces charges of making video recordings of female
cadets without their consent while they showered.  Rugby Case  In the rugby team case, the e-mail chain was reported to
authorities by a cadet, according to Wright, the spokesman, who
said he didn’t know whether the cadet was a man or woman. The
recipients included the 60 team members and about 20 former
members, he said.  “There was lack of respect across the board that was
inconsistent with our values,” Wright said. “When this was
bought to the chain of command the issue that was brought
forward was the derogatory comments toward women.”  Founded in 1961, the  West Point  squad has finished second
in the national collegiate rugby championships three times,
according to the  academy’s website . In April, it lost to Life
University of Marietta,  Georgia , in the Division IA
quarterfinals.  “West Point Rugby develops leaders of character, infused
with the warrior ethos, principles of teamwork, and an
unyielding winning spirit,” according to the website.  West Point withdrew from last weekend’s Collegiate Rugby
Sevens tournament in Philadelphia “due to unforeseen
circumstances,” according to a May 20 entry on the squad’s
official page on  Facebook Inc. (FB)   The academy, established in 1802, trains Army cadets to
become officers. Located on the banks of the  Hudson River  about
50 miles (80 kilometers) from  New York City , the school counts
President Dwight David Eisenhower among its graduates.  At another of the military’s academies, three football
players at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland , are
under investigation for the alleged sexual assault of a female
midshipman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  