-- Wheat Shipments From U.S. Face Increasing Scrutiny in Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-03T10:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/wheat-shipments-from-u-s-face-increasing-scrutiny-in-asia.html
Scrutiny of U.S. wheat shipments to
Asia increased as  Taiwan  said it was investigating the impact on
its supplies of an unapproved and genetically modified strain
found growing in an Oregon field.  The Taiwan Flour Mills Association won’t accept wheat from
Oregon and has asked suppliers for assurances that future
shipments are free of gene-altered wheat, according to an e-mail
from the group. The Council of Agriculture and Department of
Health are also conducting investigations, Vincent Lin, an
official at the farm agency, said by phone from Taipei today.  Japan has suspended imports of western-white wheat and feed
wheat from the U.S. following the discovery of the grain
developed by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  while in South Korea the government
increased inspections and flour millers said they would halt
purchases until an investigation was complete. The threat to
shipments to Asia come as the U.S. Department of Agriculture
forecasts record global production, boosted by a 48 percent
increase in Russian output and a 40 percent gain from Ukraine.  “To allay consumer concerns, Asian buyers may opt to
import from other suppliers such as Canada, Australia or Europe,
giving those them a short-term boost,” Gao Yanbin, a Shanghai-based director of research at Jinshi Futures Co., said by phone
today.  Wheat advanced for a second day on the Chicago Board of
Trade as wet weather raised the risk of damage to the U.S.
winter crop. It was at $7.11 a bushel at 5:59 p.m. Taipei time.  Dominant Supplier  Five of the top 10 buyers of U.S. wheat are in Asia, led by
 Japan , Michael Spier, vice-president of U.S. Wheat Associates,
said at a conference in Bali last month.  Japan,  China , Taiwan, South Korea and the other Asian
importers accounted for almost 38 percent of the wheat sold by
the U.S. as of May 23 for delivery in the year ended May 31,
according to the USDA.  The U.S. is the dominant global supplier, so ultimately
buyers will accept that it is capable of sorting out the issue
and living up to its assurances, Gao said.  Taiwan buys high-quality wheat mainly from  Montana , winter
wheat chiefly from  Kansas  and soft-white wheat predominantly
from  Idaho , the mills association said. It doesn’t buy the grain
from  Oregon  and will continue to purchase U.S. wheat if it can
be shown it’s not from that state and is free of genetic
modification, according to the e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  