-- Why Florida Business Wants Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   L u c y   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-03T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/why-florida-business-wants-medicaid-expansion.html
Florida’s business community, a
bastion of conservatism on most matters, was among those pushing
hardest for a state measure that would have adopted a major part
of President  Barack Obama ’s federal health-care law.  What made the situation unusual was that business wasn’t
getting its way in a state where it almost always does.  State lawmakers adjourned last month without agreeing on a
proposal that would extend Medicaid coverage to low-income
residents without adequate health care, even with the backing of
Associated Industries of Florida and the Florida Chamber of
Commerce as well from Republican Governor  Rick Scott . The
business leaders will have to wait until next year to try again.  Under the health-care law, the state would get about $51
billion in federal money in the next 10 years to expand Medicaid
by raising income eligibility limits to 138 percent of the 2013
poverty level, or those making as much as $32,499 for a family
of four. If the state eventually agrees to a Medicaid expansion,
the federal government would cover all costs for the first four
years. Funding would drop in the following years before leveling
off at about 90 percent by 2020.  Businesses have a big stake in the outcome. The health-care
law requires companies with more than 50 full-time employees to
provide health insurance to anyone working more than 30 hours a
week.  Two Industries  An expanded Medicaid  program  would extend those benefits to
workers in the state’s vast tourism, hospitality and
agricultural industries. The importance of the two sectors can’t
be overstated: They employ large numbers of low-paid workers and
account for as much as a quarter of the state’s $750 billion in
annual economic output.  Without the Medicaid expansion, many of those workers must
get insurance either from their employers or from a federal
health-care exchange. If an exchange is used, employers must pay
fines ranging from $72 million to $108 million, or about $3,000
per worker, according to a  Florida  Chamber of Commerce estimate.
It’s easy to see why Florida businesses would like the U.S
government’s help.  The hypocrisy is as thick as the state’s humidity. Florida
balances its  budget  with billions in federal money, taking
dollars to build roads; provide health care for elderly nursing-home residents; offer school lunches for poor children; and
finance research for universities. A quarter of this year’s $74
billion state budget comes from federal sources.  Direct aid to the state doesn’t include the billions of
dollars in retirement and disability payments made to
Floridians, defense contractors, salaries paid to federal
employees and the military. Add grants to cities and counties
and you can see Florida has long been awash in federal money.
The state  ranks No. 4  among recipients of funding from
 Washington .  All of this has made the state Legislature, which is
controlled by Republicans, look a little strange for turning
down a federal offer that would have extended health care to
more than 1 million Floridians, especially after Governor
Scott’s about-face on the issue in February made national news.
Yet Scott, who won election in 2010 on an anti-health-care-law
platform, never pushed hard for the plan during the
Legislature’s 60-day session that ended May 3.  House Speaker Will Weatherford led the opposition to the
law, saying he didn’t like taking federal money that has to be
borrowed and didn’t believe the government will provide the
funds after the first few years.  But it shouldn’t even be up for debate that Florida needs a
decent health-care system that provides for those who now often
seek medical treatment at a much higher cost in hospital
emergency rooms. Emergency-room use is popular with the
uninsured because federal law requires hospitals to offer care
to all sick people who come in.  Emergency Rooms  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimate
that about half of all emergency-room services go unpaid,
leaving the burden on hospitals, doctors, private insurers and
the state.  Of course, emergency-room care is inefficient and
expensive. A 2010 survey by the Medica Choice Network, which
operates more than 4,000 Midwest clinics and hospitals, found
that emergency-room costs for minor ailments ranged from $345 to
$665, compared with $97 to $127 at urgent-care centers.  Scott, a former health industry executive, surely knows
these numbers. Yet he said it was the last year’s  U.S Supreme 
Court ruling upholding Obama’s health-care legislation, rather
than fiscal realities, that made him support the Medicaid
expansion. “It doesn’t matter what I believe,” Scott said. “The
 Supreme Court  already made their decision. We had an election in
the fall, and the public made their decision.’’  Yet the Supreme Court left the door open for states such as
Florida, and as many as two dozen others, to reject Medicaid
expansion.  Scott bears much of the original blame for creating an
environment in which it seemed reasonable to refuse federal
money. Shortly after taking office in 2011, he  rejected  $2.4
billion in federal funds to pay for a new high-speed rail line
to be built between Tampa and  Orlando . His decision on that
issue was cited as a precedent for the Legislature’s stand on
health care.  Now, as he watches other Republican governors -- Jan Brewer
of  Arizona ,  John Kasich  of  Ohio  and  Rick Snyder  of  Michigan  --
fight to persuade their legislatures to allow the Medicaid
expansion, all he and Florida’s businesses can do is hope they
can figure out how to get their legislators to go along in 2014.  (Lucy Morgan is the former capital bureau chief for the
Tampa Bay Times and winner of the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for
investigative reporting. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lucy Morgan at  lucytimes@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  