-- Woods Close to Renewing Endorsement Deal With Nike, Agent Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-03T16:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/woods-close-to-renewing-endorsement-deal-with-nike-agent-says.html
Tiger Woods is close to signing a new
long-term endorsement agreement with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  that probably
will keep the No. 1-ranked golfer with the world’s largest
sporting goods company for the rest of his career, his agent,
Mark Steinberg, said.  Woods’s current agreement, which was signed in 2006, is set
to expire this year.  Steinberg, Woods’s agent with Excel Sports Management, said
in an e-mail that he expects the deal to be signed “soon” and
will keep the 14-time major tournament winner as the company’s
highest-paid golf endorser.  While Steinberg declined to discuss specific contract
terms, he said the new agreement “portends he will likely be a
Nike athlete for his career.”  Beth Gast, a spokeswoman for Nike’s golf division, declined
to comment on the negotiations in an e-mail.  The 37-year-old Woods has endorsed Nike’s golf division
since turning professional in 1996 and re-signed with the
Beaverton, Oregon-based company in 2001 and 2006. ESPN first
reported the new contract negotiations.  Woods’s agreement with Nike has been reported to be worth
as much as $20 million a year since he signed a five-year
contract in 2001, replacing an original $40 million agreement.  In March, Golf Digest magazine said Woods earned $77
million off the course in endorsements in 2012, while Sports
Illustrated reported Woods’s 2012 earnings at closer to $40
million. Steinberg has called such rankings inaccurate in the
past.  Sponsor Stays  While Woods lost endorsement deals with AT&T Inc.,
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  and TAG Heuer watches following a marital scandal
in 2009, Nike remained by his side.  Woods has won four times on the U.S. PGA Tour this year and
finished fourth at the Masters Tournament in April. At next
week’s U.S. Open at Merion Golf Club, he will be seeking to win
his first major tournament since capturing the 2008 Open at
Torrey Pines in San Diego.  In January, Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy joined Woods,
No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking, as a Nike endorser
after ending his five-year relationship with Titleist. The Irish
Times reported the agreement to be worth as much as $250 million
over 10 years for the two-time major tournament winner.  Nike also signed U.S. PGA Tour players Kyle Stanley and
Nick Watney and  Denmark ’s Thorbjorn Olesen to endorsement deals
this year.  Nike shares were up 62 cents to $62.28 at 12:39 p.m.  New
York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  