-- World Bank Unit Said to End Fund With Greenpark Capital
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-03T13:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/world-bank-unit-said-to-end-fund-with-greenpark-capital.html
The International Finance Corp., the
lending arm of the  World Bank , canceled an agreement with
private-equity firm Greenpark Capital Ltd. to back a $500
million fund to invest in  emerging markets , two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The  IFC , which would have contributed as much as $100
million to buy stakes in emerging-market buyout funds with
Greenpark, withdrew from the deal after employees left the
London-based firm at the end of last year, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are confidential.
The decision is set to be confirmed at an IFC board meeting this
month, the people said.  Under a March 2012 agreement with Greenpark, the
Washington-based IFC was to contribute as much as 20 percent of
the fund, with private investors and Greenpark executives
providing the remainder.  No money was raised from third parties, the people said.
One stake was purchased from a South American-based investor,
using IFC capital. This investment, which was valued at about
$50 million, is expected to be retained by the IFC, they said.  Separately, Greenpark has been negotiating with San Diego-based alternative investment manager Stepstone Group LLC over a
possible sale of the company, three people with knowledge of the
situation said in May. The companies have been in talks for more
than a month, they said.  John McNally, a spokesman for the IFC, declined to comment
on the ending of the agreement. Piers Hooper, spokesman for
Greenpark Capital, and officials at Stepstone declined to
comment.  The news of the cancellation of the agreement was reported
today by Private Equity News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  