-- WTI Drops After Biggest Gain in a Month on Inventories
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-04T12:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/wti-crude-trades-little-changed-after-gaining-most-in-a-month.html
West Texas Intermediate crude slipped
after the biggest gain in a month amid forecasts that
inventories of gasoline expanded last week in the U.S., the
world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures were little changed after retreating as much as 0.8
percent in  New York . Gasoline stockpiles probably climbed by  1.2
million barrels  last week, while distillate supplies, including
heating oil and diesel, may have gained 1.5 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Information Administration report tomorrow. Crude inventories
declined by an estimated 650,000 barrels last week, sliding from
an 82-year high, the survey showed.  “The market is in bad shape,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Demand
is sluggish, and supplies are ample.”  WTI for July delivery slid as much as 72 cents to $92.73 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.29 as of 1:24 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 11 percent below the 100-day average. The
contract rose $1.48 to $93.45 yesterday, the biggest gain since
May 3.  Brent for July settlement rose 19 cents to $102.25 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, reversing an earlier loss of
0.5 percent. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of
$8.96 to WTI, up from $8.61 yesterday.  Chart Resistance  WTI is resuming its decline after failing to breach
technical resistance for a third day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday halted an intraday rebound below
the middle Bollinger Band, around $94.25 a barrel today,
signaling that is where sell orders may be clustered.  U.S. refineries may have increased operating rates for the
first time in three weeks, rising  0.6 percentage points  to 87
percent of capacity, the Bloomberg survey showed before the
report from the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.
Memorial Day on May 27 marked the start of the nation’s peak
driving period.  The  American Petroleum Institute  is scheduled to release
separate data today at 4:30 p.m. in  Washington . The industry
group collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA for its
weekly survey.  Brent slipped after Nexen Inc. said yesterday that the
North Sea Buzzard oil field it operates will start in the middle
of this week after equipment failure caused production to be
halted. Supply from the 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard field makes
up about half of the benchmark Forties crude stream.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  