-- Xi-Obama Summit to Build Rapport as North Korea Beats Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-04T08:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/xi-obama-summit-offers-chance-for-rapport-as-n-korea-beats-yuan.html
In April 2006, President  George W.
Bush  rearranged the name cards at a White House lunch with  Hu
Jintao , seating the Chinese president next to him instead of
across a table so they could talk privately.  Bush wanted to talk about North Korea. Days later, a
Chinese diplomat visited Pyongyang to push dictator  Kim Jong Il 
to return to nuclear talks. Within a year, the North agreed to
shut down a reactor that made weapons-grade plutonium, recalled
 Paul Haenle , executive assistant to U.S. National Security
Advisor Stephen Hadley at the time.  Bush and Hu’s successors -- Presidents  Barack Obama  and Xi
Jinping -- will get a similar chance to move beyond talking
points when they meet June 7-8 in California. Unlike during the
global credit crisis when economic strains were at the
forefront, the two leaders confront tensions over issues
including cybersecurity, North Korea’s renewed nuclear ambitions
and  China ’s concern over the U.S. strategic shift toward Asia
and away from the  Middle East .  “What these two leaders need to do is really begin to
establish a working relationship,” Haenle, now director of the
Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, said in
an interview. “The biggest problem we have had in our
interaction with China is that it has been very stilted, and
very much in accordance with scripted talking points.”  Xi is set to meet Obama  at Sunnylands , the Annenberg family
estate in Rancho Mirage, following his visits to  Trinidad and
Tobago , Costa Rica and Mexico. It will be their first meeting
since Xi took over as general secretary of China’s Communist
Party and then state president in a once-a-decade power shift
that ended in March.  Damp Expectations  Both governments have sought to damp expectations for firm
results from the meeting. Deputy White House Press Secretary
 Josh Earnest  said May 31 it’s “intended to be an informal
gathering.”  “For a state visit we would have to spend so much time and
energy on the formalities and the protocol,” Cui Tiankai,
China’s U.S. ambassador, said at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington last month. “It may not
have a long list of what we call deliverables but it will enable
our cooperation to deliver much more in the future.”  Hu’s 2003-2013 tenure as China’s president was marked by
formal meetings with Bush and Obama and few opportunities for
unscripted talk. The California meeting hearkens back to the era
of  Jiang Zemin , who  met  Bush at his Texas ranch in October 2002
and was known for a less stilted style than Hu, his successor as
Chinese leader.  Crooning Elvis  Jiang  recited  part of the Gettysburg Address in a 2000 “60
Minutes” interview and  crooned   Elvis Presley ’s “Love Me
Tender” at a meeting in the Philippines in 1996.  “Especially in a non-democratic country like China, the
leader’s personal investment in good relations with the U.S. is
one of the greatest diplomatic assets we can have,” Susan Shirk, a professor at the  University of California , San Diego,
who was responsible for China affairs at the U.S. State
Department from 1997 to 2000, said in an e-mail.  Xi said last week in a  meeting  with U.S. National Security
Advisor Tom Donilon in Beijing that China wants a “new type of
great power relationship” with the U.S. Other Chinese officials
including General Fan Changlong, vice chairman of the party’s
Central Military Commission, repeated the phrase.  Cold War  Shen Dingli, director of the Center for American Studies at
Fudan University in Shanghai, said the new relationship is best
defined by what it isn’t: the  Cold War  relationship between the
U.S. and Soviet Union where the two had opposing ideologies and
were locked in an arms race.  The U.S. and Chinese economies, the two biggest in the
world, have become more intertwined. China is the largest holder
of U.S. treasuries, while it’s also a manufacturing base for
goods sold by companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Last week, Chinese pork producer Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. offered to buy  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  The deal is
valued at $7.1 billion including debt, and, if approved, will be
the biggest Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company.  “It’s more constructively cooperating, especially on
regional stability and global governance issues,” Shen said in
an e-mail.  Economic changes may make that task easier. The combination
of a rising  yuan  and a recovering U.S. economy means that
disputes over the currency and the trade deficit don’t dominate
the conversation with China as they did after the 2008 financial
crisis, said  Eswar Prasad , the  former head  of the International
Monetary Fund’s China division who is now a professor at  Cornell
University  in Ithaca, New York.  Economic Growth  China’s gross domestic product expanded at the slowest rate
in 13 years last year. Chinese export growth -- once the driver
of the economy -- is slowing as the yuan continues to gain in
value, with the U.S. in March posting the  lowest  trade deficit
with China in three years. Today the People’s Bank of China
boosted the yuan’s  reference rate  to a record 6.1735 per dollar.  “The two countries appear to have moved beyond irritants
like China’s currency regime,” Prasad said in an e-mail.
“Leaders in both countries are focused on stabilizing their
economies and pushing forward with domestic economic reforms,
easing bilateral tensions and creating the space for progress on
reducing barriers to their closer trade and financial
integration.”  Growing Threat  Now, the two countries are at loggerheads over
cybersecurity. In a June 1 speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue
security forum in Singapore, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
singled out China to an audience that included members of the
country’s military.  “The United States has expressed our concerns about the
growing threat of cyber-intrusions, some of which appear to be
tied to the Chinese government and military,” Hagel said.  China is also suspicious about the U.S.’ strategic pivot
toward Asia, under which it is stationing more Marines in
Darwin, Australia for what will eventually be a 2,500-member
force. On June 2, Hagel  went aboard  the USS Freedom, a littoral
combat ship that docked in Singapore as part of its maiden
deployment to Southeast Asia.  Even with those concerns, Xi’s main focus is on the
domestic economy, and he wants to avoid history repeating itself
with the U.S. after disagreements that marked Obama’s first
term, Shen said.  Ties Advanced  In 2009, Obama’s first year in office, some Bush
administration officials including Haenle stayed on at the White
House to keep relations smooth. The U.S. president visited
Beijing that November.  Two months later, then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on U.S. companies to resist censorship as Google Inc.
criticized China for pushing the  Mountain View , California-based
company to filter its search results. That same month, the U.S.
announced a $6.4 billion arms sale to Taiwan.  “China wants Xi’s first year in office to be marked by
better ties with the U.S,” Shen said. “So China wants to have
a great first year, and over the next few years wants to avoid
the repetition of the turbulence.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  