-- Hybrid Debt Experiment Unleashed as Danish FSA Helps Banks
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-06-03T07:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hybrid-debt-experiments-unleashed-in-denmark-as-fsa-helps-banks.html
Denmark ’s financial watchdog said
banks facing stricter individual capital requirements will be
allowed to use new hybrid debt instruments to build their
regulatory buffers.  Lenders in the Scandinavian nation hit hardest by the
global financial crisis will be free to use bonds that convert
to equity at given triggers as well as debt that can absorb
losses before a default, Ulrik Noedgaard, director general of
the Financial Supervisory Authority, said in an interview.  The FSA’s decision puts an end to speculation among Danish
banks they would have to fulfill lender-specific requirements
using only equity. Systemically important financial institutions
learned in March they may need to hold as much as 5 percentage
points extra capital, a proposal lawmakers are still debating.
Banks have argued pressure to build reserves is threatening to
restrict lending as capital costs rise.  “We think we’re coming with a solution that will address
their concerns,” Noedgaard said. “Although the point of
reference for us is that these buffers would have to be filled
with common equity Tier 1, we are also happy with having some
kind of capital in place that has the same properties.”  Loss-Absorbing  The FSA plans to shed more light on which hybrid
instruments banks can use in coming weeks. The emphasis will be
on capital that demonstrates an adequate loss-absorbing
potential while the bank is still solvent, Noedgaard said. Banks
will only be allowed to use the hybrids to fulfill individual
solvency buffers above a minimum 8 percent equity requirement,
he said.  The FSA is still looking into the use of hybrids to fulfill
proposed crisis-management buffers for too-big-to-fail banks,
Noedgaard said. The Sifi committee recommended the use of
hybrids in March proposals that have yet to be approved by
lawmakers.  While opening a door to less costly funding, relying on
hybrid debt also hides potential risks as rating companies
redefine their assessments of the securities.  The prospect of a change of rules at  Standard & Poor’s  is
hampering  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s ability to plan its  capital
structure . S&P said in March it’s reviewing its criteria for
risk-adjusted capital in a move that threatens to reduce the
loss-absorbing potential of a $1 billion 2037 bond that
Denmark’s biggest bank issued in September.  Hybrid Criteria  S&P asked banks on March 27 for feedback on a proposal to
revise its hybrid capital criteria. The rating company said it
was considering the changes “to further emphasize regulatory
classification in our assessment of whether an instrument is
able to absorb losses while the bank is a going concern.”  Noedgaard said Denmark’s FSA is aiming to create standards
that ensure hybrid securities offered by the nation’s banks
follow rules enforced elsewhere.  “We are aiming at coming up with demands that are
consistent with what you see in other countries, so it should
also be possible to issue for Danish banks,” Noedgaard said.
Though not limited to Sifis, the instruments will render their
capital requirements “less stringent than if you had to fulfill
everything with common equity Tier 1,” he said.  Given the freedom banks will have to compose their
regulatory buffers, the FSA has little patience for claims that
stricter capital requirements will hurt lending, Noedgaard said.  ‘Not Correct’  “You can discuss the merits or not of Sifi charges, but
you cannot say the current lending level in Danish banks is
constrained by the current and expected future capital
requirements,” Noedgaard said. “That is just not correct.” He
says the main issue is a lack of demand for credit.  Danish banks have pushed back against the Sifi proposals.
Danske Bank and Nykredit A/S, the country’s largest mortgage
lender, are now lobbying lawmakers to reject the requirements,
arguing stricter rules should be matched by an explicit pledge
that they’ll be exempt from Denmark’s bail-in laws.  The FSA, which oversaw the European Union’s first senior
bank creditor losses within a resolution framework in 2011,
eased its stance on bank closures this year. Instead of only
allowing banks 48 hours to find capital, the regulator is now
giving insolvent lenders the time they need to get back on their
feet, it said in May.  Selling Shares  The latest bank to benefit from the softer approach was
Oestjydsk Bank A/S, which announced Friday it is selling shares
to recapitalize.  Bank lending to businesses fell an annual 13 percent in
April to 387 billion kroner, the second lowest level in at least
seven years, the central bank said May 28. Bank lending to
households dropped 5 percent.  “Reducing these Sifi charges for example -- or any other
capital requirement for that matter -- will not provide much
growth in the Danish economy,” Noedgaard said. “But it will
certainly make the financial system less stable going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  