-- Hypo Alpe Chairman Resigns After Clash Over Government’s EU Plan
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-03T14:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-03/hypo-alpe-chairman-resigns-after-clash-over-government-s-eu-plan.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG
Chairman Johannes Ditz resigned over the Austrian government’s
proposal to break up the nationalized lender within a set time
frame, saying it will cost taxpayers more money.  Ditz, who led Hypo Alpe’s supervisory board since 2010,
said in a statement today that he’s opposing a new restructuring
plan for the Klagenfurt, Austria-based bank, which the
government submitted to the European Commission last week. The
Commission, which has to approve state aid to companies,
demanded a new plan to justify the 2.2 billion euros ($2.9
billion) of aid Hypo Alpe has received since 2008.  “An agreement with the European Union’s competitive
authorities shouldn’t take precedence over the company’s well-being and the costs,” Ditz said in an e-mailed statement.
“Setting a deadline isn’t justifiable” for Hypo Alpe’s main
asset, a network of banks in ex-Yugoslavia. The lender should
also spin off a “bad bank” for wind-down assets because that
could limit  capital requirements  for taxpayers, Ditz said.  European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has
called to break up Hypo Alpe by year-end and threatened to shut
it down after five years of talks between EU and Austrian
officials failed to produce a wind-down plan. A  task force 
installed by the government is racing to avoid that scenario,
which could cost Austria as much as 14 billion euros, or 5
percent of economic output, according to central bank estimates.  Hypo Alpe last week agreed to sell its first banking unit,
a lender it operates in its southern Austrian home province of
Carinthia, to British-Indian businessman Sanjeev Kanoria. It
also owns an Italian bank and the Balkan unit, which operates in
 Croatia , Slovenia,  Serbia , Bosnia and Herzegovina and
Montenegro.  Finance Ministry spokesman Gregor Schuetze declined to
comment on the new restructuring plan when reached by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  