-- ‘Carrie’ Is Back, Shock-Challenged and Bloodless: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/-carrie-is-back-shock-challenged-and-bloodless-jeremy-gerard.html
Telekinetic Carrie White proved she
wasn’t dead when her arm shot up from the grave at the end of
“ Carrie .”  She still isn’t dead, despite the kaleidoscopically bad $8-
million kitsch fest that closed on Broadway in 1988 after five
performances.  Now she’s back (I suppose ‘baack!’ is more apt), in a
scaled-down, more thematically persuasive revision  of the
musical whose heroine is the ultimate victim of bullying as well
as child abuse. No red goop drenches her in the climactic scene,
which is symptomatic of the entire enterprise. It’s earnest and
underpopulated, and it’s bloodless.  Carrie White (Molly Ranson) is a naive, 17-year-old walking
target in her rural Maine high school. When her first period
arrives during a shower after gym class, she freaks, prompting
derision and a barrage of tampons from the “in” girls who
torment her unrelentingly.  At home, her Bible-quoting nutjob mother (Marin Mazzie)
greets this sign of womanhood with frenzied horror, apparently
seeing this as her own story of pregnancy and abandonment as her
daughter’s fate, too.  No Prom  When the Queen Meanie (Jeanna De Waal) refuses to apologize
for the gym incident, she’s told she can’t go to the prom. This
sets in motion the cruel plot that will follow Carrie’s unlikely
coronation at the dance. This relies on the repentant (Christy
Altomare) turning so nice that she persuades her boyfriend
(Derek Klena) to take Carrie to the prom (also unlikely).  You know all this from the Stephen King novel and the Brian De Palma movie. The musical, written by Michael Gore (music),
Dean Pitchford (lyrics) and Lawrence D. Cohen (book) and
originally staged by Terry Hands, tried mightily to out-lurid
the film with teens who frequented leather bars, as if real
teens aren’t scary enough.  For the MCC Theater revision, the trio and director
Stafford Arima have gone the opposite way. David Zinn’s drab
gray set consists almost entirely of the back wall of the gym,
post-apocalypse. Emily Rebholz’s costumes are staid. The spooky
lighting (Kevin Adams) and sound (Jonathan Deans) don’t compete
with Hollywood, but they get the job done. The ensemble,
especially in the prom scene, seems skimpy.  Scaling “Carrie” back has the unfortunate effect of
demonstrating the key thing about “Carrie” that all the
trappings may have hidden: It was a lousy score in 1988 and it’s
still a lousy score.  Teen Obsessions  The melodies, even the new ones, are outdated generic pop,
the lyrics banal if somewhat more attuned to teen obsessions
with not standing out and fitting into prom dresses. (“You
should trust what you feel/That’s the only thing that’s real”)  There’s an admirable lack of gimmickry and the cast is
terrific. Ranson underplays the ugly duckling whose moment of
swanliness is cut cruelly short. Mazzie, too, seems rooted as
the mother from hell. Altomare is convincing as the do-gooder
and is rewarded with the best songs. Blair Goldberg defies
stereotype as the knowing gym teacher.  I can understand workshopping a flop to see if there’s
anything worth salvaging. But when the answer is so inarguably
“No,” it’s hard to figure out why it came so much further
along.  Through April 22 at the Lucille Lortel Theatre, 121
Christopher St. Information: +1-212-352-3101;
 http://www.mcctheater.org .  Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 