-- 2Co, Progressive Energy Say Carbon-Capture Plants Pass EIB Test
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T16:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/2co-progressive-energy-say-carbon-capture-plants-pass-eib-test.html
2Co Energy Ltd. and Progressive
Energy Ltd. are among companies developing U.K. carbon-capture
and storage projects that cleared a financial hurdle toward
securing European funds.  2Co Energy is developing the Don Valley Power Project in
Yorkshire to trap and bury emissions. The initiative passed
financial and technical due diligence carried out by the
 European Investment Bank , Jane Paxman, a company spokeswoman,
said today by phone.  Peter Whitton, managing director at Gloucestershire-based
Progressive Energy, said the company’s CCS project in Teesside,
northern  England , was also approved. Both companies said they
were notified by the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate
Change by e-mail this week.  The European Union decided in 2008 to use proceeds from the
sale of 300 million carbon permits to encourage carbon-capture
and renewable energy projects. It ordered the EIB, the lending
arm of the European Union, to monetize the allowances. The
Luxembourg-based bank is also  appraising projects  submitted by
member states.  The value of allowances sold from the special reserve was
267.05 million euros ($352.7 million) at the end of January,
according to an EIB report.  C.Gen, a company based in Antwerp,  Belgium , confirmed by e-
mail that its Killingholme carbon-capture and storage project in
Yorkshire also passed.  Seven Applications  The U.K. government initially received  seven applications 
from CCS projects which it submitted to the EIB for appraisal in
May. One of those projects planned by Iberdrola SA’s Scottish
Power unit was cancelled last year.  The first tranche of 200 million permits from the special
reserve has to be sold by Oct. 2, 2012 with expected proceeds on
sales funding at least eight CCS projects and 34 renewable-
energy systems covering as much as half the construction and
operating costs.  Whitton said he was concerned the falling carbon price may
depress what’s raised. “The amount that is there is not a large
amount. The main support in reality will come from the U.K.
government,” he said.  U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said on Feb. 27 that
the government was seeking to align its own 1 billion pound
funding contest for CCS projects with the special reserve.  “It’s another step along the way,” Paxman said. “The
formal award decisions are still apparently on track for the
year end.”  The EIB referred comments to the European Commission
Directorate-General for Climate Action, which didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  