-- Networks: Aereo Net TV Violates Copyright
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/aereo-s-online-tv-service-infringes-copyright-networks-say.html
Aereo Inc. will violate copyrights
with its service for subscribers in  New York City  to watch
broadcast television programs on personal computers and
smartphones, television networks said.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and other networks said in two
separate complaints filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan that Aereo has no right to any of the programs that it
offers through its subscription-only Internet service scheduled
to start March 14.  “Although other distributors, including cable and
satellite operators and telephone companies, pay to retransmit
the same programming, Aereo’s business is based on circumventing
the carefully balanced distribution system mandated by
congress,” the networks said. “That is infringement.”  The networks seek a court order blocking Aereo’s service as
well as unspecified damages.  Aereo, based in Long Island City,  New York , is backed in
part by Barry Diller’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI)  The company lets its
subscribers access network television broadcasts and local
stations on web-enabled devices with a remote antenna and
digital video recorder. The company’s membership fee is $12 a
month.  “Aereo does not believe that the broadcasters’ position
has any merit and it very much looks forward to a full and fair
airing of the issues,” Mike Schroeder, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Consumers are legally entitled
to access broadcast television via an antenna and they are
entitled to record television content for their personal use.”  The cases are American Broadcasting Companies v. Aereo,
12-1540, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 