-- Afghanistan Sets Auction to Lure Bidders for Oil Exploration
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-02T04:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/afghanistan-sets-oil-auction-for-possible-600-million-barrels.html
Afghanistan  will start accepting
investor offers next week to explore for at least 600 million
barrels of crude oil in the western half of the Afghan-Tajik
Basin, the country’s mining minister said.  The auction beginning March 7 will cover six blocks in the
basin, located in the country’s north, and will include rights
for exploration and production, Minister of Mines Wahidullah Shahrani said yesterday in an interview in  Washington .  “The initial indication is that there would be at least
600 million barrels of oil in that western part of the Afghan-
Tajik basin,” he said. “There is also potential for discovery,
once they do the exploration, for gas in the same basin.”  The auction would be Afghanistan’s first new offering of
energy and mineral deposits this year in a country desperate for
revenue as a 50-nation coalition begins to withdraw its troops
amid continuing violence.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. oil producer, is
among the companies that expressed interest in bidding for the
Afghan-Tajik Basin during meetings with other ministry officials
last week in Houston, Shahrani said.  Lloyd Avram, a spokesman for  San Ramon , California-based
Chevron, said that, while the company “continuously looks for
value-added opportunities around the world,” it doesn’t comment
on business discussions.  The Afghan-Tajik Basin is estimated to hold 946 million
barrels of undiscovered crude oil and 7 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas, according to a U.S. Geological Survey report.  Koran Burning  Intensified violence, including riots and the killings of
six U.S. soldiers in the past 10 days over a Koran burning at
the main American military base, have thwarted investment and
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s decade-long effort to
end the war.  The Pentagon’s Task Force on Business and Stability
Operations works with the ministry to help build and modernize
infrastructure and encourage investment, while civilian aid
groups seek to develop the country’s legal system and the
capacity of government agencies.  Such efforts by the NATO coalition suffered another setback
last week, when U.S. Marine General John Allen, the top
commander, recalled advisers from the ministries to secure
compounds after two were shot to death in the heavily guarded
Interior Ministry. Shahrani said U.S. and British advisers in
his ministry were recalled, while  World Bank  and Asian
Development Bank personnel continue to work on site.  Chinese Win  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ)  last year won an auction to
develop three blocks of the Amu Darya basin, a geological zone
that extends into Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The three blocks
were estimated to hold 80 million barrels and the Afghan
government projected it would yield about $7 billion in profits.  The company, which is  PetroChina Co. (857) ’s parent, won the
tender by offering to build a refinery and pay more royalty than
rivals from  Australia , the U.K., the U.S. and  Pakistan .
Production is due to begin in October, Shahrani said yesterday.  Shahrani, who is visiting Washington to meet with U.S.
companies as well as government agencies supporting
Afghanistan’s economic development, said the ministry will
announce the results next week of a tender process that began in
December for four gold and copper deposits. The announcement is
scheduled for March 9, he said.  Afghanistan may hold unexplored mineral deposits worth as
much as $1 trillion, the Pentagon said in June 2010, citing U.S.
Geological Survey data. The Afghan government has estimated the
figure as high as $3 trillion.  Mineral Deposits  India and  China  have so far led foreign investment in the
country’s mineral resources. State-owned  Metallurgical Corp. (1618)  of
China is developing the Aynak copper mine in Afghanistan, where
production is expected to begin in 2014, according to Shahrani.  Companies from outside the region are more likely to be
wary of investing in Afghanistan, said Prasad Patkar, who helps
manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in
Sydney.  “I wouldn’t imagine Afghanistan attracting large
investment immediately,” Patkar said in a telephone interview.
“There are volatile areas that are geologically more appealing,
like the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.”  Among American companies, Afghanistan is most likely to
interest those that focus on oil and gas, rare earths, gold and,
to a certain extent, copper, Shahrani said.  Afghanistan is funding a 7,000-person security force to
protect mining assets, with 1,500 personnel stationed at the
Aynak mine at a cost of about $7 million a year, Shahrani said
in a December interview.  Meeting With Molycorp  Shahrani said he will meet with representatives from
 Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  of  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado . The company owns
the largest rare-earth deposit outside China.  Molycorp had a meeting with Afghan officials on Sept. 23 at
the suggestion of the U.S. State Department to discuss long-term
plans for mineral development, Jim Sims, a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail. Sims said the company hasn’t met
with Afghan representatives since and he isn’t aware of any
meetings are scheduled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  