-- AIJ Suspension to Be ‘Livedoor Moment’ for Japan Pension Funds, GFIA Says
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-03-02T08:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/aij-suspension-to-be-livedoor-moment-for-japan-pension-funds-gfia-says.html
Japanese pension funds may shun
smaller  hedge funds  in favor of larger ones after the suspension
of  AIJ Investment Advisors Co.  by the nation’s regulator for
possibly losing clients’ money, according to GFIA Pte.  AIJ was suspended on Feb. 24 by  Japan ’s financial regulator
after it couldn’t account for all of the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3
billion) it managed for clients as of March 2011. Japanese
pensions including those representing unions were among clients
that had money with AIJ, which hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  The suspension of AIJ that sparked the biggest
investigation in the history of Japan’s fund industry resembles
the impact on the hedge fund industry after executives at
Internet provider Livedoor Co. were arrested in 2006 for
fabricating profits, according to a client report by GFIA, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds.
Livedoor raised concerns about the finances of second-tier
companies that many Japan-focused hedge funds had invested in.  “We think this will be the Japanese pension fund
industry’s ‘Livedoor moment,’” said  Peter Douglas , principal of
Singapore-based GFIA. “The tap of Japanese pension fund money,
to boutique managers, will turn off.”  Japanese pensions have been trying to diversify their
investments beyond traditional assets such as bonds and equities
into  alternative investments  that include hedge funds, as they
face challenges funding retirement benefits in an aging society.  Bright Spots  AIJ had 122 contracts with domestic corporate pensions and
one with a foreign investor as of March 2011, according to
filings with Japan Securities Investment Advisers Association.
Eight retirement funds had allocated more than 30 percent of
their money to AIJ, while one of them had more than half of its
9.1 billion yen it manages with AIJ, according to Japan’s health
ministry data.  “What is particularly unfortunate is that this group of
investors has been among the very few bright spots in the Asian
hedge fund industry over the last two to three years,” Douglas
wrote in the GFIA report. “We see a good number of Japanese
boutiques, as well as some pan-Asian specialists, that have
largely filled up with Japan pension fund money.”  Thirty-two percent of 119 Japanese pensions had wanted to
add alternative investments this fiscal year, according to a
survey in April 2011 by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Tokyo-based asset
management unit. Alternative investments also include private
equity funds, real estate, commodities and infrastructure.  ‘Serious Incident’  “This is a very serious incident, no doubt about it,”  Ed Rogers , chief executive officer of Tokyo-based Rogers Investment
Advisors, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from  New York .
“But I think it needs to be taken within context. A $2 billion
fund that has a problem in the context of a multitrillion-dollar
asset management industry is not exactly like the whole house is
burning down.”  Rogers said he was introduced to AIJ more than a year ago,
which turned down his firm’s request to conduct due diligence.  As a result of the AIJ scandal, Japanese pensions will
converge on the larger “safer” managers, both domestic and
international, while smaller independent consultants will
gradually disappear because the need for more formalized advice
and due diligence overwhelm their ability to deliver advice,
according to GFIA.  Tighter Oversight  Japan’s investigation of the industry may lead to tighter
oversight of pension money investment. A total of 265 asset
managers in Japan will be required to submit status reports to
the financial watchdog by March 14. The reports must contain
details of a firm’s operations, contracts and their amounts, and
any past complaints from customers.  AIJ’s investigation also adds to growing criticism of
Japan’s corporate governance following  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s admission
it covered up losses by overpaying advisers.  “Following hard on the heels of the Olympus scandal,
there’ll surely be some ill-conceived legislation drafted to
prevent further such governance lapses,” Douglas wrote in the
report. “The combination of Japanese caution and Japanese
consensus and homogenous decision making will lead to unhelpful
outcomes for the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  