-- Air Force Gives $9 Million Award for as Many as 18,000 IPads
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-03-02T16:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/air-force-grants-9-million-award-for-as-many-as-18-000-ipad2s.html
The U.S. Air Force awarded a $9.36
million contract to buy as many as 18,000  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad 2s in
one of the military’s largest orders of computer tablets.  Air Mobility Command announced the award today to Executive
Technology Inc., a Phoenix-based computer services company,
Captain Kathleen Ferrero, a military spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  Taking a cue from commercial airlines, the service will use
the tablets to replace the bags of paper manuals and navigation
charts carried by pilots and navigators.  “Aircrews fly nonstop worldwide missions and require
access to flight publications both on and off the aircraft,
throughout all phases of flight,” Ferrero said in an e-mail.
The so-called electronic flight bags will help crews operate
more effectively and safely, and support the Pentagon’s
efficiency goals, she said.  Air Mobility Command, based at Scott  Air Force  Base in
 Illinois , provides transport and refueling services to the U.S.
military using C-5, C-17 and C-130 cargo planes and KC-10 and
KC-135 tankers.  The type of iPad the command is buying retails for $599,
Ferrero said. The Air Force would buy it at a discount for about
$520 a device, she said. The product comes with wireless
connectivity and 32 gigabytes of memory, she said.  Funding Requests  The contract allows the Air Force to buy as many as 18,000
of the devices within a year of the award date, which was
yesterday, Ferrero said.  “That doesn’t necessarily mean we’ll purchase all
18,000,” she said. “It’s contingent upon funding requests and
approval.”  The Air Force has already bought 63 iPad 2s from Executive
Technology, Ferrero said. The devices will be delivered within
30 days and undergo testing, she said.  The competition drew 24 proposals from interested
companies, Ferrero said. She wouldn’t name the companies or say
whether Cupertino, California-based Apple responded to the
request. The command’s decision was based in part on the lowest-
priced offer, she said.  “It was open to everybody,” she said. “We weren’t going
to any specific vendor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  