-- Airbus Negotiating A380 Sales With Two New Prospective Customers
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-02T11:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/airbus-negotiating-a380-sales-with-two-new-prospective-customers.html
Airbus SAS (EAD) , the world’s biggest
commercial planemaker, said it’s negotiating with two new
potential  Middle East  customers to sell the A380 superjumbo.  The delivery schedule of the planes is a determining factor
for the deal, Habib Fekih, Airbus’s president for the Middle
East, said in an interview. The company’s commercial customers
in the region are Emirates, the world’s largest carrier by
international traffic and the biggest operator of the aircraft,
Abu Dhabi’s Etihad and Doha-based  Qatar Airways .  The Middle East has become the main sales region for the
A380, with Emirates having ordered 90 in total and Qatar Air and
Etihad a combined 20. Emirates, which already operates 20 of the
double-decker aircraft, is marketing its location as a multi-
directional hub in Dubai that can connect any two points in the
world with an A380 with just one stopover.  The Toulouse, France-based planemaker forecasts demand for
50 to 100 plane orders from Middle Eastern carriers this year,
predominantly for narrow-body aircraft to replace ageing fleets,
according to Fekih. This year has “good prospects,” even if it
looks quieter in terms of regional orders than 2011, which was
an “exceptional year”, he said.  “The region ordered a lot of wide-bodies in the last few
years so I believe orders for wide-bodies will be lower than
last years,” said Fekih. “On the other hand, we have a lot of
airlines replacing their A320s, or what we call the single-aisle
fleets, because those were delivered in the early nineties.”  Replacing Narrowbodies  Airlines that need to replace narrow-body planes include,
Etihad, Egypt Air and Tunisair, the executive said, adding that
many A320 fleets have been in operation for 20 years.  Additionally, there could be “top ups” for five or 10
wide-body aircraft from Gulf carriers, though large individual
orders are more likely to come from other carriers.  “We have  Sri Lanka ,  Pakistan , North Africa, I think
 Ethiopia , these are the sort of people where there’s very good
traffic growth and there’s possibility for orders,” he said.
“There are airlines that need to replace their wide-bodies and
narrow-bodies so consequently we can expect orders from there.
It’s a prospect.”  In total, the manufacturer is in “serious negotiations”
with ten regional customers for potential orders of different
aircraft sizes, he said.  Saudi Arabian billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal has
ordered one A380 as a private jet. Other airlines in the Middle
East that operate long-haul routes include  Royal Jordanian
Airlines (RJAL) , Saudi Arabian Airlines and Gulf Air.  By building regional hubs, Gulf carriers are winning long-
haul passengers from European airlines Air France-KLM Group and
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  with Emirates carrying 31.4 million
passengers during its 2010-11 financial year. As airlines in the
region expand their global networks and invest heavily in
growing their fleets, Airbus won 150 orders from the Middle East
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  