-- Alekstra Plans to Start Virtual Mobile-Phone Operator in 2014
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-02T15:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/alekstra-plans-to-start-virtual-mobile-phone-operator-in-2014.html
Alekstra Oy , a Finnish company that
works with corporate customers to cut their phone bills, aims to
open a mobile virtual network operator in five countries in 2014.  Several customers, including Finnish mining technology
company  Outotec Oyj (OTE1V) , will pilot the service in the first half of
2013 followed by a full rollout the following year, Chief
Executive Officer Toni Toikka said in a telephone interview. The
network will initially cover the U.S.,  China , Russia, Brazil and
 Finland , he said.  Alekstra, with offices in Helsinki and  New York , has
patent-pending technology enabling companies to consolidate
their worldwide mobile-phone services into a single global
platform with one billing relationship. Employees would be
issued SIM cards by Alekstra that would be “at home” on all
networks. Alekstra would pay local airtime prices to phone
companies at both ends and route the international segment of
the call through its own virtual private network delivering
savings over operators’ international services.  “For our customers, more than 60 percent of their total
phone costs are international and we can eliminate 80 percent to
90 percent of that,” Toikka said.  Alekstra has more than 80 enterprise customers for its
single global phone-bill reporting and analytics service
including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s Finnish unit and the state of
Connecticut. The company had revenue of 3 million euros ($4
billion) last year and is on course for sales of 12 million
euros this year, Toikka said. It may consider a stock exchange
listing later, he said.  Last month Alekstra hired former MKM Partners analyst Tero Kuittinen as head of sales and marketing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  