-- Aluminium Bahrain Seeks to Keep Alcoa Bribery Suit Alive
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-02T15:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/aluminium-bahrain-defends-its-bribery-lawsuit-against-alcoa-in-u-s-court.html
Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum
producer asked a court to let it proceed with racketeering
claims that it overpaid for raw materials because of bribes
directed by  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer.  Aluminium Bahrain BSC, known as Alba, claims that  New York- 
based Alcoa bribed senior officials in Bahrain and caused Alba
to pay almost $500 million more than it should have for alumina,
the principal raw material in aluminum. Alcoa has asked a judge
to dismiss the case, arguing that the alleged conduct took place
outside the U.S. and shouldn’t be litigated in federal court.  Alba countered that Alcoa and other defendants used
offshore shell companies to “perpetrate and conceal a massive,
home-cooked bribery scheme conceived, orchestrated, and directed
in and from the United States,” according to its filing
yesterday in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Claims of domestic leadership of the fraudulent scheme are
“amply supported by Alba’s detailed, specific, and documented
allegations of actions in furtherance of the scheme by senior
domestic executives,” according to the filing.  Alcoa argued in court papers on Jan. 27 that U.S. District
Judge Donetta Ambrose should dismiss the complaint because
federal law doesn’t apply to “allegations of essentially
foreign enterprises and foreign acts of bribery.”  U.S. Investigation  Ambrose had administratively closed the case in March 2008,
a month after Alba filed it, when the U.S. Justice Department
said it was investigating whether Alcoa made corrupt payments in
Bahrain. The judge agreed in November to Alcoa’s request to
reopen the case so that the company could file a dismissal
motion asserting that racketeering law “does not apply to the
extraterritorial conduct” claimed by Alba.  Lori Lecker, an Alcoa spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday that “Alba’s allegations remain unsupported by law or
by fact.”  The new filing was Alba’s “third opportunity to articulate
its claims since we moved to reopen this case, yet Alba’s brief
does nothing more than repackage legally insufficient
allegations in an attempt to survive the motion to dismiss.”  At a hearing before Ambrose on Nov. 2, Justice Department
attorney Adam Safwat said prosecutors would decide in six to
eight months whether to file criminal charges under the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, according to a transcript of the hearing.  The probe has taken so long, Safwat said, “because the
conduct that we are investigating in this international
corruption scheme spans the globe from the  United States  to
 Australia , to the Channel Islands in  Europe  and to Bahrain.”  ‘Layers Upon Layers’  Seeking witness statements and documents from different
countries has slowed the process, and bank records are critical
“because the scheme usually involves routing money through
layers upon layers of bank records, and we have to go from one
layer to the next,” Safwat said.  In the Alba civil case, one defendant is British investor
 Victor Dahdaleh , who was charged Oct. 24 in the U.K. with six
counts of making corrupt payments, two counts of  money
laundering  and one charge of conspiracy to corrupt. He is
accused of paying bribes to Alba officials to win contracts for
Alcoa.  A former Alba executive, Bruce Allan Hall, was charged Feb.
15 by U.K. prosecutors with corruption and money laundering.
Hall was extradited to  London  from Australia to face the charges
by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office. He is accused of accepting
bribes during an eight-year period while he worked at Alba.  Dahdaleh and Hall must enter a plea in the case on April
16, Judge Alistair McCreath said at a hearing in London today.  The case is  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH)  v. Alcoa Inc., 08-
cv-00299, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  