-- AOL Is Said to Plan California Job Cuts Including at AIM Messaging Service
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/aol-is-said-to-plan-california-job-cuts-including-at-aim-messaging-service.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , the Internet company that
owns the Huffington Post news website, plans to cut jobs,
including workers at its AIM instant-message service, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The firings will focus on technology teams in the company’s
Palo Alto,  California , office, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the plans haven’t been made public. The
decisions on who and how many employees will be cut aren’t yet
final, the people said. Less than 100 workers will be affected,
one person said.  AOL, with 5,660 employees, is trimming costs amid declining
sales. Last year, it combined its dial-up Internet access
business with Web services, including AIM, into a new group
reporting to Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson. That
arrangement suggested that the New York-based company wanted to
impose fiscal discipline on the unit,  Clayton Moran , an analyst
at Benchmark Co. in Delray Beach,  Florida , said in December.  Jason Shellen , who runs AIM, may seek a buyout in the next
few weeks, two people familiar with the matter said. Shellen
joined in September 2010 when AOL bought Thing Labs Inc., a
startup that creates applications that work on Twitter Inc. and
Facebook Inc.  Maureen Sullivan, an AOL spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did Shellen.  Executive Departures  Other AOL managers who have left the company in recent
months include technology executive Alex Gounares, whose
departure was announced this week. TechCrunch editor Erick
Schonfeld also said he is leaving to pursue other opportunities.
Brad Garlinghouse, who ran the applications and commerce group,
stepped down last year.  AOL is planning to eliminate hundreds of jobs next week,
including at its Patch local Internet unit, technology news
website PandoDaily  reported  on Feb. 29, without saying where it
got the information. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday
AOL was cutting staff at AIM.  The company had 1,410 workers related to Patch at the end
of 2011, according to a filing. AOL has no plans to sell or spin
off any part of its business, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said in December. The reorganized structure was meant
to encourage users with AOL accounts to use more of its Web
services, such as e-mail and AIM, he said at the time.  AOL  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $18.09 at
yesterday’s close in  New York . The stock has gained 20 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  