-- Apple, Samsung Both Lose Rulings in German Patent Cases
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-02T15:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/apple-samsung-lose-patent-cases-against-each-other-in-germany.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co., which are suing each other over technology used in tablets
and mobile phones, both lost rulings over patents in German
lawsuits.  The Regional Court of Mannheim rejected Samsung’s bid to
protect mathematical coding procedures as well as Apple’s case
over features for unlocking touch screens. Neither company
showed a patent was infringed, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss said
when delivering the rulings.  Samsung lost because “the standard doesn’t protect the
result but the way to reach the code,” Voss said. Apple didn’t
prevail because Samsung’s devices “don’t use a displayed pre-
determined path on the touch screen.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and Samsung, the
world’s largest mobile phone maker, are among several device
makers clashing in German courts over patents. More disputes
over smartphones and tablets are pending in German courts.  The rejection of Apple’s case confirms that  Samsung (005930) ’s
devices are distinctive and don’t infringe Apple’s intellectual
property, Samsung spokesman Alexander Engelhardt said in an e-
mail. The company is disappointed the court didn’t share its
view in its own suit and may appeal.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment on today’s
rulings and referred to the company’s earlier statement that
Samsung is “blatantly” copying the iPhone and iPad.  Two weeks ago in a Munich court, Apple prevailed in a case
over on the same “slide-to-unlock” technology, winning an
injunction against Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Today’s cases are LG Mannheim 7 O 326/11 (Samsung v. Apple)
and 7 0 247/11 (Apple v. Samsung).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Mannheim via 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 