-- Stocks in U.S. Retreat as Euro, Oil Fall; Treasuries, German Bunds Climb
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-02T21:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/asia-stocks-head-for-record-11th-weekly-advance-as-won-climbs-on-u-s-data.html
U.S. stocks fell, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from the highest level since
2008, while the euro weakened and Treasuries gained as  Spain 
raised its budget-deficit estimate for 2012 and German retail
sales unexpectedly declined. Bond risk rose and oil declined.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.3 percent to 1,369.63 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.1 percent. The euro
slid 0.8 percent to $1.3209. Spain’s 10-year yield increased for
the first time in three days and the cost of insuring European
sovereign bonds rose for the first time in four days. Ten-year
Treasury yields lost five basis points to 1.98 percent and
 German bund  yields slipped seven basis points to 1.8 percent.
Oil tumbled 2 percent to $106.70 a barrel.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced a new
deficit target of 5.8 percent of gross domestic product compared
with the 4.4 percent target previously agreed with the European
Union. Sales in  Germany  declined 1.6 percent from December,
compared with a 0.5 percent gain predicted by economists, the
Federal Statistics Office said today.  “There’s a whole too far, too fast thing,” Rick Fier,
director of equity trading at Conifer Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees more than
$12 billion. “We don’t think that means it’s going to have a
huge pullback, but a consolidation would be a relief.”  Energy Stocks  Energy shares had the biggest decline in the S&P 500 among
10 groups as crude oil fell after yesterday topping $110 a
barrel for the first time since May. Big Lots Inc. lost 4
percent as sales missed analysts’ estimates. Yelp Inc., the site
that lets users review everything from diners to dentists,
surged 64 percent in its first day of trading.  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) 
rose 7.1 percent after saying it will spin off a coffee-and-tea
unit.  Today’s decline threatened to send the S&P 500 to a weekly
loss for just the  second time  this year, trimming its five-day
gain to 0.3 percent. The index is up 8.9 percent in 2012 and has
rallied 25 percent from its 2011 low in October amid improving
economic data and better-than-forecast earnings.  “We have positive signs for the Dow, the S&P” and other
major indexes,’’  Louise Yamada , technical analyst at Louise
Yamada Technical Research Advisors LLC, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Tom Keene . “We suspect that any pullback or pause
here should be one that refreshes.” Yamada said on Feb. 8 that
the Nasdaq Composite Index has entered a  bull market  and stocks
may continue to rally through the end of March.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened against 10 of 16 peers, while the dollar
strengthened against 14 of 16. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the
currency against six major peers, climbed for a third day,
rising 0.8 percent to 79.42. The yen depreciated 0.8 percent
against the dollar, leaving it lower for the fourth consecutive
week, the longest run of declines since November 2010.  Euro-area finance ministers authorized yesterday the
region’s bailout fund to issue bonds for the Greek debt
restructuring, the first step in releasing funds from the rescue
package.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield increased four basis points to
4.91 percent after yesterday sliding to the lowest in a month.
Spain raised its budget deficit target for 2012 as a deepening
economic slump hampers efforts to rein in the euro area’s
fourth-biggest shortfall.  “I didn’t communicate the deficit target to the heads of
state, nor do I have to,” Rajoy said after a summit of European
leaders in Brussels today. “This is a sovereign decision taken
by Spain and I will communicate it to the commission in April,
just like the rest of the countries.”  Italian Bonds  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond fell four basis points to
4.91 percent, after climbing as much as 10 basis points. Bonds
erased declines after a report showed the economy expanded 0.4
percent last year, topping a 0.3 percent forecast. The price of
Italy’s 10-year security climbed for the eighth successive week,
the longest run since a nine-week streak ended March 1998.  The  Greek 10-year bond  tumbled for the third day, driving
the yield 66 basis points higher to a record 37.10 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed 8.9 basis points to 346.  Shares of European  banks  climbed 0.6 percent as a group
after they were upgraded by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts,
who said they anticipate a boost in liquidity and profit from
the  European Central Bank ’s three-year loans.  The banking industry was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral,” according to a Goldman note to clients dated March
1. Even after this year’s gain by shares of the region’s
lenders, the stocks are still  not expensive , analysts including
Matthieu Walterspiler and Sharon Bell wrote.  Commodities  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities fell 1.2 percent, the
first weekly retreat in four weeks. Gold futures slumped 0.7
percent to $1,709.80 an ounce, capping the biggest weekly loss
since December.  Oil fell for the first time in three days after  Saudi
Arabia  denied a report of a pipeline explosion in its Eastern
province and President  Barack Obama  said a pre-emptive strike on
 Iran  might generate sympathy for the Persian Gulf country,
easing concern that an attack would take place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  