-- Asian Job Growth Withstanding Europe Seen Limiting Policy Easing: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-03-02T08:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/asia-s-strong-job-market-may-limit-policy-easing.html
Asia ’s job markets are holding up
even as the European crisis hurts exports, auguring stability in
domestic demand that reduces the case for the region’s central
banks to add monetary stimulus.  Two-thirds of Asian employers surveyed by Hays Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest recruitment firm, said they plan to raise
salaries by at least 3 percent this year, while 54 percent
anticipate giving bonuses to more than half of their workers.
Singapore’s  unemployment rate  fell to a 14-year low of 2 percent
in 2011, Hong Kong’s January rate matched levels not seen since
1998, while South Korea’s is near the lowest since early 2008.  “We have tight labor markets across Asia,” said  Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economic research at
HSBC Holdings Plc. “Rather than sit back and let inflation rise
again, policy makers will want to be proactive and tighten the
screws before it becomes a problem. We could even see rate hikes
coming through at the end of the year.”  South Korea and  Malaysia (MAOPRATE)  are forecast to hold off on
interest-rate cuts next week as a jump in oil prices adds to
inflation risks. With the U.S. Federal Reserve pledging to hold
its benchmark near zero until late 2014, and the  European
Central Bank  expanding liquidity injections, the disparity in
monetary policy with Asia underscores forecasts for the region’s
currencies to strengthen.  Exchange Rates  Indonesia’s rupiah may gain 3.6 percent by year-end,
according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  South Korea ’s won may advance 3.1 percent, with
1.5 percent gains for Singapore’s dollar and the Philippine peso.  Stocks in the region that’s led global growth outperformed
U.S. and European benchmarks so far this year, with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index up about 13 percent, compared with a 9.3
percent gain for the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 9.2
percent rise for  Europe ’s Stoxx 600 measure. The Asian gauge is
set today to extend its longest weekly winning streak on record.  Financial companies are adding to payrolls in Asia even as
they cut back elsewhere, underscoring the region’s lure. HSBC,
which aims to cut 30,000 jobs worldwide, may expand its Asia-
Pacific headcount as much as 5 percent by the end of 2013, the
bank said last month. Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K. lender
that earns most of its profit in Asia, plans to hire as many as
2,600 employees after posting its eighth annual record earnings.  Even in  Japan , which suffered its third year of economic
contraction in the past four in 2011, the jobless rate has
dropped in the past year, to 4.6 percent in January from 4.9
percent a year before, a government report showed today.  Thai Confidence  Thailand  today reported that  consumer confidence  rose for a
third straight month, adding to signs of recovery after the
country’s worst floods in almost 70 years. An index measuring
sentiment climbed to 65.5 from 64 in January, the University of
the Thai Chamber of Commerce said in a statement in Bangkok
today. The gauge is based on a survey of 2,233 respondents.  The reading for the employment component of  China ’s
manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose to 49.5 last month,
the highest since October, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported
yesterday. A number below 50 signals contraction.  Meanwhile, data in Europe today may underscore mixed
fortunes across the continent. In  Germany , a release is forecast
to show retail sales grew 0.5 percent in January from December.
Spain’s Labor Ministry may report registered unemployment rose
80,000 last month in a country where almost half of young people
are out of work. The Italian economy probably grew 0.3 percent
in 2011, one-fifth of 2010’s pace, a Bloomberg survey showed.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management-New York
Inc. will release its summary of New York area business
conditions.  Global Share  Asian companies endured supply shocks in the past year
including Japan’s earthquake and tsunami, and Thailand’s floods,
to keep churning out components for Apple Inc. and Toyota Motor
Corp. The region exported $4.69 trillion of goods in 2010,
accounting for about a third of the global shipments, according
to the World Trade Organization.  “Companies dusted off their copy books from 2008 and
implemented crisis-response measures to stay afloat,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore . “They understood this was going to be temporary and
that it made sense to hang on to their  labor force . Companies
responded by trimming down their inventory holdings and by and
large, there were no significant job losses.”  Rate Cuts  Central banks in nations from Indonesia to Thailand lowered
 interest rates  last year to guard against the impact of Europe’s
crisis. The Philippines yesterday also lowered its benchmark
rate for a second straight meeting.  With limited slack in job markets and energy prices
escalating, some monetary-policy makers may need to shift gears
later this year should threats to the global expansion continue
to diminish. Europe’s agreement on a second bailout of Greece
spurred optimism the euro area crisis will abate, with Italy’s
two-year note yields dipping below 2 percent for the first time
since 2010 yesterday. U.S. unemployment has also declined,
auguring sustained economic growth this year.  In  Taiwan , the number of workers on unpaid leave has
dropped by more than 40 percent since the start of the year, and
the jobless rate in January was the lowest since 2008, according
to government data. Singapore’s employers added the most workers
in seven quarters in the three months through December, even as
the economy shrank.  1999 Low  Malaysia ’s unemployment rate fell to 3 percent in the last
quarter of 2011, near the lowest since 1999, from 3.1 percent in
the July to September period. The central bank refrained from
cutting rates at its most recent meeting in January after last
raising its benchmark in May.  “The jobless rate remains low in most economies, even as
growth has slowed, suggesting that firms are confident that the
current lull in demand will be temporary,” said Glenn Levine,
an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “The other key
driver is domestic demand, which is holding up well.”  Meantime,  oil prices  have advanced 26 percent in the past
six months. The jump will “translate into higher consumer
prices,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in Singapore.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  has already opted to hold off
on adding stimulus, unexpectedly foregoing last month the rate
cut that a majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
anticipated. The bank is forecast to again keep its benchmark
unchanged next week. Australia, whose economy is linked to China
through its exports of coal and iron for Chinese factories, may
be a bellwether for other economies in the region.  “The RBA is generally a good gauge of what central banks
across Asia will soon be doing,” Levine of Moody’s Analytics
said. “Bank  Indonesia  has cut rates a couple of times already,
but is now likely to pause, as the outlook is still good. Korea,
Malaysia and India are all on hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  