-- Australia Has Few Class Actions, Scale of Cases Concern, Mallesons Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-02T06:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/australia-has-few-class-actions-scale-of-cases-concern-mallesons-says.html
Australian class-action lawsuit
settlements worry company directors because of their size even
as such suits account for less than 1 percent of federal court
cases, according to a report by law firm  King & Wood Mallesons .  About 14 class-action suits are filed each year, two
decades after the nation allowed such actions, the firm said
today in its  review  of 2011.  Among cases initiated last year,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  customers are seeking to recoup A$50 million
($54 million) in fees they deem illegal. A suit against Centro
Properties Ltd., whose shareholders want to recover more than
A$200 million from the collapsed mall operator in a trial
starting March 5, is a key case to watch in 2012, the firm said.  “Class actions remain a significant concern for both
directors and in-house counsel alike due to the scale of many of
these claims,” the authors of the report wrote. The total value
of settlements in shareholder class actions in 2011 surpassed
A$500 million, they said.  The Centro lawsuit is “significant because the applicants
seek to get around the common law position that shareholders
cannot sue auditors for negligence,” the law firm said.  Centro  shareholders  allege the company misled them by
failing to disclose the full extent of its debts.  Unresolved Issue  The case may also resolve whether each member of the class
has to prove they were misled and incurred damages or the group
as a whole is entitled to compensation because the market was
misled, Roger Forbes, a partner at King & Wood Mallesons and a
co-author of the report, said in a telephone interview.  “That’s a great unresolved issue,” he said.  In a class-action suit, one applicant files on behalf of a
group of plaintiffs, rather than individuals pursuing claims
separately.  Plaintiffs have been more willing to include advisers as
defendants in class-action lawsuits, recognizing they may be
more willing to settle because they often have professional
indemnity insurance and reputations to protect, King & Wood
Mallesons said.  Adding defendants boosts the costs of the litigation, said
King & Wood Mallesons, whose 21 office locations include
Beijing,  Hong Kong  and Sydney. It also carries the risk the
plaintiffs may have to pay the defendants’ legal bills, the law
firm said.  Company Directors  “One development that was predicted but has not been
common, is the inclusion of company directors as individual
defendants to class actions,” the authors wrote. “This
reflects the belief that it is the company that has the deeper
pockets and reputation to protect.”  Canada, whose legal system, like Australia’s, typically
requires the losing side to pay litigation costs, has seen 10
shareholder class-action suits settled for a total of C$100
million ($101 million) since 2005, according to  NERA Economic
Consulting Ltd.   There were 45 Canadian securities class actions under
litigation as of Dec. 31, with plaintiffs seeking a total of
about C$24.5 billion in damages, NERA said.  “We haven’t seen that dramatic a spike” in claims in
 Australia , Forbes said.  He said he expects “a slight and steady increase” in the
number of Australian class action lawsuits filed in the future
as more law firms enter the field.  The Australian and Canadian settlements remain a fraction
of those in the U.S., where trials are generally quicker and
held before juries who determine damages.  The biggest verdicts in U.S. securities class action were
for $7.1 billion and $6.1 billion resulting from the collapse of
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. respectively. Both settlements
took place in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  