-- Australian Media Review Recommends New Council to Set Journalist Standards
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-02T06:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/australian-media-review-recommends-council-to-set-journalistic-standards.html
Australia  should create a new body
to set journalistic standards across all media platforms, from
newspapers to the Internet, according to the findings of a
government-backed review of how the industry is regulated.  The News Media Council should be funded by the government,
yet remain independent, and handle complaints about breaches of
standards, according to the  recommendations  from former Federal
Court Judge Ray Finkelstein, released today by the government.  “The spectre of a government-funded overseer of a free
press in an open and forward-looking democracy like ours cannot
be justified,” News Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Kim Williams
said in a statement issued after the report was released. News
Ltd. is the Australian unit of Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)   Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor party  and the Greens
party pushed for the review following revelations of phone
hacking at News Corp.’s U.K. unit. Finkelstein and Canberra
University journalism professor Matthew Ricketson led the
inquiry into Australian media, a market where Murdoch accounts
for about 70 percent of newspaper circulation.  “The government will take a considered approach to the
inquiry’s report,” Minister for Broadband, Communications and
the Digital Economy, Senator Stephen Conroy, said in a statement
today.  The review wasn’t set up to specifically target the
influence of Murdoch’s newspapers.  Seven West  The review, known as the Independent Inquiry into Media and
Media Regulation, received  submissions  from at least 65 parties,
including News Corp., the government-owned Australian
Broadcasting Corp. and  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) , the nation’s most
watched commercial television broadcaster.  The establishment of a council isn’t about increasing the
power of government or about imposing some form of censorship,
Finkelstein said.  The council should have the authority to require a news
media outlet to publish an apology, a correction or a
retraction, he said.  “There is no role for government to be involved in
regulation that adjudicates on whether or not reporting is fair
and balanced,” Williams said. “There is too much at stake for
politicians to be able to stay impartial.”  The Finkelstein review was one of two government appointed
media inquiries. The Convergence Review in December recommended
rules limiting the number of households a broadcaster can reach
be scrapped, which may allow companies including News Corp. and
 Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  to expand into broadcast markets.  ‘Regime Change’  Conroy has previously said News Corp. papers, including
Sydney’s Daily Telegraph tabloid, have run a campaign for
“regime change” against the Labor government.  Murdoch shut the 168-year-old News of the World following
allegations it hacked into the mobile phone of a 13-year-old
murder victim.  Gillard said in July the scandal meant that News Ltd. had
“hard questions” to answer.  Then News Ltd. Chairman John Hartigan said the Australian
papers had not engaged in the practices seen in Britain.  Hartigan retired in December and was replaced by Williams,
who previously headed the Foxtel pay television business, which
is 25 percent owned by News Corp.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp.
in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  