-- Gillard Names Former State Premier Carr Foreign Minister, Replacing Rudd
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-02T05:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/australia-s-gillard-reshuffles-labor-government.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard brought a former premier of the nation’s most-populous
state into the Cabinet as she shuffled posts in the wake of her
victory over political rival  Kevin Rudd .  Former New South Wales Premier Bob Carr, 64, who oversaw
the Sydney  Olympic Games  and was the state’s longest
continuously serving leader, takes Rudd’s former post as foreign
minister once he assumes a vacant seat in the Senate.  Robert McClelland , an ex-attorney general who backed Rudd, was removed
from Cabinet, while other supporters kept their jobs.  Gillard, the nation’s first female prime minister, is
battling to galvanize the party after weeks of infighting that
culminated in the challenge from former leader Rudd four days
ago. Trailing the Liberal-National opposition by 10 points in
opinion polls, her administration is seeking to build public
support behind an agenda that includes unprecedented taxes on
mining profits and  carbon emissions  due to take effect July 1.  “By appointing Carr, Gillard has really stamped her
authority on the party,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political
analyst at  Melbourne ’s  Monash University . “She’s carrying on
the momentum she got from the start of the week in her big win
against Rudd.”  The Australian dollar was at $1.0796 as of 2:03 p.m. in
Sydney, little changed from $1.0795 before Gillard’s
announcement. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index, which fell 1
percent yesterday, was up 0.3 percent. The benchmark 10-year
government yield was unchanged at 4.08 percent.  Swan’s Role  Deputy Prime Minister and Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who
attacked Rudd ahead of the Feb. 27 party-caucus vote for having
“demeaned” colleagues when he was prime minister from 2007 to
2010, kept his posts. In an article published today, Swan said
tycoons at Australian resource companies are threatening the
nation’s democratic process by attempting to use their wealth to
shape policy.  The mining and carbon-emission levies have incurred
opposition from business groups. Gillard, 50, leads a minority
government that relies on independent and  Green party  lawmakers
to pass legislation.  Carr, who led New South Wales from 1995 to 2005, said he
couldn’t say no to the job offer.  “When the prime minister asked me I said ‘I’m enlisted,’”
he said at a press conference in Canberra with Gillard. An
international-affairs enthusiast, Carr has a Malaysian-born wife
and helped found the Chester Alan Arthur Society of Sydney, a
group of Labor members who quiz each other on U.S. political
trivia, according to Washington-based Brookings Institution
analysts.  Senate Seat  Carr will take the Senate seat vacated by former Assistant
Treasurer Mark Arbib, who stepped down after the leadership
ballot in a move intended to help heal party divisions. Craig Emerson will continue to act as minister for foreign affairs
until Carr becomes a senator, Gillard said.  Opposition lawmakers attacked former labor lawyer Gillard
earlier this week amid media reports that she’d been forced to
back down from offering Carr the post under pressure from senior
party members. The Australian newspaper and others reported that
Cabinet members  Simon Crean  and  Stephen Smith  argued the job
should go to one of her supporters.  “The party machine seemed to be bucking against her,”
Monash’s Ghazarian said. “This may exacerbate questions over
her trustworthiness, but she’s obviously decided it’s better to
be seen to be strong.”  Abbott’s Criticism  Under questioning from opposition lawmakers yesterday,
Gillard said she had spoken to Carr, prompting criticism that
she had been evasive in answers earlier in the week and that she
lacked authority with her colleagues. Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  reinforced that theme today, saying “all week  Julia
Gillard  denied that she had played any part in a deal to bring
Bob Carr to Canberra.”  Abbott, 54, also said in the e-mailed statement that “her
actions reflect a lack of confidence in any of her colleagues to
represent Australia overseas.”  McClelland lost his housing and emergency management
portfolios. Martin Ferguson remains in the portfolio of
resources and energy and  Chris Bowen  stays as immigration
minister. Both indicated before the leadership ballot they would
vote for Rudd.  Brendan O’Connor will be promoted to Cabinet and take
Arbib’s small business portfolio as well as becoming minister
for housing and homelessness.  Tattoo Offer  David Bradbury, a Gillard supporter who said before the
ballot he’d consider getting a tattoo showing his support for
the prime minister, was promoted to assistant treasurer.  Attorney-General  Nicola Roxon  takes on the additional
portfolio of emergency management. The new ministerial team will
be sworn in by the governor-general on March 5.  McClelland told reporters in Sydney today that Gillard
confirmed to him that he was being demoted because of his
strident backing of Rudd in the challenge. He will remain in
parliament, he said.  “This is Gillard’s last chance to produce a solid, cohesive
team that can start boosting her performance in the opinion
polls and have a chance to win the election,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra.  Rudd, who was ousted as prime minister in a June 2010 party
room coup by Gillard, stepped down as foreign minister on Feb.
22 to challenge her for the nation’s top job. He was defeated 71
to 31 in a party ballot on Feb. 27.  The new Cabinet faces the challenge of boosting public
support for the government.  Narrowing Gap  A Feb. 27 poll showed Labor has narrowed the gap with the
Liberal-National coalition by 4 percentage points, to 10
percentage points. The government’s 35 percent support was the
highest in almost a year, according to the Newspoll survey of
1,152 people, which was conducted Feb. 23-26 and had a margin of
error of 3 percentage points.  While Australia’s economy has outperformed its developed-
nation peers, with its 5.1 percent unemployment rate more than 3
percentage points less than America’s, an appreciating currency
has created headwinds for some industries, adding to Gillard’s
challenges to boost Labor’s poll ratings.  The biggest mining boom in a century has propelled the
currency, which has gained more than 20 percent since Gillard
took office in June 2010.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s
largest steel producer, shuttered its export division in August.
Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co. have cut jobs in
Australia this year, citing the currency’s strength, while  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the future of an aluminum smelter.  Gillard Agenda  The prime minister’s agenda includes submitting the mining
tax for final approval to the Senate, where the Green party
holds the balance of power, and assembling a national
disability-insurance program. The administration plans
legislation for the rollout of a A$36 billion ($39 billion)
government-owned high-speed Internet network.  Swan, in his article in The Monthly magazine, said “a
handful of vested interests that have pocketed a
disproportionate share of the nation’s economic success now feel
they have a right to shape  Australia ’s future to satisfy their
own self-interest.”  Parliament will resume March 13 before going on a six-week
hiatus from March 22. The budget, in which the government plans
to announce a surplus for the fiscal year starting July 1, will
be delivered May 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  