-- Law Firm Representing Deutsche Bank in Kirch Litigation Quits
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-02T15:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/law-firm-representing-deutsche-bank-in-kirch-litigation-quits.html
One of three law firms that
represented  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and its former Chief Executive
Officer  Rolf Breuer  in the decade-long dispute with  Leo Kirch ’s
media group resigned from the case.  Sernetz Schaefer Rechtsanwaelte told told the Munich
appeals court hearing two related cases on Feb. 27 that they no
longer work for the lender or Breuer, Manfred Wolf, a lawyer at
the Munich-based firm said in an interview today. He declined to
say why his firm decided to withdraw.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, yesterday rejected
a proposal to settle the litigation tied to comments by Breuer
in 2002 about the Kirch group’s creditworthiness. The bank said
it made the decision after a “thorough review,” which included
considering internal and external legal advice.  Deutsche Bank and Kirch’s heirs discussed a settlement of
the claims that Breuer’s comments caused the collapse of the
media group. The amount talked about was 800 million euros ($1
billion), a person with knowledge of the negotiations said last
month. The Frankfurt-based bank was said to have previously
rejected a 775 million-euro settlement proposed by a Munich
court.  Detlev Rahmsdorf, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to
comment.  The two other German law firms that represent Deutsche Bank
and Breuer in the matter are Hengeler Mueller and Gleiss Lutz.  The Munich appeal court today scheduled new hearings in one
Kirch damage suit for April 18 and May 2. In the second case
pending at that court, no hearings have been scheduled,
according to court spokesman Wilhem Schneider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  