-- Baidu Lets Users Search for Tweets on Sina, Tencent Microblogs
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-03-02T05:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/baidu-lets-users-search-for-tweets-on-sina-tencent-microblogs.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most-
popular search engine, started displaying links to tweets on
microblogs run by  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
broadening its services for social-networking users.  Users will also be able to search for posts on the
microblogs of  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES)  and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , Kaiser Kuo, a
spokesman at Baidu, said in an e-mail today. He declined to
disclose the commercial arrangements between the companies.  Baidu, which handles more than 80 percent of search-engine
queries in China, is boosting spending to offer services
targeted at social-networking, online travel and e-commerce
users in the world’s biggest Internet market. Sina, based in
Shanghai, is the local industry leader for microblogging
services, according to BOCOM International. Such services are
known as Weibo in Chinese,  “Weibo is popular among mobile-phone users, so this will
help Baidu’s mobile business,” said Kelvin Ho, who rates Baidu
“buy” at Yuanta Securities in  Hong Kong . “Social networking
is an area where Baidu is working on.”  Baidu rose 1.6 percent to $138.87 in New York trading
yesterday, valuing the Beijing-based company at $48.5 billion.
Tencent rose 0.3 percent to HK$199.80 at the midday break in
Hong Kong today, giving the Shenzhen-based company a market
capitalization of HK$367.7 billion ($47.5 billion).  Sina accounted for 65 percent of China’s microblog market
by pageviews in December, compared with 27 percent for Tencent,
according to a Jan. 12 report by BOCOM International.  Baidu accounted for 78.3 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue last quarter, rising from 78.2 percent in the
previous three months, according to research company Analysys
International.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s market share dropped to 16.7
percent from 17.2 percent, the researcher said.  Baidu handles 83 percent of China’s search queries, the
company said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  