-- Bank of America Sued by Fund Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-02T16:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bank-of-america-sued-by-fund-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Bank of America Corp.  was sued by
Asset Management Fund over claims it gave faulty information
about the loans backing $239.5 million worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The suit accuses the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
and other defendants of making “material misrepresentations and
omissions” about underwriting standards used to issue  mortgage
loans  that were pooled together into the securities, which were
sold to Chicago-based Asset Management Fund, according to court
documents.  “Each of the defendants knew, or at a minimum was
negligent in knowing, that its representations and omissions
were false and/or misleading at the time they were made,”
lawyers for Asset Management Fund said in the court documents,
which were filed in New York State Supreme Court yesterday.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Asset Management Fund, which does business as AMF Funds,
sued JPMorgan Chase & Co. in the same court over similar claims
last month. The firm, which is managed by  Shay Assets Management
Inc. , had about $590 million in assets under management in 2011,
according to its  website .  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in
an e-mail that the company had no comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Asset Management Fund v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
650614/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 