-- Bank Sarasin Wants Safra to Use Capital to Help Emerging Markets Expansion
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-03-02T06:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bank-sarasin-wants-safra-to-use-capital-to-help-emerging-markets-expansion.html
Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG (BSAN)  wants Safra
Group to inject capital into the Swiss wealth manager after
agreeing in November to pay more than 1 billion Swiss francs
($1.1 billion) for a controlling stake.  “Safra has capital to help us to grow the business,”
Chief Executive Officer Joachim Straehle said in an interview at
Sarasin’s headquarters in  Basel ,  Switzerland . Sarasin would like
to build networks in  Germany ,  India , the  Middle East  and  Asia ,
and look at synergies with Safra in  Latin America , he said.  Safra, founded in the Syrian city of Aleppo in the 19th
century, operated one of the most profitable Swiss private banks
before agreeing to buy Rabobank Groep’s Sarasin stake, according
to  Vontobel Holding AG. (VONN)  The gross margin on the assets managed
for wealthy customers at Safra’s Zurich-based business was more
than twice as high as that at Sarasin, which last week reported
second-half withdrawals by clients and a slump in earnings.  “Safra has the highest confidence in the long-term
potential of Sarasin and is committed to working with Sarasin to
realize this potential, including capital and other resources,”
said Robert Siegfried, a New York-based spokesman for Safra,
which already manages about $109 billion across a network
spanning Switzerland, Brazil and the U.S.  Sarasin is adding more branches in Germany and expanding in
 emerging markets  as the erosion of Swiss banking secrecy crimps
profit margins and some clients repatriate money to their home
countries.  Profit Margins  The bank’s assets under management fell 5 percent to 96.4
billion francs in the six months through December 2011,
contributing to a 60 percent drop in second-half profit. Sarasin
is targeting 150 billion francs of assets by 2015.  J. Safra Holding AG, the Zurich-registered business that
owns family companies in Geneva, Gibraltar,  Luxembourg  and
Monaco, had a gross margin of 177 basis points in 2010,
according to data compiled by Vontobel. Sarasin’s gross margin
declined to 68 basis points in 2011 from 70 basis points the
previous year. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage
point.  The purchase of Rabobank’s stake will give Safra 68.6
percent of the voting rights and a 46 percent equity interest in
Sarasin. Safra is obliged under Swiss takeover regulations to
make an offer to minority shareholders.  “Safra has been in wealth management for a long time and
the family has an interest in taking the expansion plans
further,” said Christian Stark, a Zurich-based analyst at
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux, who has an “outperform” rating on
Sarasin’s shares. “It’s possible that Safra might look to
increase its stake in Sarasin and integrate its European
operations.”  Reducing Costs  The two firms may share an information-technology platform
that would reduce costs and make regulation easier for the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, said Straehle, who
earlier this year toured Sarasin’s Asian offices with Jacob
Safra, vice chairman of the family’s Swiss holding company.  “We’re here for the next 100 years -- we want to grow this
bank,” Safra said during the trip, according to Straehle. Safra
fully supports Sarasin’s business model and intends to keep the
management in place, he said.  Sarasin wants its new owner to be more “open,” said
Straehle, who will report to both Jacob and Joseph Safra, head
of Safra Group and the world’s 68th richest person according to
Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  