-- Barclays Takes 8.2 Billion Euros of ECB Three-Year Money
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-03-02T12:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/barclays-takes-8-2-billion-euros-of-three-year-money-from-ecb.html
Barclays (BARC)  Plc, the U.K.’s third-
largest lender by assets, took 8.2 billion euros ($10.9 billion)
of three-year loans from the  European Central Bank  to provide
“funding stability” for its units in Spain and  Portugal .  Barclays will get 6.2 billion euros from the auction
through Banco de Espana on Feb. 29 and the remaining 2 billion
euros will be gained through Banco de Portugal, accepting money
from the plan for the first time, London-based Barclays said in
a statement today.  “The funds provided through this facility will be used to
manage the risk associated with mismatches between Barclays
euro-denominated assets and deposits in markets where Barclays
has significant local operations,” Barclays said in the
statement.  The European Central Bank is providing the region’s banking
system with cheap money in an effort to avert a credit crunch
after the market for unsecured bank debt seized up last year and
funding from U.S. money markets disappeared. ECB President  Mario
Draghi  encouraged lenders to use the Longer-Term Refinancing
Operation, saying on Feb. 9 there is “no stigma” in using the
facilities.  Money made from the loans won’t be used to pay employees,
Barclays said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s second-biggest
taxpayer-assisted lender, said on Feb 29 that it took 11.4
billion pounds of three-year loans from the ECB. HSBC Holdings
Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank, also said last month that it would
take about 350 million euros of loans at the auction after
getting 5.2 billion euros previously.  Barclays said it didn’t accept loans offered by the ECB on
Dec. 21, an auction with fewer participants.  In the second auction 800 banks took 529.5 billion euros
from the Frankfurt-based central bank, compared with 489 billion
euros handed to 523 institutions in the first auction.  “Any bank that doesn’t worry about issues of stigma given
what we’ve been through over the last three or four years - of
course, we have to think about brand and reputation,” Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  told analysts on Feb. 10. when
asked whether there was a stigma attached to taking the loans.
“In our case, being rock solid in funding, capital and
liquidity is our number one priority.”  Any bank in the region could borrow an unlimited amount,
provided it pledged eligible collateral. Lenders won’t face
curbs on bonuses or dividends, according to the ECB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  