-- BASF’s Nachtigal Seeks China Startups for Investment Arm
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-02T12:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/basf-may-open-beijing-venture-capital-office-in-technology-hunt.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, is considering opening an investment office in
Beijing or  Shanghai  in the medium term as  China  begins to spawn
its own technology startups.  Dirk Nachtigal, head of the company’s 11-year-old venture-
capital arm, is now visiting China twice a year and has
identified universities there as a likely source of early stage,
high-potential opportunities, he said in an interview. The unit
has recently invested in its first fund there, he said.  “We are seeing more and more technology development in
China that is interesting to us,” Nachtigal said. “The
government has put lots of money into universities in the last
10 to 15 years. Now you can see the results.”  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock aims to have a quarter of
sales coming from products based on new technology by 2020 as
the 147-year-old chemical maker moves away from cyclical
commodities. Innovation younger than a decade should contribute
30 billion euros ($40 billion) in sales by 2020 and take the
company closer to end consumers, he said.  China has boosted spending on education, with plans to
disburse 4 percent of gross domestic product on schooling this
year, Xinhua news agency said on Feb. 15.  BASF has so far channeled its venture capital activities in
China through an office in  Hong Kong . A move to Beijing or
Shanghai would reflect the growing opportunities springing up in
and around major cities.  Executive Attention  Venture capital investment in China almost doubled to a
record of $5.67 billion in 2010, according to ChinaVenture, a
research and investment consulting firm. That still represents a
nascent stage in comparison with the U.S.’s industry, which
 invested  $28.4 billion in 2011, according to the  National
Venture Capital Association .  BASF has so far pumped 150 million euros into the unit.
Though dwarfed by the 1.7 billion euros it spends on research
and development a year, the venture capital arm has grown in
stature as Bock heaped more importance on new technology as a
growth driver, Nachtigal said in the Feb. 22 interview. It has
the ear of top level management through board member Andreas Kreimeyer, who oversees research.  To capture new technologies on the U.S.’s east coast, BASF
opened a venture capital office in  Boston  this year.  BASF Venture Capital was instrumental in BASF’s purchase
last year of Inge Watertechnologies AG, a startup making
membranes used in water treatment. A two-day internal trade fair
invited 11 membrane companies to present their startup ideas.
Inge was one of them, leading to their eventual purchase.  BASF may also invest in some of the other startup companies
that gave presentations, said Nachtigal, declining to give
names. The unit is seeking investments in products surrounding
energy management such as battery materials, storage capacity
and photo-voltaic as well as  wind energy , he said.  “We are looking for the top, game changing technology
wherever it is,” Nachtigal said. “It’s an exciting field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  