-- Belgacom Drops as Promotions Seen Cutting Profit: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-03-02T17:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/belgacom-forecast-misses-estimates-stable-dividend-guaranteed.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest telephone
company in  Belgium , fell the most in nine months in Brussels
trading after signaling that promotions will lead to a deeper
cut in 2012 earnings than most analysts projected.  Belgacom dropped 1.18 euros, or 4.9 percent, to 22.89 euros
at the 5:40 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the
biggest retreat since May 6. The shares have lost 17 percent in
the past year, more than the  12 percent  decline for the Stoxx
600 Telecommunications Index in the period.  “By giving this guidance, we wanted to make it absolutely
clear that we will fight for customers,” Scott Alcott, who
heads the consumer business unit, told reporters in Brussels
today. Expenses linked to an efficiency program that is supposed
to yield savings as of next year are “no big driver” of the
forecast, Chief Financial Officer Ray Stewart said on a
conference call.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will decline as much as 6 percent this year to
about 1.8 billion euros ($2.38 billion), Belgacom said today in
a statement. Analysts projected 2012 Ebitda of 1.86 billion
euros, according to the average of 22  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Belgian phone companies and cable operators seek to lure or
retain residential customers by offering discounts on bundled
offerings of telephony, broadband Internet and television
services.  Subsidized Tablets  Belgacom began offering subsidized tablet computers and TV
sets in a partnership with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to defend its
market share in broadband and mobile Internet and started
offering free fixed-line phone calls to mobile phones to retain
fixed-line telephone subscribers.  While Belgacom’s customer gains exceeded analyst
projections in the fourth quarter, a drop in average monthly
revenue per user in the consumer business unit accelerated, with
declines ranging from 5 percent for fixed voice and broadband
Internet to 11 percent for TV and even 14 percent for mobile
voice.  “The consumer division showed a significant deterioration
on the back of weaker consumption in fixed and mobile,” Javier Borrachero, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in  Madrid ,
wrote in an investor note. “Revenues deteriorated sequentially
due to lower usage and larger promotions.”  Voice Substitution  Alcott told reporters that Belgacom began seeing the effect
of an increase in mobile data traffic substituting voice
revenue, even as a 3.4 percent decline in the average monthly
duration of mobile-phone calls was exacerbated by incidental
calls being made a year earlier because of severe winter weather
in December 2010.  Belgacom sought to offset concerns about its shareholder
distributions, saying it will keep the gross  dividend  over 2012
profit at least stable at 2.18 euros a share. The company
maintained its final dividend at 1.68 euros a share and Chief
Financial Officer Ray Stewart said Belgacom remains committed to
an additional distribution of 100 million euros this year,
either through  share buybacks  or a special dividend.  Net debt was little changed at 1.48 billion euros, or less
than 0.8 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization.  The state-controlled phone company generated 788 million
euros of cash not required for reinvestment last year, a 20
percent decline from a year earlier. Analysts had projected  free
cash flow  of 779 million euros.  Capital spending  will be “in
the upper end of the range of 10 percent to 12 percent of
revenue, Belgacom said. That amounts to about 698 million euros
to 761 million euros, compared with 777 million euros in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  