-- Wage Gains Signal Boost to Consumer Spending
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-02T15:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/best-u-s-wage-gains-in-almost-five-years-signal-higher-consumer-spending.html
The biggest six-month increase in
U.S. worker pay in almost five years helps lay the ground for a
pickup in  consumer spending , the largest part of the economy.  Wages (GDPWWAGE)  and salaries in the third and fourth quarters grew a
combined $197.3 billion, the most since the six months ended
March 2007, according to revised Commerce Department figures
released Feb. 29. The report also showed the economy grew faster
in the fourth quarter than previously estimated and Americans
saved more.  Rising incomes show the improving labor market will provide
households the wherewithal this year to increase their
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.
The wage gains may help Americans withstand higher gasoline
prices that threaten discretionary spending.  “Consumers have a lot more firepower than we thought,”
said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York . “We should see stronger
consumption over the course of the year. Things are moving in
the right direction.”  Gross domestic product rose at a revised 3 percent annual
rate in the final three months of last year, the most since the
second quarter of 2010, the Commerce Department reported.
Consumer spending grew at a 2.1 percent annual pace, adding 1.5
percentage points to economic growth, the most in a year.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said keeping
monetary stimulus is warranted even with employment gains and a
jobless rate that’s declined to a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  Bernanke on Jobs  “We have seen some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke said this week during his semi-annual
monetary policy report to Congress. He said a recent rise in
gasoline prices “is likely to push up inflation temporarily
while reducing consumers’ purchasing power.”  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline has climbed 14
percent this year to $3.74 as of March 1, the highest level
since June, according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile
association. At the same time, January data indicate Americans
are in better shape to withstand the run-up.  Wages grew 0.4 percent in January for a second month,
figures showed yesterday. Personal spending adjusted for price
changes was unchanged for a third month, restrained by outlays
for services like utilities that may have been tied to warm
winter weather. Purchases of durable goods, like vehicles, rose
the most in three months.  ‘Consumer Can Cope’  “Wages are picking up, and people are feeling better,”
said Chris G. Christopher, a senior principal economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “That makes for a
positive feedback for consumer spending. The gasoline-price
increase isn’t welcome news, but the American economy and
American consumer can cope with it this time around.”  Gap Inc., the largest U.S. apparel chain, and Target Corp.,
the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, were among retailers
that yesterday reported gains in February sales at stores open
at least a year, exceeding analysts’ average estimates. Warm
weather may have helped to lift purchases of spring merchandise.  Demand for automobiles improved as well. Auto sales in
February rose to the fastest pace in four years, led by Chrysler
Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors Co. Light-
vehicle sales accelerated to a  15.03 million  annual rate, the
strongest since February 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group.  Revisions to the GDP figures on Feb. 29 showed wages and
salaries from July through September rose $107.2 billion, up
from the $24.8 billion gain initially reported. They climbed
another $90.1 billion last quarter, up from a prior estimate of
a $66.1 billion gain.  Savings Rate  The increases helped boost the savings rate to 4.5 percent
in the fourth quarter from a previously reported 3.7 percent,
and to 4.6 percent in the prior three months from an initial
estimate of 3.9 percent. With the improvement, there may be a
less pressing need for consumers to use any additional income
this year to rebuild savings.  The savings rate “drifted down only modestly” through
last year from 5 percent in the first quarter, according to
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas
in New York.  “This is significant as it removes what we considered to
be a potential headwind to growth as consumers seek to restore
higher saving rates,” Coronado said in a note. “Recent
improvement in the labor market could lead to continued gradual
firming in consumer spending growth without sacrificing
saving.”  The savings rate was 4.6 percent in January, following 4.7
percent a month earlier, yesterday’s personal income and
spending report showed.  The quarterly revisions to wages also indicate the
government has been undercounting the number of jobs created,
and that workers’ earnings and hours may be higher than recent
reports show, LaVorgna said.  “Maybe we ought to give the economy a little more credit
than we did” so far, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  