-- Billionaire Huang Gets Second Chance in Iceland Land Purchase
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-02T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/billionaire-huang-gets-second-chance-in-iceland-land-purchase.html
Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo,
whose attempt last year to buy Icelandic land for a golf resort
was blocked by the government in Reykjavik, may get a second
chance as local authorities explore a leasing deal.  Nine municipalities in northeast Iceland have expressed
interest in getting Huang to help finance their purchase of the
same land, which they then may lease back to Huang.  “I travelled to  China  in February to meet with Huang Nubo,
in order to try to get this matter back on track,” Bergur Elias Agustsson, the mayor of Nordurthing, a municipality of 2,900
people, said in a phone interview. “Our idea is that we
purchase the land and lease it back to him. This would allow him
to build the resort and use that as a platform for further
investments in the Nordic countries.”  The government in November rejected Huang’s Beijing
 Zhongkun Investment Group Co.  plan to buy 300 square kilometers
(116 square miles) of land, saying it would be “incompatible”
with the law amid opposition to foreign ownership of property.
Proponents argue the investment will help sustain a revival from
the island’s 2008 financial collapse, as it renews a push into
previous main areas of growth such tourism and fishing.  Huang had planned to invest about $200 million to build a
resort with a hotel, golf course and racecourse, according to an
Oct. 26 article in China Dialogue. In a September interview with
Bloomberg, Huang said he was in talks to buy the land for $8.8
million from a group of farmers and was awaiting approval. Huang
has a fortune of about $1 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  Poet Mountain Climber  Following the government’s decision Huang dropped his
plans, state broadcaster  RUV  reported in November, citing his
spokesman Halldor Johannsson. Huang in the September interview
said he also planned to establish resorts in Denmark, Finland
and  Sweden  within five years. The Iceland land purchase would
have been the biggest by a foreigner, according to Huang, who
describes himself as a poet and said he has climbed  Mount
Everest  three times.  Huang said in September his connection with Iceland started
30 years ago when he was studying at  Peking University . His
roommate and good friend back then was from Iceland and later
married a politician. Huang donated $1 million last year to set
up an Icelandic-Chinese poet-exchange program.  “We’ve managed to persuade Nubo to continue exploring the
possibility of investing in Iceland,” said Agustsson. “He’s
very positive toward these ideas.”  Construction Start  The municipalities hope an agreement can be reached within
four to six weeks, and then designs can begin later this year
and construction within a year, the mayor said. The local
governments are seeking financing through Nobu and “other
means,” he said.  Since its financial meltdown, Iceland’s $12 billion economy
has renewed a push on traditional sources of income such as
fishing, energy and tourism. Iceland is now enjoying faster
economic growth than the average in the euro area, the
 International Monetary Fund  estimates. Gross domestic product
will expand 1.1 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro area, the IMF said Jan. 24.  “The question is not how can we turn down direct foreign
investment of this magnitude, but rather how can one nation do
anything else but comply with the laws it has passed for
itself?” Internal Affairs Minister Ogmundur Jonasson said in a
Nov. 26 interview, after he blocked Huang’s purchase. “It would
have been easy to circumvent these laws, by establishing an
Icelandic limited liability company. That reminds us of the
necessity to reconsider these laws from top to bottom.”  The IMF said in a report today that a “moderate
expansion” is forecast for Iceland and that domestic risks for
the country’s economy include “uncertainty about the legal and
business environment and about policies in key sectors.”  Imperative Agreement  Iceland ended a 33-month program with the IMF in August.
The government was forced to seek external support in 2008 after
its biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt, triggering a
currency sell-off and sending the economy into a recession. GDP
sank 4 percent in 2010, before expanding by 2.9 percent last
year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
estimated in November.  “It’s imperative that this agreement can be reached in
agreement with all affected parties,” said Agustsson. “Under
no circumstances should the actions of the municipalities be
considered as an attempt to circumvent Icelandic law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  