-- BlackRock Sees Polish Zloty and Bonds as ‘Sweet Spots’ in Europe
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-03-02T14:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/blackrock-sees-polish-zloty-and-bonds-as-sweet-spots-in-europe.html
The Polish zloty and government
bonds are attractive as strong economic growth makes the country
one of the “sweet spots” in Europe, according to  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s fund manager Beata Harasim.  The zloty is “fundamentally cheap” and a better
investment than the Hungarian forint, the Czech koruna and the
currencies of the Nordic region, according to Harasim, who helps
oversee 27 billion euros ($35.8 billion) in European fixed-
income assets for the world’s biggest money manager.  Poland ’s
10-year domestic bonds offer “good value” in the medium- and
long-term, she said.  Fuelled by long-term liquidity from the  European Central
Bank , which eased tensions in the euro region’s debt crisis,
and Poland’s resilient economy, the zloty appreciated 11 percent
against the dollar this year, the second-best performance among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Poland’s 10-year
bond yield hit a 16-month low of 5.45 yesterday, as the
statistics office said gross domestic product grew 4.3 percent
in the fourth quarter, six times the EU average.  “Poland will continue to benefit from domestic demand and
higher investment, so we see it as one of the sweet spots in
 Europe ,” Harasim said by phone from  London  yesterday. The
country’s outlook “still looks attractive compared to the rest
of the region as well as other  emerging markets .”  Growth Magnet  The currency’s rally marks a turnaround from last year when
the zloty had its steepest decline since 2008. It gained 8.8
percent against the euro this year, boosting returns on domestic
bonds to 11.4 percent in euro terms, the third-best performance
from the 26 sovereign indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg.  Poland’s economic growth, compared with stalled growth in
western Europe, has helped lure international investors to its
local currency bonds. Their holdings rose to a record 159.6
billion zloty ($52 billion) in January, or 31.8 percent of the
outstanding amount, the  Finance Ministry  said on Feb. 29.  While “we find Polish bonds attractive in the long-term
compared to other European markets” there are “plenty of
short-term risks, though, including heavy foreign positioning on
the local market,” Harasim said.  Short-Term Volatility  The zloty may remain volatile in the short-term as
investors “focus on the developments in Europe” and the rally
has brought the currency “closer to its long-term fair value,”
she said. The Polish currency advanced to the strongest intraday
level in almost seven months at 4.0958 per euro earlier today.
It weakened 0.1 percent to 4.1074 versus the European currency
as of 2:17 p.m. in Warsaw.  Poland’s economic growth has prompted central bankers to
say  interest-rate  increases can’t be ruled out, according to the
minutes of the Feb. 8 central bank meeting. Poland has kept the
benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5 percent since June, after raising
it by 1 percentage point in the first half of last year.  “Polish central bankers have been very hawkish recently,
which means that the yields on two-and three-year bonds should
remain anchored in the coming months,” Harasim said. “I expect
further strong buying of longer-dated bonds from foreign
investors, considering the stable economic and fiscal situation,
which means the curve may continue to flatten.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  