-- BlackRock Says Money Funds Would Survive Floating NAV
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-03-02T21:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/blackrock-says-money-funds-would-survive-floating-nav-1-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , taking a new
position in the debate over money market mutual fund reform,
said the $2.6 trillion industry would survive without its stable
$1 share price if a reform plan being drafted by regulators
included key additions.  “We think there will be some shrinkage, but we don’t think
it would eliminate the product,” Barbara Novick, co-founder and
vice chairman of the New York-based firm, said today in a
telephone interview.  The company, which previously opposed the idea, published a
report today outlining how regulators could make a floating net-
asset value, or NAV, acceptable to investors and managers.  Money market mutual funds, having survived mass withdrawals
of assets by investors following the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, are confronting their
biggest challenges since they first appeared in 1971. Along with
potential new regulations, they face Treasury yields near record
lows and a shrunken supply of available debt, forcing most
managers to cut fees to keep customer returns above zero.  BlackRock, in seeking a workable version of the floating
NAV plan, stands in contrast with industry peers as the three-
year effort to make money funds more stable approaches a key
phase. Boston-based  Fidelity Investments ,  Federated Investors
Inc. (FII)  and leaders of the fund industry’s main trade group have
rejected the idea, saying it would destroy the product.  Pragmatic Path  While a floating NAV will hurt the industry, regulators are
insisting on further reforms and alternative proposals are
unacceptable, BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said
in its report.  “I wouldn’t say we’re opposed to or in favor of” the
floating NAV, Novick said. “We’re pragmatists. The regulators
are going down this path. Do you want to fight them or try to
work for the best possible solution?”  Meghan McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based
Federated, said the company continues to believe the Securities
and Exchange Commission did enough when it enforced new rules
for money funds in 2010.  “We believe the SEC’s 2010 enhancements have significantly
improved oversight and transparency of money market funds,” she
said today in a telephone interview.  The funds’ resiliency through the European debt crisis and
U.S. debt downgrade illustrated the effectiveness of the reforms
already passed, she said.  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman, declined to
comment on the BlackRock proposal.  Declining Revenue  A floating NAV would force money funds to value their
assets at market prices, allowing the share price to fluctuate.  The BlackRock plan calls on the SEC to apply market pricing
only to securities more than 60 days from maturity, and to
exempt funds altogether that buy only government-backed
securities. It also proposes that the  Internal Revenue Service 
not treat small gains and losses as taxable events for investors
in money funds.  BlackRock oversaw $143 billion in money market mutual funds
as of Jan. 31, making it the seventh-largest U.S. manager,
according to data compiled by research firm Crane Data LLC of
Westborough,  Massachusetts .  The industry’s annual revenue has fallen 59 percent since
2008 to $5.1 billion, according to Crane Data. Funds charge
about half as much per dollar invested compared with the end of
2008, and assets have shrunk 30 percent.  Reserve Primary  Regulators and the funds industry have debated how to make
the funds safer since Reserve Primary Fund’s collapse, which
triggered an industrywide run on funds by clients and helped
freeze global credit markets.  The run abated only after the  U.S. Treasury  guaranteed
money fund shareholders against losses for a year. The Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul prohibits the Treasury from repeating
such a bailout and government officials, including SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro , have vowed to avoid putting taxpayer money at
risk again in defending the product.  In 2010 the SEC introduced liquidity minimums, average
maturity limits and new disclosure requirements. Schapiro has
since said additional steps were necessary.  The staff of the SEC is expected to make two reform
proposals this month. The first would force money funds to drop
their traditional $1 share price. The second would require funds
to create capital cushions capable of absorbing losses and hold
back a portion of a client’s money if they asked to redeem all
their funds for as long as 30 days.  ‘Destroy’ the Industry  Fund company representatives have grown increasingly
strident in their protests, saying either plan would ruin the
product’s attraction to investors by removing its stable value
and liquidity.  Fidelity said in a letter to the SEC yesterday it believed
either of the two proposals “will ultimately destroy the money
market fund industry” and deny U.S. businesses an important
source of short-term financing. Fidelity is the biggest U.S.
money market mutual fund manager, with $419 billion, according
to Crane Data.  Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group, has said the plans
won’t reduce risk or help investors.  “My concern is that within the councils of government
there are people whose agenda it is to kill  money market
funds ,” Stevens said in a Feb. 7 telephone interview. “We
won’t go quietly.”  Ianthe Zabel, a spokeswoman for the institute, today
reiterated the group’s position that no additional regulations
are required. “The goal here should be preserve the utility of
money market funds for investors and in the economy and to
maintain a robust and competitive industry,” she wrote in an e-
mail.  ‘Die by Hanging’  Christopher Donahue, Federated’s chief executive officer,
has threated to sue the SEC if it proceeds with either of the
two plans.  “It’s like the choice between you wanted to die by hanging
or by bullet,” Donahue said during a conference call with
analysts on Jan. 27.  Federated is more dependent on money funds than any other
top fund company. It managed $256 billion in money market funds
as of Dec. 31, according to the company, representing about 69
percent of total assets.  Money funds account for about 28 percent of assets at
Fidelity, and about 4.1 percent at BlackRock.  “BlackRock is essentially a bond shop,”  Peter Crane ,
president of Crane Data, said in an interview. “They certainly
have less to lose in this.”  Gathering Support  BlackRock’s Novick declined to comment on the stance of
other companies. She said the proposal combining capital
cushions and redemption restrictions is “a nonstarter for
clients.”  “We think it’s time to focus people’s energies and
brainstorm on how to make floating NAV as appealing to clients
as possible,” she said.  Money market funds are used by millions of U.S. households
and companies as a vehicle for parking cash that can be quickly
accessed for paying bills. They also play a key role in helping
fund managers hold on to customers as investors shift between
asset classes.  “Money funds are usually the first stop and the last stop
for most mutual fund investors,” Crane said.  Opponents of the SEC’s two proposals have been gathering
support on Capital Hill and among SEC commissioners.  Swing Vote  U.S. Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican, said
Feb. 8 he wouldn’t rule out proposing legislation to protect
money market mutual funds from new SEC rules.  SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, also a Republican,
said in a Nov. 14 speech that he believed “any rulemaking in
this space could be premature, and possibly unnecessary.”  Any proposal would require the support of at least three of
five commissioners in a final rule-making vote to be
implemented. Four people who have discussed the topic with
commissioners and agency staff have said that Gallagher and
fellow Republican Troy A. Paredes oppose the two proposals.
Schapiro and Democrat Elisse B. Walter would support the capital
cushion plan, while Democrat  Luis Aguilar  was said to be
undecided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  