-- Syrian Army Takes Control of Homs District as Rebels Withdraw After Siege
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-02T18:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bodies-of-u-s-french-reporters-taken-to-damascus-sana-says.html
Syria ’s army has “complete
control” of the Baba Amr district in the central city of Homs,
after rebel fighters pulled out of the area following a
monthlong siege, a rights activist said.  Syrian troops carried out a series of raids and arrests in
Baba Amr after entering yesterday when the rebel Free Syrian
Army retreated, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Damascus-based Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in a phone interview today.
Ten young men were executed there today, while at least 56
people died nationwide, Al Jazeera television said. Merei said
at least 40 civilians were killed in fighting around Baba Amr
before the military takeover.  A team from the International Committee of the Red Cross
arrived in Homs and met with local volunteers in preparation for
going to the Baba Amr area, said Saleh Dabbakeh, the ICRC’s
representative in Damascus. Subsequently, the ICRC said in a
statement that Red Cross and Syrian Red Crescent Society
personnel weren’t allowed by authorities to proceed as planned
to the area.  “It is unacceptable that people who have been in need of
emergency assistance for weeks have still not received any
help,” ICRC president Jakob Kellenberger said in the statement.
“We are staying in Homs tonight in the hope of entering Baba
Amr in the very near future.”  Pressure on Assad  The fighting in Homs has intensified international pressure
on President Bashar al-Assad a year after his security forces
began a crackdown on protests. The opposition is increasingly
taking up arms, pushing the country into civil war. The  United
Nations  estimates that more than 7,500 people have died.  The European Union is preparing “further targeted
restrictive measures” against Syria, according to a statement
from a summit of its leaders in Brussels. The document didn’t
say what the measures are. The EU also said it recognized the
Syrian National Council, the main opposition alliance, as “a
legitimate representative of Syrians.”  The U.S. is working “to come up with a series of
strategies that can provide humanitarian relief,” President
 Barack Obama  said in an interview with  Jeffrey Goldberg  of the
Atlantic magazine, released today. “They can also accelerate a
transition to a peaceful and stable and representative Syrian
government.”  Days Numbered  Obama said the U.S. thinks Assad’s “days are numbered,”
though he pointed to difficulties including the “hugely
splintered” opposition in Syria and obstruction from countries
such as  Russia .  The UN Security Council demanded yesterday that Assad allow
access for humanitarian aid. The statement was backed by Russia,
which along with  China  has blocked efforts by the U.S. and
allies to get a Security Council resolution calling for Assad’s
departure. Assad should start negotiations with the opposition,
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  told newspaper editors yesterday.  Russia and China may shift their unwavering support of the
Syrian government, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said after
today’s summit. “We are seeing signals that there is movement
in the position of both countries,” he said.  The SNC  said  yesterday that it’s establishing a military
office to support the rebel Free Syrian Army. Members of the
council will lobby international allies to arm the opposition
and recognize the SNC, alliance member Mustafa Hamitoglu said
yesterday in an interview from Istanbul.  Opposition Support  French President Nicolas Sarkozy today pledged support for
the opposition alliance, and said  France  is closing its embassy
in Syria. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Syrian
officials responsible for the violence should be prosecuted for
 war crimes .  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  is due to meet
with members of the SNC in Istanbul today. Growing numbers of
Syrians are fleeing to  Turkey , and accounts by new arrivals
suggest the risk of a massacre, a Turkish Foreign Ministry
official said today on customary condition of anonymity.  The ministry said about 10,750 Syrians are living in tent
cities in the border province of Hatay, up from 9,500 at the end
of January.  Syrian forces burned down a village of about 1,000 people
near the Turkish border after surrounding it with 2,000 troops
and 15 tanks in an operation that began at 5 a.m. today,
Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency said. The NTV news
channel showed more than 200 Syrians fleeing across the border.  Journalists’ Remains  Fighting resumed today in the village of Ahsam in the
northern province of Idlib, where heavy gunfire and explosions
were heard,  Al Jazeera  reported.  The bodies of two foreign journalists killed in Homs were
found by the army and transferred to Damascus, the state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  Forensic tests will be carried out at a hospital in the
Syrian capital on Marie Colvin, a U.S. journalist who worked for
the U.K.’s Sunday Times, and French photographer Remi Ochlik,
the agency said, citing a Foreign Ministry official.  A Spanish journalist, Javier Espinosa, who was also
reported dead by SANA earlier today, said by phone from  Beirut 
that he escaped to Lebanon two days ago and was not injured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  