-- BOE Is Seen Holding Its Asset Purchase Program at $515 Billion on Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/boe-is-poised-to-hold-bond-plan-at-515-billion-next-week-economists-say.html
The  Bank of England  will maintain
its current bond-purchase program next week amid signs the
economy avoided another recession and signals from some policy
makers that the current round of stimulus may be the last.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
Mervyn King will hold its asset-purchase target at 325 billion
pounds ($515 billion), following last month’s 50 billion-pound
increase, according to all 45 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The program to buy debt with newly created money started
in March 2009 with a 150 billion-pound round of purchases.  Reports this week showed U.K. manufacturing continued to
expand in February and construction growth accelerated. As the
MPC prepares to meet on what will be the third anniversary of
the start of so-called quantitative easing, policy maker  Martin Weale  said there may not be an argument for doing more once the
current round ends, and Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the
bank must be alert to the need to withdraw stimulus.  “At this meeting they’re going to be aggressively on
hold,” said  Alan Clarke , economist at Scotia Capital Europe
Ltd. in London. “Remarks lately from the MPC have been playing
down the prospect of more QE.”  Weale said Feb. 29 that inflation may prove more persistent
than the central bank expects, citing higher oil prices and
potential wage pressures as the economy recovers. Tucker said a
day earlier policy makers “must be alert to the need gradually
to withdraw stimulus as and when recovery builds.”  Their colleague  Paul Fisher  said Feb. 26 that if recent
positive developments continue, “that would put more weight
onto the argument for stopping rather than carrying on” with
bond purchases.  Looser Policy  David Miles , who along with  Adam Posen  was defeated in a
push to add 75 billion pounds of stimulus last month, has made
the case for looser policy. He said on March 1 that
“aggressively loosening monetary policy now” could generate a
quicker recovery and allow the central bank to begin raising
interest rate sooner to tame inflation.  While  consumer-price growth  eased to 3.6 percent in
January, the weakest in 14 months, it’s held above the Bank of
England’s 2 percent target for 26 months. Weale has pointed to
risks from crude- oil prices , which have risen about 24 percent
in the past six months on concerns that tension in the Middle
East that could disrupt supplies.  At the same time, there are signs that European leaders are
getting to grips with the debt crisis that raised borrowing
costs for some euro-area nations and is pushing the region’s
economy back into a recession. Officials agreed to a second
bailout for Greece, while yields on the debt of Italy and Spain
have declined in recent months.  The bank will also hold its  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent, according to all 53 economists in a separate
poll. Policy makers cut the rate to that level in March 2009 and
have kept it there ever since.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  