-- Boeing Lifts 787 Output Ahead of Plan, Makes Progress on New 777
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/boeing-monthly-787-output-reaches-3-5-jets-in-step-toward-goal.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  boosted production of the
new 787 Dreamliner to 3.5 jets a month, ahead of schedule, and
said it’s made progress on a plan for a 777 upgrade that will be
a “significant improvement” over the current model.  The increase in 787 output was achieved March 1, Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  told reporters
yesterday at the company’s factory in Everett,  Washington . The
rate had been 2.5 planes, and Boeing said in January it would
boost monthly production by one jet in the second quarter,
working toward a goal of 10 a month by 2013, a record rate for a
wide-body aircraft.  The production tempo on the world’s first composite-plastic
airliner has been a focus for investors after the 787 made its
debut more than three years late amid struggles with new
materials and manufacturing techniques. Chicago-based Boeing has
fallen 26 percent since the first postponement in October 2007.  No customers received 787s in February while Boeing
conducted inspections for signs of delamination on the model’s
fuselage, Albaugh said. The company has said that shims, or
patches, were improperly installed in the aft sections of the
plane built in  South Carolina , and that it will take 10 to 14
days per plane to replace the pieces.  The faulty process has since been corrected, and
Dreamliners from the 57th built onward aren’t affected, Albaugh
said. The 57th plane already is being worked on in the Everett
factory.  Sales Milestone  Albaugh commented after a ceremony with Emirates to mark
the delivery of the 1,000th 777 jet, Boeing’s most-profitable
model. Emirates, the world’s biggest international airline, has
102 777s in service now, making it the biggest customer for the
model, and has another 93 on order.  Boeing executives hope to have a plan to take to the
company’s board for approval by year-end for a new variant of
the twin-engine 777 that would enter service “towards the end
of the decade,” Albaugh said.  The leaders of the 787 and 777 programs switched places
last week. Boeing named Scott Fancher to run the 777 after he
oversaw the 787’s entry into service in October following almost
three years in charge. Taking his place on the Dreamliner will
be Larry Loftis.  Albaugh said yesterday that Loftis built the 777 assembly
line into Boeing’s “finest,” while Fancher will be able to
transfer lessons learned in the development of the Dreamliner to
his new assignment, particularly as Boeing studies the use of
more composites on the revamped version of the older plane.  Emirates was “very impressed” after a briefing yesterday
on Boeing’s 777 plans, which include upgrades to the engines and
wings, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , Emirates chairman,
said in an interview. “I think you will see a big improvement
to the existing plane.”  The carrier this week added a direct route between Dubai
and  Seattle  using a 777, the world’s longest-range airliner. The
airline’s goal is to cover all major points in the U.S. from
Dubai within a decade, doubling or tripling its presence in the
country, the sheikh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  