-- BofA Clash With Fannie Intensifies as Insurers Reject Loans
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-03-02T18:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bofa-s-clash-with-fannie-intensifies-as-insurers-reject-more-loan-claims.html
Bank of America Corp.  said it’s
facing more demands by  Fannie Mae  for refunds on flawed home
loans because mortgage insurers who cover defaults rejected 25
percent more claims last year.  Unresolved insurance rejections rose to 90,000 at the end
of 2011 from 72,000 the year earlier, Bank of America said last
week in its annual filing with regulators. Last year’s denials
equal $1.2 billion in unpaid loan balances, according to a note
yesterday by Compass Point Research and Trading LLC.  The rejections heighten tension between  Brian T. Moynihan ,
the bank’s chief executive officer, and U.S.-owned Fannie Mae in
their disputes over who must pay for billions of dollars in
failed loans made during the housing boom. When mortgage
insurers deny claims, the two firms are left to squabble over
whether losses will be borne by bank shareholders or the
taxpayers who bailed out Fannie Mae.  “It seems like a bit of posturing on the part of Bank of
America to push back against all repurchase activities,” said
Chris Gamaitoni, a mortgage and banking analyst at Washington-
based Compass Point. “I don’t think Bank of America is being
treated differently than anyone else, and yet they are pretty
alone in saying Fannie is being more aggressive.”  The rift widened last year when Fannie Mae told the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company it must repurchase
mortgages if an insurer drops coverage, even if the decision is
contested. Bank of America refused to comply, pushing Fannie Mae
in January to drop the lender as a partner for the funding of
new home loans.  Shorter Deadline  Pressure on Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender
by assets, may rise in July when Fannie Mae shrinks the amount
of time it gives a bank to appeal an insurer’s denial to 30 days
from 90 days before pressing for a refund. Repurchase costs
probably would rise if the firm is forced to adhere to Fannie
Mae’s policy, Bank of America has said.  The lender ultimately may seek a settlement to resolve the
mounting requests, said Gamaitoni, a former senior financial
analyst at Fannie Mae.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of
America, said Compass Point has regularly overstated the
lender’s housing-related liabilities, and declined to comment
further.  Insurance Required  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  buy mortgages from lenders and
package them into securities for sale to investors. Both firms
were seized by the U.S. in 2008 to stave off collapse, and have
collectively drawn more than $180 billion in taxpayer funds. The
bill is likely to rise -- Fannie Mae this week requested $4.6
billion more from the U.S. Treasury Department -- and the firms’
regulator is pressing banks for refunds on bad loans to limit
the bailout’s cost to the public.  Fannie Mae typically requires a borrower to buy  mortgage
insurance  if the loan exceeds 80 percent of the home’s value.
The coverage guards against losses when borrowers default and
foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  Mortgage guarantors, including MGIC Investment Corp.,
Radian Group Inc. and American International Group Inc.’s United
Guaranty, have voided policies for errors including inflated
appraisals or borrower incomes. Those flaws also would entitle
Fannie Mae to demand that banks buy back the loans.  Insurance Disputes  Bank of America is involved in legal disputes with mortgage
insurers, including MGIC, saying the firms are denying valid
claims. In the second half of last year, Bank of America has
“materially increased” the percentage of denials it argues are
improper, Milwaukee-based MGIC said this week in a filing. AIG’s
mortgage guarantor said last week that lenders were devoting
more resources to reversing rejections.  Bank of America has committed about $42 billion to deal
with flawed mortgages, foreclosures and writedowns since the
start of 2007. The lender accounts for half of Fannie Mae’s
pending repurchase demands after insurance denials, the
Washington-based firm said this week in an annual filing.  Outstanding repurchase claims against Bank of America from
all sources jumped 22 percent to a record $14.3 billion as of
Dec. 31, the lender said in January. That increase was fueled in
part by other demands from Fannie Mae. The mortgage financing
firm has started asking for refunds on loans that have performed
for 2 years or more before defaulting, requests Bank of America
has deemed invalid.  More Public Money  “We enforce our contract with Bank of America in the same
manner as we do with other lenders,” said Kelli Parsons, a
spokeswoman for Fannie Mae. The firm is working with the bank to
resolve their disagreements and “treats lenders consistently
with respect to issuance of repurchases and our expectations of
collection.”  Fannie Mae faces its own squeeze and asked for more public
funds this week after posting a  $2.4 billion  loss in the fourth
quarter. The company said that while Bank of America has failed
to “honor repurchase obligations in a timely manner,” it still
expects to get reimbursed.  “If we collect less than the amount we expect from Bank of
America, we may be required to seek additional funds from
Treasury,” the company said in the Feb. 29 filing.  Fannie Mae said this week that Bank of America accounted
for about 60 percent of all repurchase requests that haven’t
been resolved in more than four months at year-end. The lender
made up $5.5 billion of the U.S.-owned firm’s outstanding
repurchase requests. Most of those demands stem from loans
created by Countrywide Financial Corp., the biggest U.S.
mortgage lender before its 2008 takeover by Bank of America.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, had
$1.1 billion in requests.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , No. 3 by assets, had
$917 million and No. 4  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had $830 million.  Bank of America’s 46 percent  rise  in New York trading this
year has led lenders higher amid signs the  U.S. economy  is
improving. Moynihan, 52, has said that expenses tied to soured
mortgages will subside by about $1 billion a quarter, which
combined with other cost-cutting plans should help the firm’s
pretax revenue rebound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  