-- Boozy Bono Brought Models to ‘Spider-Man’ Meeting, Says Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-03-02T22:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/boozy-bono-brought-models-to-spider-man-meeting-says-lawsuit.html
Fired “Spider-Man: Turn Off the
Dark” director  Julie Taymor  took aim today at the musical’s
producers and her former creative partners on the show, accusing
them in a lawsuit of making her a scapegoat to appease investors
anxious about cost-overruns and poor critical response.  U2 singer Bono, who co-wrote the songs for the show, forced
the cancellation of a key meeting by showing up “with Christy Turlington and a couple other supermodels, and he had already
had a few beers, rendering him useless,” according to an e-mail
from  Glen Berger , co-author of the book, that Taymor cited in
court papers.  The suit was filed today, six weeks after the producers
claimed in their own lawsuit that they fired Taymor to save the
$75 million show.  In papers filed in federal court in  Manhattan , Taymor said
that the producers conspired with Berger and the show’s song
writers -- Bono and The Edge.  Bono and the Edge, she said, were “frequently distracted”
in New York, after missing rehearsals and the first month of
previews because of a U2 world tour.  Costliest Show  Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for the production and lead
producers Michael Cohl and Jeremiah Harris, declined to comment.
Chris Kanarick, a spokesman for Taymor, said she wasn’t
available for comment.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the musical, the most
expensive Broadway production, in March, 2011, after critics
lambasted it during an extended preview period. She sued
producers on Nov. 8, saying they violated her intellectual
property rights by making changes without her permission and
didn’t pay royalties due her as a co-book writer.  In their January countersuit, the producers accused her of
refusing to make changes and storming out of meetings when
alterations were even hinted at.  Taymor’s suit claims she was fired to calm existing
investors and encourage additional investments to fund the
three-week suspension of preview performances in April and May
of 2011. She said the firing was also to free producers from
paying her royalties.  Early Previews  Taymor made clear to producers that she was willing to make
changes to the production, she said in court papers. She added
that “the scope of possible changes was limited by the
musical’s performance schedule once previews had begun, which
called for eight performances most weeks, and the sheer
technical complexity of the show.”  She said the producers were initially unwilling to suspend
previews because of the lost revenue.  Taymor claims that Berger and set designer George Tsypin
privately discussed a rewrite of the book. She said the rewrite
“appears to have been conceived as a way to avoid the technical
challenges Tsypin and his team were having staging the finale.”  “That ending entailed a ‘coup de theatre’ in which a giant
web was supposed to descend from the ceiling of the theatre in a
thrilling flight/fly sequence,” she said in the court papers.  In an e-mail to Berger cited in court papers, Bono called
it “a twin track approach,” of working on changes with Taymor
and more radical ones behind her back. Taymor said she learned
from press reports about the involvement of Roberto Aguirre-
Sacasa, who was brought in to revise the book.  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC,
1:11-cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  