-- BP Oil Spill Trial to Start as Settlement Pressure Grows
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-02T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bp-gulf-of-mexico-spill-trial-to-start-as-settlement-pressure-increases.html
BP Plc (BP/) , Transocean Ltd. and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , with billions of dollars on the line, are set
to find out from a federal judge who among them is to blame for
the April 20, 2010, explosion and sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who will
hear the case without a jury, is to rule whether London-based BP
should get help from the other firms involved in paying the
$26 billion in costs associated with the disaster and its
resulting offshore spill, the largest in U.S. history.  BP has been in talks with the other parties, including its
most formidable opponent -- the federal government, two people
familiar with the negotiations said. A $14 billion deal with
Gulf businesses and property owners has been proposed, three
people familiar with the accord said, and the trial was put off
a week so talks could continue uninterrupted. Barring a deal by
all sides, though, the judge will begin hearing evidence March 5
on whether the companies must pay punitive damages to victims
and fines to the government for polluting the  Gulf of Mexico .  “There’s tremendous pressure on everybody to settle,”
said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at St. John’s University in
 New York . With billions of dollars at stake, “They will talk
until the moment the judge hits that gavel -- and beyond.”  Courthouse Steps  Carl Tobias , who teaches product-liability and mass-tort
law at the University of Richmond in  Virginia , said he wouldn’t
be surprised to see the case resolved “on the courthouse
steps.” One reason that government and plaintiffs’ lawyers
haven’t agreed to settle may be a desire to make BP suffer some
bad publicity generated by trial testimony, Tobias said.  “That kind of negative publicity never does any company
any good,” he said. “That may be a factor in the settlement
calculus.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment on the
trial or potential outcomes stemming from a settlement.  Earlier this month, BP reached an accord with co-defendant
M-I Swaco, a unit of Houston-based oil services company
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  that employed two of the 11 workers killed in
the rig’s explosion. Mitsui & Co.’s MOEX Offshore 2007, a
partner in the well, said the same day it would pay $90 million
to resolve federal Clean Water Act claims.  BP earlier settled with MOEX; Anadarko Petroleum Corp., a
25 percent-owner of the well, and Cameron International Corp.,
which provided blowout-prevention equipment. Cameron and Swaco
are still defendants after settling only with BP.  Hundreds of Lawsuits  The disaster sparked hundreds of lawsuits by businesses and
coastal property owners against BP, its partners and
contractors, including Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the rig, and Houston-based
Halliburton, which provided cementing services.  The U.S. government also sued BP,  Transocean (RIG) , MOEX and The
Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko for violations of federal
pollution laws.  Louisiana  and  Alabama  sued as well.  Non-government plaintiffs in the case include fishermen,
shrimpers, restaurants, hotels, workers and business and
property owners along the Gulf coast affected by the spill.  The proposed settlement between BP and lawyers for
businesses and individuals would transfer the $14 billion
remaining in a company fund set aside for out-of-court
settlements to plaintiffs’ lawyers. They would then distribute
the funds to clients based on the harm suffered. BP would close
the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which originally had
$20 billion.  Government Fines  Such a settlement wouldn’t include fines by the federal
government, lawsuits by state governments or claims between BP
and partner companies involved in the disaster, the people
familiar with it said. While lawyers for plaintiffs whose cases
have been consolidated before Barbier proposed the settlement,
attorneys for other spill victims may oppose it as inadequate,
the people familiar said. Brent Coon, a Houston-based lawyer for
spill victims, said another problem with the settlement proposal
is lawyers for the steering committee don’t represent the
majority of victims in the case, which he said raises questions
about their ability to act in the best interests of all
claimants.  Barbier has scheduled a three-phase trial: In the first
phase, he will determine which companies share blame for the
explosion, and whether any of them engaged in gross negligence
or willful misconduct.  Such a finding might trigger punitive damages -- or damages
meant to punish rather than compensate for losses -- to be paid
to non-government plaintiffs.  Clean Water Act  Those companies sued by the federal government would face
enhanced penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act. That law lets
the government seek fines as high as $1,100 a barrel of oil
spilled for simple negligence, often described as a failure to
exercise ordinary care; and $4,300 a barrel for gross
negligence, or a conscious act or omission. One test for gross
negligence is the economic benefit of not complying.  More than 4 million barrels were spilled in the disaster,
according to U.S. estimates, leaving BP liable for as much as
$17.6 billion in fines. The London-based company set aside
$3.5 billion to pay Clean Water Act fines based on its own lower
estimate of barrels spilled and no finding of gross negligence.  Barbier on Feb. 22 held BP and  Anadarko (APC)  automatically
liable under the act, allowing the U.S. to seek $1,100 a barrel
spilled. Transocean’s liability is to be determined at trial.  On Feb. 24, Transocean alleged in a court filing that BP
officials overseeing the Macondo well ignored questions about
whether safety tests done hours before the blast were flawed.  Well Tests  Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater
Horizon on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about
unsatisfactory well tests less than an hour before an explosion
killed 11 workers and sent oil pouring into the waters off
Louisiana, Transocean’s attorneys said. While Mark Hafle, a
Houston-based BP drilling engineer, warned Vidrine in a phone
call that stability tests on the well might be flawed,
“neither man stopped work” at the facility, Transocean said.
BP’s Dean declined to comment on the Transocean filing.  The judge is to conduct two subsequent nonjury proceedings
on the size of the spill and efforts to contain it. Jury trials
on damages to victims would follow, he has said. The outcomes
might provide a template for settlement of the remaining cases,
some of which might be distributed to other courts.  Three-Month Trial  The first phase may last as long as three months. Barbier
said he might not make any rulings until all three phases are
finished.  In the first phase, he will also consider rig-owner
Transocean’s claim that its financial liability to non-
government parties is capped at $27 million under a 160-year-old
maritime law limiting a vessel owner’s exposure to the value of
its ship and cargo.  Beyond the lawsuits, the  Justice Department  said in June
2010 that it was investigating the possibility of criminal
violations related to the blowout and spill. The agency
said it created a task force led by its criminal division to
investigate the disaster. None of the companies has been charged
with a crime. Barbier won’t consider any criminal allegations in
the trials.  BP already paid $26.6 billion in cleanup costs and economic
damages to individuals, businesses and governments harmed by the
spill, it said Feb. 7. The energy company lowered its reserve to
cover costs tied to the sinking of the rig to $37.2 billion from
more than $40 billion, after reaching settlements.  Shares Down  Shares for the defendant firms fell after the explosion.
The litigation and potential liabilities remain a drag on these
stocks, Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St.
Louis , said Feb. 22 in an interview.  “Investors to some degree have rotated to other companies
they see as good values without the uncertainty from the
spill,” said Youngberg, who has a “hold” on BP’s American
depositary receipts and doesn’t own shares.  An out-of-court settlement, even for an amount higher than
investors expect, might be a boon to BP by removing the “worst
case scenario,” he said. “The question is, how long will that
take?” BP shares were about 23 percent below their pre-disaster
price at the end of the day yesterday.  The plaintiffs claim each of the five companies in the
trial -- BP, Transocean, Halliburton, Cameron and Swaco -- share
blame for the explosion and spill.  ‘Crucial Safety Issues’  BP and other companies connected to the well “ignored
crucial safety issues, cut corners and violated federal and
state law to save time and money in favor of production and
profit,” lawyers for businesses and individuals said in a
master complaint in December 2010.  BP, behind schedule on the Macondo project, pushed forward
ignoring warning signals, the plaintiffs said. Among the
accusations is that BP ignored recommendations and used “too
few centralizers,” or devices to ensure the steel pipe lining
the well could be properly secured.  “In the same e-mail that had recognized the risks of
proceeding with insufficient centralizers, BP official Brett
Cocales shrugged off using only six, flippantly concluding, ‘who
cares, it’s done, end of story, will probably be fine,”’
according to the complaint.  Transocean “bypassed or disabled key safety systems” on
the rig, “including a gas safety valve and fire alarm system
that were intended to monitor for fire and explosive and toxic
gases, with utter disregard for the safety ramifications,”
victims’ lawyers said in a court filing in February 2011.  Company Blame  The companies are blaming one another as well.  BP accused Transocean of breaching its contractual duty to
maintain the drilling rig adequately, to fix engine problems, to
train its crew and to coordinate efforts to fight fires on the
vessel properly.  “The simple fact is that on April 20, 2010, every single
safety system and device and well control procedure on the
Deepwater Horizon failed, resulting in the casualty,” BP said
in its complaint.  BP said a Halliburton engineer and others at the company
concealed problems with its foam cement slurry before and after
the explosion. The cement was supposed to prevent blowouts.  Halliburton claimed BP gave inaccurate information about
the location of hydrocarbon zones, a risk factor, in the Macondo
oil well to avoid stalling the project. Halliburton said it
wouldn’t have pumped cement had it known.  ‘Well Design’  “BP decided on the well design,” Halliburton said in its
complaint. “BP decided when to conduct rig activities. BP
decided what products and services to use, and whether to accept
or reject its contractors’ recommendations regarding those
products and services.”  The financial risk to some of the companies has fallen with
pretrial settlements and rulings. In July, Barbier dismissed
racketeering allegations against BP. In November, he threw out
the Alabama and Louisiana environmental claims brought under
state laws.  In January, the judge said indemnity provisions in the
drilling contract with Transocean required BP to pay most
damages for the spill. This left Transocean liable only for
federal pollution fines or penalties, punitive damages and
payments to workers injured or killed.  In a separate ruling, Barbier held that Halliburton must be
indemnified under the drilling contract. Both decisions are
subject to reversal if the court finds these companies’ conduct
violated the contract, the judge said.  Agreed to Pay  In its settlement with BP, Houston-based Cameron in
December agreed to pay $250 million to the well owner, in
exchange for indemnity for all compensatory damage claims.  Cameron still might face punitive damages. It denies there
were flaws in the blowout preventer. Oil and gas were already
surging toward the rig when workers tried to activate the
equipment to seal the well, Cameron said.  Echoing Tobias at the University of Richmond, Howard Erichson of Fordham University said an accord between BP and the
companies opposing it would remove the risk of further public
relations and financial harm that may result from a long trial.  “Trials can be all-or-nothing risks,” said Erichson, a
law professor who teaches complex litigation. “In general,
companies don’t like taking those kinds of risks.”  Most lawsuits over injuries and deaths have been settled by
Transocean, as part of its agreement in the drilling contract,
according to court filings. One of the injured workers, Buddy
Trahan, a Transocean rig supervisor, asked Feb. 20 to have his
case against BP sent to a Texas state court for trial. More
settlements should follow, said St. John’s Sabino.  ‘Playing Chicken’  “None of these companies will collapse, but there are
substantial damages if a judgment goes the wrong way,” he said,
adding that coming this close to trial without settling may mean
some parties are “playing chicken.”  “Chicken is very dangerous for both sides,” he said. “If
neither side turns away, it can result in an enormous
collision.”  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana in New Orleans at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  