-- BP Gulf of Mexico Drilling Rig Explosion, Spill and Litigation: Timeline
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-03T07:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/bp-gulf-of-mexico-drilling-rig-disaster-spill-and-litigation-timeline.html
  BP Plc (BP) , which was set to got to
trial March 5 in federal court in New Orleans to determine the
extent of liability for the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill ,
reached a settlement yesterday with lawyers for individuals and
businesses hurt by the spill.  BP estimated the cost of the settlement at $7.8 billion.  The following is a timeline of the events leading to the
destruction of the  Deepwater Horizon  offshore rig, the
subsequent spill of millions of barrels of oil and resulting
litigation. All dates and events are from court, agency and
 securities filings , or company and government statements.  Jan. 30, 2010: The Deepwater Horizon moves onsite about 45
miles south of the  Louisiana  coastline to resume drilling the
Macondo well after another rig withdrew due to storm damage.  April 1: ModuSpec USA Inc. begins a two-week condition
assessment of the rig at the request of Transocean Ltd., which
operates the Deepwater Horizon.  April 15: One of two BP well-site leaders assigned to the
rig leaves to attend a conference on well-control techniques.
His replacement lacks any experience as a well-site leader on
the Deepwater Horizon, according to a U.S. Coast Guard
investigation.  An employee of  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , designer of a cement job
meant to seal the well against leaks, advises his contact at BP
by e-mail that 21 stabilizers are needed to center the drill
pipe in the well, according to court filings. The Halliburton
engineer warns the well has a “severe risk” of natural gas
leaks with only six of the devices, which could lead to an
explosive blowout, the court filings state. A BP well engineer
orders 15 additional centralizers flown out to the rig, which
has only six on hand.  April 16: A BP manager overrules the well engineer’s
decision and orders the job to proceed with six centralizers,
according to court papers. BP operations engineer Brett Cocales
sends an e-mail to the Macondo drilling engineer, Brian Morel,
saying six centralizers should be adequate to obtain a proper
cement seal in the well.  “Who cares, it’s done, end of story, will probably be fine
and we’ll get a good cement job,” he wrote, according to a copy
of the e-mail cited in court papers.  April 18: Halliburton tests an innovative cement formula
for the well and doesn’t provide all of the results to BP.
Halliburton engineer Jesse Gagliano again advises BP the well is
at risk for leaks if fewer than 21 centralizers are used,
according to court filings.  April 19: Drilling is completed to target depths. Casing is
installed and cement pumped.  April 20: Drilling and completion operations are finished.
The well subsequently fails, resulting in blowout and explosion.  At 7:30 a.m. BP decides not to run a “cement bond log,” a
test that determines if the cement had properly sealed the sides
of the well against leaks. In the afternoon, crews continue
well-completion tasks in preparation to move the rig to another
location. About 5:30 p.m., engineers debate the results of
critical pressure test conducted to ensure the well isn’t
leaking. The test is ultimately declared successful.  In the evening, visiting company officials and rig
supervisors hold a “leadership meeting” which culminates with
some guests on the bridge of the rig, taking turns practicing
controlling the Deepwater Horizon’s positioning system in a
training simulator.  At 9:41 p.m. drilling mud shoots out of the pipe connecting
the rig to the well on the seafloor. The first of two explosions
comes roughly nine minutes later, and the rig is quickly
engulfed in flames. Workers, unable to contain the blowout or
fight the fire, abandon the Deepwater Horizon. Eleven die.  April 22: BP and  Transocean (RIG)  are sued by the family of Shane
Roshto, one of the 11 dead workers.  April 29: A Louisiana fishing charter boat operator sues on
behalf of the state’s $2.6 billion industry, one of the first of
thousands of litigants against companies involved in the rig
project, including states and the federal government.  May 6: The U.S.  Justice Department  asks the companies to
preserve evidence, a signal that the government had begun an
investigation into possible criminal acts.  May 10: A BP investor sues the company’s directors claiming
its alleged pursuit of profit at the expense of safety led to
the explosion and resulting spill, the first of many such suits.  May 13: Transocean asks a court to cap its liability at
$26.7 million under a 150-year-old law designed to protect the
shipping industry from catastrophic legal awards.  June 1: U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder formally opens a
criminal and civil investigation into the spill.  June 16: BP agrees to put about $20 billion into a fund to
pay damages resulting from the Gulf spill, with claims
administered by  Kenneth Feinberg , the lawyer who oversaw
executive compensation for the government’s financial bailout.
Less than two months after the spill began, more than 225
lawsuits in 11 states had been filed by businesses, individuals
and investors over the disaster.  July 15: BP and the Coast Guard successfully cap the blown-
out well, stopping a geyser of oil that gushed more than 4.1
million barrels of crude into the  Gulf of Mexico  over 85 days.
Lawsuits tied to the disaster exceed 300.  Aug. 3: Bloomberg News reports the U.S. is examining
whether BP made misleading statements after the spill, and
whether company executives traded stock based on inside
information about the accident. The Justice Department is
investigating possible criminal wrongdoing and the Securities
and Exchange Commission is probing potential civil violations,
said a person familiar with the matter.  Aug. 10: A panel of judges orders that all claims tied to
the disaster be consolidated before one judge in New Orleans
federal court, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier .  Sept. 19: The Macondo well is permanently sealed with
cement pumped in through an emergency relief well drilled
nearby.  Oct. 20: Environmental groups sue BP, saying it should pay
damages and create a fund to restore wildlife and habitats
harmed by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. At least 27 federally
protected species inhabiting the Gulf region were harmed by
spill, the groups say.  Oct. 27: Halliburton is ordered by the judge overseeing the
spill suits to turn over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon
project to investigators from the Coast Guard and the Department
of the Interior in connection with a probe of the spill.  Oct. 28: The National Oil Commission reports that
Halliburton cement used on the BP well in April was unstable.  Dec. 15: The Obama administration sues BP and four other
companies for violating environmental laws, seeking damages
under the Clean Water Act. The suit seeks a declaration that
four of the defendants are liable under the Oil Pollution Act
for all removal costs and damages caused by the oil spill,
including damages to the environment. In addition to London-
based BP, the owner of the well, defendants include units of
Transocean, which owned the rig, as well as  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, part owners of the well.  BP  shares  fall the most in almost four months.  Jan. 13, 2011: The family of Karl Kleppinger Jr. becomes
the first to settle a lawsuit against rig owner Transocean and
other companies involved in the disaster over the deaths of 11
crew members of the Deepwater Horizon.  March 3: Louisiana sues BP and its partners in the well,
seeking $1 million a day for damages caused by the spill.  April 15:  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  says in a court
filing that it isn’t to blame for the rig explosion because oil
and gas were surging toward it when workers tried to activate
blowout-prevention equipment. Plaintiffs suing the companies
claim Houston-based Cameron’s blowout preventer wasn’t designed
to handle the extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found
in ultra-deep wells such as the Macondo.  April 19: Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, a 10
percent partner with BP in the blown-out well, sues the U.K.-
based energy company for economic losses as a result of the
project’s failure and the spill that followed. Moex, claiming BP
broke its partnership agreement, asks the judge in the case to
declare it isn’t responsible for damages and cleanup costs.  April 20: BP sues Transocean, blaming the owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon for the accident and seeking
to recover costs for billions of dollars in damages. BP says
that without Transocean’s “misconduct” there wouldn’t have
been any explosion, fire, deaths or oil spill.  Aug. 23: The Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which draws on the
$20 billion set aside by BP after the spill, has received more
than 947,000 claims from 50 states and 36 nations, according to
a summary by claims administrator Feinberg. BP has paid more
than $5 billion to 204,434 claimants in the past year from the
fund, created to compensate victims of the spill. In total,
about $6.7 billion has been drawn from the fund, which also pays
for clean-up costs and restoration projects through payments
provided to local governments.  Aug. 26: Businesses and individuals suing BP and other
companies involved in the spill win the judge’s approval to seek
punitive damages in pursuing claims of economic and
environmental losses. BP and the other companies claimed the
U.S. Oil Pollution Act prevented plaintiffs from collecting
punitive damages. Barbier rules the statute is “silent as to
the availability of punitive damages” and plaintiffs can pursue
such claims under maritime law. Barbier dismisses economic loss
claims by individuals and businesses filed under state law.  Sept. 15: BP won’t have to face some lawsuits filed by
institutional investors on behalf of the company, a federal
judge in Houston rules. U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison
agrees with BP’s argument that the claims should be filed in
U.K. courts because the company is based there.  Sept. 30: Barbier rules Anadarko won’t have to face
personal injury claims arising from exposure to oil and other
chemicals in the cleanup of the spill. Anadarko and Moex can’t
be held responsible for these claims under maritime law, he
says.  Nov. 1: A Transocean unit asks the judge to order BP to
honor a blanket indemnity against oil spill damages that the rig
owner claims was part of its drilling contract.  Nov. 14: The judge rules BP must face claims over the spill
by Louisiana and  Alabama . The states can sue for negligence and
product liability under general maritime law and are eligible
for punitive damages, Barbier says. He dismisses claims brought
under state environmental laws, including demands for civil
penalties, finding they were preempted by federal law governing
the Outer Continental Shelf.  Dec. 9: Mexican states and Alabama cities that are deemed
too far removed from the spill to have been physically harmed by
it are barred by the court from bringing some claims against BP.
Barbier throws out state law claims by six Louisiana parishes
seeking penalties over wildlife killed or injured by the spill.
He says the parishes, as counties in the state are called, can
still sue BP and other spill companies under U.S. law to recover
wildlife losses, spill damages and removal costs.  Jan. 2, 2012: BP seeks to have Halliburton, the cement
contractor for the Macondo well, pay all of the  oil company ’s
related costs and damages tied to the spill. BP has paid more
than $21 billion in cleanup costs and economic damages to
individuals, businesses and governments harmed by the spill as
of Dec. 1, the company says. BP reserved more than $40 billion
to cover costs related to the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig.  Jan. 26: BP can’t collect from Transocean part of the $40
billion in cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the 2010
oil well blowout and spill, the judge rules. He also holds that
BP must indemnify Transocean for pollution-related economic
damage claims under its drilling contract. Any awards for
punitive damages against Transocean or civil penalties under the
U.S. Clean Water Act won’t have to be covered by BP, the judge
also writes.  Jan. 31: BP is ordered to cover some of any direct damage
claims awarded against Halliburton for the $40 billion in
cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the spill. BP must
indemnify Halliburton for compensatory damage claims under its
drilling contract, Barbier rules. BP had sued Halliburton to
recover a share of any damages and costs from the spill. Any
punitive damages awarded against Halliburton don’t have to be
paid by BP, the judge says.  Feb. 9: Bloomberg News reveals  BP is negotiating with U.S.
officials to settle the pollution claims tied to the oil spill.
The U.S. seeks fines of as much as $4,300 for each of the 4.1
million barrels spilled after the rig explosion.  BP wins a ruling barring the introduction of evidence at
trial of previous accidents involving the oil company. Barbier
grants a BP motion blocking the introduction of exhibits
pertaining to prior industrial accidents, including the 2005
explosion at its  Texas  City, Texas, refinery and a 2006 oil
spill at its Prudhoe Bay field in  Alaska .  Feb. 13: BP was told it must face fraud claims by investors
who said the company lied before and after the 2010 spill about
its accident response capability. Judge Ellison in Houston
allows holders of BP American depositary receipts to pursue
claims alleging violations of U.S. securities law. He dismisses
claims by investors who bought ordinary shares of London-based
BP, saying his court has no jurisdiction over them.  Feb. 17:  MOEX (MOEX)  agrees to pay $90 million to the U.S. and
five states to settle pollution violations related to the spill
while BP and its drilling fluid provider for the Macondo well
agree to dismiss claims against each other. The U.S. files a
consent order outlining the MOEX settlement of Clean Water Act
violations. The agreement requires MOEX to pay $45 million in
civil penalties to the U.S. and about $25 million total to
Alabama,  Florida , Louisiana,  Mississippi  and Texas. MOEX will
also pay $20 million for land acquisition projects.  Feb. 24: Transocean claims BP officials overseeing the
Macondo well ignored questions about whether safety tests done
hours before a fatal blast on the drilling rig were flawed.
 Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater Horizon
on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about unsatisfactory
well tests less than an hour before an explosion killed 11
workers on the rig and sent oil pouring into the waters off
Louisiana, Transocean’s attorneys say in a filing. While Mark Hafle, a Houston-based BP drilling engineer, warned Vidrine in a
phone call that stability tests on the well might be flawed,
“neither man stopped work” at the facility, Transocean says.  Feb. 26: The scheduled Feb. 27 trial is delayed by Barbier
until March 5 to allow settlement negotiations to continue.  Bloomberg News later reports that BP and lawyers for
businesses and individuals affected by the spill were near a $14
billion accord to be funded with money set aside for out-of-
court settlements. Three people familiar with the talks say
that, under the plan, BP would close its $20 billion Gulf Coast
Claims Facility and shift the remaining $14 billion to
plaintiffs hurt by the disaster. Such a deal wouldn’t include
fines by the federal government that could reach $17.6 billion,
lawsuits by state governments or claims between BP and partner
companies involved in the disaster.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  