-- Brazil Real Drops on New Currency Measure to Tax Loans
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-02T19:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/brazil-real-drops-on-new-currency-measure-to-tax-exporter-loans.html
(Corrects location in second paragraph.)  Brazil ’s real headed for its first
weekly decline in three after the government unveiled new
measures late yesterday to stem gains in the currency.  The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.7327 per  U.S. dollar  at
4:36 p.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.7142 yesterday. It has lost 1.3
percent this week. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate
futures contract due in January 2013 fell 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 9.03 percent as traders stepped up
bets on rate cuts.  The real declined after the central bank said Brazilian
exporters will start paying a 6 percent tax on some foreign
loans as the government tries to stem a rally that Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  says is being fueled by a “currency
war.” It was unveiled late yesterday, following a morning
announcement that the government would expand a levy on foreign
loans and bonds to include debt with durations of three years or
less.  “The government is trying to close all the loopholes that
it sees in the currency markets,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency
trader at Renasenca DTVM Ltda, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “A
lot of money was coming in this way.”  The currency extended declines after the central bank said
it bought dollars in the spot market at a second auction today.
The bank said in a statement it purchased the U.S. currency for
1.7260 reais each.  In the first two months of the year, exporters brought $8
billion in loans into the country  under advanced payment
agreements, a 46 percent jump from the same period a year ago,
Aldo Mendes, the central bank’s director of monetary policy,
said yesterday. Starting today, such debt will only be exempt
from the new tax if it matures in no more than 360 days, he
said.  2012 Rally  The real has rallied 7.8 percent this year, the second-best
performer among major currencies behind the Mexican peso.  Brazilian policy makers resumed efforts to rein in currency
gains last month, with the central bank buying dollars in the
spot and forward markets. The bank also auctioned currency swaps
and bought dollars in the  spot market  this week.  Interest-rate futures yields plunged, with the yield on the
January 2013 contract headed for the biggest drop in more than a
month, amid speculation the central bank will lengthen the cycle
of interest-rate cuts to reduce the appeal of Brazilian assets
and deter speculative capital inflows.  “It’s still a reflection of these currency measures,”
 Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX, said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “The market believes the central bank will
use lower rates to help control currency appreciation. This
liquidity abroad seems to be a big worry of the central bank.”  ‘Expansionary Policy’  Policy makers in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  are adopting an
“expansionary policy” to shore up economic growth in a move
that is causing a jump in capital inflows to  emerging markets ,
Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini said this week during
Senate testimony in Brasilia.  Rate futures also fell on reports the government is close
to announcing new rules that would change the way returns on
savings accounts are calculated, paving the way for further rate
cuts, Srour said.  The  Finance Ministry  and the central bank are finalizing a
proposal to link future savings deposits to the benchmark Selic
rate, Sao Paulo-based newspaper  Valor Economico  reported today,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Existing deposits would continue to earn the same return of
6 percent plus the reference rate, known as the TR rate, Valor
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  