-- Brazil Taxes Loans to Exporters in Effort to Stem Rally Amid Currency War
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-03-02T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/brazil-to-tax-some-foreign-loans-to-exporters-to-boost-curbs-on-real-rally.html
Brazilian exporters will start
paying a 6 percent tax on some foreign loans as the government
tries to stem a rally in the real that Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  says is being fueled by a currency war.  Starting today, loans under advanced payment agreements
will only be exempt from the so-called IOF tax if they mature in
no more than 360 days, Aldo Mendes, director of monetary policy
at the central bank, said yesterday. To avoid the tax, the
advanced payment will also need to be provided by the importer,
he added. Previously, banks and trading companies could  provide
the loans without the need to pay the IOF tax.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration yesterday also
imposed a 6 percent IOF tax on foreign loans and bonds with a
duration of less than three years. Rousseff said  Brazil  had to
create tools to fight a flood of dollars that were stemming from
“perverse” monetary policies implemented by developed
economies, such as the European Union.  “The measure was taken at a time when the government is
trying to contain capital entering the country,” Mendes said.  In the first two months of the year, exporters brought into
the country $8 billion dollars in loans under advanced payment
agreements, a 46 percent jump from the same period a year ago,
Mendes said.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.7142 per  U.S. dollar  in  Sao
Paulo , after Finance Minister Guido Mantega denied plans to also
tax foreign direct investment to curb the rally. The real has
gained 8.9 percent this year, the second-best performer after
the Mexican peso among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Since the beginning of the year, investors and exporters
brought into Brazil $12.5 billion, compared with an outflow of
$1.9 billion in December, according to central bank figures.  “The government won’t be a passive observer in this
currency war,” Mantega told reporters yesterday in Brasilia.
“The government will continue to take measures to prevent the
real from strengthening, from hurting Brazil’s manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  