-- Brogrammers Bring Frat-House Ethos to Geek World of Coding: Tech
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-02T06:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/brogrammers-bring-frat-house-ethos-to-engineers-geeky-coding-world-tech.html
Danilo Stern-Sapad writes code for a
living, but don’t call him a geek.  He wears sunglasses and blasts 2Pac while programming. He
enjoys playing Battle Shots -- like the board game Battleship
with liquor -- at the office. He and his fellow coders at Los
Angeles startup  BetterWorks Inc.  are lavished with attention by
technology-industry recruiters desperate for engineering talent.  “We got invited to a party in Malibu where there were
naked women in the hot tub,” said Stern-Sapad, 25. “We’re the
cool programmers.”  Tech’s latest boom has generated a new, more testosterone-
fueled breed of coder,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its
March 5 edition. Sure, the job still requires enormous
brainpower, yet today’s engineers are drawn from diverse
backgrounds, and many eschew the laboratory intellectualism that
prevailed when semiconductors ruled Silicon Valley.  “I don’t need to wear a pocket protector to be a
programmer,” says John Manoogian III, a software engineer and
entrepreneur.  At some startups the pendulum has swung so far in the other
direction that it’s given rise to a new title: brogrammer. A
portmanteau of the frat-house moniker “bro” and
“programmer,” the term has become the subject of a Facebook
Inc. group joined by more than 21,000 people; the name of a
series of hacker get-togethers in Austin,  Texas ; the punch line
for online ads; and the topic of a humorous discussion on
question-and-answer site Quora titled “How does a programmer
become a brogrammer?” (One pointer: Drink  Red Bull , beer and
“brotein” shakes.)  ‘Much More Sociable’  “There’s a rising group of developers who are much more
sociable and like to go out and have fun, and I think
brogramming speaks to that audience,” said Gagan Biyani, co-
founder and president of Udemy Inc., a startup that offers
coding lessons on the Web.  One popular online video featured Brooklyn-based programmer
Rob Spectre giving a presentation entitled, “Learn Brogramming
the Hard Way.”  “It’s entirely a joke,” said Spectre, who works at the
startup Twilio Inc. “Developers by nature are not super
confrontational ’Jersey Shore’ types, which is why we find
brogramming so funny.”  There’s also an audience that has been left out of the
joke. Women made up 21 percent of all programmers in 2010, down
from 24 percent in 2000, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  Turned Off  Anything that encourages the perception of tech as being
male-dominated is likely to contribute to this decline, said
Sara Chipps, founder of  Girl Develop It , a series of software-
development workshops.  “This brogramming thing would definitely turn off a lot of
women from working” at startups, said Chipps.  A poster recently displayed at a Stanford University career
fair by Klout Inc., a social-media analytics company, tried to
woo computer-science graduates by asking: “Want to bro down and
crush code? Klout is hiring.”  Chipps’s response: “No. I don’t want to bro down. I can’t
imagine that a girl would see that and say, ‘I totally want to
do that, it sounds awesome.’”  Klout Chief Executive Officer Joe Fernandez said the sign
was just a joke, and “definitely not meant to be an
exclusionary thing,” and that the company hired a female
programmer at the fair. At the  University of Pennsylvania , a
computer science club had to back down from plans to wear T-
shirts saying “Brogrammer” to a school festival when female
members objected to it.  Resident Bro  In business, the brogramming culture seems to be confined
to smaller outfits, said Kamakshi Sivaramakrishnan, the first
female engineer at mobile-ad startup  AdMob . When the company was
bought by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in 2010, she was surrounded by a more
diverse team of programmers.  “The frat-boy mentality among engineering men is a little
more pronounced in the startup world than in the more mature
organizations,” she said.  While a few startups such as  BetterWorks , which has an
engineer population of 14 men and one woman, may be overrun by
bros, at most others the trend is confined to a few.  At  Santa Monica , California-based  Gravity , engineering
director Jim Plush is referred to as the “resident
brogrammer,” and has affixed his computer monitor to a
treadmill so he can exercise two to three hours a day while
programming. At  Justin.tv Inc. , in  San Francisco , co-founder
Justin Kan rides a motorcycle to work and listens to Swedish
dubstep music on his headphones.  “It’s not like a frat house,” Kan said. “My desk is the
brogramming lounge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  