-- Warren Buffett’s Insurance Growth Engine May Stall
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-02T15:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/buffett-s-insurance-engine-of-growth-set-to-stall.html
Warren Buffett, the former hedge
fund manager who built Berkshire Hathaway Inc. into a $195
billion company by gaining leverage through insurance premiums,
said this traditional source of new funds is drying up.  Berkshire’s (BRK/A)  insurance units, which cover risks from fender
benders to asbestos-related hospital bills, can no longer be
relied on to provide new investment funds in the form of float,
or accumulated premium, Buffett said in a Feb. 25  letter . Float,
which rose to $70.6 billion as of Dec. 31 from $65.8 billion a
year earlier and $39 million in 1970, is unlikely to “grow much
-- if at all -- from its current level,” Buffett said.  Buffett, 81, entered insurance in 1967 with an $8.6 million
acquisition. The expansion in float, together with Berkshire’s
earnings, gave the billionaire funding for his stock picks and
acquisitions. The result has been comparable growth in
Berkshire’s stock price and float over a quarter-century.  “It’s an engine of growth that is running out of gas,”
said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder and author of
“Secrets in Plain Sight: Business & Investing Secrets of Warren
Buffett.” Berkshire “has now officially become a conglomerate.
It no longer has the culture of an investment vehicle.”  Berkshire’s success in attracting more insurance business
each year than it loses has allowed Buffett to use policyholder
funds to buy  securities  and keep them, in some instances, for
decades. “Money we hold but don’t own,” as Buffett called
float in 1997, has advanced in 27 of the last 28 years.  Low-Interest Loan  Float funding is similar to “a very low-interest” loan,
said  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis . The decision to curb float, which falls when claims paid
exceed premiums collected, may limit Buffett’s ability to
maintain current investments while pursuing new deals, said
Meyer Shields, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Float has always been their secret sauce,” said Shields,
who has a “hold”  rating  on Berkshire stock. “This is a pretty
dramatic change.”  Buffett accumulated the biggest holding in  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
from 1988 to 1994 as Berkshire’s float more than doubled to
$3.06 billion. The stake in the beverage maker, which cost about
$1.3 billion to build, is held in Berkshire units including
insurer National Indemnity Co. and is now valued at more than
$13 billion.  Competition among insurers has made it more difficult for
the industry to write profitable business, Buffett said last
month in the letter, which accompanied the firm’s annual report.
If float should eventually decline, “it would almost certainly
be very gradual and therefore impose no unusual demand for funds
on us,” Buffett said.  Buffett’s Moves  Float grew by almost $20 billion in the five years ended
Dec. 31, providing Buffett with funds to invest during the
financial crisis and economic slump. Berkshire has made net
investments of more than $90 billion since the end of 2006 as
Buffett drew on the firm’s cash and issued debt and equity.  The resources allowed the company to get returns of more
than 10 percent on financing for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
General Electric Co. and pay $26.5 billion to take over railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe .  The only decline in float of the last two decades was a
slip of less than 1 percent in 2008, coinciding with claims tied
to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike.  Insurance is “Berkshire’s core operation and the engine
that has propelled our expansion over the years,” Buffett said
in the letter. “The value of our float is one reason -- a huge
reason -- why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value
substantially exceeds  book value .”  Better Than Free  The value of Berkshire’s float depends on underwriters’
ability to price business above the cost of claims and expenses.
The company has posted an underwriting profit in each of the
last nine years, yielding float that is “better than cost-
free,” Buffett said. Todd Bault, global risk and insurance
analyst at Sector & Sovereign Research, said Buffett’s cost
calculation overlooks the possibility of investments going bad.  “He’s employing double leverage: using the same money for
two risky purposes,” said Bault, who cited the use of float to
both back policies and fund investments. When Berkshire posts an
underwriting profit, Buffett “argues his cost is ‘free’.  But
that’s wrong: it ignores the cost of risk.”  Berkshire may be scaling back growth in anticipation of
greater competition among reinsurers, Lewandowski said. The curb
on float growth may also indicate that Buffett’s deals to take
on asbestos liabilities in the last five years have reduced
Berkshire’s capacity for new risks, said Shields.  Asbestos Risks  Berkshire was paid about $11 billion since 2007 to take
asbestos risks once borne by Lloyd’s of London underwriters,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and CNA Financial Corp.  “It’s important to see premiums grow, so that’s a
negative,” said Lewandowski, who has a “buy” rating on
Berkshire. “I think that will be reflected in shares if you see
some consistent decline in insurance float.”  Berkshire has declined  7.6 percent  in  New York  in the last
12 months through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5.2 percent
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Buffett’s firm  surged  in the
24 years ended Dec. 31 at a compound annual rate of about 16
percent as float grew 17 percent a year. Expansion slowed in the
last decade to 4.3 percent for the stock and 7.1 percent for the
float.  Buffett has reduced the firm’s reliance on insurance and,
consequently, on his ability to pick securities as Berkshire
expands manufacturing, energy and transportation operations.  “If the insurance businesses are shrinking then it’s a
reversal of the whole leverage model,” said  Alice Schroeder ,
author of “The Snowball,  Warren Buffett  and the Business of
Life” and a Bloomberg View columnist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  