-- California Increases Yields to Close Sale of $2 Billion in Refunding Bonds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/california-raises-yields-to-close-2-billion-refunding-bond-sale.html
California (STOCA1)  sold $2 billion of
general-obligation bonds after raising yields as the offering’s
size forced up  interest rates  across the $3.7 trillion municipal
market.  The yield on a bond maturing in 10 years was boosted to
2.78 percent yesterday, when institutional investors placed
orders, from 2.69 percent a day earlier, when the securities
were offered to individual investors, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The tax-exempt debt was still about 0.9 percentage point
lower than a similar California bond in October. For debt due in
2038, the longest maturity, the yield rose to 4.13 percent
yesterday from 4.08 percent.  Individual buyers accounted for almost half the orders, or
$930.7 million, according to  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for
Treasurer Bill Lockyer. The refunding will save the most
populous and most indebted state $250 million in debt-service
payments, he said.  “With the state still fighting to keep its budget in the
black, every bit of savings helps,” Lockyer said in a statement
yesterday.  The sale represented about a quarter of municipal issuance
this week. The California sale pushed up yields on top-rated
municipal debt due in 10 years by five basis points to 1.9 percent, 
said Jason Hannon, a trader at New York-based Arbor Research & 
Trading Inc. Rates on 30-year bonds rose four basis points to 
3.27 percent, he said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Borrowing Curb  The state is still paying lower yields and a smaller yield
spread over benchmark debt than in October. Then, a 10-year
portion priced to yield 3.7 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Governor  Jerry Brown  curbed borrowing last year to help
shrink deficits. The state offered $3.3 billion in debt in 2011,
the least in four years. That crimped the supply of California
state and local bonds, which returned more than the full muni
market in each of the past three years.  Demand may increase for California tax-exempt bonds if
voters approve Brown’s proposed November ballot measure seeking
to raise tax rates on personal incomes higher than $250,000 to
help close a $9.2 billion deficit.  The bonds maturing in 10 years yield about 87 basis points
more than top-rated debt of the same maturity, according to BVAL
data. The difference is down from  128 basis points  on similar
maturities in October.  J.P. Morgan (JPM)  Securities LLC,  Barclays Capital  and  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  Securities managed the sale.  Outlook Raised  The outlook on California’s credit was revised to positive
from stable by  Standard & Poor’s  on Feb. 14. S&P has an A-rating
on $73.4 billion of general-obligation debt, its fourth-lowest
investment grade and the worst of any state. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the state A1, the second-lowest after  Illinois .  California state and local debt returned 14.8 percent last
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
tracking prices and interest income. That’s the most since 2009
and more than the 11.2 percent return for the broader market,
9.8 percent for Treasuries and 7.5 percent for top-grade
corporate debt.  In January, California issues returned 3.3 percent, more
than the muni market, Treasuries and corporate securities, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  