-- Canadian Currency Breaks Four-Day Winning Streak as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-02T22:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/canada-s-dollar-falls-for-first-time-in-five-days-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened against its
U.S. counterpart for the first time in five days after data
showed the nation’s economic expansion slowed.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 1 percent this week,
the most in a month, as crude oil has rallied. Crude is Canada’s
biggest export. The currency rose today versus the majority of
its most-traded peers.  “A bit disappointing; we had looked for better,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto, said of the growth data. “We might
see the U.S. dollar pull back to the 99 cent to 99.20 cent area.
But it’s probably still a sell there on the day.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 98.93
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, paring its weekly
advance. Its four-day rally was the longest in more than a
month. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0108.  Government bonds  rose, pushing yields down. Canada’s
benchmark  10-year note  yield fell for the first time in three
days, dropping four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.96 percent. The yields declined six basis points on the week.  Gross domestic product  grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
pace from October to December following a revised 4.2 percent
third-quarter rate,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa,
matching economist forecasts. Export growth slowed to 4.6
percent from 16 percent while imports gained 2.2 percent
following a 1.5 percent decline.  ‘Nice Upward Revision’  “There’s a nice upward revision to the third-quarter
number to 4.2 percent, so that should temper Canadian dollar
losses,” TD’s Osborne said.  The loonie advanced to 98.42 cents yesterday, its strongest
intraday level since Sept. 19, as risk appetite increased on
data showing the labor market improved in the U.S. and
manufacturing grew in  China ,  India  and America. The U.S. is
Canada’s biggest trade partner.  Brent oil surged yesterday as much as 4.7 percent to
$128.40 a barrel, the highest price since July 2008. Brent for
April settlement fell 1.8 percent today to $123.61 in  London .
Crude futures reached a 10-month high of $110.55 a barrel in New
York yesterday and declined to $106.61 today.  “The rise in the price of crude oil is supportive for the
Canadian dollar,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We
expect modest Canadian-dollar strength against the U.S. dollar
over the next one to three months.”  Oil may rise even more “in the near term,” which should
add momentum to the Canadian currency’s gains, Hardman said.  Loonie Versus Euro  Canada’s dollar gained versus the euro for a third straight
day as data showed German retail sales unexpectedly dropped in
January. The loonie touched C$1.3028 against the 17-nation
currency, the strongest in two weeks, before trading at
C$1.3056, up 0.5 percent.  UBS AG recommended closing out of bets the euro will fall
against the Canadian currency.  “We continue to favor further downside in euro-Canada, but
will perhaps instead look to move into a different structure,
given the sharp move in spot over the past three days,”  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS in London, wrote in a note
to clients.  Growth in Canada’s economy, the world’s 10th-largest, will
remain below 2 percent in the first half of this year because of
global financial strains and weak demand, according to a central
bank forecast. Manufacturers are struggling with a currency
trading near parity with the U.S. dollar while companies such as
Enbridge Inc. benefit from global demand for energy.  The  Bank of Canada  meets next week to determine  interest
rates . Policy makers have held the  benchmark  at 1 percent since
September 2010 as concern that some European countries may face
default tempers an annual inflation rate that has exceeded the
central bank’s 2 percent target for 14 straight months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  