-- Canada Fourth-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-02T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/canada-fourth-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada’s National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the fourth quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) rose 0.4% in the fourth
quarter, after advancing 1.0% in the third quarter. Consumer
spending and exports contributed the most to fourth-quarter GDP
growth. Final domestic demand grew 0.5%. On a monthly basis,
real GDP by industry increased 0.4% in December.  Consumer spending on goods and services expanded 0.7% in the
fourth quarter, up from the 0.4% gain in the previous quarter.
Purchases of durable goods grew 2.1%, up from a 0.2% decline.  Business investment in plant and equipment advanced 2.0%, the
eighth consecutive quarterly increase. Housing investment slowed
to 0.8% in the fourth quarter, well below the 2.5% increase in
the previous quarter.  Exports advanced 1.1% in the fourth quarter, down from a 3.8%
gain in the third quarter. Imports rose 0.5%, after falling 0.4%.  Both goods-producing (+0.5%) and services (+0.4%) industries
grew in the fourth quarter. Manufacturing, retail trade, and oil
and gas extraction were the main contributors to the growth.
Gains also occurred in professional, scientific and technical
services, the public sector (education,  health services  and
public administration combined) and construction. Mining
excluding oil and gas extraction, utilities, wholesale trade,
and the finance and insurance sector decreased during the
quarter.  Manufacturing increased 1.5%, mostly on higher production of
transportation equipment and machinery. There were widespread
gains in retail trade (+1.4%), while wholesale trade declined
0.6%. Oil and gas extraction rose 0.9% in the fourth quarter,
largely on increased natural gas production, as oil extraction
was limited by maintenance activities during the quarter.
Construction edged up 0.2% as declines in non-residential
building construction partially offset the strength in
engineering and repair works. Mining excluding oil and gas
extraction decreased 3.8%, mainly because of a decline in output
at potash mines as a result of lower foreign demand for
fertilizer. Utilities declined 1.6% as unseasonably warm weather
contributed to lower demand for electricity.  Growth of real gross domestic product similar to that of final
domestic demand  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP expanded 1.8% in
the fourth quarter, following a 4.2% increase in the previous
quarter. By comparison, real GDP in the United States grew 3.0%
in the fourth quarter.  Contributions to percent change in real gross domestic product,
fourth quarter 2011  Consumer spending expands  Consumer spending  on goods and services expanded 0.7% in the
fourth quarter, led by purchases of durable goods (+2.1%).
Purchases of semi-durable goods and services also rose.
Purchases of non-durable goods were unchanged.  Personal spending on goods and services expands  Spending on transportation and communication was up 1.4% in
the fourth quarter. Purchases of new and used motor vehicles
grew 3.4%, and outlays on motor vehicle repairs and parts were
also up. Purchased transportation, which rose 1.2% in the
quarter, has been increasing since the second quarter of 2009.  Spending on furniture, furnishings and household equipment
advanced 0.7%, the strongest quarterly growth in 2011.  Clothing and footwear purchases increased 1.1% in the fourth
quarter, the sixth consecutive quarterly increase.  Spending on recreation, entertainment, education and cultural
services rose 1.3%, more than double the previous quarter’s pace.  On the other hand, consumption of electricity, natural gas
and other fuels declined, mostly because of unusually warm
weather.  Housing demand slows  Housing investment grew 0.8% in the fourth quarter, about
one-third of the pace of the previous quarter (+2.5%). New
housing construction declined 0.4% following two quarters of
increases of 3.0% or more.  Renovation activity slowed to 0.3% in the fourth quarter,
following a 1.2% rise in the third quarter. In contrast,
ownership transfer costs related to housing resale activity were
up 4.9%, more than twice the pace of the previous quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment rose  Overall business investment in plant and equipment rose 2.0%
in the fourth quarter, the eighth consecutive quarterly gain.  Business investment in engineering structures led the
increase, rising 4.2%, following a 6.1% gain in the third
quarter. Investment in buildings edged up after two consecutive
quarterly declines.  Business investment in machinery and equipment was up 0.7%.
Increased investment in computers, telecommunications equipment,
and industrial machinery was partly offset by declines in
automobiles, other transportation equipment and software.  Business inventories increase  An increase of $7 billion in business inventories occurred in
the fourth quarter. Both manufacturers and wholesalers increased
their inventories. Retailers reduced their inventories,
especially for motor vehicles.  Demand for exports slows after strong third quarter increase  Exports advanced 1.1% in the fourth quarter, down from 3.8%
in the third quarter. Exports of goods increased 1.8%, while
exports of services fell 2.7%.  The main contributors to the growth in goods exports were
automotive products, energy products and industrial goods and
materials. Exports of services fell 2.7%, led by declines in
transportation, commercial and travel services.  Imports rose 0.5% in the fourth quarter, after declining 0.4%
in the third quarter. Most major categories of goods imports
increased, except for automotive products and other  consumer
goods . Imports of services edged down, their third quarterly
decline in 2011.  Economy-wide income expands  Nominal GDP increased 1.5% in the fourth quarter. Corporate
profits grew 5.0% following the 4.3% gain in the third quarter.
Labour income was up 1.1%.  The personal saving rate was 3.4%, the same as the previous
quarter’s rate. The national saving rate was 7.0% in the quarter,
largely because of the increase in corporate profits.  Purchasing power increases  Canada ’s real gross domestic income, a measure of purchasing
power, increased 0.9% in the fourth quarter. Canada’s terms of
trade, which measures export prices relative to import prices,
increased 1.5%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada rose 1.1%.
Export prices rose 3.5%, while import prices increased 2.0%.  The price of final domestic demand rose 0.7%, similar to the
increase in the previous quarter.  Financial flow accounts: Demand for funds decelerates  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors was $147
billion (seasonally adjusted at annual rates) in the fourth
quarter, down from $228 billion in the third quarter. Financing
activity was notably lower in the non-financial corporations and
government sectors.  Non-financial private corporations financing activity slowed
considerably in the fourth quarter to under one-third what it
was in the third quarter. Most of this resulted from repayment
of short-term paper and a lower level of share issues. Strong
growth in undistributed earnings led to lower borrowing in the
quarter.  Federal  government borrowing  also declined in the fourth
quarter, led by redemptions of short-term paper. Borrowing by
other levels of government fell by a similar amount, reflecting
a significant reduction in bonds issuance by provincial
governments.  Household borrowing (mortgages,  consumer credit  and loans)
was also lower in the fourth quarter. In particular, mortgage
borrowing by households was lower, reflecting a slowing in
housing investment in the quarter. Overall household borrowing
decelerated in the second half of 2011.  Financial institutions increased their bond holdings while
decreasing their holdings of short-term paper. In comparison,
loan lending activity was up in the quarter.  Non-residents continued to invest in Canadian securities,
particularly through acquisitions of federal  government bonds 
and short-term paper on the secondary market.  Annual, 2011  Real GDP grew 2.5% in 2011 after a 3.2% increase in 2010.
Final domestic demand grew 3.0% after increasing 4.5% in 2010.  All major industrial sectors rose in 2011, except arts,
entertainment and recreation. The production of goods grew 3.6%
while services expanded 2.2%. Mining and oil and gas extraction,
construction, the public sector (education, health services and
public administration combined) and manufacturing were the main
contributors to overall growth. Wholesale trade, retail trade,
and the finance and insurance sector also posted gains. In
addition, the transportation sector benefited from the general
increase in economic activity.  Business investment in plant and equipment contributed the
most to GDP growth in 2011. Businesses increased investments in
non-residential structures by 13.7% in 2011, up from 2.8% in
2010. In addition, investment in machinery and equipment grew
13.7%. This was the second year in a row of machinery and
equipment investment over 11%. The pace of housing investment
slowed to 2.3% in 2011 from 10.2% in 2010.  Growth in Canadian exports and imports both slowed in 2011.
Exports increased 4.4% following a gain of 6.4% in 2010. Exports
of industrial goods and materials, energy products, and
machinery and equipment all contributed to the 2011 increase.
Imports advanced 6.5% after increasing 13.1%. Imports of
machinery and equipment posted a second consecutive year of
growth over 13%.  Consumer spending rose 2.2%, following 3.3% in 2010.
Purchases of durable and semi-durable goods slowed considerably
in 2011.  Government spending  on goods and services grew 1.2%, half the
2010 pace of 2.4%.  Capital spending  declined 2.9% in 2011 in
contrast to the 17.9% growth in 2010. Both government
engineering and building construction declined in 2011.  The personal saving rate was 3.8% in 2011, down from 4.8%.
Personal disposable income advanced 3.3%.  The national saving rate moved up to 6.5% in 2011 from 5.2%
in 2010, as corporate saving increased 28%.  Real gross domestic income increased 3.8%, following a 5.0%
gain. Canada’s terms of trade rose 4.3%, following a 5.8%
increase.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada increased
3.3% in 2011, a somewhat faster pace than in 2010 (+2.9%). The
price of final domestic demand almost doubled (+2.0% in 2011
compared with +1.2% in 2010).  For the year as a whole, total funds raised in 2011 were down
10% to $217 billion from $242 billion in 2010. This decrease was
primarily a result of an overall deceleration in borrowing in
the non-financial private corporations and in the government
sector. In the case of non-financial private corporations, the
decrease in borrowing reflected strong earnings in 2011, giving
rise to lower borrowing during the year.  Real gross domestic product by industry, December 2011  Real gross domestic product increased 0.4% in December after
a 0.1% decline in November and no growth in October. About half
of the December gain was accounted for by increased oil and gas
extraction. Production also rose in manufacturing, wholesale
trade, the finance and insurance sector and construction. Retail
trade edged down, while the output of utilities declined.  Real gross domestic product increases in December  Oil and gas extraction rose in December (+3.0%), with
increases in both crude petroleum and natural gas. This follows
a 2.3% decline in November, which was partially due to
maintenance activities. Support activities for mining, oil and
gas extraction decreased 12% in December as drilling and rigging
activities fell partly because of unfavourable weather. Mining
excluding oil and gas extraction was up 1.1%.  Manufacturers increased their output (+0.9%) for a fourth
consecutive month in December. The production of durable goods
(+1.1%) led the way, particularly the manufacturing of motor
vehicles and parts and of primary metals. Non-durable goods
production (+0.5%) was also up, as increases were recorded in
plastic and rubber products and printing.  Wholesale trade advanced 1.3% in December, on the strength of
the wholesaling of food, beverage and tobacco products, and
motor vehicles and parts. Retail trade edged down 0.1%, as
increases in food and beverage stores and in furniture and home
furnishings stores were offset by declines in general
merchandise stores (which include department stores) and  motor
vehicle  and parts dealers.  Construction rose 0.4% as both residential building
construction and engineering and repair works increased in
December. The output of real estate agents and brokers grew 2.6%
as a result of higher home resale activity.  The output of the finance and insurance sector rose 0.5% in
December, in part owing to increases in personal loans, business
loans and residential mortgages issued by deposit-accepting
institutions.  Utilities decreased 1.0% as the demand for both electricity
and natural gas declined because of unusually warm weather in
December.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts is
scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. A schedule of
releases has been posted on the National economic accounts
website. Additional information will be posted as it becomes
available.  For more information, contact the information officer (csna-
 info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-based
statistics (such as personal expenditures, investment, exports,
imports and output) are calculated from volume measures that are
adjusted for price variations. Percentage changes for income-
based and flow-of-funds statistics (such as labour income,
corporate profits, mortgage borrowing and total funds raised)
are calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for gross
domestic product (GDP) and other time series found in this
release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all quarterly
data in this article represent the percentage change in the
series from one quarter to the next, such as from the third
quarter to the fourth quarter of 2011.  2. Quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual rate by
using a compound growth formula, similar to the way in which a
monthly  interest rate  can be expressed at an annual rate.
Expressing growth at an annual rate facilitates comparisons with
official GDP statistics from the  United States . Both the
quarterly growth rate and the annualized quarterly growth rate
should be interpreted as an indication of the latest trend in
GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage change in
GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same quarter one
year later, such as from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the
fourth quarter of 2011.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this release
represent the percentage change in the series from one month to
the next, such as from November to December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  