-- Canada Expansion Slows to 1.8% Annual Pace as Growth of Exports Moderates
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-02T14:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/canada-s-gdp-growth-slows-to-1-8-pace-in-fourth-quarter-as-exports-weaken.html
Canada ’s  economic growth  slowed in
the fourth quarter as weaker foreign trade blunted gains in
 consumer spending  and business investment.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
pace from October to December, matching economists’  forecasts ,
following a revised 4.2 percent third-quarter rate, according to
data today from Ottawa-based Statistics Canada. Export growth
slowed to 4.6 percent from 16 percent, while imports gained 2.2
percent following a 1.5 percent decline.  Growth in the world’s 10th-largest economy will remain
below 2 percent in the first half of this year because of global
financial strains and weak demand, according to a central bank
forecast. Manufacturers are  struggling  with a  currency trading 
near parity with the U.S. dollar while companies such  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB)  benefit from global energy demand.  “Trade has really petered out,” said Ian Pollick, senior
fixed income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. “For
a small open economy, when you don’t see that, it does concern
me.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will probably keep his
policy interest rate at 1 percent -- where it’s been for almost
18 months -- in a March 8 announcement, according to an
economist survey that predicts no move until the fourth quarter.
Carney said he will show “flexibility” in setting monetary
policy as the economy returns to its full output next year.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 98.71 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:48 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar purchases
$1.0131. Two-year government bond yields fell 1 basis point to
1.11 percent.  Interest-Sensitive Growth  Parts of the economy that are sensitive to  low interest
rates  supported economic growth in the fourth quarter. Consumer
spending expanded at a 2.9 percent annualized pace, up from 1.8
percent in the third quarter, while business investment rose 6.3
percent, the eighth consecutive increase.  Growth was curbed as companies added to inventories at a
slower pace, Statistics Canada said in its report. Stockpiles
increased by C$6.45 billion in the quarter, down from a C$10.5
billion buildup in the July-September period.  Government
spending  rose 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter.  “The challenge that we face as a country is our
manufacturing base,” Jim Prentice, vice-chairman of Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-biggest bank,
said in an interview yesterday in Toronto. He said companies
facing a strong dollar and low  interest rates  need to “take
advantage of other opportunities.”  Monthly Growth  On a  monthly  basis, Canada’s economy grew 0.4 percent in
December, with half the gain coming from oil and gas extraction.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent increase according to the
median of 24 responses in a  Bloomberg survey .  Enbridge Inc., the largest Canadian pipeline company, said
Feb. 17 that fourth-quarter profit rose as it raised rates for
oil shippers and transported more natural gas.  Statistics Canada  today also increased its estimate of
third-quarter growth to 4.2 percent from 3.5 percent.  The economy grew 2.5 percent last year following a 3.2
percent expansion in 2010 and a 2.9 percent contraction in 2009.  Canada ships about 75 percent of its  exports  to the U.S.,
which two days ago reported growth at a 3 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter. Foreign sales were volatile last year,
falling 6 percent in the April-June period as natural disasters
disrupted production before a 16 percent rebound in the third
quarter, followed by a slowdown in the final three months to 4.6
percent.  The head of Canada’s largest port said he’s seeing signs
the economy will continue to be supported by commodity sales
while manufacturing struggles.  “You really do see the strength in Canadian coal, potash,
grain, forest products,” Robin Silvester, President of Port
Metro  Vancouver , said in an interview last month in Bloomberg’s
Ottawa newsroom. Stagnant container imports suggest that
factories aren’t “particularly strong” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  