-- Cash Hoard Grows by $187 Billion in Untaxed Overseas Profits
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-02T15:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/cash-horde-expands-by-187-billion-in-untaxed-offshore-accounts.html
U.S. companies led by  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  stockpiled an additional $187
billion in untaxed overseas profits over the past year, boosting
their offshore holdings by 18.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The 70 U.S.-based companies studied hold $1.2 trillion in
profits around the world. GE and Pfizer have built up the most
money outside the U.S., with $102 billion and $63 billion
respectively, according to securities filings.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  were among the companies that
increased their accumulated overseas profits by more than 40
percent in 2011.  As U.S.-based companies expand globally, they keep profits
overseas, legally out of the reach of the Internal Revenue
Service. Lawmakers from both political parties point to the
stockpiling as a symptom of a failed corporate tax system, even
while they remain deadlocked over whether the U.S. should impose
higher or lower taxes on its companies’ global profits.  “You’re seeing more and more business go on overseas,
because that’s where an increasing amount of the global
purchasing power is,” said  Matt Miller , director of public
policy at the  Business Roundtable , a Washington-based
association of chief executives at large companies that backs
lower taxes on overseas profits. “We need to get a competitive
tax system that is not antiquated and has all the complexities
we have today.”  Worldwide Profit Tax  Under the U.S. tax code, the top corporate rate is 35
percent on worldwide profits. Companies receive credits for
payments to other governments, and they can defer taxation while
the money accumulates. When companies bring their profits home,
they pay U.S. taxes after subtracting the foreign tax credits.  Democrats, including President Barack Obama, maintain that
the system encourages companies to move jobs and profits
overseas. He has proposed a global minimum tax on foreign
profits.  Republicans, including  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , the top tax-
writer in the House of Representatives, make the opposite
argument. They say the residual tax that U.S. corporations face
makes them less competitive in global markets and discourages
companies from reinvesting their profits at home.  Andrew Williams, a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, said the company’s operations around the world support
U.S. facilities that produce goods for export.  Broader Tax Base  “We believe fundamental tax reform would increase domestic
investment, create high-quality jobs and encourage U.S.
multinationals to reinvest more overseas earnings in the U.S.,”
he said in an e-mailed statement. “We support a broader tax
base, lower statutory corporate tax rate and adoption of a
territorial tax system even if it means higher taxes for
companies like GE.”  Bloomberg analyzed the public filings of 70 U.S.-based
companies that had reported at least $4 billion in untaxed
overseas profits as of this time last year. The data include
information from the two most recent annual reports -- covering
the years ending Dec. 31, 2011, and Dec. 31, 2010, for most
companies.  A May 2011 study by JPMorgan Chase & Co. found that U.S.
companies had $1.375 trillion in undistributed foreign earnings.
Last year’s total of $1 trillion held overseas by the 70
companies in the data compiled by Bloomberg made up about three-
quarters of the total amount cited by JPMorgan.  Low-Tax Countries  As a result, the latest data suggest that, in all, U.S.
companies have more than $1.6 trillion outside the country. The
total includes cash and investments in assets such as factories
and active businesses.  Companies typically bring home money earned in high-tax
jurisdictions that can be offset with foreign tax credits and
keep profits earned in low-tax countries outside the U.S., said
Edward Kleinbard, former chief of staff of the congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation.  “The companies continue to reap the harvest of their years
of aggressive tax planning to locate as much of their profits as
possible in low-tax foreign jurisdictions,” he said.  Representatives of several of the companies, including
Pfizer and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said they keep money outside the U.S.
to support their international businesses.  ‘Matter of Course’  “Citi maintains a presence in more than 100 countries and
some of its earnings are retained outside of the U.S. to provide
the necessary capital to fund its international operations,”
said Jon Diat, a spokesman for Citigroup, which increased its
accumulated overseas profits to $35.9 billion from $32.1
billion.  Joan Campion, a Pfizer spokeswoman, said the company
repatriates profits “as a matter of course.” That strategy
gives Pfizer a higher effective tax rate than its competitors,
its chief financial officer, Frank D’Amelio, told investors on a
conference call Jan. 31.  Some tax policy analysts, including law professor Thomas
Brennan of  Northwestern University  in  Chicago , say companies are
holding money outside the U.S. in part because they are waiting
for Congress to repeat a 2004 tax holiday law that set a maximum
tax rate for repatriation of 5.25 percent.  “Why not do it?” he said. “It’s pure upside. In the
worst-case scenario, you’re going to be taxed as you would have
been in any event.”  Issuing Debt  Many large companies can meet their cash needs by issuing
debt in the U.S. without tapping their offshore holdings,
Brennan said.  A coalition of U.S.-based companies, including Google,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , has been
lobbying for the past year for a repatriation holiday.  “Google’s practices are very similar to those at countless
other global companies operating across a wide range of
industries, such as technology, pharmaceuticals and retail,”
Google said in an e-mailed statement.  The temporary repatriation proposal hasn’t advanced in
Congress. Obama opposes a one-time tax holiday, arguing that it
would be a giveaway to big corporations.  Doug Thornell , an adviser to the pro-repatriation
coalition, called the inaction a “missed opportunity” for
Congress.  “The money keeps piling up while Washington fiddles,” he
said in a statement.  Permanent Change  Other companies, including International Business Machines
Corp., have emphasized a permanent change and not a one-time
holiday.  Camp has said he prefers to address repatriation as part of
a tax-code overhaul. His draft proposal would shift the U.S. to
a territorial tax system that exempts 95 percent of foreign
profits. That would resemble the systems of other major
economies, such as the U.K.,  Japan  and  Germany .  All four Republican presidential candidates have endorsed a
territorial tax system. In an essay in the Boston Herald
yesterday, Mitt Romney wrote that companies will continue to
park profits outside the U.S.  “With our high rates and our punitive incentives, we are
shooting ourselves in the foot with a machine gun,” he wrote.
“This has to end and I will end it.”  Under the Obama or the Camp approach, the accumulated
offshore profits must be addressed, said Kleinbard, now a law
professor at the University of  Southern California  in  Los
Angeles .  Camp Proposal  “It would be extraordinarily and unnecessarily complicated
to imagine a world in which old earnings were taxed one way and
new earnings taxed a different way,” he said.  Camp has proposed a 5.25 percent tax on the accumulated
offshore profits to finance a transition to a territorial
system. In his proposal, that one-time revenue would help offset
the cost of the territorial system.  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, has
sponsored a bill for a repatriation tax holiday. He said the
punitive nature of the U.S. tax code is illustrated by the
growth in offshore holdings.  “It’s both a cry for immediate repatriation and an
assurance for fundamental  tax reform  that there will still be
stranded profits,” Brady said in an interview. “The pot will
still be large and I think it will continue to grow
exponentially.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  