-- China Money Rate Drops Most in 2 Months This Week on Cash Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-02T02:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/china-money-rate-drops-most-in-2-months-this-week-on-cash-supply.html
China ’s money-market rate headed for
the biggest weekly drop in almost two months on speculation the
central bank is favoring increasing cash supply to help boost
lending and support economic growth.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, declined for a sixth day after the
People’s Bank of China suspended auctions of one-year and three-
month bills this week. A total of 254 billion yuan ($40.3
billion) of central bank bills and  repurchase agreements  will
mature this month, up from 12 billion yuan in February,
according to China Merchants Bank Co.  “The central bank wants to ensure appropriately loose cash
supply,” said Duan Su, a bond analyst at Yinzhou Bank Co. in
Ningbo in eastern Zhejiang province. “High borrowing costs for
banks have prevented them from offering loans at lower rates.”  The seven-day repo rate fell 120 basis points, or 1.2
percentage points, for the week to 3.28 percent as of 10:06 a.m.
in  Shanghai , the biggest decline since the five days through Jan.
6, according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It was unchanged today.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, slipped four basis
points from a week ago to 3.31 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was unchanged today.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bonds due January
2021 rose two basis points this week to 3.55 percent, according
to quotes provided by the Interbank Funding Center. The yield
dropped one basis point today.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Simon Harvey, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 