-- Chinchilla Says Costa Rica Tax Plan Imperiled, Urges Drug Debate
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-02T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/chinchilla-says-costa-rica-tax-plan-imperiled-urges-drug-debate.html
Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla said her administration may not succeed in winning
legislative approval of a tax system overhaul aimed at paring a
deficit that has grown to more than 5 percent of gross domestic
product.  If the latest push on tax increases fails, “there would
not be enough time in my administration to do it and we would
leave it to the next government,” Chinchilla said in an
interview in her office in San Jose. “What we want to avoid is
that what’s now only a fiscal crisis contaminates the rest of
our economy.”  Chinchilla, 52, also said that legalizing drugs in Central
America deserves a “serious” debate as a solution to the crime
and violence coursing through the region even if it runs up
against U.S. opposition.  “If we keep doing what we have been when the results today
are worse than 10 years ago, we’ll never get anywhere and could
wind up like Mexico or  Colombia ,” Chinchilla said in the Feb.
29 interview. While U.S. opposition to legalization is well-
known, Central Americans “have the right to discuss it” because
“we are paying a very high price.”  Costa Rica’s $40.3 billion economy, the second-biggest in
Central America, is weighed down by a deficit equivalent to
about $2 billion, approximately the amount the country earns
from tourism. Central bank President Rodrigo Bolanos predicted
in January that as a result, economic growth will slow to 3.8
percent this year from 4.2 percent in 2011.  Free-Zone System  Legislation proposed by the government would replace the
current national 13 percent sales tax with a 14 percent value-
added tax. At stake also is the continued presence of companies
such as  Intel Corp ., based in  Santa Clara , California, and
Oracle Corp., based in Redwood City, California, that were
attracted to Costa Rica by the free-zone system under which some
foreign-owned companies pay no income taxes for the first 12
years of operation.  The tax bill would introduce a 15 percent withholding tax
for companies entering free zones after 2015.  Two previous attempts to raise taxes died in the
legislature last year. If the current overhaul is approved, the
government estimates it would raise at least $600 million in
annual revenue.  While Chinchilla said she still had hope that it would be
approved, she added that there is no “Plan B” if it fails to
pass.  “I want to point out that I am still optimistic that we
are going to approve the fiscal reform,” she said. “However,
because the approval has been debated so much, we are already
feeling some of the effects in our economy. For example,
 interest rates  have increased between 2 to 3 percentage points
from the end of last year to today.”  Higher Rates  There is a strong possibility that 18 months from now,
 Costa Rica ’s legislature may still not have approved the tax
increases, said  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Securities
International, in a telephone interview from  New York . He said
“a kind of dictatorship of the minorities,” referring to
procedural maneuvers by small groups of legislators who can
stall bills, is holding up the tax overhaul.  Foreign direct investment in Costa Rica rose 52 percent to
a record $1.56 billion in the first nine months of 2011, and a
record-high 2.2 million tourists visited the country last year.
GDP per capita is $7,691, the highest in Central America.  High-tech companies such as Intel, the country’s highest
revenue earner, Hewlett-Packard Co., based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , and Armonk, New York-based International Business
Machines Corp. have Costa Rican operations. High-tech companies
brought in $9 out of every $10 in revenue from free zones during
the last decade, according to Gabriela Llobet, director general
of the Costa Rican Investment Board.  Tax Benefits  Chinchilla said in the interview that she met with Intel
management and reassured them that they would not lose their tax
benefits because the new levies only apply to newcomers.  Increased  government spending  and stalled tax legislation
prompted Standard & Poor to cut Costa Rica’s local-currency
credit rating on Feb. 13 by one level to BB, two levels below
investment grade and one level below  Guatemala .  The yield on Costa Rica 6.548 percent bonds due in 2014
fell 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 2.908 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg yesterday.  The colon weakened 0.2 percent to 512 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday, trading nearly unchanged in the year to date. That
compares with a 9.5 percent appreciation of  Mexico ’s peso in the
same period. In Panama, the balboa is pegged to the dollar.  Part Company  On the drug issue, Chinchilla isn’t the only leader to part
company with the U.S. by calling for consideration of
alternatives to military action to counter Mexican cartels. They
have unleashed a fresh bout of violence in the region as they
establish new routes to smuggle cocaine to the U.S., the world’s
largest consumer of narcotics, according to a United Nations
report.  Guatemala’s President Otto Perez, a former army general,
said Feb. 13 that “if drug consumption isn’t reduced, the
problem will continue,” and suggested legalizing the use and
transport of drugs even while proposing a military crackdown.
Seeking to win over other nations to give the legalization
proposal more heft, he was turned down by Panama and El
Salvador.  Trafficking in Central America has reached “alarming and
unprecedented” levels as cocaine passing through the region may
equal about 5 percent of the countries’ gross domestic product,
the UN International Narcotics Control Board said in a Feb. 27
report.  Murder Rate  “Despite efforts to counter drug trafficking in Costa
Rica,  Honduras  and  Nicaragua , in 2010, those countries were, for
the first time, identified as major transit countries,”
according to the UN board.  In Costa Rica, murders jumped to 11 per 100,000 inhabitants
in 2010 from 7 in 2006, according to the UN Office on Drugs and
Crime. That rate compares with 13 per 100,000 in Nicaragua, 41
in Guatemala and 82 in Honduras.  Having dismantled its army in 1948, Costa Rica has had to
tackle drug-related violence differently from its neighbors,
Chinchilla said. For example, last year the country ratified a
law to decriminalize drug possession in recreational quantities.  Chinchilla has added 1,500 police officers since taking
office in May 2010. This year her government plans to add at
least 400 more patrol cars to reduce response time for reported
crimes, Security Minister Mario Zamora said in December.
Chinchilla met with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano three days ago and Guatemala’s deputy president,
Roxanna Baldetti de Paz, on Feb. 29. Napolitano, who this week
has been meeting with the region’s leaders, reiterated on Feb.
28 the U.S. position that legalization “is not the way” to
stop drug traffic.  Reduce Demand  In  Washington , the spokesman for White House Drug Policy
Director Gil Kerlikowske, Rafael Lemaitre, said President Barack
Obama’s goal is to reduce the demand for drugs in the U.S. Even
so, Lemaitre said, “Neither a law-enforcement only ‘war on
drugs’ approach or outright drug legalization are policies that
are realistic, humane, or grounded in research.”  When she won the 2010 elections, Costa Rica’s first female
president became leader of a country with Central America’s
lowest murder rate and whose 4.3 million citizens are on average
the region’s wealthiest. Still, crime was on the rise and the
previous administration’s spending saddled her with a 2010
budget deficit of 5.2 percent, the highest in the region.  The former security minister is struggling to preserve
Costa Rica’s self-image, enshrined in a popular song entitled
“The Switzerland of Central America.” Her approval rating
slumped to a record low of 23 percent in January, according to a
quarterly poll published by San Jose-based research firm Unimer,
which had a margin of error of 2.8 percent. Chinchilla is barred
by the constitution from seeking a second, successive term.  Public Policy  Married and mother of a 15-year-old son, Chinchilla studied
public policy at Georgetown University in Washington and is
among a recent crop of first-time Latin American female leaders.
Dilma Rousseff was elected president of  Brazil  in 2010,  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  was re-elected president of Argentina last
year and Michelle Bachelet governed Chile for four years between
2006 and 2010.  “Costa Rica is far from the Central American oasis that it
used to be,” said  Michael Shifter , president of Washington-
based research group Inter-American Dialogue, in an e-mailed
message. “Its vulnerability is real and it has little experience
in dealing with the drug problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  San Jose  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Joshua Goodman
at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  