-- China to Stop Local Governments’ Property Easing, Securities News Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-02T03:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/china-to-stop-local-governments-property-easing-securities-news-reports.html
China  will stem any new property
easing by local governments as the central authority is
determined to maintain curbs on housing, Shanghai Securities
News reported today.  The central government will “absolutely” not allow local
authorities to “sing a different tune” on property control
policies, the newspaper affiliated with state-run Xinhua news
agency said, citing an unidentified director at the country’s
housing ministry.  Tensions between the two levels of authority will be on
show next week as officials gather in Beijing for the annual
National People’s Congress starting March 5. China’s local
governments have attempted to ease property tightening policies
with little success, while Premier  Wen Jiabao  has maintained
that he won’t waver on real estate controls and efforts to bring
prices down to a reasonable level.  “The central government will not relax its property
tightening this year,” Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Macquarie Capital Securities, said in a phone interview today.
“They may turn a blind eye to mild moves to ease the curbs in
individual cities, but the official wording of their policies
won’t change because  home prices  could easily rebound.”  China’s February home prices posted the biggest decline in
19 months as the government pledged to maintain curbs on
property,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real-estate
website owner, said yesterday.  Shanghai Curbs  Shanghai restated home purchase restrictions on local
permanent residents buying second homes on Feb. 28, a week after
Shanghai Securities News reported that the country’s financial
center had broadened its definition. The eastern Chinese city of
Wuhu on Feb. 13 reversed its decision to relax property curbs
including waiving a deed tax and subsidizing some purchases on
Feb. 9, the first city this year to signal any easing.  At the same time, the southern city of Zhongshan, the
hometown of Sun Yat-sen, the founder of modern China, was able
to increase a price cap on residential home sales in January,
and the western city of Chongqing last month also raised the
minimum threshold where a property holding tax kicks in.  China’s two-year efforts to control the  property market 
included measures from raising down-payment and mortgage-rate
requirements, imposing property taxes for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, and home purchase restrictions in about
40 cities.  Shrinking Revenue  The result has been shrinking local government revenue.
Land sales in Wuhu, a mid-size industrial city in the east and
home to China’s sixth-largest automaker, fell 51 percent last
year to 4.64 billion yuan ($737 million) from 2010, while they
slumped 60 percent to 5.3 billion yuan in the northeastern
industrial city of Dalian, according to SouFun, the nation’s
biggest real estate  website .  China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that rely on revenue
from local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers
because rules bar most of them from selling bonds. Land sales
make up 30 percent of local government revenue and in some
cities account for more than half, according to a June 2011
report by Zurich-based UBS AG.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  