-- Christie Expects to Win Passage of Limited School-Voucher Program in 2012
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-02T15:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/christie-expects-to-win-passage-of-limited-school-voucher-program-in-2012.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor Chris Christie
said he expects to win passage of a limited school-voucher
program this year, even as the state’s largest teachers union
tries to block it.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican in his first term, said
he’s going to push for a voucher pilot program as well as
proposals to tie teacher evaluations to student performance and
pay educators more in underperforming districts.  “We’re going to get some form of a limited voucher program
this year,” Christie said today during an appearance on  MSNBC .
“The last two years have been about fights and getting the
people of New Jersey aware of the fact that it’s immoral to
spend $24,000 per student in  Newark  and most of them won’t
graduate.”  Christie, who called 2011 “the year of education reform,”
was unable to win approval of measures to offer privately funded
vouchers to students from poor families, institute merit pay for
teachers and make it easier for administrators to fire educators
deemed inadequate. The governor is still urging lawmakers to
pass those proposals, saying education remains a priority.  Union Fights  In January, Christie signed a bill that gives private firms
the authority to run failing public schools in three inner-city
districts. The so-called Urban Hope Act was his first
legislative victory for a four-bill education overhaul.  The governor has feuded with the  New Jersey  Education
Association since taking office in January 2010. Christie has
said 100,000 children are trapped in 200 failing schools, even
as the state spends an average of $17,700 per student, more than
any other state.  Christie in April 2010 urged parents to reject school
budgets in districts where teachers refused to accept wage
freezes, and accused educators of using children like “drug
mules” to carry union messages. In an ABC News interview, he
called New Jersey teachers “wonderful public servants” and
their union’s leaders “political thugs.”  Last month, Christie said the NJEA’s executive director
should be fired for comments he made about poor schoolchildren.  “Good teachers: Awful union,” he said today.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s administration agreed last
month with that state’s largest teachers union on an evaluation
system that would allow officials to fire the worst educators.
The deal was reached after Cuomo, 54, a Democrat, threatened to
insert his own evaluation plan into the budget.  ‘Fewer Resources’  The New Jersey teachers union has said Christie’s
evaluation plan would rely too heavily on standardized tests for
teacher evaluations. Vouchers would take money out of poor
schools and would allow some students to transfer rather than
concentrate on improving at-risk institutions, said Steve
Wollmer, a spokesman for the NJEA.  “It doesn’t work in the real world -- there’s no broad
support for vouchers,” Wollmer said in a telephone interview
today. “You’re taking just a few kids out, and the remaining 90
percent are left behind with fewer resources.”  Christie appeared on MSNBC as part of a panel on fixing
the nation’s public schools, held at Fort Lee High School in
New Jersey,  that also included Democratic governors Jack Markell of  Delaware  and Dannel Malloy of  Connecticut  as well
as former Washington public schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee.  Malloy said Feb. 8 he wants to overhaul tenure rules and
link teacher evaluations to student performance. Teachers unions
have signed on to the drafts of that plan, he said today.  “We need to get out of our box, out of our comfort zone,”
Malloy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  