-- Christie May Be Mistaken About Rules Prolonging Republican Race
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/christie-may-be-mistaken-about-rules-prolonging-republican-race.html
Republicans who blame party rules
for a protracted primary race may be mistaken.  A rule requiring early-voting states to award delegates on
a proportional basis “was the dumbest idea anybody ever had,”
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said Feb. 23 on  Fox News .
Christie, supporting former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
disparaged the rule because Republicans are running against
President  Barack Obama , who won’t face a primary challenge, and
Republican presidential hopefuls will “beat each other up even
longer.”  Yet in many states, including some of the 11 that vote on
so-called Super Tuesday on March 6, candidates can amass large
delegate advantages just by winning pluralities. The 11 states
control 466 delegates; to win the nomination a candidate needs
1,144 delegates out of the 2,286 that will be awarded
nationwide.  While the  Republican National Committee  requires that
contests before April must award delegates proportionally, it
gives the state parties a lot of leeway. A state party need only
award some delegates proportionally to comply with the rule --
not all or even most of them. State parties may award most
delegates on a winner-take-all basis to the top vote-getter.  `Just Silly'  Republicans “have a more decentralized approach, allowing
states to choose what system is best within broad guidelines,”
 Anthony Corrado , a political scientist at Colby College in
Waterville,  Maine , said in a telephone interview.  “The idea that folks are leaning on this proportionality
argument, that that’s what’s driving the length of this
campaign, is just silly,” Josh Putnam, a political scientist at
Davidson College in  North Carolina  and the author of a  blog  that
analyzes the presidential nomination process, said in a
telephone interview.  States that held contests in January and February “have got
the same exact rules that they had in 2008,” Putnam said.  There are reasons unrelated to delegate allocation that help
explain why Republicans didn’t settle on a nominee quickly.  The first three Republican contests produced three
different winners -- Romney, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  -- depriving any
one candidate of the early momentum that might winnow the field.
Also, the Super Tuesday contests are a month later than in 2008,
when Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  became the presumptive
Republican nominee and forced Romney out of the race.  Unlimited Contributions  Super-PACs, which can accept unlimited contributions, are
independently aiding candidates who are struggling to raise
money, according to Corrado. Gingrich has won just one primary,
yet his campaign has received at least $11 million from
billionaire casino executive  Sheldon Adelson  and members of his
family.  Also, some early-voting states, such as  Iowa  on Jan. 3,
held non-binding contests that didn’t award delegates.  Of the 66 delegates at stake on Super Tuesday in  Ohio  -- a
swing state won in the 2008 general election by Democrat Obama
and in 2004 by Republican President  George W. Bush  -- 48 are
available on a winner-take-all basis among the 16 congressional
districts. Candidates get three delegates for each district they
win, regardless of the winner’s vote percentage.  Proportional Distribution  Just 15 delegates, less than one-fourth of Ohio’s
allotment, will be distributed to candidates in proportion to
the statewide vote. A candidate needs 20 percent of the vote to
qualify for a share of those delegates; if the statewide winner
takes more than a majority, he would win all 15 delegates. There
are also three party officials who serve as delegates and aren’t
required to commit in advance to any candidate.  The Ohio rules mean that, in theory, a candidate could
amass 63 of the state’s delegates by winning at least 50 percent
of the statewide vote plus each of the 16 congressional
districts with a plurality.  While Santorum, the front-runner in Ohio polls, will appear
on all ballots in Ohio for the state’s 15 at-large delegates, he
didn’t file for delegates in three of the 16 congressional
districts, Chris Maloney, a spokesman for the Ohio Republican
Party, said in a telephone interview. That means Santorum won’t
be eligible for nine of the state’s 66 delegates.  Sucking for Oxygen  Santorum said that his failure in those three districts
came when his campaign was “sucking through a swizzle stick for
oxygen.”  “You’re not talking about a significant number of
delegates one way or the other,” Santorum told reporters in
Columbus, Ohio, on Feb. 17. “We feel confident that we’re going
to do well here and pick up a very big haul of delegates.”  In  Georgia , as in Ohio, more delegates will be awarded
winner-take-all by district than proportionally. On Super
Tuesday, 76 delegates are at stake, the most of any state up to
that date. Polls show Gingrich, who represented Georgia in
Congress, and Santorum leading Romney.  Georgia will award 42 delegates on a winner-take-all basis,
three for each of its 14 congressional districts. The winner of
each district will receive two delegates, the runner-up will
receive one delegate, and the third-place finisher will be shut
out. To win a share of Georgia’s 31 at-large delegates, a
candidate needs 20 percent of the statewide vote.  Attack Ads  A political committee backing Romney began airing anti-
Gingrich television ads in Georgia more than six weeks ago,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising. A pro-Gingrich committee began airing an ad
Feb. 28 that promotes his candidacy and attacks Romney.  Romney may sweep all 49 delegates in  Virginia , another
Super Tuesday state. His only opponent is U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas , who hasn’t won any primaries. Santorum and
Gingrich failed to qualify for the ballot.  Polls show Romney is favored to win the 33 delegates that
are awarded winner-take-all among Virginia’s 11 congressional
districts.  Romney would then beat Paul for Virginia’s 13 at-large
delegates. Virginia rules call for those delegates to be awarded
proportionally if no candidate wins a majority of the vote, and
winner-take-all if the top vote-getter reaches a majority. Since
there are only two candidates on the Virginia ballot, all 13 at-
large delegates will go to the winner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  