-- Citigroup Chairman Parsons Said to Tell Board He Will Step Down
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/citi-s-parsons-tells-board-he-will-step-down.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman  Richard Parsons , who helped the bank become a behemoth that almost
collapsed in the financial crisis and then led its recovery,
will be replaced by fellow director  Michael O’Neill .  O’Neill will take over after the firm’s shareholder meeting
in April, New York-based Citigroup said in a statement. Parsons,
63, spent 16 years on the board, becoming chairman in 2009 after
the bank’s $45 billion bailout by U.S. taxpayers.  Parsons’s successor inherits a  board  grappling with a slump
in revenue, higher costs and new regulations as Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  pushes the firm into  emerging markets .
Citigroup has repaid the U.S. Treasury Department’s rescue,
which generated a profit of about $12 billion for taxpayers. The
firm posted total net income of $21.9 billion for 2010 and 2011,
compared with $29.3 billion of losses for 2008 and 2009.  “Parsons can walk out knowing he was part of the problem
but he was also part of the solution,” said David Knutson, a
credit analyst in  Chicago  with Legal & General Investment
Management, which owns Citigroup debt. “He, along with his
management team, managed to steer Citi through probably the
toughest crisis of the last two decades.”  Board members Alain Belda and Timothy Collins also will
leave the panel, Citigroup said.  Parsons, who grew up in Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant
neighborhood, joined President  Barack Obama ’s advisory panel on
jobs in February 2011. He is a senior adviser to Rhode Island-
based Providence Equity Partners Inc., which specializes in
buying media and telecommunications businesses.  Time Has Come  “Given the strong position that Citi is in today, I have
concluded that the time has come for me to take my leave,”
Parsons said in the statement. “I have complete confidence in
the management team, the actions they have taken to strengthen
Citi, and the course they have charted for the future.”  Citigroup has  climbed  30 percent this year, the third-best
performance in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The shares are
down 76 percent since the end of 1996, the year when Parsons
became a director. The bank suspended  dividends  after he was
named chairman in 2009 and approved a 1-cent quarterly payout
last year.  Parsons, in an interview last year with Bloomberg
Businessweek, said his relationships with then-Comptroller of
the Currency John Dugan and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner helped Citigroup weather the financial crisis.  “Timmy Geithner would say, ‘Call me directly, because this
is too important an institution to go down,’” Parsons said.  Dime Savings  Parsons led Dime Savings Bank of  New York  before joining
Citigroup’s board in 1996. He became a  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) 
executive about the same time and supported the firm’s 2001
takeover by  America Online Inc. (AOL)  He served as CEO and chairman of
the combined company after it took a record $54 billion
writedown tied to the deal.  At Citigroup, he was among directors who oversaw the
transition of the firm into the biggest bank in the world under
CEOs Sanford “Sandy” Weill and Charles “Chuck” Prince.
During Parsons’s tenure on the board, the lender invested in
bonds tied to subprime mortgages, which later caused losses as
the loans soured and almost forced the firm’s collapse.  The directors failed to ensure that Citigroup had
“effective” risk management, according to a Feb. 14, 2008,
letter to Pandit from John Lyons, an Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency examiner. Managers were more concerned with
short-term performance than potential losses, Lyons wrote.  Named Chairman  Parsons replaced Win Bischoff as chairman on Feb. 23, 2009,
at the request of fellow board members, shortly after the
government provided the bailout and guaranteed $301 billion in
risky assets. He tapped new directors to bolster the board’s
banking experience, including O’Neill, Jerry Grundhofer, Anthony Santomero, Robert Joss and  William Thompson .  Not everyone supported Parsons in the wake of the bailout.
Glass Lewis & Co., a shareholder advisory firm, recommended last
year that investors vote him off the board and that they should
“still be concerned with the poor oversight” provided by
Parsons and other directors.  “His exit was probably a bit more graceful than some of
the others,” said Knutson, referring to former senior figures
at other Wall Street banks. “You think about the likes of Thain
or Lewis, these guys got taken out toes first.”  Ken Lewis is the former CEO of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which
took a $45 billion U.S. bailout.  John Thain  was ousted as CEO of
Merrill Lynch & Co. after he sold it to Lewis’s firm.  O’Neill’s Career  Michael O’Neill, 65, joined the board in 2009. He
previously ran  Bank of Hawaii Corp.  and was a Bank of America
executive in the 1990s. He was appointed last year as chairman
of  Citibank NA , the lender’s primary banking subsidiary. He will
probably step down from this position if he replaces Parsons, a
person briefed on the matter said.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to
comment. O’Neill also didn’t comment in an e-mail.  O’Neill served in the U.S. Marine Corps before joining
Continental Bank Corp., which later was bought by  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America.  He was appointed CEO of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in February 1999 and
resigned two months later after a bout with the flu led to
complications from an irregular heartbeat, the London-based bank
said at the time.  At Citigroup, he heads a panel overseeing Citi Holdings,
the unit that contains more than $200 billion of unwanted
assets. He’s a member of the Executive Committee and Personnel
and Compensation Committee, according to the bank website.  Pandit’s Performance  The new board will oversee Pandit’s performance in the wake
of 2011, when revenue  fell  9.5 percent from a year earlier while
expenses climbed 7 percent. The results included a 5 percent
increase in costs from compensation and benefits. Profit rose 6
percent to $11.3 billion. Shares tumbled 44 percent.  Pandit is cutting 5,000 jobs to trim as much as $3 billion
of expenses this year. That may be threatened by legal costs and
a slowdown in the sale of unwanted assets, the company said.  A change of leadership on the board will help the bank,
according to  Michael Mayo , an analyst at Credit Agricole AG, who
has an “underperform” rating on Citigroup shares.  “We continue to believe that Citi needs a new chairman,”
Mayo wrote in a Feb. 23 report. “This move is a necessary first
step, albeit not sufficient by itself, to help better evolve
Citi’s culture, controls, conduct, costs, conservatism, and
communication.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 