-- Commodities Cap Biggest Weekly Drop Since January on Oil, Silver, Cotton
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-02T22:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/commodities-cap-biggest-weekly-drop-since-january-on-oil-silver-cotton.html
Commodities fell, capping the
biggest weekly decline since mid-January, as easing tensions in
the  Middle East  sent oil lower and a stronger dollar eroded the
appeal of raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity
futures dropped 1.2 percent to settle at 704.37 at 4 p.m. in New
York, led by declines in silver, energy products and cotton. The
gauge fell 1.6 percent for the week, the biggest slump since the
five days ended Jan. 13.  Crude oil, the most heavily  weighted  commodity on the GSCI,
tumbled the most since December, after  Saudi Arabia  said a
pipeline fire wasn’t the result of sabotage. The commodity
surged as much as 3.3 percent yesterday, and settled down 2
percent today at $106.70 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  “Any hint of an oil disruption or more unrest in the
Middle East has been helping to push oil prices higher, and when
traders overreacted like they did yesterday to a story that
proved false, then we’re going to see these corrections,” Sal Gilbertie, the president and chief investment officer of
Teucrium Trading LLC, said by telephone from Santa Fe,  New
Mexico .  The GSCI is still up 9.2 percent this year, outpacing the
8.9 percent gain in the S&P 500 Index of equities. The dollar
climbed to a two-week high today against a basket of six major
currencies, as U.S. reports next week may show accelerating
economic growth.  Silver, Cotton  Silver futures for May delivery plunged 3.2 percent to
$34.525 an ounce on the Comex in  New York , while gold for April
delivery slid 0.7 percent to $1,709.80 an ounce.  Cotton led declines in agricultural markets, touching the
lowest price since December at 87.8 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, after the International Cotton Advisory
Committee yesterday raised its estimate for global production.
Copper futures for May delivery fell 0.7 percent to $3.903 a
pound on the Comex on signs of ample inventories in  China .  The global economy faces “major downside risks” as its
recovery continues to be threatened by stresses in the euro
area, the  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday in a
report. Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food dropped for
a fourth month in January, the country’s statistics bureau said
today.  Demand growth for commodities may remain slow, because
“you have  Japan  in a recession, the euro zone is in recession,
and the American economy is suffering through stagflation and
very anemic growth,”  Michael Pento , the president of Pento
Portfolio Strategies, in Holmdel, New Jersey, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  