-- Congo Leaders Must Cooperate to Avoid “Crisis,” Observers Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-03-02T14:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/congo-leaders-must-cooperate-to-avoid-crisis-observers-say.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
leaders must cooperate to overcome a political “crisis” in the
aftermath of last year’s disputed elections, the National
Electoral Observation Mission said.  “Serious problems” damaged the credibility of the Nov. 28
presidential and legislative vote and reforms to the electoral
procedures must begin “without delay,” the four non-
governmental organizations that formed the mission, which
fielded 12,000 observers, said today in an e-mailed report.  “The electoral process in DR Congo was not sufficiently
transparent to create the conditions for a progressive
consolidation of democracy,” the mission said. “The biggest
challenge for DR Congo today is to overcome the current crisis
through greater cooperation between political actors.”  Congo is  Africa ’s second-biggest copper producer after
Zambia, produces about half the world’s cobalt and is the
continent’s largest producer of tin ore. It is also an important
source of columbite-tantalite, the mineral known as coltan that
is used in mobile phones and computers.  The  Supreme Court  is hearing more than 500 legal challenges
to legislative results. Opposition leader and runner-up Etienne Tshisekedi has rejected both presidential and parliamentary
election results and called on the 41 members of his party
elected to parliament to boycott their seats.  The vote for 17 of the national assembly’s 500 seats must
be rerun after the electoral commission canceled the results
because of violence and other irregularities.  Budget Constraints  President  Joseph Kabila ’s government said last month it may
delay provincial elections unless international donors provide
promised financing.  The electoral commission already postponed the provincial
vote, originally scheduled for March 25, without setting a new
date. The delay affects new appointments for senators and
governors, who are chosen through provincial assemblies.  The European Union and other donors have said they would
re-evaluate support for future elections because of the problems
with last year’s vote, the country’s second after more than 40
years of dictatorship and war.  Officials from Congo’s Catholic Church and observer
missions from the EU and the Atlanta-based  Carter Center  have
criticized the election for irregularities including violence,
tampering and lost ballots.  Observer groups from the  African Union  and the Southern
African Development Community called for the results to be
accepted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  