-- Copper Falls as China’s Inventories Rise to Highest Since 2003
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-02T16:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/copper-falls-as-china-s-inventories-rise-to-highest-since-2003.html
Copper futures fell on signs of
ample supplies as inventories rose to the highest in at least
nine years in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial
metals.  Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
climbed 2.5 percent to 221,487 metric tons, the highest since at
least January 2003, weekly data showed. The dollar’s rally
against a basket of major currencies eroded the appeal of raw
materials as alternative investment.  “Any sign that China is slowing is certainly going to
weigh on commodities across the board,”  Matthew Zeman , a
strategist at Kingsview Financial in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “The stronger dollar is also a factor.”  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 0.3 percent to
$3.918 a pound at 11:05 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The price
still headed for the second straight weekly gain. Before today,
the metal climbed 14 percent this year.  “Builds in Chinese stocks reflect what is still a weak
 spot market  currently, with consumers keeping buying to an
absolute minimum due to uncertainty over future demand levels,”
Gayle Berry, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in a report.  Copper traders surveyed by Bloomberg were bullish on the
outlook for a fourth straight week on speculation that global
demand will increase. Inventories monitored by the London Metal
Exchange inventories have dropped to the lowest since August
2009.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 0.4
percent to $8,592 a ton ($3.90 a pound).  Aluminum, zinc and nickel also fell in London. Tin and lead
advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  