-- Copper Has Longest Bull Streak Since October
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-03-02T17:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/copper-bull-streak-extends-to-longest-since-october-on-demand-commodities.html
Copper traders are bullish for a
fourth consecutive week, the longest streak since October, as
manufacturing strengthens from  China  to the U.S. and stockpiles
decline to the lowest in more than two years.  Thirteen of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to gain next week and six were neutral. Inventories
tracked by the London Metal Exchange fell to 289,000 metric tons
today, the lowest since August 2009, and orders to withdraw more
metal are at an almost eight-year high, bourse data show.  Manufacturing from China to the U.S. is expanding as the
American recovery strengthens and European leaders work to
contain the region’s debt crisis. That’s boosting demand for raw
materials from consumers and investors, with  Barclays Capital 
predicting a third consecutive annual shortage in global copper
supplies in 2012. Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar
for the first time since July last month.  “People feel that the U.S. is on a gradually improving
trend and overall the tone is better,” said Carole Ferguson, an
analyst at Fairfax IS in  London . “If you get a demand-led story
in copper then it can rally again. It’s supported by the long-
term supply and demand picture.”  Copper rose 13 percent to $8,585 a ton this year on the
LME, the best start to a year since 2008. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed 9.1 percent and MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities advanced 11 percent. Treasuries
lost 0.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  Manufacturing Gains  China’s manufacturing expanded for a third month and at a
faster pace in February, the statistics bureau and logistics
federation said yesterday. An Indian purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was near an
eight-month high. A U.S. factory index showed growth last month,
the  Institute for Supply Management  said yesterday. China
consumes about 40 percent of the world’s copper and North
America accounts for 11 percent of demand.  Investors are increasing bets on higher prices on mounting
confidence the world will skirt another recession. About $300
million was added to wagers on industrial metals in January,
taking the total across commodities to $3.7 billion, Barclays
said in a Feb. 29 report.  Open interest , or contracts
outstanding, across 24 commodities tracked by Bloomberg rose 3.3
percent last month, extending a 9.3 percent advance in January,
the first back-to-back monthly gains in a year.  Copper consumption will outpace supply by 376,000 tons this
year and there will be another shortage in 2013, Barclays
predicts. London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
biggest mining company, said Feb. 9 its mined copper output fell
23 percent last year because of lower ore grades.  ECB Loans  Slower growth in  Europe  may curb manufacturing and weaken
construction, which accounts for about 40 percent of copper
demand, according to the Copper Development Association. Euro-
area manufacturing shrank for a seventh month in February,
London-based Markit Economics said yesterday. The  European
Central Bank  awarded 529.5 billion euros ($706 billion) in
three-year loans to 800 European banks on Feb. 29, after
supplying 489 billion euros to 523 institutions on Dec. 21.  There’s “less enthusiasm associated with the European
longer-term refinancing operation,” said  Bart Melek , the head
of commodity strategy at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto. “Copper
should correct next week as prices are likely higher than the
fundamentals imply.”  Bernanke Comments  Copper slid 1.2 percent on Feb. 29 after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no signal that the central bank
will take new steps to boost liquidity. He described “positive
developments” in the job market while saying it’s still “far
from normal” in testimony to lawmakers. Signs that growth
prospects are improving in China may mean the government there
will refrain from more monetary easing.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut  bets  on higher
copper prices by 11 percent to 13,260 futures and options in the
week ended Feb. 21, the first decline in six weeks, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Speculators held wagers
the week before at the highest level since August.  The metal’s 14-day  relative-strength index  is at 57.8. A
level of 70 indicates to some analysts who study technical
charts that a drop in prices may be imminent and a figure of 30
suggests a rebound may be due.  Gold Survey  Twenty-one of 32 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to gain next week. Futures on the Comex in  New York 
plunged 4.3 percent to $1,711.30 an ounce on Feb. 29, and gained
9.2 percent this year. It is in the 12th year of a  bull market 
and holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products stand at a
record 2,404.2 tons, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eight of 13 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week. The commodity climbed 7.2 percent this year
to 24.98 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Fourteen of 22 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week, while the same amount said soybeans will
climb. Corn rose 0.9 percent to $6.525 a bushel this year as
soybeans advanced 10 percent to $13.295 a bushel.  “With the second LTRO completed and considering Bernanke’s
comments, monetary policy will in all likelihood become less of
an immediate market driver going forward,” said  Michael Widmer ,
the head of metals research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. “The extent to which the rebound in the U.S. can be
sustained may have more of an influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  