-- Soybean, Corn Futures Climb on Speculation China Will Boost U.S. Purchases
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-02T21:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/corn-drops-as-farmers-boost-grain-sales-soybeans-climb-for-10th-session.html
Soybeans gained for a 10th straight
session, and corn rose on speculation that  China , the world’s
biggest pork producer, will increase purchases from the U.S. to
feed a growing hog herd and slow food inflation.  Pork  production in China, the top soybean importer, will
climb to 51.6 million metric tons this year, up 4.2 percent from
a year earlier, as the government increased insurance incentives
for farms, a U.S. Department of Agriculture unit said yesterday.
The China National Grain & Oils Information Center said on Feb.
29 that soybean reserves fell in recent weeks on increasing
demand for  animal feed .  “Rising pork production in China probably means more
soybean and corn imports from the U.S.,”  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview.  “These are demand-
driven rallies.”  Soybean futures for May delivery gained 0.8 percent to
close at $13.33 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the highest price for a most-active contract since Sept.
21. The 10-session rally is the longest since July 15. The 
commodity climbed 3.6 percent this week, the third straight 
gain.  Corn futures for May delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.55 a
bushel, capping a weekly gain of 1.7 percent. Earlier, the grain
fell as much as 1.1 percent. On Feb. 29, the grain touched
$6.615, the highest since Jan. 9.  Brazil Soybean Crop  Soybean futures accelerated to session highs in late
trading on forecasts for a smaller crop in  Brazil , the biggest
grower after the U.S., Schultz said. Brazilian farmers will
harvest 68.2 million tons this year, down from a Feb. 27
estimate of 70.3 million, after dry weather reduced yields, crop
research firm Safras & Mercado said today.  A strike continued for a second day at  Argentina ’s grain
ports after talks to end the work stoppage broke down, the ports
chamber said in an e-mailed statement. The country is the
second-biggest shipper of corn and animal feed and cooking oils
made from soybeans.  “Shrinking crops and shipping delays in  South America  will
improve U.S. export demand,” Schultz said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  