-- Costa Concordia Black Box Features as Shipwreck Pre-Trial Begins
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/costa-concordia-black-box-features-as-shipwreck-pre-trial-begins.html
An Italian judge will order the
examination of the Costa Concordia’s black box today in the
first pre-trial hearing into the cruise-ship wreck that killed
at least 25 people.  Judge Valeria Montesarchio will ask court experts to use
digital recordings to ascertain the “actual dynamic of the
accident,” according to court documents. The hearing, which is
not public, starts at 9:30 a.m. in the Tuscan city of Grosseto.
Recordings of the black box won’t be played during the hearing,
the Grosseto prefecture said on Feb. 24.  The Costa Concordia, owned by Miami-based  Carnival Corp.’s (CCL) 
Italian unit Costa Crociere SpA, hit rocks near the island of
Giglio hours after leaving a port close to  Rome  with 4,200
passengers and crew on Jan. 13. At least 25 people died in the
evacuation and seven are still missing. The company came under
criticism again last week when a ship of the same fleet suffered
an onboard fire and was towed for 200 miles (320 kilometers) to
the Seychelles.  The Grosseto court will hold the hearing at a local theater
to accommodate as many as possible of the 4,200 passengers and
crew. It is open to the Costa Crociere officials under
investigation, including Captain Francesco Schettino, the
affected parties, their attorneys and consultants. Prosecutors
requested that the hearing include the black-box recordings in
the trial.  Captain Arrested  Schettino, under house arrest since Jan. 17 for allegedly
causing the accident and abandoning ship, probably won’t attend,
his lawyer Bruno Leporatti has said. Costa Crociere’s executive
vice chairman and its head of marine operations are also being
investigated, said a court official who declined to be named.  Schettino sailed too close to Giglio without authorization
and didn’t follow emergency procedures, Costa Crociere, based in
Genoa, said on Jan. 15. The captain said he made an emergency
maneuver after hitting rocks to prevent the ship from heading
out to sea and sinking, according to a court document dated Jan.
17. The black box hasn’t been damaged, Costa Crociere Chief
Executive Officer Pier Luigi Foschi has said.  Leporatti has said the captain didn’t abandon the ship and
wrote in a Jan. 16 statement that his actions saved many lives.  After Italian prosecutors widened their probe to include
seven employees of the vessel operator, the company said on Feb.
22 it is “absolutely certain” that its staff acted correctly.  On March 1, Italy banned  cruise ships  from sailing within 2
miles of coastlines in “environmentally sensitive” areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  