-- Credit Suisse Must Face $2 Billion National Century Notes Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-02T23:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/credit-suisse-must-face-2-billion-national-century-notes-case-judge-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  must defend
fraud claims by institutional investors who bought $2 billion in
notes issued by the bankrupt health-care financer, National
Century Financial Enterprises Inc., a judge ruled today.  The noteholders claim Credit Suisse, the placement agent,
knew or should have known of the $2.9 billion fraud that led to
National Century’s collapse in 2002. Ten executives of the
Dublin, Ohio-based company were convicted of crimes, including
former Chief Executive Officer Lance Poulsen, who is serving 30
years in prison.  Credit Suisse argued that it didn’t know of the fraud,
which National Century hid, and that it didn’t mislead
noteholders, according to today’s ruling by U.S. District Judge
James Graham in Columbus,  Ohio . Graham granted other parts of
the bank’s motion to dismiss the case.  “Noteholders have submitted sufficient evidence in support
of their fraud-based claims to create genuine issues of material
fact,” Graham wrote in a 115-page decision.  Claims against the Zurich-based bank for negligent
misrepresentation and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duty were dismissed by the judge.  “Credit Suisse will continue its defense of this decade-
old case, and remains confident that a jury will find based on
all the evidence that it should not be held responsible for
assisting or committing any wrongdoing,” Steven Vames, a Credit
Suisse spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is In re National Century Financial Enterprises
Inc. Investment Litigation, 03-md-01565, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  