-- Crude Oil Drops Most Since December as Obama Comments Reduce Iran Tension
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-02T20:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/crude-drops-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-saudis-deny-report-of-damage.html
Oil fell the most this year as
President  Barack Obama  said a pre-emptive strike on  Iran  might
generate “sympathy” for the Persian Gulf country, easing
concern that an attack would take place.  Prices dropped for the first time in three days after Obama
said in an interview with The Atlantic magazine that a strike
without warning might allow Iran to portray itself as a victim.
Futures also declined as the dollar rose before reports next
week that may show U.S. economic growth.  “Obama is saying that we don’t want to attack Iran
prematurely and that’s alleviating some concern,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago . “An imminent attack is
probably less likely based on the article and we seem to be
reducing the Iran risk premium.”  Oil for April delivery fell $2.14, or 2 percent, to settle
at $106.70 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
percentage decline is the biggest since Dec. 14. Prices fell 2.8
percent this week, the first weekly loss since Feb. 3.  Brent oil for April slipped $2.55, or 2 percent, to settle
at $123.65 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It surged to $128.40 yesterday, the highest intraday
price since July 2008.  Netanyahu Visit  Oil has gained 8 percent this year on concern that the
dispute between Western nations and Iran over the Persian Gulf
country’s nuclear program will lead to military conflict in a
region that holds more than half the world’s crude. Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to meet Obama in
 Washington  on March 5 to discuss the issue.  “At a time when there is not a lot of sympathy for Iran
and its only real ally is on the ropes, do we want a distraction
in which suddenly Iran can portray itself as a victim, and
deflect attention from what has to be the core issue, which is
their potential pursuit of nuclear weapons?” Obama said in the
interview published today.  The Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
six counterparts including the euro and the yen, rose 0.8
percent to 79.427. The weekly gain of 1.4 percent would be the
largest of 2012.  The  euro weakened  versus the dollar after  Germany ’s
statistics bureau said retail sales adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings fell 1.6 percent in January. A stronger dollar
reduces oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  ‘Jittery Market’  Oil in New York rose to $110.55 yesterday after floor
trading closed when Iran’s state-run  Press TV  said on its
English-language website that “an explosion has hit oil
pipelines in the flashpoint Saudi Arabian city of Awwamiya.”
Major General Mansour Al-Turki, a spokesman for the Saudi
Interior Ministry, said no oil facility in the region has been
sabotaged.  “That’s a concrete demonstration of  risk premium ,” said
 Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS CERA and the Pulitzer Prize-
winning author of “The Prize,” a history of the oil industry,
and its sequel, “The Quest,” said in a telephone interview.
“This is a very jittery market and anything that happens is
kind of seen in the context of the overall increased risk.”  There was a fire yesterday near Saudi Arabia’s Ras Tanura
refinery in the town of Safwa in Shiite-dominated Qatif,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation. The blaze
didn’t damage the refinery or any pipeline in the area, said two
people familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified.  ‘Too Overbought’  “The Saudi denial set the table for prices to come down,”
said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company
Cameronhanover.com in  New Canaan , Connecticut. “This market was
too overbought and we know the fundamentals have been lagging
far behind this market.”  Crude prices may rise next week as U.S. gasoline gains amid
declining inventories, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Fourteen
of 25 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast oil will increase
through March 9. Eight respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
prices will fall and three estimated there will be little
change. Last week, 43 percent of surveyed analysts expected an
increase.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 558,502
contracts as of 2:59 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 864,500
contracts yesterday, 41 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million contracts, the highest level
since Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  