-- Dartmouth to Create Task Force to Investigate Fraternity Hazing
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-03-02T17:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/dartmouth-to-create-task-force-to-investigate-fraternity-hazing.html
Dartmouth College  will create a  task
force  to investigate hazing at fraternities and sororities on
campus after a column in the student newspaper detailed abuses
at the school’s Greek houses.  The group of students, faculty and staff will be formed in
the next few weeks and will address safety and accountability at
the school’s Hanover, New Hampshire, campus, Justin Anderson, a
spokesman, said today in a phone interview.  “It’s the behavior that is the issue here,” Anderson
said. “There’s nothing inherent about the Greek system that
leads to hazing. There’s nothing inherent about sports teams
that leads to hazing.”  In the January  column , senior Andrew Lohse described taking
part in degrading rituals involving bodily fluids to join a
fraternity, and a culture of drunkenness and misogyny that he
said has been tolerated by the college. The article spurred a
petition from alumni calling for an independent probe and
renewed calls from faculty to ban single-sex fraternities and
sororities on campus.  “There’s great social pressure at Dartmouth about joining
a fraternity,” Lohse said in an interview in January. “You’re
told this is part of becoming a Dartmouth man.”  Almost 68 percent of eligible students at Dartmouth are
members of fraternities and sororities, also called Greek
organizations. A “culture of impunity” surrounds the Greek
system, Annelise Orleck, professor of history at Dartmouth, said
today in a phone interview.  Faculty Letter  “I’ve been here 21 years, and in that time the faculty
voted at least twice to abolish the Greek system,” she said.
“And we don’t agree on anything.”  The faculty letter with more than 100 signatures was
published in the school newspaper calling for an independent
commission to investigate hazing, Orleck said. A similar alumni
letter is also in circulation, she said.  “There’s a lot of fear of a loss in alum contributions,”
she said. “There are strong ties between trustees and many
Greek houses and, as a result, there hasn’t been a serious
attempt” to address the issue.  The college tried to reduce the role of fraternities and
sororities in the past. Former President James Wright was
criticized by alumni in 1999 for trying to regulate the system
and reduce incidents of violence and alcohol abuse.  Orleck said she’d like to see Dartmouth do what  Williams
College  did, “which is to buy up Greek houses from their
national chapters and turn them into coed housing.”  Hazing Prohibited  Hazing is prohibited by both Dartmouth policy and  New
Hampshire  state law, Anderson said. Colleges across the country
have tried to crack down on the practice, which can include
excessive drinking, degrading behavior and physical violence,
often as part of an initiation rite. In November, a marching
band member at Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University in
Tallahassee was beaten to death in a hazing, while another
member’s leg was broken.  “Dartmouth is not unique in terms of having segments of
its population who at times drink to excess and who at times
haze,” he said. “We want to be leaders in addressing this
particular issue.”  Under President Jim Kim, Dartmouth has revised campus
drinking policies to create student monitors at fraternity
parties. In May, Kim announced the creation of a college
collaborative to devise methods for reducing binge drinking. The
group now has 32 members.  Dartmouth, founded in 1769, has about 5,800 students and is
the smallest institution in the  Ivy League , a group of eight
private northeastern universities. Graduates include U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and his immediate
predecessor,  Henry Paulson , as well as  Jeffrey Immelt , chief
executive officer of General Electric Co., based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  