-- De Niro’s Soused Writer; Swacked Teens; DeVito’s Lorax: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/de-niro-s-soused-writer-swacked-teens-devito-s-lorax-movies.html
Alcoholics and drug addicts seek
redemption in “Being Flynn,” but none so strenuously as  Robert De Niro  working to reclaim his acting mojo.  Based on Nick Flynn’s 2004 memoir, “Being Flynn”
chronicles the author’s reconnection with the grizzled, hard-
drinking father he never knew.  Paul Dano  (“ There Will Be Blood ”) plays the younger
Flynn, a cocaine addict working in a New York homeless shelter.  De Niro plays the dad, an unpublished writer and ex-con
with an ego as inflated as his liver.  “Everything I write is a masterpiece,” De Niro’s Jonathan
says in the narration he shares, by turns, with Nick.  After a few financial setbacks -- he gets kicked out of his
rat-trap apartment and loses his hack license after falling
asleep at the wheel -- Jonathan slips into the twilight world of
New York’s homeless.  Nick and Jonathan are all but strangers when Flynn pere
wanders into the shelter. Their newfound connection embarrasses
Nick (nicely underplayed by Dano) and leaves him terrified of
ending up like dad. In flashbacks,  Julianne Moore  sweetly plays
Nick’s suicidal mom.  “Being Flynn” reteams De Niro with screenwriter/director
Paul Weitz after the junk of “ Little Fockers .” They tear into
“Flynn” like they have something to prove, and succeed to a
point. This is certainly De Niro’s second-best performance as a
 taxi driver , but the maudlin tale goes heavy on the Bowery bum
loquaciousness.  “I find myself momentarily between places,” says the
street-traipsing Jonathan, sounding like he’d gladly pay you
Tuesday for a hamburger today.  “Being Flynn,” from Focus Films, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Project X’  In “Project X,” three kids throw a party that goes out of
control, big-time. That’s about it for plot, except for a crazy
drug dealer who supplies and then firebombs the party, and
something about a hostile midget who gets locked in the oven.  All three boys are losers at their Southern California high
school (the party is their bid to be liked), and each is a type:
the gawky nerd ( Thomas Mann ) whose parents have gone out of town
and left him the house; the obnoxious loudmouth (Oliver Cooper)
transplanted from Queens; and, inevitably, the blimp (Jonathan
Daniel Brown).  Anti-bias groups would be justified in going ballistic.
Women are referred to in terms the boys might have learned from
the raw rap lyrics pounding on the soundtrack.  The only wit, if you can call it that, is in the awesome
extent of the devastation.  Yet I can’t say I had a terrible time at director Nima
Nourizadeh’s first feature. After the unbearable first half-
hour, I began to enjoy the sloppy mixture of destruction and
adolescent sweetness.  Groups that rail about Hollywood depravity could use it as
Exhibit A: It’s fueled by alcohol, ecstasy, pot and a slew of
bare young breasts.  Then again, anyone who’s had it with the sanctimony of
daily political campaign statements may find something appealing
in a movie whose only aim is to sell sex and drugs to the young
people of America.  “Project X,” from  Warner Bros ., is playing across the
U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Seligman)  ‘The Lorax’  “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax” is a big, bright 3-D blow-out of
the book, a dark little S.O.S. from 1971.  With a fattened back story and newly invented human
characters -- all computer animated, none memorable -- the movie
might put off Seuss traditionalists as surely as its moralizing
has peeved Lou Dobbs. (Prime Minister  David Cameron , meanwhile,
in a Downing Street briefing, said it was his favorite
children’s book).  Published a year after the first Earth Day, “The Lorax”
was a cranky, heartfelt warning about industrialization, as only
Theodor Geisel could present it: the uncaring Once-Ler has
chopped down all the Truffula trees, knitting their wispy tufts
into Thneeds (think fuzzy pashmina shawls) and dooming the Bar-
Ba-Loots and Humming-Fish to near extinction.  The title character -- a peanut-shape curmudgeon -- warns
of environmental disaster.  Even in a universe of Grinches and Sour Kangaroos, the
Lorax is a finger-pointing drag.  Directed by Chris Renaud ( “Despicable Me” ) with an
adapted screenplay by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio (who co-wrote
2008’s livelier  “Dr. Seuss’ Horton Hears a Who!” ), “Dr.
Seuss’ The Lorax” pads the  book’s 45-pages with a boy hero
named Ted (Zac Efron) searching for a legendary Truffula tree to
impress a girl ( Taylor Swift ).  Ted’s journey into the decimated hinterland leads him to
the reclusive Once-Ler ( Ed Helms ), who relates the long-ago tale
of the Lorax and a paradise mined into wasteland.  Renaud, like most Seuss adaptors, amps up the cuteness,
giving the Humming-Fish annoying Chipmunks’ voices and creating
yet another sassy grandma for the ubiquitous Betty White.  Only Danny DeVito’s crusty Lorax makes a strong impression,
skirting the few workmanlike musical numbers and piercing
through a 3-D landscape that’s more colorful than captivating.  “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax,” from  Universal Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 