-- Delphi’s $2.7 Billion Buyout by Tokio Marine Should Be Blocked, Judge Told
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-02T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/delphi-2-7-billion-buyout-by-tokio-marine-should-be-blocked-judge-told.html
Delphi Financial Group Inc. (DFG) ’s
$2.7 billion buyout by rival insurer  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) 
should be blocked because it doesn’t provide enough for
investors while unfairly enriching the company’s top executive,
a lawyer argued to a judge.  Robert Rosenkranz, Delphi’s chief executive officer,
negotiated a side deal that would wrongly compensate him as part
of the sale to Tokio Marine,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for pension-
fund investors that sued, told a judge today in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Under the non-binding deal, Tokio Marine would maintain
contracts with two firms Rosenkranz owns that do business with
Delphi, or buy them, the investors’ lawyers claim. The side
agreement is different from an executive’s asking for salary and
benefits from a buyer, Grant told  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge
Sam Glasscock in a hearing on the funds’ request for a temporary
order blocking the deal.  “It’s something else to say, ‘I have been stealing from
the company for years and I need you to help me keep
stealing,’” Grant said after Glasscock asked him why the side
agreement was wrong.  Delphi’s lawyers contend that Rosenkranz only discussed a
sale of the firms with Tokio Marine officials and didn’t reach
any formal deal.  The pension funds want Glasscock to temporarily halt the
sale while a trial on the disputes goes forward. Glasscock ended
today’s hearing without issuing a decision. He said he would try
to release his ruling next week.  ‘Disparate Consideration’  Delphi, based in Wilmington, sells workers’ compensation
and group life insurance. Delphi officials contend in court
papers that the all-cash offer provides a 73 percent premium to
its shareholders.  Tokio Marine,  Japan ’s second-largest casualty insurer,
agreed in December to pay $44.88 a share for Delphi’s Class A
public shares and $52.88 for its Class B shares. The proposed
sale would be the second time in three years the Tokyo-based
insurer bought a U.S. rival. Tokio Marine purchased  Philadelphia
Insurance Cos.  for $4.4 billion in 2008.  Tokio Marine’s  American depositary receipts , each
representing one ordinary share, fell 1.4 percent to $26.81 at
3:40 p.m. New York time in over-the-counter trading. Delphi’s
 Class A shares  rose 3 cents to $44.66 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Rosenkranz structured the deal to give himself more per
share for his Class B shares than Class A shareholders will get,
despite a ban on “such disparate consideration” in the
company’s charter, Grant said in court papers. Attorneys for the
pension funds contend that Delphi directors agreed to
Rosenkranz’s plan to amend the charter provision to allow him to
receive the additional money for his shares.  ‘Rich Deal’  Lawyers for Delphi countered in court papers that
shareholders are getting an “extraordinarily rich deal” in the
 Tokio Marine  buyout and shouldn’t be barred from deciding
whether to accept the offer.  To address any concerns that Rosenkranz may have a conflict
of interest, Delphi’s directors created a board committee to
oversee consideration of the bid, the company’s attorneys said.  Rosenkranz, a New York-based investor, founded Delphi in
1987 to focus on providing insurance coverage to smaller
businesses. The executive, who owns about 10 percent of Delphi’s
shares, controls almost 50 percent of its voting power through
his ownership of specially designated Class B shares, the
pension funds’ lawyers said in court filings.  Premium Price  Rosenkranz didn’t begin talks on the side deal until after
he negotiated a premium price for shareholders, Delphi attorney
Gary Bornstein said in court. The two Rosenkranz-controlled
companies provide legitimate services to Delphi, Rosenkranz
attorney Christopher P. Moore said in court.  “Mr. Rosenkranz disputes that these agreements are
improper in any way,” Moore said. “They have been disclosed
year after year after year.”  One of the companies, Rosenkranz Asset Management, receives
$10 million a year in fees from Delphi, the investors’ lawyers
said. “What does RAM do for Delphi? As Rosenkranz freely
admits, nothing,” they said in the Feb. 22 filing.  Another Rosenkranz-controlled firm, Acorn Asset Management,
purportedly provides financial advice to Delphi, shareholders’
lawyers said in the filing. That company has no employees or
offices, they said.  ‘Sham Company’  “Instead, Acorn rents Delphi employees and has a cost-
sharing agreement with Delphi to use Delphi’s office, technology
and administration,” the lawyers said in the filing. The
described the firm as a “sham company.”  As part of the Tokio Marine offer, Rosenkranz pushed
officials of the Japanese insurer to buy out the two firms as
part of a side deal, shareholders’ lawyers contend.  Delphi said in a Feb. 29 court filing that its dealings
with the Rosenkranz-controlled companies have been disclosed in
securities filings every year since 1990 and  Ernst & Young LLP 
auditors have found that the firms are providing services more
cheaply than competitors.  The pension funds’ lawyers have produced no evidence that
Delphi’s agreements with Rosenkranz’s firms “are anything other
than arms-length,” Delphi’s lawyers said.  The case is In RE Delphi Financial Group Shareholder
Litigation, CA No. 7144, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurchy@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in  New Orleans 
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 