-- Denmark Aids Businesses, Banks as Funding Drought Deepens
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-03-02T14:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/denmark-aids-businesses-banks-as-funding-drought-deepens-1-.html
Danish lawmakers agreed on a rescue
package targeted at businesses and farms after measures aimed at
banks failed to stem a credit squeeze threatening the economy.  The government will provide at least 36 billion kroner
($6.2 billion) in loans and guarantees to businesses through
state agencies and create a lending facility for farmers, under
the tentative agreement presented by Business and Growth
Minister Ole Sohn.  The government also will buy the real estate portfolio of
 FIH Erhvervsbank A/S (FIH)  to prevent a potential avalanche of
bankruptcies as the Copenhagen-bank cuts lending, and it opened
up the possibility of buying other banks’ loans to ease the
funding crunch. Danish insurer Alm. Brand A/S, whose bank
reported widening fourth-quarter losses, has indicated interest,
the ministry said today in a statement on its website.  “It’s recognition from the government that this is a
serious challenge,” Thomas Soerensen, director of small and
medium-size businesses at the Confederation of Danish Industry,
said by phone. “The crisis has been going on for three, four
years. We’re talking about losing jobs if we’re not helping the
small and medium-sized companies get the necessary financing.”  Senior Losses  Banks are tightening lending, calling loans and raising
fees to meet stricter  capital requirements  set by regulators and
a 2013 deadline to refinance about $30 billion kroner in state-
backed debt. Most of Denmark’s 120 lenders can’t tap funding
markets after the 2011 failure of Amagerbanken A/S triggered the
European Union’s first senior creditor losses within a
resolution framework.  The rescue package allows Denmark’s bank resolution agency
to copy the FIH deal and buy other banks’ loan portfolios on a
“case by case basis” to pave the way for a merger or ease
pressure on banks to cut lending.  “The depth of the financial crisis indicates that smaller
companies’ difficulties getting financing will be relevant for
years to come,” the ministry said.  Under the agreement, the agency will pay 2 billion kroner
for FIH’s 16 billion-krone portfolio of property loans and 1
billion kroner of related financial instruments. That will
reduce failure risks and ease pressure on the bank to cut
lending to repay 42 billion kroner in state-backed debt, the
ministry said.  Four Bills  “It’s positive the focus of the new package is directly on
small and medium-sized businesses that, in the end, will pull
 Denmark  out of the crisis,” Christian Ingemann, director at the
Danish Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement.  The measures targeted at banks largely failed to improve
conditions, Ingemann said.  Denmark had passed four bank rescue bills, including state-
backed guarantees of 194 billion kroner, since 2008 when loan
loss impairments hit a four-year high.  A consolidation bill passed in September that subsidizes
mergers by allowing banks to extend those guarantees has largely
failed. The government last month broadened the bill to allow
two struggling lenders to consolidate.  Unemployment has hovered at about 6 percent or higher since
2010 as companies closed or fired employees. Corporate
bankruptcies rose to a 14-month high in January as the
Confederation of Danish Industry warned ever more businesses
were reporting difficulty getting financing.  “This is supportive for credit in Denmark and should
provide support to bonds” in Danske Bank A/S, the country’s
biggest lender, Prateek Datta, an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, said in a note. “There are a number of headwinds
in Denmark. However, the difference here is that Denmark has a
lot more flexibility to assist the economy compared to its more
indebted European peers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  