-- Deutsche Post Said to Consider Buying Celesio Drug-Logistics Unit Movianto
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-02T17:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/deutsche-post-said-to-consider-buying-celesio-drug-logistics-unit-movianto.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest
mail carrier, is among companies interested in  Celesio AG (CLS1) ’s unit
that provides logistics services to drugmakers, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Celesio (CLS1) , Europe’s largest drug wholesaler based in
Stuttgart,  Germany , hired Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale SA
to run the sale of the business called Movianto, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Sales documents will probably be sent to potential
buyers this month and the unit could fetch about 150 million
euros to 250 million euros ($330 million), people familiar said.  Express companies are trawling for acquisitions because
growth in pharmaceutical logistics is expected to average 7.6
percent in the coming years, reaching 63 billion euros by 2015,
according to research firm Transport Intelligence Ltd. Celesio
Chief Executive Officer Markus Pinger is overhauling the
company, including selling units that are not part of the main
business, after the company cut profit forecasts twice last year
on increased regulation and competition in  Europe .  Celesio’s sale of the Movianto unit comes amid an increase
in logistics transactions, with  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
bidding 4.9 billion euros for Dutch competitor TNT Express NV.
Movianto, which operates in 13 European countries with more than
1,700 employees, stores and delivers products for the
pharmaceutical and biotech industries and also offers re-
packaging and re-labeling.  Growth Market  “A whole row of express and forwarding companies have
identified healthcare logistics as an interesting growth
market,” said Hartmut Moers, a Dusseldorf-based analyst at
WestLB AG, who has a “buy” rating on Deutsche Post shares.
“Theoretically, a business such as Movianto could be of
interest for all the major players.”  Companies active in these markets include Deutsche Post,
its U.S. competitors UPS and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  as well as the Swiss
freight-forwarding company Kuehne & Nagel International AG and
the Danish trucking company  DSV A/S. (DSV)   Spokesmen for Celesio and Deutsche Post, based in Bonn,
Germany, declined to comment.  Deutsche Post, UPS, FedEx and other shipping companies have
focused on growing their healthcare logistics units to take
advantage of surging demand for drugs, aging populations and the
higher profit margins that such packages typically bring.  Deutsche Post’s DHL express unit has previously cited
healthcare as one of the areas driving growth. In 2006, the
company won a 10-year contract to supply as much as 3.7 billion
pounds ($5.9 billion) a year of goods to the U.K. state-funded
 National Health Service .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  