-- Santorum to Beat ‘Aloof’ Romney: Ohio’s DeWine
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/dewine-santorum-will-prevail-in-ohio.html
Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine
said pro-Mitt Romney television advertisements airing in his
state are “distorted” yet won’t stop Rick Santorum from
winning the Republican presidential primary there on March 6.  “The Romney forces, they’ll do anything,” DeWine said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “It’s all attack, attack,
attack.” He cited pro-Romney automated telephone calls and ads
paid for by Restore Our Future, an independent super-political
action committee backing the former Massachusetts governor.  A onetime U.S. Senate colleague of Santorum, DeWine, 65,
switched his support from Romney to Santorum on Feb. 17. DeWine
cited the “likability factor” as a reason Santorum would do
well in  Ohio (BEESOH) . He said voters in the state describe Romney as
“aloof,” while Santorum comes across as “human” and
“sincere.”  “There is a real connection between  Rick Santorum  and
average people in Ohio,” DeWine said.  DeWine, like Ohio Governor  John Kasich , supported the
federal automobile company rescue plan, which benefited Ohio as
a major auto-manufacturing state. DeWine refused to criticize
Santorum or Romney for their opposition to the bailout.  “Reasonable people can disagree about how you, how you
would have approached that and what you could have done,”
DeWine said.  Television Ads  The Restore Our Future ads that DeWine said are “a little
distorted” and “out of place” have aired 1,793 times across
Ohio between Feb. 15 and March 1, according to Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a New York company that tracks political advertising.  Both ads highlight Santorum’s vote with then-Senator
 Hillary Clinton , a New York Democrat, to let convicted felons
regain voting rights and his vote for  Alaska ’s so-called bridge
to nowhere, which became emblematic of congressional earmarks.  “It’s ludicrous and so funny to think of Governor Romney,
who has flip-flopped on so many issues, that he is trying to get
to the right of Rick Santorum,” DeWine said.  In an e-mailed response, Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman for
Restore Our Future, said DeWine “doesn’t know his candidate’s
record.”  “There is nothing distorted or out of place about those
claims,” she said.  Job Creation  DeWine said Ohioans want to hear about a candidate’s plan
to create jobs and boost manufacturing.  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index shows
Ohio’s economic health, when compared with other states, fell
6.3 percent between the first quarter of 2009, when President
 Barack Obama  took office, and the third quarter of 2011, the
most recent data available. Still, even as its  economic health 
decreased, Ohio fared better than every state except  Vermont (BEESVT) ,
 Michigan  and  North Dakota (BEESND) , according to the index, which tracks
such areas as personal income,  home prices  and  tax revenue .  DeWine said Santorum has voiced economic themes along with
continuing his criticism of what Democrat Obama has “done in
regard to religious freedom” and “Obamacare,” the president’s
health-care program.  Santorum leads Romney in Ohio 35 percent to 31 percent,
according to a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday.
Among likely voters with household incomes between $30,000 and
$50,000, 34 percent support Santorum and 29 percent Romney.
Romney has narrowed the gap with those voters, and with Ohio
voters overall, since a Feb. 27 survey by the university.  Other Senators  DeWine is the only one of 78 Republican senators who served
with Santorum to back his presidential bid. Santorum, 53, was a
Pennsylvania senator from 1995 until losing his re-election bid
by 18 percentage points in 2006. DeWine lost by 12 points in his
re-election contest that year.  Asked why Santorum’s peers aren’t coming out for him,
DeWine relayed his own story of first endorsing Romney, 64.  “It wasn’t that I didn’t respect Rick or like Rick, but I
didn’t think he had any chance at all,” DeWine said.  “He was at 2 percent in the polls, had no money. I bought
into the conventional wisdom that  Governor Romney , you know, was
the best candidate in the fall,” DeWine said. “But I changed
my mind as this campaign has played out. It’s clear to me that
Romney is not the best candidate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  