-- Dish Bid for Waivers Needed for Mobile Service Denied by FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-02T23:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/dish-request-for-waivers-needed-for-mobile-service-denied-by-fcc.html
U.S. regulators let  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  buy airwaves for a high-speed wireless network while
denying waivers the company says are needed to quickly offer the
new service.  Today’s order from the Federal Communications Commission
means Dish must wait as the agency writes new rules so the
airwaves now used by satellites are permanently approved for
high-traffic ground-based networks.  The FCC under Chairman  Julius Genachowski  is seeking ways
to accommodate rising demand for mobile  Internet service  as
consumers turn to smartphones and data-hungry tablets.  “The rulemaking process will best serve the public
interest and maximize the long-term value of the spectrum for
the American economy,” Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Dish said it would work with the FCC on the rulemaking “to
achieve those goals as expeditiously as possible.”  “The denial of those waivers will delay the advancement of
some of President Obama’s and the FCC’s highest priorities --
namely freeing up new spectrum for commercial use and
introducing new mobile broadband competition,”  Aaron Johnson , a
Dish spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The FCC order clears Dish, the second-largest U.S.
satellite TV provider, to buy airwaves of satellite companies
DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc.  Dish expects to close on the acquisition “as soon as
practicable,” Johnson said.  ‘Other Alternatives’  The company had asked for the waivers to let it offer
service with handsets that use ground-based signals only and
don’t communicate directly with satellites.  Dish Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Ergen  said last week
he would “look at other alternatives” if the waivers were
denied or “kicked down the road without a decision through
rulemaking.”  Incumbent mobile providers said the new, competing service
may cause interference, and they asked that it be considered as
part of a broader rulemaking. The FCC on Feb. 29 said it plans
to commence the rulemaking process on March 21.  Dish dropped as much as 3.3 percent yesterday before paring
losses after a report that the FCC wouldn’t grant the waiver.
The stock rose 48 cents today to $29.27 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  