-- The Very Subtle Art of Investing in Artwork
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-03-02T23:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/the-subtle-art-of-investing-in-art.html
     Most people buy art because they love to look at it, but
there's always the hope that the payoff will go beyond
aesthetics. The prices of photographer  Cindy Sherman 's works
have risen 11-fold in 15 years, according to Artnet, while
 Gerhard Richter 's paintings are 37 times more expensive.
Damien Hirst's works are up 22-fold, while works by
 Jean-Michel Basquiat  and  Andy Warhol  have both risen 19-fold.  Investing in the right artist, however, can be a
crapshoot, and owning artwork can involve substantial hassles.
Many collectors must worry about insurance premiums, art
dealers, thieves, taxes and most of all, the fickleness of the
art world.  Dorit Straus knows all about these complications from
three decades working with collectors at the Chubb Group of
Insurance Companies, where she is now the insurer’s worldwide
fine art manager. Bloomberg.com’s Ben Steverman spoke with
Straus, an archaeologist by training, about the challenges of
owning art. Edited excerpts of their interview follow.  Q: Is art an asset class like stocks and bonds?  A: There is some merit to that line of thought. A lot of
people have a large portion of their assets in their art
collections and they may not know it. It’s certainly important
for financial planners to discuss this issue.  There are lots of downsides to art as investment. There
are costs of maintaining art. The physical condition of your
stock or fund doesn’t matter, but you have to make sure your
work of art is in pristine condition, particularly in today’s
economy.  My advice to most people: Art is not a commodity. It's an
aesthetic object. If it turns out that you have made money on
your initial investment, that’s great, but the most important
thing is your appreciation of the art. I know that's kind of
corny.  Q: I imagine it's difficult to predict which artworks are
going to increase in value.  A: Correct, because there’s no one art market. It’s a
question of fashion. That’s not to say people haven’t made a
lot of money on art. I see it every day looking at the
collections we insure.  Whether you're buying for investment or aesthetic
purposes, I recommend people get the advice of art advisers.
The art market is capricious and you have to find the right
buyer at the right time. A lot of our clients -- major
collectors -- put works up for sale and they don’t sell. These
are good works of art.  Art advisers and art dealers do establish a market. I
don’t know about the idea that people, on their own, are
discovering new artists in the hope those artists will turn
into the next  Damien Hirst . You may not be able to unload it
at all.  Q: What do art collectors need to know when it comes to
protecting their works?  A: Insurance is not all about price. It’s about terms and
conditions. Look at the financial strength of the companies.
What is the track record of that insurance company and how do
they pay claims?  The insurance company can be very helpful to you. We have
as much of an interest in protecting the art as the owner.
It’s good for the client to have the company come in and look
at how the art is protected in your home.  Also, when you’re moving art between homes or selling
it, improper packing can result in damage. We’d rather help
you deal with that by directing people to the right packers
and shippers.  [Chubb and other insurers sell special art policies
because basic homeowners' insurance usually covers just $1,000
to $2,000 in art, with added coverage available for up to
$200,000 per item, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute . Homeowners' policies generally
won't provide extra services offered in special
policies, including advice on storage, coverage of
appreciation or loss in value of the art, and damage caused by
earthquakes, floods and transportation of pieces.]  Water damage is something most people don't think of. You
read a lot about heists. What you don’t read in the paper is
when a penthouse roof is inundated with water, which seeps
into the walls and a beautiful painting is turned into mush.
You have all sorts of situations involving weather. The
climate has changed. Fires are a big cause of loss. We have a
special program for wildfire protection.  Q: How have the economic disruptions of the last few
years affected the art market?  A: In 2009 and most of 2010, people were not buying and
selling in the open market. People were afraid to put things
up for auction because if it didn’t sell, it would mar the
salability of the item. A lot of these deals were done more
privately.  Eventually things did turn around. The contemporary art
market is rebounding at the top level. You’ve had an
international influx of people with a lot of money -- the
Russians, the Chinese and other Far Eastern people.  There are still a lot of things that are not selling. The
middle and lower market is still tough.  Q: Owning art can complicate estate planning. Do you have
any advice?  A: I would suggest a really good inventory. Bring in an
outside expert like an appraiser. Valuations may fluctuate.
You may have three children that have gotten paintings of
unequal value, and that might create a dispute within the
family.  The tax implications are definitely something to think
about. Art is not taxed at the [low] 15 percent capital gains
rate, so I'd suggest one find an estate attorney that knows
about tax rules and art. See whether it's important to set up
some sort of foundation or trust.  The other thing to think about is whether any
philanthropy should be included in the estate planning.
Understand that every cultural institution has a different
mission. Your painting may not be what that institution wants.
 