-- Health Law Cost Rise of $111 Billion Triggers Republican Inquiry
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-02T18:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/health-law-cost-increase-triggers-house-republican-inquiry-1-.html
The Republican chairman of the U.S.
House tax-writing committee questioned why Obama administration
spending estimates for insurance subsidies under the health-care
law rose by $111 billion from a year ago.  President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2013 budget request,
released Feb. 13, projected that subsidies for low-income and
working-class families would total $478 billion through 2021.
The administration pegged the cost at $367 billion over the same
period in its fiscal 2012 budget proposal.  The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
Republican  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , asked the Secretary of the
Health and Human Services Department,  Kathleen Sebelius , to
explain the change in a budget hearing Tuesday. Sebelius didn’t
have an answer, saying the estimate appears in the Treasury
Department’s budget. Camp followed up with a letter to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  today.  The increase “cannot be explained by legislative changes
or new economic assumptions, and therefore must reflect
substantial changes in underlying assumptions” about the way
the subsidies would work, Camp wrote. He asked whether the
administration believes insurance premiums would be more
expensive than earlier predictions, or if more workers would
lose coverage through their employers than expected.  The subsidies will be provided to uninsured people to buy
individual policies in marketplaces called exchanges that begin
operating in 2014.  About two-thirds of the difference is due to changes
Congress made to the health-care law since it was enacted in
2010, Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury Department spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. Congress passed a measure last year that would
reduce eligibility for Medicaid and result in higher enrollment
in subsidized private insurance policies sold through the
exchanges, Camp said.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated the Medicaid
change would add $11 billion to the cost of subsidies through
2021, Camp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  