-- Earthquake Disaster Brings Dysfunction Not Change in Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-03-02T03:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/earthquake-disaster-brings-dysfunction-not-change-in-japan.html
You would expect a nation famed for
its efficiency and infrastructure to set the world standard for
rebuilding. One year after a giant earthquake and tsunami,
 Japan ’s revival has barely begun.  In the days after March 11, economists predicted a powerful
rebound as construction crews converged on the earthquake-
ravaged northeastern Tohoku region, a replay of what happened
following the Kobe temblor in 1995. What’s more, many hoped the
disaster --20,000 dead, towns wiped out, the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl -- would break Tokyo’s political
paralysis and catalyze major change.  Politicians have spent the two-plus decades since Japan’s
bubble burst doubling down on the strategies of the past:
massive borrowing to finance public works, ultra-low  interest
rates ,  lifetime employment , negligible immigration, a rigid
industrial structure favoring exports from a handful of
behemoths, compliant banks, and clubby ties between the
political and business worlds.  Incestuous links between bureaucrats and management at
 Tokyo Electric Power (9501)  enabled years of doctored safety reports
and underestimated risks. This set the stage for Japan’s nuclear
crisis, which is still unfolding; radiation continues to leak
out of the Fukushima nuclear plant and serves as a daily symbol
of Japanese dysfunction.  Huge Crisis  It’s long been said that only a huge crisis would nudge
Japan onto a more productive course, as occurred following the
devastation of World War II. Instead, plans to spend about 20
trillion yen ($250 billion) on reconstruction have been stymied
by Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s failure to articulate a grand
vision, bureaucrats’ reluctance to make vital decisions, and the
realities of the deflationary cycle that deepened over the last
12 months and depressed both companies and consumers. Japan’s
new Reconstruction Agency only began operations on Feb. 10, 11
months after the tsunami.  “They have done a great job of neatly piling the debris
and tucking it under tarps, but otherwise I see little
progress,” says  Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies
program at  Temple University (79143MF) ’s Tokyo Campus. “Partly it’s
political paralysis and partly bureaucratic indecision about
what to rebuild, how to consolidate, and the problem of
disposing of that rubbish.”  The wreckage that’s getting the most attention is Japan’s
economy. The public debt, long the world’s largest, is more than
double the size of its $5.5 trillion economy. Gross domestic
product contracted in three of the previous four quarters, the
current account surplus shrank in 2011 to a 15-year low, and
Japan posted a record 1.48 trillion yen trade deficit in
January. The strong yen slammed exporters such as Sony and  Honda
Motor (7267) , hollowing out the industrial sector further.  ‘Didn’t Come Through’  “The government simply didn’t come through, and that
hasn’t been lost on the Japanese people,” says  Gerard Lyons ,
London-based chief economist at Standard Chartered Bank.  With distrust growing, the prime minister’s days appear
numbered. In September, Noda, 54, rode to power on a wave of
popular support -- the right no-nonsense leader at the right
moment, not only to rebuild the economy but also reinvent it.
Now voters have come to believe he’s no more the man for the job
than the five other prime ministers since late 2006. His
approval rating is 30 percent, the point at which lawmakers
called for his predecessors to go.  Olympus Scandal  With or without Noda, decisions must be made about
nationalizing Tepco and firing its top management, whose
negligence helped put Japan where it is today. The same goes for
taking on the culture that produced the embarrassing accounting
scandal at Olympus.  Japan’s prime minister must create a mechanism to decide
which towns and villages in Tohoku will be restored and which
won’t be.  Much of rural Japan has been losing its population
and industrial strength for years.  Decentralizing power, which would require a regulatory
revolution in the central government, would help the process.
Japan has long been a top-down economy:  Tokyo  bureaucrats call
the shots and divvy up the tax revenues; local leaders react
accordingly. Those in Tokyo working on revival plans are mired
in red tape and too far away from the damaged areas to grasp the
complexities of life there.  Japan’s depopulated towns need to join forces and share
budgets -- a move Tokyo is too busy and distracted to make. The
biggest mistake would be for Japan to try to recreate what
existed on March 10, 2011. Despite what has been a lost year for
Japan, the nation still has an opportunity for the kind of reset
that doesn’t come along often.  It would be a shame if Japan wasted it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  