-- ECB Says Overnight Deposits Surge to Record
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-02T09:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ecb-says-overnight-deposits-surge-to-record-on-3-year-loans.html
The  European Central Bank  said
overnight deposits soared to a record after its second
allocation of three-year loans.  Financial institutions  parked  776.9 billion euros ($1.03
trillion) with the Frankfurt-based ECB. That’s the most since
the euro was founded in 1999 and up from 475.2 billion euros a
day earlier. Banks get 0.25 percent on the deposits.  The ECB this week lent banks 529.5 billion euros for three
years in the biggest single refinancing operation in its
history, taking total long-term lending above 1 trillion euros.
Banks received the funds yesterday and pay the average of the
ECB’s benchmark rate -- currently 1 percent -- over the period
of the loans. The ECB said 800 financial institutions, more than
a third of the 2,267 registered to borrow from it, took part in
the operation.  “Banks’ deposits are going to stay at around 800 billion
euros at least for the next year,” said  Laurent Fransolet , head
of fixed income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “It’s an
accounting identity. Even if banks lend on the money they
borrow, it would come back to the ECB.”  Economists at Barclays Capital, ING Group and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc estimate about 230 billion euros of the
latest three-year lending was accounted for by existing ECB
loans being rolled into the new facility, meaning about 300
billion euros is new cash.  ‘Reasonably Satisfied’  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers are
“reasonably satisfied” with the uptake and the number of
participants in the bank’s second three-year tender, which is
aimed at unlocking credit for companies and households by giving
small and medium-sized banks access to funding.  In a letter to a member of the European Parliament dated
Feb. 21, Draghi said the increase in overnight deposits is “not
a meaningful indicator for the impact of the three-year
refinancing operation on the credit provided by banks to the
economy.”  “The increase merely reflects a balance sheet identity,
with the increase in the ECB’s refinancing operations on the
asset side of the Eurosystem’s balance sheet being necessarily
reflected in banks’ holdings of liquidity on the liabilities
side,” Draghi said. “The banks that have borrowed liquidity
from the ECB are not the same as those that are using the
deposit facility of the ECB.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  