-- Medco Offers 90% Return as Deal Seen Winning Approval: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-02T21:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/medco-offers-90-return-as-deal-seen-winning-approval-real-m-a.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s takeover of
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  is offering the biggest potential
windfall in  North America  even as traders are more confident
than ever the acquisition will clear U.S. regulatory hurdles.  The gap between Medco’s share price and the value of
Express Scripts’ cash-and-stock bid narrowed to $4.36 today, the
smallest since the deal was announced in July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The transaction, valued at $71.71 a share
yesterday, was still offering about a 90 percent annualized
premium if it wins the Federal Trade Commission’s approval by
the end of a 30-day review period that wraps up in two weeks,
enabling the takeover to close as early as March 31, estimates
Westchester Capital Management Inc. That’s the highest return
among deals in the U.S. and  Canada  over $5 billion.  The takeover now has at least an 80 percent chance of
closing as the FTC completes its investigation into whether the
creation of the largest U.S. manager of prescription drug
benefits would threaten competition, said Murphy & Durieu LP.
Even those opposed to the $34.3 billion deal, including
independent pharmacy rivals that suggested conditions for
approval for the first time this week, are signaling regulatory
signoff is increasingly likely, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  “If you haven’t been in it up to now, it’s a nice trade to
play,” Jon Green, an analyst at Murphy & Durieu in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “It gives somebody the
opportunity to get a pretty healthy return.”  $34 Billion Deal  Today, Medco added 1.6 percent to $67.90 in New York, the
biggest gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Health Care Index (S5HLTH) ,
while Express Scripts posted the second-largest increase in the
52-company index at 1.3 percent. The discount to Express Scripts’
offer price narrowed to $4.36, the closest since the deal was
announced, passing up the previous low of $4.41 on Feb. 29.  Lowell Weiner, a spokesman at Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-
based Medco, and  Brian Henry  of Express Scripts in  St. Louis ,
said they expect the deal to be completed during the first half
of the year. Both declined to comment on how soon after
potential FTC approval the deal could be completed or whether
the companies were considering selling assets.  Mitchell Katz , a spokesman at the Washington-based FTC,
declined to comment on whether the agency would approve the deal.  In July, Express Scripts agreed to pay $28.80 a share in
cash plus 0.81 Express Scripts share for each Medco share held,
the companies said at the time. Including net debt, the
acquisition was valued at $34.3 billion, exceeding the $21.7
billion deal that formed CVS Caremark Corp. in 2007 as the
biggest in the industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Relatively Competitive’  Traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions are
becoming more confident the companies can convince regulators
that a combination won’t hurt competition as smaller benefit
managers win business from larger rivals, according to Will Harrington, a merger arbitrage analyst at Wall Street Access.  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  of Lisle,  Illinois , said last
week it was awarded a three-year, $1.2 billion contract to serve
as pharmacy benefit manager for Blue Cross & Blue Shield of
Rhode Island, replacing Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based  CVS
Caremark (CVS) , the largest U.S. provider of prescription drugs that’s
13 times the size of SXC.  “The industry is relatively competitive and I think it’ll
continue to be that way going forward,” Harrington, who’s based
in New York, said in a phone interview. “I feel pretty
constructive that they’ll be able to get this through and
navigate the antitrust waters.”  ‘Foregone Conclusion’  Before today, the spread between Medco’s  stock price  and
the value of the bid had narrowed to a low of $4.41 on Feb. 29
from as much as $15.44 in August, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, signaling that merger arbitragers became more confident
than ever that the deal will be completed.  Opponents are also weighing in.  David Balto , general
counsel for the Independent Specialty Pharmacy Coalition, sent a
letter to the FTC this week suggesting attaching conditions to
any approved merger. Balto said the deal should be allowed only
if the combined company lets customers buy specialty drugs at
pharmacies that compete with their own.  It’s the first time the group, which would prefer the
transaction be blocked, has proposed any conditions, signaling
the takeover may be more likely to be completed, said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “I think that’s just him throwing in the towel,”
Tanquilut said in a phone interview. “He’s seeing something
that tells him this deal is a foregone conclusion and it’s going
through.”  FTC Deadline  Balto, based in  Washington , said his letter shouldn’t make
investors more optimistic about the deal’s completion because
 Express Scripts  and Medco may not agree to the terms.  “They should block the deal,” Balto said in a phone
interview. “But if they’re considering doing some kind of
remedy we think they should go and ban exclusivity
arrangements.”  A decision by the FTC on whether to clear the proposal may
come by early March, a person familiar with the matter said in
February when Express Scripts was preparing to certify that it
had delivered all the requested data. The agency is required to
act on a merger request within 30 days of the certification and
its options include clearing the deal, suing to block it or
negotiating a settlement.  If the vote isn’t delayed and the FTC clears the
acquisition, the companies may be able to complete the deal by
the end of the month, said both Tanquilut and Roy Behren of
Westchester Capital, which owns  Medco shares .  ‘Underestimating the Likelihood’  Express Scripts’ bid represented a 7.3 percent premium to
Medco’s closing  price  of $66.85 yesterday. If the deal closes on
March 30, the last weekday of the month, that would give traders
who bought the stock at yesterday’s closing price a 91 percent
annualized return, five times more than the next highest yield
among North American deals bigger than $5 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “We have consistently thought that the market was
underestimating the likelihood for successful completion of the
deal,” Behren, who co-manages Westchester’s $5 billion Merger
Fund in Valhalla, New York, said in a phone interview. “They
could conceivably close this by the end of March.”  Steve Gerbel, founder and president of Chicago Capital
Management, a Chicago-based hedge fund that focuses on merger
arbitrage, said the risk of Medco losing as much as $15 a share
if the deal falls apart outweighs the potential “big rate of
return” if it closes by the end of March. He doesn’t own Medco
shares.  ‘Substantial Risk’  U.S. regulators have shown their willingness to break up
deals over antitrust concerns in the last year.  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39
billion deal for  T-Mobile USA , which would have combined the
second- and fourth-largest U.S. mobile-phone carriers, collapsed
in December after the  Justice Department  sued to block it.  Opponents of the Express Scripts-Medco combination say it
will narrow patients’ pharmacy choices and raise drug prices.
Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl , chairman of the Senate’s
antitrust subcommittee, has said the deal would reduce PBM
choices for large employers.  “They probably will be able to work something out; however,
it’s not done until it’s done, and there’s still substantial
risk,” Gerbel said in a phone interview. “If you’ve done
enough research to convince yourself that this is absolutely,
positively going through, it’s a good trade. We just think the
market is a little over-confident.”  While Express Scripts’ deal is still “on track” for
approval, the FTC vote may be delayed as some divestitures are
considered, MLex Market Intelligence reported this week.  ‘Lining Up’  Even if the FTC’s review is extended, traders who bought
Medco shares yesterday could still profit from at least a 22
percent annualized premium with the deal wrapping up by the end
of the second quarter, the latest closing date projected by the
companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People are treating this with a level of respect given
the political rhetoric around it and the high-level merger
review,” said Harrington of Wall Street Access. “It really
comes down to what the Federal Trade Commission says.”  Still, “it is an opportunity,” he said. “It feels like
things are lining up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 