-- EIB Privileges in Greek Debt Plan Spur Complaints From Private Investors
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-03-02T12:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/eib-s-privileges-on-greek-bonds-spur-private-investor-complaints.html
Investors are complaining that the
 European Investment Bank  doesn’t deserve the same exemption from
losses on its Greek bond holdings as the euro region’s central
bank because it didn’t buy the notes to support monetary policy.  The  European Central Bank , which purchased Greek bonds to
hold down yields, negotiated a deal to sidestep the 53.5 percent
loss on principal that’s costing private investors as much as
106 billion euros ($141 billion). The Luxembourg-based EIB, a
development lender that bought Greek debt before the financial
crisis, is avoiding the loss in the same way, according to two
regional officials familiar with the matter.  “The EIB’s bonds seem very different to the case of the
ECB, which can argue it’s buying Greek bonds for monetary
purposes,” said Ben Bennett, a strategist in  London  at Legal &
General Group Plc, which manages about $500 billion of assets.  The EIB is owned by the 27 European Union member states and
can call on about 96 billion euros of capital from top-rated
nations, according to  Standard & Poor’s , which has a negative
outlook on the lender’s AAA credit grade. Protecting the EIB and
other public organizations in the biggest debt restructuring in
history means there’s less money left to meet the claims of
other creditors should  Greece  default.  Privileged Creditor  The EIB lends to major infrastructure projects in the EU
and beyond. It has shareholder equity of about 41 billion euros
and only about 0.1 percent of its loan book is impaired. It has
traditionally held privileged creditor status, meaning it’s
repaid before other lenders, according to S&P.  The EIB owns more than 100 million euros and less than 1
billion euros of Greek bonds, said one of the regional
officials, who declined to be identified because the deal to
exempt the lender from losses on the notes isn’t public.  “They really are stretching it a bit, bailing out poor
treasury management more than anything else,” said  Brian Barry ,
a strategist at Investec Bank Plc in London. “There must be
plenty of jealous treasury departments out there.”  Rainer Schlitt, a spokesman for the EIB in Luxembourg,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Private investors’ concern about being subordinated
detracts from the ECB’s objectives in buying euro-nation debt.
Yields on Portuguese 10-year bonds jumped 73 basis points to
13.8 percent on Feb. 29 even as the ECB was said to be
purchasing the government’s bonds.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond climbed as high as 39.2
percent, a euro-era record, and was at 37.1 percent at 12:02
p.m. London time. The price of the note due in October 2022
dropped to 18.63 percent of face value.  Some holders of the nation’s yen-denominated Samurai bonds
may also avoid losses in the debt restructuring, according to a
statement from Shinsei Bank Ltd.  Whether central bank purchases are “a good thing for
bondholders any more is doubtful given the effective preferred-
creditor status the ECB are receiving in the Greek
restructuring,” said Barry at Investec.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  