-- Eksportfinans to Fight Resolution Plan
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-03-02T11:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/eksportfinans-to-fight-government-resolution-plan.html
Eksportfinans ASA (6120B)  will fight
government plans to dismantle the state-backed lender and is
exploring ways of keeping its business running, Chief Financial
Officer Geir Ove Olsen said.  “We are now looking at whether there are any business
opportunities going forward,” Olsen said in an interview
yesterday, after the Oslo-based company reported earnings. “The
company is not in a wind down but in a controlled downsizing. We
are going to have a strategy discussion with the board and see
if there are any alternatives.”  The government’s Nov. 18 announcement that it will wind
down Eksportfinans triggered  junk ratings  at Moody’s Investors
Services and  Standard & Poor’s  and shook credit markets as far
afield as  Asia .  Japan ’s Securities Dealers Association said last
month investors there are “anxious” at the prospect of losses
and urged the Norwegian government to do more to restore
Eksportfinans to investment grade.  The 50-year-old company, which was originally created to
support Norwegian exporters, has $39 billion in bonds
outstanding. In Japan, investors hold more than 1 trillion yen
($12.3 billion) of Eksportfinans debt in June, including
Samurai and Uridashi notes, according to SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. The decision to dismantle the lender came after it was in
breach of capital rules restricting single loan exposures.  The yield on the company’s 4.75 percent 1 billion-euro note
maturing in 2013 slipped 44 basis points to 4.55 percent as of
12:06 p.m. in Oslo, the lowest level since Feb. 14. The surged
to more than 10 percent in November.  FSA Concessions  Norway ’s Financial Supervisory Authority last month granted
the lender permission to extend the time limit on bringing its
loan exposures into compliance with the statutory minimum for
large exposures. Eksportfinans had been granted a deadline of
Dec. 31 this year. Five loans would probably have remained in
breach of the rules after this date and the FSA set new
deadlines for each individual loan, running from the end of 2014
to end of 2016.  Japan’s SDA said last month it was still waiting for
details from Norway as to when investors can expect their money
back. Both the government and Eksportfinans say the payment
schedule is clear.  Payment Plan  “They want us to come back with a payment plan for our
debt, but what we have said the whole time is that we will pay
the debt when it matures,” Olsen said. There haven’t been any
“significant changes” to the plans announced in November, he
said.  In a plan issued on Nov. 27, Eksportfinans said it will
have 41 billion kroner in bond debt by 2017. The company’s 120
billion-krone book of loans will shrink to 21 billion kroner by
the end of 2017, it said.  Eksportfinans yesterday said profit for 2011 rose to 30
billion kroner ($5.4 billion), including a 29 billion-krone
unrealized gain on its own debt. That compares with 448 million
kroner in 2010. The company had a core capital adequacy ratio of
16.1 percent at the end of 2011. The board said it won’t pay a
dividend in order to maintain a capital buffer needed to honor
debt obligations.  “We believe that a good anticipated balance between assets
and liabilities, comfortable liquidity reserves and a good
balance sheet imply that the company is well positioned to
preserve value and continue operations for years to come,”
Chief Executive Officer Gisele Marchand said.  Eksportfinans had 217 billion kroner in unsecured notes and
structured notes outstanding at the end of last year, according
to yesterday’s report. The company said it had total liabilities
of 232 billion kroner, versus assets of 237 billion kroner.  Maturity Profile  The company yesterday issued a detailed maturity profile of
its debt, indicating that it expects to have 26 billion kroner
in liabilities with maturities of one to three months.
Eksportfinans also said it had 118 billion kroner in debt due
over the next one to five years.  “It’s not certain all this will mature at the given times
but it’s what we expect, and it’s still pretty uncertain on the
derivatives,” Olsen said.  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the Norwegian
government.  DNB ASA (DNB) , the country’s biggest bank, holds 40
percent, while 23 percent is held by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest
Nordic lender.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  