-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 7-Month High on U.S Data, China Reform Speculation
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-03-02T08:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/emerging-stocks-rise-to-7-month-high-on-u-s-data-china-reform-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index set for a third weekly gain, after U.S.
jobless claims fell and amid speculation  China  may introduce
policies to support growth at a national congress next week.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, climbed
1.9 percent and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  added 1.4 percent as combined
sales in the U.S. surged 26 percent last month. China’s property
stocks jumped after a report said  China Vanke Co. (000002)  aims to sell
more homes this year. Hanjin Shipping Co. rallied to a seven-
month high in Seoul on prospects of higher cargo rates.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.4 percent to
1,080.63 as of 2:55 p.m. Singapore time, set for the highest
close since Aug. 3. The gauge has gained 1.2 percent this week.
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.4 percent ahead of
the National People’s Congress, which is legally the highest
government body in China. Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index jumped
2.7 percent, the most in Asia. The  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP)  rose 1.6 percent to a record close.  “A significant improvement in the jobless data means
better consumption in the U.S. and that’s positive for exporters
in emerging markets,” said Aldo Perkasa, who helps manage $2.2
billion in assets at PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi in Jakarta.
“In China, the consumption portion isn’t as big as in the U.S.
which is why they still need support from the government to
boost the economy.”  Fund Inflows  Inflows into emerging-market equities reached $1 billion
for the week ended Feb. 29, the ninth straight week of inflows,
Citigroup Inc. said. Foreigners bought a total $22.6 billion of
stocks in  India , South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and
Philippines in the first two months of 2012, analysts led by
 Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by
EPFR Global. The last time foreign buying activity reached this
magnitude was in October 2010, according to the report.  A U.S. government report yesterday showed the number of
Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell to
a level matching a four-year low, more evidence the labor market
in the world’s biggest economy is healing.  Europe ’s leaders also
agreed to accelerate payments to a bailout fund.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen 18 percent this
year while the MSCI World Index of developed nations gained 10
percent. The gauge of developing nations is  valued  at 10.8 times
estimated profit, below the four-year average of 12 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Biggest Gainers  Gauges tracking healthcare stocks, industrial companies and
consumer discretionary shares on MSCI’s developing-nation index
posted the biggest gainers today among the 10 industry groups.  Hyundai Motor added 1.9 percent while Kia Motors Corp. rose
1.4 percent in Seoul. Combined sales in the U.S. rose 26 percent
in February from a year earlier.  Shipping companies advanced after container freight rates
on Asia to Europe routes more than doubled, according to
estimates by Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.  Hanjin Shipping, South Korea’s largest shipping line,
surged 6.1 percent in Seoul. The company is seeking to raise
rates for cargo hauled to Europe from Asia starting April 1, it
said in a statement.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670)  jumped 9 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.4 percent to
2,460.69, the highest since Nov. 17. Members of the National
People’s Congress, whose annual meeting will run for a week and
a half, are some of China’s most powerful politicians and
executives, wielding power in their home provinces and weighing
in on proposals such as whether to impose a nationwide property
tax.  China Vanke, the nation’s largest listed property
developer, advanced 4 percent. The company has set an internal
target for 2012 homes sales of more than 148 billion yuan ($23.5
billion), the Economic Observer reported, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the matter. The company’s 2011 actual home
sales were 121.5 billion yuan.  The target is optimistic, according to Li Shaoming, an
analyst at China Investment Securities Co.  Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose 2.7 percent to 439.60 the highest
close since Sept. 23, after the chairman of the market regulator
signaled that borrowing costs will fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  