-- Hero MotoCorp in Talks With ‘Many’ Bankers on Possible Ducati Acquisition
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-03-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/hero-motocorp-of-india-in-talks-with-bankers-on-possible-ducati-purchase.html
Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,  India ’s biggest
motorcycle maker, is in talks with bankers about buying Ducati
Motor Holding SpA as it seeks technology to enhance its bikes
and expand its business globally.  “Lots of people have been coming to us with Ducati: Not
one banker but many bankers,” Pawan Kant Munjal, the managing
director of Hero MotoCorp, said yesterday in an interview in  New
Delhi . “We’re talking to a lot of people. Not just Ducati,
whoever comes to us, we talk to them.”  Hero, which in December 2010 decided to exit a 26-year
partnership with  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , is looking to gain technology
through partnerships and acquisitions after that licensing
relationship ends in 2014. The company has cash reserves of
about $1 billion, Munjal said.  Investindustrial SpA, the Milan-based private-equity firm
that owns Ducati, may hold an initial public offering of the
luxury-motorcycle maker in  Hong Kong  this year or sell it to a
rival, two people familiar with the plans said last month,
declining to be identified because the plans are private. A
spokesman for Investindustrial wasn’t immediately available to
comment late yesterday.  Motorcycle makers Hero and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  are looking to
expand their markets amid increased competition in the world’s
second-biggest motorcycle market as the Indian units of Honda,
Yamaha Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor Co. expand capacity in the
country. Only  China  buys more motorcycles.  Looking Overseas  Motorcycle sales in India grew 15 percent in 2011 to 9.95
million units, according to data from the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers . The industry body expects deliveries
of two-wheelers, including motorcycles and scooters, in the year
beginning April 1 will increase 11 percent to 14 percent, it
said Jan. 10.  Hero is looking to begin sales in  Africa  and Latin America
this year as it tries to mimic the strategy of its nearest
domestic rival, Bajaj Auto. Bajaj sells more than 35 percent of
its products overseas and expects to exceed its export target of
1.5 million units in the year ending March 31.  Hero aims to export 1 million units annually in five or six
years, Munjal said.  “We’ve been seen as a utility-bike maker, fuel-efficient
bikes, and somebody who’s at the lower level of the market,
who’s more small-town and rural-market focused,” said Munjal.
“So our ambition is to become one of the biggest global two-
wheeler players and to do that, you cannot only be in one small
segment.”  Ducati, whose bikes are owned by actors such as  Brad Pitt 
and  Tom Cruise , was delisted in 2008 from the Milan stock
exchange.  Honda is expanding its operations in India after separating
from Hero, and will spend as much as 10 billion rupees
($202 million) on its third factory near Bangalore in southern
India that will be ready in 2013, the company said in August.
When complete, Honda will have a capacity to build 4 million
two-wheelers in India annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  