-- MetLife Says It Reached Accord With Stuyvesant Tenants
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-03-02T20:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/metlife-says-it-reaches-accord-in-principle-with-stuyvesant-town-tenants.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  reached a “settlement
in principle” over a lawsuit filed by tenants of  New York
City ’s Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, the company
said in regulatory filing.  The accord is incomplete and subject to court approval, New
York-based MetLife said in a Feb. 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Terms weren’t disclosed.
 Alexander H. Schmidt , an attorney for the tenants, and  John Calagna , a spokesman for MetLife, declined to disclose them.  “We’re very pleased with it,” Schmidt said of the
agreement in a telephone interview. “It’s a very fair and
reasonable outcome for the claims against MetLife.”  The tenants sued MetLife and Tishman Speyer Properties LP
in 2007, claiming the companies improperly forced at least one-
fourth of the residents to pay market rents while the owners
received more than $25 million in tax breaks.  The 80-acre Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village
development is  Manhattan ’s largest apartment complex, with more
than 11,000 units. It runs from 14th Street to 23rd Street on
Manhattan’s East Side.  MetLife sold the complex in 2006 to Tishman Speyer
Properties LP and its partner BlackRock Realty LP for
$5.4 billion, a record for a New York commercial real estate
deal at the time.  Missed Payment  Tishman Speyer and BlackRock missed a $16.1 million debt
payment due in January 2010 and said they would cede control of
the complex to lenders after the value fell and they were
prevented from raising rents.  A state appeals court in November affirmed a decision by
Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe III to deny a motion by
MetLife to dismiss the suit.  Lowe dismissed the tenants’ original lawsuit in 2007. The
appeals court reinstated it and ruled on behalf of the tenants,
who are seeking more than $215 million in damages.  A tenants’ association has been working with  Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  to buy the complex since Tishman and
BlackRock’s default.  The group intends to convert most of its units to
condominiums while retaining its historical affordability to
middle-class residents and satisfying debt holders represented
by special servicer  CWCapital Asset Management LLC .  Tenants Waiting  “We’ll wait to see what the details are as they unfold and
hope they will bring fair compensation to the many residents who
were overcharged during the time that MetLife was the owner,”
said City Councilman Daniel R. Garodnick, a lifelong resident of
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village who has been working with
tenants on a plan to acquire the property.  The MetLife settlement begins to clear the way for an
eventual sale of the complex, said Roger Lehman, a managing
director at Credit Suisse Holdings USA who oversees research on
bonds backed by commercial mortgages.  “We view this as one of the hurdles that needed to be
cleared,” Lehman said. “Having clarity on the back rents and
forward rents would help to get the maximum value for the
property.”  The value of the property in an eventual sale can’t be
determined until an agreement is reached about what rents the
owner can legally charge. The main hurdle to determining that is
the litigation between the tenants and CWCapital Asset
Management LLC, Lehman said.  Overcharge Damages  “One of the issues for valuing the property is how much
the actual damages are for prior overcharges and who has
liability for that,” Lehman wrote today in a note to clients.  CW, which is advancing interest payments to bondholders,
valued the property at $3 billion in September, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Greg Cross , an attorney for the
company, declined to comment on the MetLife deal.  CW has said the “‘earliest likely resolution” of the
legal rent question will be in mid-2013, according to servicer
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Schmidt declined to comment on any pending settlements with
the remaining defendants. MetLife’s “estimable losses” in the
lawsuit have been accounted for in its financial statements,
according to the company’s filing.  “The legal rent setting issue is strictly a part of the
case involving CWCapital,” Schmidt said. “The MetLife
settlement should have no impact on that issue.”  The appeal is Roberts v. Tishman Speyer Properties LP, New
York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division (Manhattan). The
lower-court case is Roberts v. Tishman Speyer Properties,
100956/2007, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York
at   ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net . 