-- EU Leaders Declare Crisis Turning Point as Focus Starts Shifting to Growth
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-02T16:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/eu-leaders-declare-crisis-turning-point-as-focus-starts-shifting-to-growth.html
European leaders declared a  turning
point  in the Greece-fueled debt crisis, shifting their focus
away from the budget-cutting spree that has dominated two years
of rescue operations.  With a second Greek aid package wrapped up and the euro
region slipping into recession, the leaders committed to a pro-
growth agenda that sits uneasily with a deficit-control treaty
that was signed today at the 17th summit since the outbreak of
the crisis.  “We’re not out of the economic crisis yet but we are
turning the page of the financial crisis,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters after the Brussels summit.  European leaders are on guard against a repeat of the false
dawn of mid-2010 after  Greece ’s first bailout and the setup of a
rescue fund. A phase of market calm was jolted by German demands
for bond writeoffs that rattled investors, forcing Ireland and
 Portugal  to fall back on emergency aid.  The next tests include Spain’s defiance of deficit-
reduction targets, a wrangle over the size of the rescue fund
and pleas for more International Monetary Fund backup, all
flanked by the multi-year effort of stepping up Greece’s aid and
then making sure it gets paid back.  Greece’s 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) second package,
confirmed on the eve of the summit, brought to at least 386
billion euros the sums committed or disbursed by European
governments and the IMF to keep the euro -- a currency designed
to last forever -- intact.  ECB Cash  Added to that are 219.5 billion euros spent by the  European
Central Bank  to buy the bonds of struggling countries, and
another 1 trillion euros in unprecedented ECB loans to tide the
banking system through the crisis.  “It’s a reassuring picture which is still very fragile
because we have a lot of uncertainty and the countries of Europe
have to persevere,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at the
summit. “It’s a much much better picture than we had until
November.”  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  has advanced to a seven-month high
and yields on Spanish and Italian  government bonds  have plunged
as investor concerns that the single currency was at risk eased.  “For the short term the risk of contagion has been
eliminated, but the deeper problems are still there,” Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Bruegel research institute in
Brussels, told Bloomberg Television today.  Debt Swap  The next hurdle is to line up private investors to take
losses of more than 70 percent on Greek bonds in a bond
exchange, the key plank in a strategy to reduce Greece’s debt to
about 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, a figure
still double the euro-area limit.  Finance ministers will hold a March 9 teleconference to
review the outcome of the swap offer. The incentive for
bondholders is that a refusal to take part might lead to even
bigger losses.  Whether there is a fallback position was left open.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said there is a
back-up plan for Greece, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said there isn’t, and Sarkozy called talk of yet more aid an
“odd declaration.”  Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of  Denmark , one of 10
EU countries outside the euro, concluded: “Everyone knows that
we are not completely finished in terms of the Greek situation,
but everyone understands that we take substantial steps in a
positive direction. For the first time in many, many months this
is not a crisis summit.”  ‘Unique’ Case  Leaders labeled Greece a “unique” case, promising that
bond writedowns are a thing of the past, in a reversal of the
strategy demanded in late 2010 by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of
 Germany ,  Europe ’s dominant country.  Merkel executed another reversal at the summit, agreeing to
speed the payments into the planned 500 billion-euro permanent
rescue fund barely a year after she won a deal to slow them
down.  “We are still in a fragile situation,” Merkel said. ‘This
situation has calmed down a bit, but the crisis is hardly over
and further steps will be required to get there.’’  Under pressure from world leaders and the IMF to reinforce
the European firewall, the euro’s stewards pledged to pay the
first two annual installments into the fund this year. Known as
the European Stability Mechanism, the permanent fund will go
into operation in July.  Fund Installments  The timing of the remaining three installments to bring it
up to its 500 billion-euro capacity will be set later in March,
along with a decision whether to add on the 250 billion euros
left in the temporary rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  The month will also bring an austerity-versus-growth
confrontation, as the signers of the freshly minted fiscal
treaty weigh whether to push back  Spain ’s deficit-cut timetable
as it struggles through its second recession since 2009.  “For the credibility of the whole operation, I think it is
necessary that we maintain these budgetary targets,” said EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy , who was named to a second 2 1/2-
year term at the summit. “If we don’t do that in a consistent
fashion, then we will be punished by the markets.”  The tension is between abiding by the EU’s fiscal corset
and the economic logic of forcing more cuts on a country
suffering unemployment over 20 percent. After most leaders left
the EU building, Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  scuttled
his target of a 4.4 percent deficit in 2012, aiming for 5.8
percent instead.  ‘Sovereign Decision’  “I didn’t communicate the deficit target to the heads of
state, nor do I have to,” Rajoy said. “This is a sovereign
decision taken by Spain.”  Spanish bonds fell today, with 10-year yields rising 4
basis points to 4.91 percent, exceeding  Italy ’s for the first
time since August.  The next move lies with the European Commission, which will
decide whether Rajoy’s re-affirmation of reaching the EU deficit
limit of 3 percent of GDP next year entitles it to leniency in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  