-- EU to Prepare ‘Further Restrictive Measures’ Against Syria
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-02T10:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/eu-to-prepare-further-restrictive-measures-against-syria-1-.html
The European Union is considering a
new round of sanctions against  Syria , according to the draft
conclusions from a summit in Brussels today.  In the document, to be agreed upon at the Brussels meeting,
leaders of the 27-nation bloc request EU officials to prepare
“further restrictive measures” against the government in
Damascus.  The EU “demands that Syrian authorities immediately stop
the massive violence and human-rights abuses inflicted to the
civilian population,” according to the draft document, which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  In language added to the draft overnight and intended to
increase pressure on government and military officials in the
country, it added: “Those responsible will be held
accountable,” raising the prospect of putting individuals
involved in human-rights abuses on trial.  On Feb. 27, the EU froze the Syrian central bank’s assets
and banned trade in precious metals and diamonds with the
country. An oil embargo approved last September has just taken
effect.  In the draft, the EU for the first time recognized the
Syrian National Council as a “legitimate representative of
Syrians.”  Syrian Opposition  “The European Union supports the Syrian opposition in its
struggle for freedom, dignity and democracy, recognizes the
Syrian National Council as a legitimate representative of
Syrians and calls upon all members of the Syrian opposition to
unite in its peaceful struggle,” the document said, renewing
the EU’s call for President Bashar Al-Assad to stand aside.  Some members of the EU, including the U.K., have already
recognized the SNC. British Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
said that the lack of a united opposition movement is one of the
reasons why the Syrian uprising is more complicated than the
situation in  Libya , where  Muammar Qaddafi  was ousted last year
with the support of an international coalition.  Another paragraph added to the draft “stresses the
responsibility of the Syrian authorities regarding the security
of foreign nationals in Syria, including journalists.” Marie Colvin, a U.S. journalist who worked for the U.K.’s Sunday
Times, and French photographer Remi Ochlik were killed in the
country last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  