-- Dollar Rises to 9-Month High Versus Yen
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-02T22:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/euro-set-for-weekly-decline-amid-signs-of-economic-slowdown-yen-near-low.html
The dollar rose to a nine-month high
against the yen before U.S. reports next week forecast to show
growth in the world’s biggest economy is gathering pace while
deflation persists in  Japan .  The yen weakened as Japan’s consumer prices decreased,
fanning speculation the central bank will expand monetary
easing. The dollar gained against most major currencies after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cast doubt about a
third round of asset purchases. The euro declined a third day
since the  European Central Bank ’s bank-loan program as a German
report showed retail sales unexpectedly fell.  “There’s been diminished expectations of more quantitative
easing,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “Commodity currencies have all come
down, equities are in the red, so it’s got a slightly more risk-
off feel to it.”  The dollar appreciated 0.9 percent to 81.81 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time after it climbed to 81.87, the highest level since
May 26. Japan’s currency was little changed at 107.97 per euro.
The 17-nation euro decreased 0.9 percent to $1.3198.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries were among the
biggest losers today as raw materials prices dropped.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell 1 percent. Oil, which reached $110.55 a barrel yesterday,
the highest level since May, decreased 1.9 percent.  South Africa ’s rand fell 1.1 percent to 7.5208 per dollar
after reaching 7.4025 Feb. 29, the strongest level since
September. Norway’s krone dropped 0.6 percent to 5.6075.  Euro-Canadian Dollar  UBS AG recommends closing out of short euro-Canadian dollar
positions, with the pair weakening 2.6 percent in the past three
days. The euro reached C$1.3028 today, the lowest level since
Feb. 16.  “We continue to favor further downside in euro-Canada, but
will perhaps instead look to move into a different structure,
given the sharp move in spot over the past three days,”  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS in London, wrote in a note
to clients.  He recommends investors enter short euro-U.S. dollar and
pound-dollar positions. A short is a bet the price of an asset
will drop.  Sterling rose for a sixth day against the euro, the longest
stretch since November 2010, as an industry report showed an
index for U.K. construction rose in February to an 11-month
high, boosting speculation the nation will avoid a recession.
The pound gained 0.1 percent to 83.36 pence per euro after
reaching 83.14, the strongest level since Feb. 20.  ‘Far From Normal’  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.8 percent to 79.434. The gauge
increased 1.3 percent this week, the most since the five days
ended Jan. 6.  Bernanke said yesterday elevated unemployment and subdued
inflation mean  interest rates  are likely to stay low, without
offering any sign that the economy needed an additional monetary
boost.  The Fed chairman told a Senate hearing that there were
“positive developments” in the job market while saying it’s
still “far from normal.” He said the inflationary impact of
higher gasoline prices was likely to be temporary.  Fed Buying  The Fed bought $1.969 billion of Treasuries today as part
of its program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter risks of a recession. The
central bank, which next meets March 13, bought $2.3 trillion of
securities in two rounds of quantitative easing from December
2008 until June 2011.  “Bernanke yesterday described policy as highly
accommodative,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London , wrote in an e-mailed report
today. The dollar, she wrote, “is benefiting on speculation
that the Fed may not proceed with additional QE.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  was at 56.1, almost the highest in a year in February,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the report from the Tempe, Arizona, group on
March 5. Readings above 50 signal expansion. Other U.S. reports
next week may to show companies hired more workers.  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food dropped for a
fourth month in January, decreasing 0.1 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said. The Bank of Japan set an
inflation goal of 1 percent on Feb. 14 and added to an asset-
purchase fund that targets notes maturing within two years.
Policy makers next meet March 12-13.  ‘Further Easing’  “There are expectations in markets for further easing by
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  at its next meeting, leading to some yen
selling,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in
 Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides foreign-exchange
margin-trading services. “The CPI number was still negative,
far away from the BOJ’s target.”  The yen has weakened 6.8 percent in the past three months
in the worst performance among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro was
the second-biggest loser, dropping 3.2 percent. The dollar has
declined 1.7 percent.  Futures traders  are betting that the yen will fall against
the dollar for the first time since June, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on
a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 1,203 on Feb. 28, compared
with net longs of 17,257 a week earlier.  Retail Sales  The euro weakened versus the dollar after  Germany ’s
statistics bureau said retail sales adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings fell 1.6 percent in January. Economists forecast
a gain of 0.5 percent, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Euro-area  retail sales  dropped for a third month in
January, the European Union’s statistics office will say on
March 5, another Bloomberg survey showed. The  ECB (EURR002W)  will keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low 1 percent on March 8,
according to a separate survey.  European leaders agreed this week to provide capital faster
for the planned permanent bailout fund in a concession to
international pressure to strengthen the currency bloc’s
defenses against the debt crisis.  “Markets have pulled back after the sugar rush we’ve had
from the second longer-term refinancing operation,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “There is still a great deal of
uncertainty, which has been highlighted by the market as we
start to see the euro under pressure again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  