-- Euro Defaults Loom as Ponzi Scheme ‘Runs Out of Suckers’: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/euro-defaults-loom-as-national-ponzi-schemes-run-out-of-suckers-books.html
Countries don’t go bankrupt, said
Walter Wriston, the legendary boss of what is now  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
After all, he reasoned,  they “own” more than they “owe.”   They do have a habit of reneging on their loans, though, as
Citi learned the hard way when  Argentina  and more than a dozen
other nations defaulted in the 1980s.  Western governments are now poised to repeat that ignoble
history, be it through outright default or inflating their debt
away, says Philip Coggan in “Paper Promises,” a crisply
written look at how the debt crisis may overturn the global
economic order.  “The massive debts accumulated over the last 40 years
can’t be paid in full, and they won’t be paid,” Coggan says.
“The debt crises of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  are just the
start.”  With its aging populations and overstretched budgets, the
West’s “Ponzi scheme is running out of suckers,” he says. Put
that in your longer-term refinancing pipe and toke it.  Coggan, the Economist’s Buttonwood columnist, is too
levelheaded to predict a financial Armageddon. He does foresee a
tipping point as wrenching as the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , complete with plunging markets, plummeting
industrial output and corporate bankruptcies. No wonder it has
taken $1 trillion in cheap money from the  European Central Bank 
to get lenders to buy Italian and Spanish debt.  Debtors have been with us ever since that nice Neanderthal
forgot to return my forefather’s club. Economic history is rife
with conflict between those who borrow and those who lend, as
Coggan says. It’s a battle that pits debtors, who tend to see
money as a medium of exchange, against creditors, who view it
more as a store of value.  Paper Trail  Victories in this war are measured in decades rather than
months or years. Like a battlefield guide, Coggan takes us on a
tour of paper promises, wending from John Law’s monetary
experiments in  France  following the death of Louis XIV to  Ben
Bernanke ’s quantitative easing. We’re reminded of Sir Isaac
Newton’s role in the gold standard, Weimar’s wheelbarrow
inflation, and the Bretton Woods conference in the mountains of
 New Hampshire .  Debtors got the upper hand over creditors after the Bretton
Woods system gave up the ghost in 1971. With money untethered
from gold, borrowing exploded.  The party couldn’t last forever, which helps explain the
past 40 years of bubbles and busts. Now, with so many countries
mired in debt all at once -- the U.S. alone owes more than  $15
trillion and counting  -- the time is ripe for the world’s
biggest creditors, notably  China , to fight back.  The developed world’s debtors are unlikely to pay in full,
especially given their growing crowd of grandpa-boomers and
cardiac-arresting medical bills. Coggan, flipping calmly through
the options for Western societies, concludes that we face three
possibilities: inflation, stagnation or default.  ‘Unholy Trinity’  He calls these scenarios “the unholy trinity.” Which will
prevail? To a degree, it doesn’t matter, he says: “The key
point is that the debt is unlikely to be repaid in real terms.”  Once that happens, we could descend into a crisis to rival
what happened in 2008, he says. If the past is any guide, the
upshot could be “a fundamental reordering of the international
economic system.”  Currency regimes are written by history’s winners, of
course: Britain gave us the gold standard, while the U.S. called
the shots at  Bretton Woods . The next system will probably have
an Asian flavor, Coggan says.  Though it may take a decade or more, “a new order will
emerge,” he says. “And, like so many of the goods sold in
Western supermarkets, it will be made in  China (HOLDCH) .”  “Paper Promises” is explanatory rather than reportorial.
It draws extensively on other books, including John Kenneth
Galbraith’s “Money” and  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff ’s
“This Time Is Different.” It doesn’t delve into China’s
domestic debt bomb, and the section on the U.S. housing bubble
will feel superfluous to crisis junkies.  That said, Coggan provides a valuable primer to anyone who
still asks, as his father-in-law did, where all the money went
during the meltdown of 2007 and ‘08. If you remain puzzled about
that, perhaps I can sell you a credit-default swap on the
Brooklyn Bridge.  “Paper Promises” is from  PublicAffairs  in the U.S. and
from  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (294 pages, $27.99, 20 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 