-- European Banks Upgraded by Goldman Sachs on ECB Money
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-03-02T10:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/european-banks-upgraded-by-goldman-sachs-analysts-on-ecb-money.html
European banking shares were
upgraded by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts, who said they
anticipate a boost in liquidity and profit from the  European
Central Bank ’s three-year loans.  The banking industry was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral,” according to a Goldman note to clients dated March
1. Even after this year’s gain by shares of the region’s
lenders, the stocks are still not expensive, analysts including
Matthieu Walterspiler and Sharon Bell wrote.  “The LTRO funding has improved liquidity and effectively
removed, over the medium term, the likelihood of a major bank
failure in  Europe ,” according to the analysts, referring to the
ECB’s Long-Term Refinancing Operation. It “will help sector
pre-provision profits, while banks still trade at a reasonable
multiple of book value.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB doled out 529.5 billion euros ($701
billion) to some 800 banks, surpassing economists’ median
estimate of 470 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. Two
rounds of three-year loans from the ECB, designed to avert a
credit crunch, have eased concern that Europe’s banks would run
out of cash or curb lending as the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis drove up borrowing costs.  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks (BEBANKS)  and Financial Services Index
rose 0.5 percent to 87.61 at 10:35 a.m. Frankfurt time.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest lender, led gains with
a 3.2 percent advance, followed by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA of  Italy  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA of  France .  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest lender by assets, took
8.2 billion euros of three-year loans from the ECB to provide
“funding stability” for its units in Spain and  Portugal , it
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  