-- EveryWare Said to Increase Rate on $150 Million Dividend Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-02T21:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/everyware-said-to-increase-rate-on-150-million-dividend-loan.html
EveryWare Inc. increased the
 interest rate  it will pay on a $150 million term loan it’s
seeking to fund a dividend to Monomoy Capital Partners LP,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  EveryWare is being created by private-equity firm Monomoy’s
combination of its dinnerware manufacturer Oneida Ltd with
Anchor Hocking LLC, a Lancaster, Ohio-based maker of vases and
candle jars, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  The debt will now mature in 5.5 years and pay interest at
7.75 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, up from 7 percentage points, the person said. The minimum
on the lending benchmark will remain unchanged at 1.5 percent.  EveryWare is proposing to sell the loan at 98 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered call protection of 102 cents and
101 cents, the person said. That means EveryWare would pay 2
cents more than face value to replace the loan during the first
year and 1 cent more than face value to refinance the debt
during the second year.  Barclays Plc is arranging the financing, which also
includes a $75 million asset-based revolving line of credit due
in five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Monomoy purchased Anchor Hocking in March 2007 and Oneida
in Nov. 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. [bn:PRSN=7319989]   Daniel Collin [], a partner at Monomoy Capital, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a  term loan , it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  