-- Text a Little Less and Think a Little More: Stephen L. Carter
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-03-02T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/text-a-little-less-and-think-a-little-more-stephen-l-carter.html
If you’ve suspected lately that your
family’s mobile-phone bill is driven entirely by your 15-year-
old, you are probably right. A  recent Nielsen report  shows that
children aged 13 to 17 average an astonishing 3,417  text messages 
a month -- some 45 percent of all text messages. This breaks down
to seven texts “ every waking hour ,” or roughly one every 8 1/2
minutes.  But those who look at this data and worry that young people
are over-texting may be asking the wrong question. The more
pertinent concern may be not the amount, but the function. Many
observers argue that the social world of teenagers and even young
adults is nowadays largely constituted by text messaging.  Maybe so. Certainly a principal reason cited by many teens
for their use of texting is that it is fun. In some surveys,
young people reported that they prefer texting to conversation.
And “prefer” may be too weak a word. Many young people, when not
allowed to text, become anxious and jittery.  In recent years, there has been  no shortage  of  reports  on
 television  about researchers who say they have found teens
addicted to their mobile phones. Perhaps a better way to view the
data is as an illustration of how mobile phones in general, and
texting in particular, have taken over the experiential world of
the young. An economist might expect that teens deprived of
texting would simply substitute another method of communication -
- talking, for instance. As it turns out, a significant minority
will not. They will behave instead, researchers report, the way
people do when deprived of human contact.  Texts Define Friendship  The phone, in other words, is not merely a tool through
which teens keep in touch with friends. It is the technology that
defines their social circle. If they cannot text someone, that
person may as well not exist.  Still, I am not criticizing the technology itself. Like most
people of all ages these days, I find texting far too convenient
to ignore -- although, to be sure, my usual quota is two or three
texts a day, not seven an hour.  The trouble is that texting arose suddenly, not gradually:
Originally included in mobile phones as a tool to enable service
providers to spam their customers, it actually came to the U.S.
later than most of the industrialized world. David Mercer, in his
2006 book “The Telephone: The Life Story of a Technology,”
suggests that the popularity of the practice rose sharply when
viewers were urged to text their votes for the winner on such
television programs as “ American Idol .”  This break from past practice was so radical that adults had
no opportunity to work out from their own experience reasonable
bounds for the young. And so the young, unbounded, freely created
their own world, from which the old are largely excluded.  Fears of what young people might be like if left free to
design the world have long been with us: Think “Lord of the
Flies,” “A Clockwork Orange” or “Children of the Corn.” That
imponderable I leave for others to weigh. I don’t believe that
over-texting will create dangerous psychopaths. But it might
create something else.  Heavy texting has been  linked  to sleep deprivation among the
young, evidently because they somehow feel compelled to respond,
even in the middle of the night. Researchers have found
correlations between texting and everything from illiteracy to
overeating. A  2006 study  by James E. Katz of  Rutgers University ,
perhaps the leading academic expert on mobile-phone use, has
found that young people have trouble giving up their phones, even
for a short time. Most were unable to make it through a two-day
experiment designed to discover what they would do without their
phones.  Texts Versus Letters  On the other hand, if used in moderation, texting might help
demolish the weird and unmannerly etiquette of the mobile phone,
in which, for no reason but the technology’s existence, it is the
recipient of the call who is somehow required to make an excuse
if not free to answer. Texting harks back to an earlier, less
demanding model of communication, in which response was at the
convenience of the respondent. It was, and is, known as letter
writing.  There may actually be advantages in the use of phones for a
purpose other than conversation. The proliferation of phone apps
may  help children learn . (It may also lead to a new digital
divide between those with lots of apps on their phones and those
without.) And for those who are worried that constant mobile-
phone use by the young might lead to cancer (or perhaps  glucose
absorption  in the brain), texting -- in which the phone is
nowhere near the ear -- is obviously an improvement.  The larger problem with texting involves neither the
physical nor the mental health of our growing army of young
texters. My worry is that the ubiquity of texting may accelerate
the decline of what our struggling democracy most needs:
independent thought. Indeed, as texting crowds out other
activities, it must inevitably crowd out inactivity -- and there
lies a danger. For inactivity and thinking are inextricably
linked.  By inactivity, I mean doing nothing that occupies the mind:
time spent in reflection. Bertrand Russell wrote a marvelous
essay on this subject, titled “In Praise of Idleness” (also the
title of the collection in which the essay is most readily
found). Russell’s point is that when the rest of the world thinks
we are idle, the brain, if properly trained, is following its own
path. Only then, he contends, are we truly thinking. The rest of
the time we are analyzing and reacting, but our thoughts are then
determined by responses to the thoughts of others. Unless we
spend time in reflection -- in idleness -- we can never truly
think thoughts of our own.  Already we live in an era when there is little time for idle
thinking. Whether in the storms of political argument or the
hyperkinetic pace of the workplace, we are called upon constantly
to respond rather than reflect. The education of the young,
increasingly built around the rapid-fire model of the
standardized test, only enhances the model of thought in which
speed is everything and reflection is for those left behind. As
young people increasingly fill their free hours with texting and
other similarly fast-paced, attention-absorbing activities, the
opportunities for sustained reflective thought will continue to
fade.  Today’s public debates are dominated by the short and the
snappy, and influential pundits often seem to take pride in the
assumption that nobody who disagrees with them can possibly have
anything useful to say. As Cass Sunstein, now a White House
adviser, points out in his splendid book “Republic.com,” a
crucial aspect of free speech is that it forces us, from time to
time, to encounter a voice we do not expect to hear making a
point we have not considered.  We are spiraling rapidly away from that healthy democratic
vision. The explosion of text messaging is certainly not a cause
of the unhealthy political world we adults are bequeathing to our
children. But it points to how far we are from a cure.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  