-- MF Global Probe Said to Slow After Prosecutor Rushed Grand Jury Subpoenas
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-02T13:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/mf-global-probe-said-to-slow-after-prosecutor-rushed-grand-jury-subpoenas.html
U.S. investigators of bankrupt  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  have yet to determine after four
months of probing whether enough evidence exists to pursue
a criminal case, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  When the broker-dealer run by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Co-Chairman John Corzine filed for bankruptcy Oct. 31,
federal prosecutors in  Chicago  had a grand jury issue a flurry
of subpoenas, said the person, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Investigators from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and other agencies
have been analyzing events that occurred before the bankruptcy,
when as much as $1.6 billion in client funds went missing, said
the person.  After grand jury subpoenas were issued by Patrick
Fitzgerald, the U.S. Attorney in Chicago in the days after the
firm’s collapse, federal investigators turned their focus to
reviewing the mountains of documents on thousands of
transactions worth hundreds of millions of dollars, the person
said. Since that time, no decision has been made about whether
charges will be filed against MF Global officials, they said.  In fact, no determination has been made whether Fitzgerald
or U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New York  would lead any
prosecution, the person said.  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for
Fitzgerald in Chicago and Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for
Bharara’s  office, declined to comment.  Clearing House  MF Global, one of the largest clearing brokers at  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , used about $700 million of customer funds to “meet
liquidity issues” at its broker-dealer in the days prior to the
bankruptcy, according to a timeline of events released by CME,
the world’s largest futures exchange.  CME said it received subpoenas in November from the Chicago
federal grand jury investigating MF Global’s collapse, as well
as the CFTC, according to a Feb. 28 regulatory filing.  The grand jury subpoena was issued the day after MF Global
collapsed. The CFTC subpoena came the day after that, CME said.  CME Group, which had auditing authority over the failed
futures broker, was asked by the grand jury to produce
information and witnesses in connection with the investigation,
the Chicago-based company said in a regulatory filing.  While Fitzgerald’s office sent subpoenas early in the
process, no more have been issued, the person said. The FBI
opened up a formal inquiry in early November, said the person.  Received Subpoena  The company also received a subpoena from the CFTC and a
document request from the Securities Investor Protection Corp.,
the trustee handling MF Global’s liquidation, it said. On Jan.
31, MF Global’s bankruptcy trustee requested documents as well,
according to Anita Liskey, a CME spokeswoman.  Steve Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC, declined to
comment. Peter Donald, a spokesman for the FBI in New York,
didn’t return a call seeking comment. Michael Millican, a
spokesman for MF Global Holdings trustee  Louis Freeh , couldn’t
be immediately reached.  “We haven’t made conclusions” about whether or not there
was criminal intent, said Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for James Giddens, trustee for MF Global brokerage MF Global Inc.  MF Global sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion
bet on the bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations
prompted regulator concerns and a credit rating downgrade.
Corzine, a Democrat who also served as  New Jersey ’s governor and
as a U.S. Senator for that state, quit MF Global Nov. 4.  The CFTC is reviewing CME Group’s audit of MF Global before
the broker’s bankruptcy. In addition to the FBI and the CFTC,
the Securities and Exchange Commission and trustees overseeing
MF Global’s liquidation are investigating the possible misuse of
client funds.  ‘Our Duties’  “We believe that we carried out our duties and
responsibilities in accordance with these standards and
procedures,” CME said in the filing.  New York-based MF Global’s failure marks the first time a
futures broker’s bankruptcy has led to the loss of customer
funds,  Terrence Duffy , CME Group’s executive chairman, told a
congressional panel in December.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The bankruptcy case is MF
Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 