-- Facebook Adds Deutsche Bank, Citi, Credit Suisse on IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-02T22:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/facebook-adds-deutsche-citi-credit-suisse-on-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  hired  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to work on its $5
billion initial public offering and give it access to more
credit, a person with direct knowledge of the situation said.  Facebook’s new and existing banks will grant the company an
additional credit line of more than $2.5 billion, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the decision isn’t
public. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc and Allen & Co.
were the previously hired on the IPO.  The move would give the social network, whose  sales  almost
doubled to $3.71 billion last year, a pipeline of more than $5
billion in possible borrowings. That compares with a $3 billion
credit line for  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the most valuable U.S. Internet
company. While going public with debt is unusual for a Web
company, the move by itself may not damp demand for Facebook
shares, said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  “The demand for Facebook’s stock is going to be so high
that I think most investors are just going to overlook this
aspect,” said Sinha, who is based in  San Francisco . “I don’t
see it impacting the overall valuation.”  Facebook, led by co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg , filed for the
IPO last month, pursuing what may be the largest Internet
offering on record.  Tax, Legal Bills  The expanded credit line will help  Facebook (FB)  pay post-IPO
taxes and the potential legal costs of patent litigation with
 Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc., according to the person.  Yahoo (YHOO) , based in Sunnyvale,
California, asked Facebook this week to license technologies
covered by its intellectual property, and threatened to take
legal action if no agreement is reached.  The additions will be disclosed in a new  regulatory filing 
in the coming weeks, the person said. The first group of banks,
excluding Allen, have already pledged $2.5 billion through a
revolving  credit  facility to the Menlo Park, California-based
company, according to a filing last month.  Citigroup and Credit Suisse representatives declined to
comment, as did spokesmen for Facebook and Deutsche Bank. A
representative at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which is leading the offering,
also declined to comment.  Facebook filed to raise $5 billion in its IPO, though the
amount may change. It had been discussing raising as much as $10
billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said late last
year. At that size, Facebook’s IPO would be the biggest ever by
an Internet or technology company, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Facebook’s implied market value stood at about $93
billion, based on an auction this week via SharesPost Inc.  Banks handling Facebook’s IPO may collect fees of as little
as 1 percent to 1.5 percent of the total amount raised in the
sale, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said on
Feb. 1.  Reuters previously  reported  that Facebook intends to
increase its  credit line .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  