-- Fairfax, Madoff, Megaupload, Capital One, Deutsche Bank in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-02T11:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/fairfax-madoff-megaupload-apple-deutsche-bank-in-court-news.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ,
with seven of eight  hedge funds  it accused of spreading false
rumors out of a lawsuit, may see the $24 billion case shrink
again. A judge is poised to rule whether racketeering counts
allowing triple damages should be tossed, Bloomberg News’s Thom
Weidlich reports.  Three of the funds that won dismissal in the case,
including billionaire Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP,
have a total $29 billion in assets under management. The two
main defendants remaining are a  New York  hedge fund with less
than $100 million and a Memphis, Tennessee, brokerage recently
sold for $930 million.  Fairfax, in the suit filed in  New Jersey  state court in
2006, accused the funds of trying to drive down its stock as
they bet against it in a so-called bear raid. The remaining
defendants seek to block Toronto-based Fairfax from tripling its
$8 billion claim, as allowed under the state’s anti-racketeering
law. The case can be viewed as an example of civil racketeering
suits moving into the realm of hedge funds, one legal expert
said.  “If they win that, that could be the nail in the coffin,”
Jonathan W. Wolfe, a lawyer who represented a fund released from
the litigation, said of the defendants’ effort. “I think you
will continue to see this case get smaller and smaller.”  New Jersey Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown is considering whether Fairfax can invoke the
racketeering statute. The defendants, arguing at a Jan. 6
hearing that Canadian or New York law applies, said the case
doesn’t have enough connection to New Jersey to allow the counts
to go forward. They called the racketeering claims “a
manipulative public relations sham.”  Hansbury, who scheduled a March 16 hearing on other
motions, said he wants to set a trial date as early as May.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
said in its complaint that the hedge funds coordinated with
stock analysts to spread false rumors about it so the funds
could profit through short sales, borrowing shares in
anticipation of making money by replacing them with cheaper
shares later after the price dropped.  The company’s $8 billion damage claim is based on
allegations the hedge funds’ actions depressed Fairfax’s credit
ratings, diminished its ability to make acquisitions and reduced
the amount it could raise in debt and equity offerings,
according to court papers.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  For more, click here.  U.S. Criminal Libor Probe Cited in Judge’s Denial of Records  Investors suing  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and other companies over claims they artificially
suppressed Libor lost a bid for some documents related to a U.S.
Justice Department investigation.  In denying the investors’ request yesterday, U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan, who’s presiding over 21
class-action lawsuits, cited a letter from the department
claiming that a release of the documents may interfere with its
criminal antitrust probe.  “To me, it is simply too much to have them piggyback on
the government’s investigation at this stage,” the judge said
in a ruling from the bench. “It is quite clear from the
Department of Justice’s letter that they would have serious
problems with my granting the request.”  The multidistrict litigation before the judge involves
group lawsuits filed against member banks of the British
Bankers’ Association  London  Interbank Offer Rate Panel, known as
Libor. The member banks are accused of conspired to artificially
suppress Libor by understating their borrowing costs to the BBA.  Buchwald said that if she agreed to let investors have the
documents they want, it would “inhibit the fullest response to
the government requests for information.”  The case is In re LIBOR-Based Financial Instruments
Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  California AG Asserts Right to Sue Madoff Investor Estate  California Attorney General Kamala Harris told a judge she
is entitled to pursue a lawsuit against the estate of a former
Bernard L. Madoff investor for allegedly violating state laws,
and the court should bar interference in the “people’s action”
by the Madoff trustee.  Harris, who has a state enforcement proceeding against the
estate of Stanley Chais, made the statements in a bankruptcy
court filing in Manhattan Feb. 29 in response to a lawsuit by
trustee Irving H. Picard, who said he alone has the right to
claw back money stolen from Madoff customers. Her legal action
is independent of Picard’s and makes no attempt to recover money
belonging to the Madoff brokerage trustee, she said.  “While the trustee’s desire to maximize the amount of
money available to the victims of  Bernard Madoff  is laudable,
his attempt to interfere with the people’s action in order to
achieve that goal finds no support in the Bankruptcy Code and
thus must be rejected,” she said.  Picard is fighting to establish his sole right to sue
former Madoff investors who allegedly profited from the Ponzi
scheme. Some parties say he is usurping their rights. His
settlement with the Jeffry Picower estate has been challenged by
former Madoff investors who say they don’t benefit from the
agreement and should be allowed to sue the estate themselves.  The case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Megaupload’s Dotcom to Fight Charges, Says He’s No Piracy King  Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom said he will fight U.S.
charges that he orchestrated the country’s biggest copyright
infringement conspiracy.  “I’m no piracy king,” Dotcom said in an interview with
New Zealand’s TV3 yesterday. “I offered online storage and
bandwidth to users and that’s it. I am a fighter and I am going
to fight this thing.”  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“mega conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  High Court  Justice Timothy Brewer ruled Feb. 29 that Dotcom
can remain out of jail on bail pending an extradition hearing,
rejecting an appeal by New Zealand prosecutors. The prosecutors
were acting at the request of the U.S. to keep Dotcom in prison
until the extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  “Why would I leave after everything has been frozen,
everything has been taken from me?” Dotcom said. “The company
that was worth probably a billion dollars plus has been given a
death sentence without trial, you know. What point is there for
me to run away?”  In a revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in
Alexandria, Virginia, on Feb. 17, Dotcom was charged with three
new criminal copyright counts and five new wire-fraud counts.  The New Zealand case is Kim Dotcom v. United States of
America. DCNSD [25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore
(Albany).  For more, click here.  Capital One, Customers Agree to Mediation in Overdraft Suit  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and customers who claim the
bank gouged them on overdraft fees for checking accounts agreed
to suspend their litigation while they try to mediate the
dispute, court records show.  “The parties have agreed to engage in private mediation in
an effort to resolve this case without further litigation,”
lawyers for the bank and customers said yesterday in a filing in
federal court in Miami. They agreed to suspend court filings on
whether to certify the case as class-action lawsuit.  At least 30 banks have cases in Miami before U.S. District
Judge James Lawrence King, who has consolidated the cases. The
customers say the banks reorder debit-card transactions in their
computers to maximize overdraft fees.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, has reached a preliminary agreement
to pay $110 million to settle litigation.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, agreed last year to pay $410 million without admitting
liability. The accord won court approval despite objections that
the amount was too little for customers and that lawyers were
paid too much.  Union Bank NA agreed to a $35 million settlement with
customers in November. An  Associated Banc-Corp. (ASBC)  unit, Associated
Bank, agreed in November to pay $13 million.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  Ex-BTA Bank Chairman Must Turn Himself In for Prison, Judge Says  Mukhtar Ablyazov, the ex-BTA Bank Chairman who went into
hiding last month after being sentenced to 22 months in a U.K.
jail, must turn himself in or risk losing his right to defend a
$5 billion fraud lawsuit, a judge ruled.  BTA, which accused Ablyazov of theft after he fled to
London from Kazakhstan, where the lender is based, can apply to
strike out his defense and seek a default judgment if he doesn’t
report to court authorities by March 9, Judge Nigel Teare ruled
Feb. 29.  Ablyazov “has gone into hiding,” Teare, who oversaw a
two-week trial in December, said in his judgment. “Not even his
own solicitors, who continue to act for him in this matter and
to receive instructions from him, know where he is.”  BTA, the biggest Kazakh lender before defaulting on $12
billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of civil suits against
Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko
claiming they took more than $5 billion from the Almaty-based
bank using fake loans, backdated documents and offshore
companies. Both men have denied the claims.  Ablyazov failed to attend a Feb. 16 sentencing hearing
after Teare found him in contempt of court for lying about his
assets, including a mansion and two apartments in London, and
moving money in violation of 2009 asset freeze issued in the
fraud case.  An e-mail to Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan, wasn’t
immediately answered. Ablyazov’s lawyer, Duncan Matthews, said
last month that denying his right to defend himself in the fraud
case would be “the most Draconian order the court could take.”  The case is JSC BTA Bank v. Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC 1136
(Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Koch Brothers Sue Widow of Cato Shareholder Over Stock  Billionaire brothers Charles G. Koch, co-founder of the
Cato Institute, and David H. Koch sued the free-market advocacy
group and stockholder William Niskanen’s widow seeking control
of his shares.  Niskanen’s death in October triggered an obligation for his
wife and estate representative, Kathryn Washburn, to offer his
shares to the institute and, if it declined to buy them, the
surviving shareholders, according to a copy of the complaint
obtained by Bloomberg News. The filing couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in a search of online records at the Johnson County,
Kansas, District Court in Olathe, about 22 miles southwest of
Kansas City, Missouri.  “Almost four months after Niskanen’s death, defendant
Washburn has not offered to sell the Niskanen shares to the
corporation,” in accordance with the shareholders’ agreement,
the brothers allege in the complaint.  The Washington-based organization has been a supporter of
litigation challenging President Barack Obama’s 2010 health-care
reform legislation. The Koch brothers, principals of the closely
held refining and chemical company Koch Industries Inc., have
been active in Republican Party fundraising.  The brothers seek a court order compelling Washburn to
offer her husband’s shares to Cato and declaring that if the
organization declines to buy them, then that right passes to the
remaining three shareholders, who include the institute’s
president, Edward H. Crane.  Crane, in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News, said he
and Cato view the case as an attempted “hostile takeover” of
the organization he and Charles Koch co-founded in 1977.  “Mr. Koch’s actions represent an effort to transform Cato
from an independent, nonpartisan research organization into a
political entity that might better support his partisan
agenda,” Crane said.  Washburn couldn’t immediately be located for comment.  The Koch brothers’ lawyer, Dan Crabtree of Kansas City-
based  Stinson Morrison Hecker LLP (1328L) , referred a request for
comment to a Koch spokeswoman, Melissa Cohlmia. She didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message.  Koch Industries is based in Wichita, Kansas.  The case is Koch v. Washburn, 12-cv-01749, Johnson County
District Court, 10th Judicial District (Olathe).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Martin Marietta CFO Estimates Vulcan Savings at $330 Million  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) ’s chief financial officer
said a proposed merger with  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  may yield cost
savings of as much as $330 million in three years, $80 million
more than estimated in December.  Anne Lloyd, the CFO, testified in court yesterday that she
didn’t use any confidential data from Vulcan in calculating the
potential savings, which may include 1,100 job cuts. Martin
Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , is pursuing a
hostile acquisition of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan
originally valued at $4.7 billion. Vulcan has rejected the offer
as inadequate.  Martin Marietta “has remained profitable” by using a
technique called “Martinizing” to compare its cost structure
to those of dozens of companies it considered buying, Lloyd told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. yesterday as a
trial over the Vulcan bid entered a third day in Wilmington.  Martin Marietta sued on Dec. 12, the same day it made the
hostile bid, in a preemptive move to get the court to rule that
the offer wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement between the companies. Vulcan has countersued.  Strine must decide if the stock solicitation is
contractually valid. The combination would create the world’s
largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  Don James, chairman of Vulcan, told Strine in earlier
testimony that he proposed a friendly “merger of equals” in
2010 and that talks foundered before Martin Marietta Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye disclosed the hostile bid.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  AU Optronics Price-Fixing Case Goes to Jury in San Francisco  Jurors in  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ’s price-fixing case began
deliberating in federal court in San Francisco yesterday, more
than two years after U.S. regulators accused the company of
violating antitrust laws.  The company, Taiwan’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, was charged in 2009 with participating in a
conspiracy to fix prices of LCD panels, used in computers and
other devices, that netted at least $500 million and raised
costs for consumers. Five company executives also are on trial.  The executives met with competitors secretly in hotel
rooms, karaoke bars and other locations in Taipei from 2001 to
2006 to set LCD prices in response to an oversupply that pushed
down prices by 40 percent, government lawyers told the jury
during an eight-week trial.  Lawyers for the company and the executives denied their
clients fixed prices and told the jury that the government
lacked specific evidence that they entered into illegal
agreements. The meetings were a way of monitoring market trends
and garnering price information, which isn’t illegal, they said.  AU Optronics is the only LCD maker charged with price-
fixing by the U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals
including LG Display Co., Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp. and Sharp Corp. agreed to plead guilty and
pay more than $860 million in fines.  The case is U.S. v. AU Optronics, 09-110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Australia Judges Question Judgment Rule in Fortescue Case  Two judges at Australia’s top court, hearing an appeal by
Chairman  Andrew Forrest  of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  against a
ruling that he misled shareholders, questioned the use of the
“business judgment” rule adopted from the U.S. as a weapon in
prosecution.  “Here, we’ve taken the U.S. situation and turned it upside
down,” Justice William Gummow said yesterday at a High Court
hearing in Canberra. The business judgment defense gives
directors leeway in decision making by providing immunity from
lawsuits as long as they show they acted honestly. “The rule is
meant to assist the director” against technicalities, Gummow
said.  The Australian federal appeals court ruled Forrest misled
shareholders in describing contracts with three Chinese
companies as binding and that he couldn’t use the excuse that he
was exercising his business judgment as chairman of Fortescue.
Forrest faces removal from the post if the High Court affirms
the lower court’s ruling.  “Just because something went south, doesn’t mean you
breached” regulations, Justice Kenneth Hayne said yesterday.  Chief Justice Robert French adjourned the hearing until
March 30 after hearing some arguments from the regulator’s
lawyer Neil Young.  The main point at issue is what Forrest and the company
conveyed to shareholders through press releases and interviews,
Young said. They said they had agreements with the three Chinese
companies when they knew those agreements weren’t complete, he
said.  Investors, analysts and  shareholders  who relied on the
statements weren’t aware the agreements weren’t final and could
only take the company at face value, Young said.  Fortescue’s lawyer David Jackson urged the panel Feb. 29 to
overturn the appeal court decision, saying the company and
Forrest sincerely believed they had binding contracts with the
Chinese companies when they issued the statements.  The case is Forrest v. Australian Securities and Investment
Commission. P44/2011. High Court of Australia (Canberra).  For more, click here.  Proview ‘Hopes’ Apple Makes Contact on IPad Settlement Talks  A lawyer representing  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) 
in its dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over the iPad trademark in  China 
said he “hopes” the U.S. company makes contact to begin
settlement talks.  Roger Xie said the two sides haven’t held any formal
negotiations on the issue of which company owns the right to use
the iPad brand in the world’s most populous nation. Lawyers
presented arguments for almost six hours Feb. 29 at the Higher
People’s Court of Guangdong before being asked by the three-
judge panel if they wished to settle.  “Up to now, we didn’t have any formal negotiations with
Apple,” Xie said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I hope
they will positively contact us and make an appointment with us
about formal negotiations out of court. It would be useful.”  Apple has appealed a November ruling by a lower court that
the trademark belongs to the Shenzhen unit of failed display
maker Proview. Apple claims its 2009 purchase of the rights from
Proview’s Taiwan unit covers the mainland.  Judges adjourned the Feb. 29 hearing without giving a new
court date or a timeframe for a ruling. Under Chinese law, the
time limit for ruling on an appeal is three months, although
that can be extended in exceptional circumstances, Xie said
yesterday.  Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman, Carolyn Wu, didn’t
immediately return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Deutsche Bank’s Board Rejects Kirch Settlement After Review  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rejected a proposal to settle a 10-year
dispute tied to comments by its former Chief Executive Officer
 Rolf Breuer  about  Leo Kirch ’s media group.  The bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, made the decision after
a “thorough review,” it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “Based on this review, which included the
consideration of internal and external legal advice, the board
decided without dissent not to accept the settlement proposal.”  Deutsche Bank and Kirch’s heirs discussed a possible 800
million-euro ($1 billion) settlement of claims Breuer’s comments
caused the collapse of Kirch’s media group, a person with
knowledge of the negotiations said last month. The Frankfurt-
based bank last year was said to have rejected a 775 million-
euro settlement proposed by a Munich court.  “It seems the people at Deutsche Bank who had to look at
the proposal came to the conclusion the bank’s legal odds in
court are better than what the settlement amount suggested,”
said Michael Seufert, an analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hanover, Germany. “The pain threshold was
reached with the 800 million euros, and the bank’s leadership
had to look at what’s in the interest of shareholders.”  Kirch, who died in July, pursued claims against Breuer and
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros. The lawsuits,
which continued after Kirch’s death, claim his media group
failed because Breuer questioned its creditworthiness in a 2002
Bloomberg TV interview.  In the interview, Breuer said “everything that you can
read and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to
provide further” loans or equity to Kirch. Within months,
Kirch’s group filed the country’s biggest bankruptcy since World
War II.  A spokesman for Kirch’s heirs, who declined to be
identified, said they “are relaxed about Deutsche Bank’s
decision and can only shake our heads about the leadership chaos
at the bank.”  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Settles Suit by Loreley Financing Over CDOs  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, settled a lawsuit
filed by Loreley Financing over $440 million of collateralized-
debt obligations purchased from 2005 to 2007.  Loreley Financing sued  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan in October, accusing the bank of
defrauding it into buying CDOs that were “designed to fail.”
The litigation was discontinued with prejudice, meaning it can’t
be renewed, according to court documents filed Feb. 29 that
didn’t disclose terms of the settlement.  Loreley Financing is a group of special-purpose entities
based in Jersey, the largest of the Channel Islands, a U.K.
dependency known as a tax haven. The entities were formed for
long-term investing in CDOs, pools of assets such as mortgage
bonds packaged into new securities, Loreley Financing said in
the complaint.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, confirmed the settlement and said the bank was
pleased to have resolved the dispute. He declined to comment
further.  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 3 Ltd. v.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 652737/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 