-- Bullard Says Fed Should Forgo Additional Easing While U.S. Economy Expands
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/fed-s-bullard-says-expansion-indicates-no-need-for-more-easing.html
The  Federal Reserve  should hold off
on additional accommodation because the  U.S. economy  is growing
moderately and risks from the European debt crisis have eased,
said St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard .  “I wouldn’t take anything off the table,” Bullard said
yesterday in an interview with BNN Television in Vancouver.
“For now things are looking better for the U.S. economy and it
is a good time to wait and see.”  Bullard said in a speech that he expects the U.S.
unemployment rate to drop to 7.8 percent by year’s end, as a
“moderate expansion” spurs improvement in the labor market.
His comments echoed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said in
congressional testimony last week that maintaining monetary
stimulus is warranted even as the unemployment rate falls and
rising  oil prices  may push up inflation temporarily.  The central bank could damage its credibility by signaling
policy that will stay unusually easy for a specified time frame,
Bullard said at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver.  “If the economy is performing well at the point in the
future where the promise begins to bite, then the committee may
simply abandon the promise and return to normal policy,” he
said. The result would be “unhelpful” and result in
“credibility problems.”  The Fed’s asset purchase program, or quantitative easing,
may worsen the risk that prices will rise, Bullard said.
“Increases in the size of the balance sheet entail additional
inflationary risks if accommodation is not removed at an
appropriate pace,” he said.  Global Increase  “I’d be concerned that we not undertake a policy move like
QE that would possibly feed into a global increase in oil
prices,” Bullard said to reporters after his speech.  In the television interview, Bullard said he is “a bit
concerned with rising energy prices.” While $4-per-gallon of
gasoline doesn’t seem to be hurting  consumer spending , an
increase to $5-per-gallon would be “enough to get the attention
of households,” he said.  U.S. stocks fell prior to Bullard’s speech, with the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index declining 0.3 percent to 1,369.63.
Ten-year Treasury yields lost five basis points to 1.98 percent.  Bullard said in the interview that the Fed could boost its
target rate “sooner if the economy behaves better than
expected. We have to be ready to make an adjustment,” which
could also mean postponing an interest rate increase.  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  “We are seeing some tentative signs of improvement” in
U.S. residential real estate, Bullard said. “I expect only slow
improvement in 2012 in the housing market. I don’t think it is
realistic to expect rapid improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  