-- U.S. Top Draw for Private Jets as Florida Flyers Beat Asia
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T19:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/florida-beats-asia-in-private-jet-use.html
BBA Aviation Plc (BBA) , the world’s
biggest provider of bases for business jets, plans to spend $300
million on U.S. acquisitions this year as demand for private
planes in  emerging markets  remains in its infancy.  London-based BBA is focused on a U.S. market that provides
75 percent of sales, Chief Executive Officer Simon Pryce said,
adding that emerging economies are too lacking in big companies
and infrastructure to support extensive use of business jets.  “There are more planes on the ramp at Palm Beach on any
given Saturday afternoon than there are in the whole of India
and China,” Pryce said today in a telephone interview. “We
will see lots and lots of growth in  India  and China and the
other emerging markets, but from a very low base.”  Palm Beach International airport, north of Miami, is the
world’s second busiest for business jets, behind Teterboro,
which serves New York City, according to the 2011 FBO Survey
compiled by Forecast International for Aviation International
News, while the U.S. market is almost 10 times larger even than
that in  Europe . That contrasts with trends in the airline
industry, where  Asia  accounted for almost 31 percent of traffic
in December,  North America  27 percent and Europe 26 percent.  No More Shame  “We’re a mature-economy business,” said Pryce, who reckons
there are 10 times more paved airports in the U.S. than  China .
“You need an economy’s net worth to get to a certain level
before you have the right size of company to buy private jets.
You also need the right sorts of demographics and geography.”  BBA, which owns the Signature Flight Support brand, will
make “slow and steady investments” in emerging markets,
reflecting the modest growth levels, Pryce said.  The reluctance to fly by business jet that emerged during
the slump after the CEOs of General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC were criticized for using them to attend
hearings on bailouts has faded, the CEO said, with the aircraft
once again regarded as useful “productivity tools” by companies.  “Ultimately economics trump politics,” Pryce said. “It made
no sense what was going on in America, the continued targeting
of business and general aviation. It made no economic sense at
all. It was a soft political target.”  BBA said today its pretax profit rose 24 percent last year
to almost $164 million after $129 million was spent on seven
acquisitions. The stock close 1.2 percent higher at 204.2 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  