-- Ford CEO Candidate Tangled With Former CFO
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ford-ceo-candidate-fields-tangled-with-former-cfo-book-reveals.html
Mark Fields ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
president of the Americas and a leading candidate to succeed
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , nearly had a physical
altercation with another top executive in 2006, according to
“American Icon,” a new book on the automaker’s turnaround.  In July 2006, as collapsing truck and sport-utility vehicle
sales were making Ford unprofitable, Fields and other top
executives met at the  Henry Ford  museum in Dearborn,  Michigan ,
to accelerate restructuring plans, wrote Bryce G. Hoffman, a
reporter for the  Detroit News , who said the automaker cooperated
on the book, which goes on sale March 13.  Don Leclair, then Ford’s chief financial officer, insisted
Fields cut the advertising budget for the “Bold Moves”
campaign aimed at reversing the sales slide. Leclair had
previously blocked attempts by Fields to offer lifetime
warranties and  carbon offsets  for Ford vehicles as part of the
ad campaign, deeming the moves too costly, Hoffman wrote.  At the museum meeting, Leclair said there was “no other
alternative” to even deeper cuts for the ad campaign because of
Ford’s widening financial crisis, which would lead to a loss of
$12.6 billion in 2006.  “When you run the f--king business, you can do it,”
Fields responded to Leclair, Hoffman wrote. “But you don’t run
it. You’re the CFO. So, I’ll take your counsel, but that’s it.”  Leclair then shouted, “You’re going to do this,” Hoffman
wrote, adding: Fields leapt out of his chair screaming, “I’m
tired of this bulls---!”  Bill Ford Intervenes  Fields was “halfway across the table” when  Bill Ford ,
then the automaker’s CEO, grabbed him, according to Hoffman.
“Cut it out,” Ford said, according to Hoffman’s book.  Leclair, 60, retired from Ford in November 2008. He declined
to comment through Ray Day, a company spokesman.  Hoffman said he could not reveal specific sources for the
anecdote because he agreed not to indentify the people who
shared the details, many of whom still work for Ford. When he
uses direct quotations, as he did in this case, “the wording
comes from the speaker, from another participant in that
conversation, from contemporaneous notes or from a transcript,”
Hoffman wrote in an author’s note in his book.  Ford would not comment directly on anecdotes in the book,
said Karen Hampton, a company spokeswoman.  “As with any retelling of history, memories and accuracy
differ from person to person -- and this account is no
different,” Hampton said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
let the book speak for itself.”  Outsider Hired  Around the time of this anecdote, Bill Ford, great-grandson
of founder Henry Ford, was being pressured by some Ford board
members to step aside, Hoffman wrote. Director Irv Hockaday,
former head of Hallmark Cards Inc., advised Bill Ford to find a
new CEO, Hoffman writes. Shortly after that, at a July board
meeting, Ford asked the directors to replace him as CEO.  “This company means a lot to me. I have a lot tied up in
it,” Ford told the board, according to Hoffman. “But the one
thing I don’t is my ego.”  Two months later, Ford hired Mulally from  Boeing Co. (BA)  He
engineered a turnaround at the automaker by focusing on the Ford
brand, improving quality, globalizing operations and expanding
the company’s lineup with fuel-efficient models like the Fiesta
subcompact.  Ford reported its 11th consecutive profitable quarter Jan.
27, with net income of $13.6 billion, or $3.40 a share, boosted
by a one-time tax gain of $12.4 billion. For all of 2011, Ford’s
pretax operating profit was $8.8 billion, or $1.51 a share, up
$463 million from the previous year.  Mulally, 66, has not said when he will retire and recently
denied speculation that he would leave at the end of next year.
Fields, 51, is viewed as the leading candidate to succeed
Mulally, people familiar with the deliberations have said.  “I have no plans to retire,” Mulally said Feb. 9, while
announcing the retirements of CFO  Lewis Booth  and  Derrick Kuzak ,
the company’s product-development chief. “Our plan at Ford is
to have a very strong  succession plan  for every position,
including my own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  