-- Former DuPont Worker Pleads Guilty in Economic Espionage Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/former-dupont-worker-pleads-guilty-in-trade-secrets-case.html
Former  DuPont Co. (DD)  employee Tze Chao
pleaded guilty to conspiring to steal  trade secrets  about
titanium dioxide technology from the company and provide them to
 China ’s state-owned  Pangang Group Co. (000629)   Chao, 77, a naturalized U.S. citizen who spent 35 years at
DuPont, said he used his former employer’s trade secrets to help
Pangang, which was building a 100,000 metric-ton-per-year plant
to produce titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints,
plastics and paper. He entered his plea yesterday in federal
court in  San Francisco , admitting to one count of conspiracy to
commit economic espionage.  “I’m making a plea agreement with the court for the crime
I committed,” Chao said in court.  Chao, a  Delaware  resident, is cooperating with the
government in an investigation of DuPont trade secret theft,
according to his plea agreement, which was summarized at the
hearing. He was with DuPont from 1966 to 2002 and while there
worked on chloride-route titanium oxide processing, which is
cleaner than other methods for producing the pigment,
prosecutors said in court filings.  Pangang Group, California businessman Walter Liew, Liew’s
wife and another former DuPont employee also face charges, U.S.
Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco said Feb. 8 when a
revised indictment was filed. China sought to develop a
manufacturing process for chloride-route titanium dioxide, which
had been invented by DuPont, according to the indictment.  Titanium Dioxide  DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, is the world’s
largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, and won’t sell or
license its technology to Chinese companies.  Two years after leaving DuPont, Chao was hired by Pangang
as a consultant because of his experience with the technology,
prosecutors said. His consulting company bid on Pangang’s 2008
plant contract, saying it possessed DuPont technology, the
government said.  During the bidding process Pangang sought DuPont blueprints
and hired Chao to review plans that had been submitted by a
company owned by co-defendant Walter Liew, of Orinda,
 California .  “Chao accepted that assignment and provided Pangang with
additional trade secrets at the time,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Peter Axelrod said at the hearing yesterday.  Chao’s Attorney  Edmund Lynch, Chao’s attorney, said Chao didn’t provide
Pangang with the blueprints.  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s largest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White  accepted Chao’s plea.  The maximum sentence for conspiracy to commit economic
espionage is 15 years in prison, a $500,000 fine and restitution
as ordered by a judge. Prosecutors may recommend a more lenient
sentence for Chao’s cooperation, White said, referring to items
in the plea agreement, which wasn’t public.  Liew’s lawyer,  Thomas Nolan , declined to comment Feb. 8 on
the revised indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  