-- Gasoline Retreats After Saudis Deny Report of Pipeline Explosion
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T15:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/gasoline-retreats-after-saudis-deny-report-of-pipeline-explosion.html
Gasoline retreated from a nine-month
high after a Saudi Arabian official late yesterday said there
was no sabotage of any oil facility, following reports of a fire
in a pipeline.  Futures fell after Major General Mansour Al-Turki, a
spokesman for the Interior Ministry, said that no pipeline or
refinery had been damaged. Gasoline surged 2.9 percent yesterday
after the fire was reported, first-time U.S. jobless claims
matched a four-year low from two weeks ago, and the U.S.
escalated warnings to  Iran  about its nuclear program.  “The Saudis announced they didn’t have any pipeline
sabotage and that took some air out of prices,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “But
it does show how worried the market is about sabotage throughout
the  Middle East .”  Gasoline for April delivery fell 5.84 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $3.2933 a gallon at 10:47 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices touched $3.3868 yesterday after the
close of floor trading. Gasoline is up 23 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement fell 1.4 percent to $124.49
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  Gasoline’s decline mirrored a broader retreat in
commodities as the dollar rose against the euro, reducing the
investment appeal of raw materials. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI
Index (SPGSCI)  sank 0.9 percent at 10:46 a.m. in  New York  as the U.S.
currency advanced 0.8 percent against the euro.  Saudi Rumors  “There’s the fact the Saudi rumors were completely untrue,
and with a relatively strong dollar and lower stock markets,
you’re seeing end-of-the-week profit taking,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Futures also declined as gasoline deliveries to wholesalers
slipped 3.1 percent last week and consumption over the past four
weeks was 6.7 percent below a year earlier, according to Energy
Department data.  Demand has fallen as prices at the pump are rising.  Regular
gasoline (3AGSREG)  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.3 cent to
$3.741 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices have
increased 14 percent this year, and are 10 percent higher than a
year earlier.  “You’re still looking at sluggish product demand,”
Rigolini said.  April-delivery heating oil declined 5.47 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $3.2206 a gallon on the exchange. Prices have risen
9.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  