-- Geithner Says Banking Regulation Law Worth Fighting to Preserve
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-03-02T01:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/geithner-says-banking-regulation-law-worth-fighting-to-preserve.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  defended the financial reforms of 2010, saying that
while the measures aren’t perfect, they are “worth fighting to
preserve.”  “If these reforms had been in place a decade ago, then the
rise in debt and leverage would have been less dangerous,
consumers would not have been nearly as vulnerable to predation
and abuse, and the government would have been able to limit the
damage that a financial crisis could have on the broader
economy,” Geithner wrote in an op-ed published in the Wall
Street Journal.  The financial industry has resisted the overhaul. The Dodd-
Frank act’s ban on proprietary trading, known as the Volcker
rule, has resulted in more than 17,000 comment letters, the most
of any Dodd-Frank provision and one of the highest for a
financial regulation.  Geithner dismissed industry claims that the Dodd-Frank act
is too complex, limits risk taking and results in unintended
consequences.  “Remember the crisis when you hear complaints about
financial reform -- complaints about limits on risk-taking or
requirements for transparency and disclosure,” Geithner wrote.
“Remember the crisis when you read about the hundreds of
millions of dollars now being spent on lobbyists trying to
weaken or repeal financial reform.”  In the op-ed, Geithner recounted learning about Bear
Stearns Cos.’s plans to file for bankruptcy. He said “some
people seem to be suffering from amnesia about how close America
came to complete financial collapse under the outdated
regulatory system we had before Wall Street reform.”  The Dodd-Frank act largely relies on bank regulators to
define the regulations. Of the 225 Dodd-Frank rule making
deadlines passed, regulators have missed 158 as of March 1, according
to the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  