-- Gensler Warns of Risk of Energy ‘Loophole’ in Swap Dealer Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-02T19:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/gensler-warns-of-risk-of-energy-loophole-in-swap-dealer-rule.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission should limit the costs of the Dodd-Frank Act’s swap
dealer regulation for commercial companies without creating a
loophole for  BP Plc (BP)  and other energy firms, said  Gary Gensler ,
the agency’s chairman.  The CFTC is preparing to complete a final regulation
defining which banks,  hedge funds , energy firms and other
companies will be swap dealers and will face the highest capital
and collateral requirements to reduce risk in the swaps market.
The law is “very clear” and applies to financial and non-
financial companies that are engaging in dealing activity,
Gensler told reporters after a speech at George Washington
University.  “In the past some entities were left out of regulation
just because of what they called themselves,” Gensler said. “I
think it would be a mistake to end up with this era’s Enron
loophole, and something that might be a loophole for others.”  In 2000, certain certain electronic markets were excluded
from commission oversight under the so-called Enron loophole,
named for the energy company that collapsed in late 2001. “I
think it would be a mistake to end up with what would be sort of
this era’s BP loophole,” Gensler said.  Shell Energy North America LP and Vitol Inc. are among
energy companies that have told the CFTC they use swaps and
other derivatives to hedge risks tied to oil, natural gas and
other underlying assets.  “To the extent that Vitol ’s active bidding and offering
are motivated by its own interest in entering into a transaction
in a commodity in which it has an active physical presence, it
should not be considered swap dealing,” Miguel Loya, Vitol
president, said in a letter to the CFTC in February 2011.  Gensler said the CFTC is working to limit the affect of the
rule on end-users of derivatives and has the “tools to
clarify” the regulation. The agency may vote on the swap dealer
rule on March 20, a person briefed on the matter said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  