-- Germany’s Note Yields Fall Most in Two Months After Retail Sales Decline
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-02T16:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/germany-s-bonds-advance-after-retail-sales-decline-italian-notes-decline.html
Germany ’s bonds rose, pushing down
two-year yields by the most in two months, as an unexpected
decline in the nation’s  retail sales  stoked concern the debt
crisis is weighing on the region’s recovery.  Spanish notes fell for the first time in 12 days after
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said a deepening economic slump
will hamper efforts to rein in the budget deficit. Italian 10-
year bonds posted the longest run of weekly gains in 14 years
after the budget shortfall narrowed more than economists
forecast.  Italy ’s bonds also gained on speculation banks were
using some of the three-year loans offered this week by the
 European Central Bank  to buy the securities.  “There is still some concern about softness in the euro-
region economy and as long as there is uncertainty about this,
that keeps German yields anchored,” said Rasmus Rousing, a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. The
ECB’s refinancing operations “helped peripheral bonds a lot but
there are still risks out there,” he said.  Germany’s two-year yield dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.16 percent at 4:41 p.m.  London  time after
dropping as much as six basis points, the most since Dec. 27.
The 0.25 percent note due in March 2014 gained 0.105, or 1.05
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,326) face amount, to 100.175. The 10-
year yield fell seven basis points to 1.80 percent.  German retail sales declined 1.6 percent in January from
December, when they increased 0.1 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
gain of 0.5 percent, a Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  Bunds Gain  German bonds have returned 11 percent in the past year as
the region’s debt crisis worsened, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Greek bonds tumbled 66 percent, and Portuguese debt
dropped 20 percent.  Spanish bonds pared a weekly gain as Rajoy defied European
Union allies by raising his nation’s  budget-deficit  target for
this year to 5.8 percent of gross domestic product compared with
the previously agreed 4.4 percent. The government also announced
the economy will contract 1.7 percent this year with the jobless
rate staying above 24 percent.  The yield on the country’s 10-year bond rose four basis
points to 4.90 percent. That increased the extra yield on the
securities over comparable German debt by 10 basis points to 312
basis points.  Spain ’s borrowing costs for 10 years exceeded
Italy’s for the first time since August 2011.  Italy’s Deficit  Italy’s 10-year bonds rose for a sixth day as the national
statistics office said the budget deficit shrank to 3.9 percent
of GDP last year from 4.6 percent in 2010. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast a decline to 4 percent. Economic growth
last year slowed to 0.4 percent, topping a 0.3 percent forecast,
from 1.8 percent in 2010.  The Italian 10-year yield dropped five basis points to 4.90
percent, increasing this week’s decline to 58 basis points. Two-
year yields fell two basis points to 1.74 percent.  Italian and Spanish debt has risen since December amid
speculation investors are using loans from the ECB to buy the
securities. The Frankfurt-based central bank said on Feb. 29 it
would lend banks 529.5 billion euros under its second longer-
term refinancing operation.  Nordea Investment Management , a unit of the Nordic region’s
largest bank, has cut its holdings of Italian bonds in the past
month amid concern the global economic recovery may be derailed
by higher  oil prices .  ‘Big Risk’  The company bought shorter-maturity Italian notes last
year, favoring them over Spanish debt because of their greater
liquidity and higher yields, said Martti Forsberg, who oversees
about 2.5 billion euros. He said he is underweight the longer-
dated securities of both countries, meaning his funds own a
smaller percentage of the debt than the indexes against which
they measure their performance.  “Anything that can hurt the global economy, including an
oil shock would be a big risk,” Helsinki-based Forsberg said in
a Feb. 24 interview.  Armstrong Investment Managers said it sold its remaining
Italian securities, making a 25 percent return after the ECB’s
liquidity operations. The company, which bought the securities
in November, cut its holdings to zero from about 3 percent to 4
percent, said  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner in London. The
company oversees about $353 million.  Volatility in Greek debt was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by  Belgium , according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  The yield on  Greece ’s bonds due October 2022 climbed 66
basis points to 37.10 percent, pushing the price down to 18.63
percent of face value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  