-- Germany Needs More Ambitious Energy Targets, Merkel Rival Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-02T13:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/germany-needs-more-ambitious-energy-targets-merkel-rival-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is “failing” in a plan to exit nuclear energy and
run  Europe ’s biggest economy on renewable energy sources, Green
Party co-leader  Juergen Trittin  said.  Trittin said Merkel’s government blocked European Union
plans to introduce a binding energy efficiency target, has
failed to unlock money to reduce consumption and should back
more ambitious targets for renewables such as wind and solar.  “You can’t just exit, you have to enter,” to transform
the German energy mix, Trittin, an environment minister in
Gerhard Schroeder’s Social Democrat-led government from 1998 to
2005, said in an interview in his Berlin office yesterday. “The
government’s 2020 targets are not ambitious.”  Germany , Europe’s biggest power market, shuttered more than
a quarter of its nuclear capacity after the Fukushima disaster
in  Japan  last March and plans to complete an exit by 2022. The
government wants to get 35 percent of the country’s electricity
from renewables by 2020 compared with about 20 percent now.  Trittin, the architect of the Schroeder government’s policy
to exit nuclear power before Merkel in 2010 reversed that
decision, said he would support the renewable industry in its
aim to push the share of renewables to “far more than 40
percent,” by the end of this decade.  “The government has failed to explain how it will plug the
gap between the shuttered reactors and targets for renewables,”
that have been unchanged since the decision to close the
country’s eight oldest reactors last year, he said.  A binding EU efficiency target and a bloc-wide goal to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020 would push
up CO2 prices, unlocking money to make buildings more energy-
efficient, he said.  Germany should also incentivize the construction of energy
storage facilities and efficient natural gas plants to “enable
a new  energy supply  dominated by renewables,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  