-- GM’s Peugeot Pact Shows Error of Keeping Opel, Ex-Magna CEO Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T18:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/gm-peugeot-pact-heightens-pressure-on-opel-s-limbo-plants.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s cost-cutting
alliance with PSA Peugeot Citroen shows it made the wrong call
in pulling out of a deal to sell European operations to  Magna
International Inc. (MG) , the man who led the failed bid said today.  Since opting to keep the Opel division, GM has failed to
grant the brand the liberty to innovate that automakers in
costlier countries need to be successful, Siegfried Wolf, now
the head of Russian car company GAZ Group, said in an interview.  “I think still that it wasn’t the right decision on GM’s
part,” Wolf said today in  London . “I’m convinced that if they’d
sold it that would have been better for both.”  GM and Peugeot will build small and mid-size cars together
under a deal announced Feb. 29, something which will heighten
rivalries between  plants , according to  France ’s FO Metaux union.
At Opel, which has already cut almost 6,000 jobs, the deal casts
doubts over the future of older sites in Germany and the U.K.  Wolf, appointed chairman of Russian Machines, which owns
GAZ, in 2010, said that Opel and sister brand Vauxhall would
have benefitted from more autonomy and an injection of “pride.”  “You see how they struggle, because they weren’t given
their own identity,” he said. “The affiliates are still too
dependent on the mother house. Being in high-cost countries they
need to be given freedom to do more and show some ingenuity.”  The approach from Aurora, Ontario-based Magna, which was
backed by  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank, failed after an agreement with
GM was scrapped following the appointment of new board when the
Detroit-based company entered  bankruptcy protection .  Wolf still has links to GM, with GAZ -- controlled by
Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska -- agreeing last year to
produce 30,000 Chevrolet Aveo sedans and hatchbacks annually for
the U.S. company at its plant in  Nizhny Novgorod .  GAZ also has accords with  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG. (DAI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  