-- Greek Swaps Headed Back to ISDA Committee
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-02T10:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/greek-swaps-headed-back-to-isda-ruling-committee-credit-markets.html
Holders of credit-default swaps on
Greek bonds shouldn’t tear up their contracts after yesterday’s
ruling against a payout.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association said the
swaps hadn’t been triggered by the  European Central Bank ’s
exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt from losses
taken by private investors. The group will now probably be asked
to determine whether collective action clauses, or CACS, being
used by  Greece  to impel investors to participate in a wider
exchange of bonds that would trigger the swaps.  “They will have to enforce CACS,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “At that point the exchange will become coercive and
that will be a restructuring event for CDS.”  The 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout for Greece is
testing the sanctity of the market for credit-default swaps and
their effectiveness as a hedge against losses on  government
bonds . Policy makers including former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  have opposed paying the contracts because they’re
concerned that traders will be encouraged to bet against failing
nations and worsen  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Contracts tied to the debt of Greece signal a 95 percent
probability of default.  ‘Crying Out’  Such thinking is misdirected, according to Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. A
settlement on Greek swaps may bolster confidence in the $258
billion  sovereign insurance market  and help boost the government
bond market, he said. Efforts to circumvent a trigger risk
undermining credit markets, Spiro said.  “The sovereign CDS market is crying out for an injection
of confidence because we are by no means out of the woods,”
Spiro said. “It’s very important, particularly in much larger
bond markets like Italy and  Spain , that investors’ hedges are
perceived to be credible.”  European leaders agreed to provide capital faster for the
planned permanent bailout fund in a concession to international
pressure to strengthen the bloc’s defenses against the debt
crisis. Euro governments might pay the first two annual
installments into the 500 billion-euro fund this year and
complete the capitalization in 2015, a year ahead of schedule. A
decision will come later today.  Interest-Rate Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  sold $2.5
billion of debt at almost half the relative yield that JPMorgan
Chase & Co. paid last month. The global speculative-grade
default rate will rise to 2.8 percent by year-end from 1.8
percent at the close of 2011, Moody’s Investors Service said.
The U.S.  commercial paper  market contracted to the lowest level
in more than a year.  The two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of debt
market stress, fell 0.4 basis point to 25.75 basis points. The
gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  The cost of protecting company debt from default in the
U.S. declined, with the Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreasing 1.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 92.7 basis points. The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index 
of companies with investment-grade ratings rose 1.5 to 128.5,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 10:30 a.m. in London.  Default Swaps Fall  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index decreased 5 basis points
to 137, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show. That’s on course for
its lowest since Aug. 5, according to data provider CMA. The
 Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside  Japan  declined 4 basis points to 157.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  While Moody’s is forecasting a faster default rate, the
estimate is below the 4.8 percent average since 1983, the New
York-based ratings firm said in a report yesterday.  Standard &
Poor’s  is forecasting a default rate of 3.3 percent by year-end,
from 1.98 percent at the close of 2011, the ratings firm also
reported yesterday.  Wells Fargo  Bonds of Wells Fargo were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 175 trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Wells Fargo issued 3.5 percent, 10-year notes that pay 150
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. On Jan. 13, JPMorgan sold $3 billion
of 4.5 percent notes, also due in 10 years, at a 270 basis-point
spread, before issuing an additional $250 million of the debt
five days later.  The seasonally adjusted amount of commercial paper
outstanding fell $10.4 billion to $927.2 billion in the week
ended Feb. 29, the third consecutive decrease, the  Federal
Reserve  said. That’s the lowest level since the market touched
$916.8 billion in January 2011, according to Fed data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying
rent and salaries.  Leveraged Loans  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index  rose for a sixth
day, increasing 0.03 cent to 93.46 cents on the dollar. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has climbed from this year’s low of 91.1
on Jan. 3.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields fell for a third day,
declining 9 basis points to 348 basis points, or 3.48 percentage
points, according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . That’s the
lowest level since August.  Greece published the formal offer last week for its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with private-
sector investors taking a loss of 53.5 percent. Euro-area
finance ministers cleared the European Financial Stability
Facility to issue bonds for the Greek debt swap yesterday as
they reviewed the nation’s progress on meeting the conditions
for the aid.  ‘One Final Vote’  The ECB’s exchange of Greek bonds didn’t constitute
subordination of private investors, one of the criteria for a
payout under a restructuring event, ISDA said. The group’s
determinations committee wouldn’t rule out a  credit event  “at a
later date,” according to the statement.  “We expect the next few days, perhaps next few weeks, to
ultimately send the ISDA committee back for one final vote,”
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Bill Gross said yesterday in
a Bloomberg television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with
 Tom Keene .  Pimco is part of the ISDA determinations group along with
banks and investors including JPMorgan, Barclays Plc,
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC and D.E. Shaw & Co.,
according to ISDA’s website.  120 Percent  Greece has committed to reducing national debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last
year. A negotiated debt swap, known as private-sector
involvement, or PSI, will slice 100 billion euros off more than
200 billion euros of privately held debt if all investors
participate.  The government said Feb. 24 it’s seeking a 90 percent
participation rate and set a 75 percent rate as a threshold for
proceeding with the transaction. Investors are paying $7.3
million in advance and $100,000 annually to insure $10 million
of Greek debt for five years. Greek 10-year bonds fell to a
record 19.14 cents on the euro after yesterday’s ruling.  The recovery in an auction may be between 20 cents and 25
cents, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Paolo Batori wrote in a
Feb. 27 note.  Private investors have until March 8 to tender their bonds,
and the exchange for a majority of securities will be settled on
March 12. Greece has said it may activate collective action
clauses to bind holdouts.  Funding for Portugal  “ISDA clearly has indicated that that would be a CDS
trigger,” said David Nowakowski, credit strategist at Roubini
Global Economics LLC in  London . “If they’re not triggered, it’s
not the end of the CDS market. In corporates there are lots and
lots of exchanges, sometimes distressed exchanges, that don’t
trigger CDS.”  While Greece’s debt restructuring is the biggest ever, the
volume of credit-default swaps on the line has tumbled. The net
amount of debt protected is no more than for some companies and
represents less than one percent of the nation’s bonds and loans
outstanding.  Swaps on  Greece (CDNNGRCE)  now cover $3.25 billion of debt, down from
about $6 billion last year, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps settlement of $5.2
billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Greece’s debt restructuring, which triggered a downgrade to
selective default by S&P this week, may make it harder for other
indebted euro nations such as  Portugal  to fund themselves, said
 Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at S&P in London.  “It ceased to be about Greece a long time ago,” Spiro
said. “It’s all about making sure this tale of woe does not
repeat itself elsewhere in the periphery. A payout is very
likely. This is really about the timing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  