-- Greenberg’s $25 Billion AIG Bailout Claim Should Be Rejected, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-02T05:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/greenberg-s-25-billion-aig-claim-must-be-dismissed-u-s-says.html
The U.S. government said Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
chief executive officer, should not be allowed in a court case
to “rewrite” the insurer’s rescue agreement and make American
taxpayers pay $25 billion more.  The U.S.  Justice Department , in a filing yesterday in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington , said a lawsuit filed
by Greenberg’s Starr International Co. seeking damages in that
sum for the 2008 AIG takeover should be dismissed. The
government said Starr lacks the authority to sue and has no
claim.  “Starr demands that the court second guess AIG and rewrite
the rescue agreement by making American taxpayers pay an
additional $25 billion, based upon a market valuation of AIG
after the rescue,” the U.S. said in its filing. “Although
Starr may disagree with the terms to which AIG agreed, any
burdens resulting from that agreement should be borne by AIG and
its shareholders, not the public.”  Starr International sued the government Nov. 21, calling
the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in the insurer in
2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property that requires
$25 billion in compensation.  AIG was added as a “nominal” defendant in the case,
meaning the company would be bound by any judgment.  Alison Preece, a spokeswoman for the  law firm  representing
Starr, declined to comment on the government’s filing.  AIG Common Stock  Starr claims that the U.S. taking of 562.9 million shares
of AIG common stock was illegal. Starr alleges that while the
U.S. got so-called fairness opinions from banks on exchanging
two groups of preferred stock, it failed to get such an opinion
in exchanging a block of preferred stock for 562.9 million
shares “for virtually nothing,” according to the complaint.  Starr, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time of the
bailout, claims that in the midst of the financial crisis in
September 2008, the U.S. took 80 percent of AIG’s equity while
violating the constitutional rights of shareholders to due
process and equal protection of the law.  The claims court handles cases against the federal
government for money, including claims that the U.S. took
private property for public use without just compensation in
violation of the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Liquidity Crisis  Starr argues that AIG was caught in a liquidity crisis
hastened by the Fed’s denying the insurer access to lending
through its so-called discount window.  The central bank struck the AIG equity deal a day after the
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008.
Starr claims the U.S. could have lent money without demanding
equity, as it did with foreign banks and other lenders.  On Nov. 21 Starr also sued the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning
$85 billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms to banks
in a “backdoor bailout.”  AIG almost collapsed after bets tied to the housing market
soured, and the bailout was revised at least four times before
reaching $182 billion.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York , 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  