-- Greece Ratings Cut to Lowest Level by Moody’s
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-03T11:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/greece-ratings-cut-by-moody-s.html
Greece ’s credit rating was cut to
the lowest level by Moody’s Investors Service after the country
began the biggest sovereign debt restructuring ever.  Greece’s long-term foreign currency debt was downgraded to
C from Ca late yesterday, with Moody’s saying in a statement
that investors who participate in the nation’s debt exchange
will get about 70 percent less than the face value of their
holdings. The deal constitutes “a distressed exchange, and
hence a default,” the New York-based rating company said.  Greece has published the formal offer document for its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities. The
restructuring uses so-called collective action clauses to
discourage holdouts, the use of which would trigger credit-
default swap insurance contracts, according to the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  The debt exchange aims to help reduce national debt to
120.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from 160
percent last year, and to meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) international bailout. The swap will slice about
100 billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately
held debt should all investors participate.  Earlier Cuts  The downgrade follows  Standard & Poor’s  decision on Feb. 27
to lower Greece to “selective default” after the announcement
of the plan for investors to trade their bonds. It also follows
a two-level reduction last week by  Fitch Ratings  to C, which
said it will further cut Greece’s rating to “Restricted
Default” once the bond exchange is completed.  The country faces a high risk of default even if the plan
is successful, Moody’s said. It will be unlikely to be able to
sell bonds to private investors once its bailout package runs
out, according to the rating company.  Euro area finance ministers approved the exchange and
financing plan, Greece’s second following a 110 billion-euro
bailout in May 2010, on Feb. 21 after Greek lawmakers backed
austerity measures demanded by the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . The leaders of the two biggest
parties, which support Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s interim
government, pledged to continue with the measures after
elections, likely to take place in April.  Critics of the package, which include spending cuts and a
22 percent reduction in the minimum wage, say the program will
deepen the recession, making it harder to achieve the program’s
debt sustainability goals.  The European Commission forecasts Greece’s economy will
shrink 4.4 percent this year, as the country goes through a
fifth year of recession. Gross domestic product contracted 6.8
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  