-- Goldman’s Blankfein Was Prepped by U.S., Gupta’s Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-03T06:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/gupta-witness-tells-of-animosity-with-rajaratnam-lawyer-says.html
Lawyers for  Rajat Gupta , the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of passing inside
tips, said prosecutors in the case conducted preparation
sessions with Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  before his Feb. 24 deposition.  Blankfein, who testified as a prosecution witness at the
insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, was questioned as part of a parallel insider-trading
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
against Gupta, who was charged in October with passing nonpublic
information to Rajaratnam.  “Does Goldman Sachs have any interest in the outcome of
this litigation?” Gary Naftalis, Gupta’s lawyer asked Blankfein
at the end of the deposition that began at 10:22 a.m. and
concluded at 7:14 p.m.  “No,” Blankfein replied.  Excerpts from the Blankfein transcript were attached to the
defense lawyers’ letters to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who
is presiding over both cases.  Blankfein, who might be a prosecution witness against
Gupta, said during the day-long deposition that he had
participated in two sessions in which Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Reed Brodsky , who is prosecuting Gupta, asked “three-quarters”
of the questions. The sessions were held at Goldman Sachs,
Blankfein said.  FBI, SEC  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents were also present at
the preparatory sessions, as well as SEC representatives,
Naftalis said in a March 1 letter to Rakoff.  The excerpts also show that SEC lawyers objected numerous
times to questions Naftalis asked about the government’s
preparation of Blankfein, citing a legal privilege barring Gupta
from discovering information about its legal strategy and the
thought processes of its lawyers.  Naftalis has asked Rakoff to allow Gupta’s defense team to
resume questioning Blankfein about these preparations and
require the SEC to provide Gupta with the documents shown to
Blankfein during the sessions. While Naftalis didn’t allege
anything improper occurred during the preparation sessions, he
said he’s seeking the documents used to help prepare Blankfein.  “The SEC’s attempt to withhold from disclosure the
documents shown to Mr. Blankfein by Mr. Brodsky to refresh his
recollection fails,” Naftalis said in the letter to Rakoff.  “There can be no dispute that Blankfein is a key witness
with respect to the allegations against Mr. Gupta,” Naftalis
said. “It is therefore in the ‘interests of justice’ to permit
Mr. Gupta to cross-examine these documents.”  ‘Other People’  “Have you learned whether or not other people at Goldman
Sachs besides yourself have been interviewed by representatives
of the prosecution in connection with this matter?” Naftalis
asked Blankfein, according to the excerpts.  Steven Peikin, a lawyer for Blankfein interrupted saying,
that the questioning would “tread into a privileged area.”  Naftalis also asked Blankfein about whether other Goldman
Sachs board members had independent relationships with large
investors in the firm.  “I can’t think of it, but inevitably,” Blankfein replied.  Rakoff ruled in November that Blankfein could be questioned
before Gupta’s criminal trial.  Gupta, who denies wrongdoing, was charged in October with
leaking information about Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble to
Rajaratnam, who was convicted last year and is serving an 11-
year prison sentence. Gupta was also a director at P&G.  16 Seconds  Prosecutors said Gupta passed illegal tips to Rajaratnam,
including one after participated by telephone in a Sept. 23,
2008, Goldman Sachs board meeting that concluded before the
close of the  New York  Stock Exchange.  During the meeting, Goldman agreed to accept a $5 billion
investment from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the
U.S. said. Sixteen seconds after hanging up and two minutes
before the market closed, Gupta called Rajaratnam, according to
prosecutors said. Rajaratnam caused Galleon funds to purchase
$27 million in Goldman Sachs Shares, earning a $840,000 profit,
the U.S. said.  A month later on Oct. 23, 2008, Rajaratnam avoided losses
on Goldman Sachs, prosecutors said, after Gupta was told during
a board meeting that the company had lost almost $2 a share,
worse than Wall Street’s expectations.  Banks Policies  At Rajaratnam’s trial, Blankfein testified that Gupta
violated the bank’s policies by allegedly telling the defendant
about the company’s confidential board discussions, results and
plans.  Blankfein said Gupta and other board members were told in
October 2008 that Goldman Sachs was facing the possibility of a
quarterly loss for the first time since it went public in 1999.  During the deposition, Naftalis also asked Blankfein what
was asked in the prep sessions about Goldman Sachs’s strategy to
acquire a commercial bank and about the 2008 investment by
Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in  Manhattan , declined to comment on Naftalis’s letter.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  