-- Iberdrola Invests 0.4% of Sales in R&D as Spain’s GDP Lags
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-03-02T15:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/iberdrola-invests-0-4-of-revenue-in-r-d-as-spain-s-economy-lags.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Spain ’s biggest power
company, spent 0.4 percent of its revenue on research,
development and innovation last year as it urged the government
to cut clean energy subsidies and ease costs to utilities.  The company spent 136 million euros ($180 million) on 150
projects meant to address the challenges of meeting future
energy demands, it said in an e-mailed press release today. That
matches the percentage a year earlier, when the company invested
130 million euros out of revenue of 30.4 billion euros.  The utility “wants to be seen to be doing something but
this is a drop in the ocean,” said Gerard Reid, a renewable
energy analyst who left Jefferies International Ltd. at the end
of last year to set up his own advisory company. “They are not
doing any innovation. I don’t see anything tangible at all.”  Iberdrola Chairman  Ignacio Galan  is battling with the
government over the bill for the country’s power supply.
Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria last month insisted power
companies will have to take on some of the costs of a system
that has racked up debts of 24 billion euros. Galan said profits
in Spain are already too slim and urged Soria to dock subsidies
for solar power plants.  Lack of investment in research is hampering Spain’s efforts
to restart an economy slipping into recession for the second
time since 2009. The country  ranks  26 out of 37 members of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for R&D,
spending 1.4 percent of gross domestic product behind Portugal,
Estonia and Ireland.  Solar Subsidies  Abengoa SA (ABG) , the Seville-based engineering company that
builds solar-thermal generators and biofuel plants, invested
90.6 million euros, or 1.3 percent of revenue, in R&D last year.
SMA Solar Technology SA, the inverter maker based in Niestetal,
 Germany , plans this year to spend 8.3 percent of its expected
revenue of 1.2 billion euros, the company said today.  Successive governments have offered above-market rates for
wind and solar power that helped Iberdrola to become the world’s
biggest producer of renewable energy. Clean energy plants got
more than 7 billion euros in subsidies last year from the
Spanish power system.  Iberdrola is Spain’s fourth-most profitable company,
posting net income of 2.8 billion euros last year. The European
Commission rates it as  Europe ’s fourth-most innovative power
utility, Iberdrola said.  The Spanish economy will shrink by 1.7 percent this year as
the government slashes spending to rein in its  budget deficit ,
Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  