-- Iceland Needs More Measures to Meet Goals: IMF
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/iceland-needs-further-measures-to-meet-fiscal-goals-imf-says.html
Iceland needs more measures to meet
fiscal targets amid overspending in 2011 and a projected budget
“slippage” in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “The mission is concerned about these deviations,
especially in light of the considerable risks to the revenue
projections in 2012 and the medium term,” the IMF said today in
an Article IV concluding statement. “Moreover, there is a risk
that expenditure overruns may appear again, which would also
affect the medium-term fiscal path.”  The IMF recommended additional measures this year equal to
0.5 percent of gross domestic product to achieve a fiscal goal
of an overall balance in 2014. This will allow debt to decline
from almost 100 percent of GDP to about 80 percent in 2016, the
Washington-based group said.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month IMF program in August
after its 2008 financial collapse, has since outperformed a
number of euro area nations in recovering from the crisis. The
$12 billion economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, the IMF
said today, adding that growth will be at 2.5 percent to 3
percent in the “medium term.”  “Over the medium-term, the drivers of growth will
gradually shift away from domestic demand, notably investment,
toward external demand as exports increase,” the IMF said.
“However, there are risks to this outlook, emanating from both
external and domestic sources.”  Keep Tightening  Iceland’s central bank last month signaled it’s ready to
raise  interest rates  in order to cap inflation after consumer
prices soared above the official target and the krona slid
against the euro. The bank left the seven-day collateral lending
rate at 4.75 percent last month and in December, after last year
raising borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 to contain
inflation.  The island should continue with a “gradual tightening”
of monetary policy and lifting  capital controls  “remains a key
challenge,” the IMF said. “In view of the uncertainty in the
global environment, consideration should be given to a further
extension of the capital controls, beyond end-2013.”  Iceland has started easing its capital restrictions it
instituted after its collapse to protect the krona. Iceland has
started currency auctions as it scales back the krona controls.
The central bank hasn’t set a target date for removing the
restrictions and says the plan follows given financial targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  