-- Microsoft Ruling in Motorola Mobility Case to Get Review
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-02T23:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/microsoft-ruling-in-motorola-mobility-case-to-get-review-1-.html
A U.S. trade agency said it will
review a judge’s findings that  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) 
infringed one  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  patent and not six others.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said today that it
will consider aspects of all seven patents. The agency has the
power to block imports of products that violate U.S. patent
rights.  Notice  of the decision was posted on the agency’s
website.  Motorola Mobility, being bought by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , was accused
of infringing seven Microsoft patents. Microsoft said it’s owed
royalties from any company making products running on Google’s
Android operating system, and filed the ITC complaint to stop
imports of Motorola Mobility’s Android-based phones.  The judge found that the six patents weren’t infringed, and
that two were invalid. The case targets Motorola Blur devices,
including the Atrix, Backflip, Bravo, Charm, Cliq, Devour,
Droid, Droid 2, Spice and the Xoom tablet.  The commission said it will consider the judge’s
infringement analyses of the patents, the validity of the patent
that Administrative Law Judge Theodore Essex had found
infringed, and whether Microsoft had met the requirement that it
be using the inventions as well.  “We look forward to the ITC’s review of the issues it has
identified,” Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said
in an e-mailed statement. “We remain confident that the
Commission will affirm that Motorola has infringed our
intellectual property.”  Broader Effort  Motorola Mobility said the questions asked by the
commission may help it win the case.  “Motorola is pleased with today’s ITC notice identifying
the issues to be reviewed in the ALJ’s initial determination of
December 20, 2011,” Christa Smith, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  The case is part of a broader effort to curtail the growth
of Android, licensed for free by Google to further its mobile-
advertising business. The platform has become the most popular
for smartphones, with 51 percent of the global market in the
fourth quarter, compared with 2 percent for Microsoft, according
to researcher Gartner Inc.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, has said it
reached licensing agreements with makers of more than 70 percent
of the Android-based smartphones sold in the U.S.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose operating system had 24 percent of the
global smartphone market, also is suing makers of Android
devices, seeking to force Android handset and tablet makers into
removing key features that it contends copy the iPhone and iPad.
Overall, the companies are vying for share of a market that
researcher IDC said increased 55 percent last year.  Infringed Patent  The patent found to be infringed by Essex is among those
covering a Microsoft program called  ActiveSync , which is broadly
licensed through the industry, including to Apple and Google.
Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , has said it
would be able to design around the patent to ensure imports
aren’t stopped.  The patents in which no violation was found by the judge
involved methods to eliminate redundant data transmission,
generate meeting requests, create file names, select from
content menus, manage changes to a contact database and
integrate computer functions to a telephone.  XBox Claim  Motorola Mobility has filed its own patent-infringement
claim against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft at the agency,
seeking to block sales of the XBox video-gaming system. Essex is
scheduled to release his findings in that case on April 23.  Microsoft said Feb. 22 it filed a competition complaint
against Google and Motorola Mobility in  Europe , claiming the
companies have refused to license their patents on fair and
reasonable terms. Google called the European Commission
complaint “just another example of their attempts to use the
regulatory process to attack competitors,” and Motorola
Mobility has said it’s willing to license the patents.  Microsoft’s case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter
of Certain Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components
Thereof, 337-744, while Motorola Mobility’s case against
Microsoft is In the matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles,
337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  