-- If Stockton Is Broke, Then Why Isn’t San Diego?: Steven Greenhut
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-03-02T00:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/if-stockton-is-broke-then-why-isn-t-san-diego-steven-greenhut.html
Stockton,  California , which is
heading toward the first steps of Chapter 9 bankruptcy, is
described as a crime-racked wretch designated by Forbes
magazine as the most miserable city in America.  But it would be wrong to believe that the troubles in the
city of almost 300,000 residents in the agricultural San
Joaquin Valley are not necessarily a sign of things to come in
more upscale municipalities across the state.  Unfortunately, the financial mess in Stockton echoes
problems throughout California, even though public-sector
union leaders and Democratic state legislators are in denial
about this reality. In cities as affluent and diverse as  San
Jose  and San Diego, municipal finances are hitting the wall,
driven by unsustainable pension debt and health-care promises
made to government workers during more flush economic times.  Stockton has not been a prime location since the Gold
Rush, but only a few years ago it was a reasonable destination
for commuters who couldn’t swing the prices in San Francisco,
about 80 miles west. Now the  murder rate  is at record highs,
and the police union is in a pitched battle with the new city
manager. The debt-laden downtown redevelopment area looks like
a ghost town, and the city is littered with foreclosed
properties.  Stockton is also in the news as the test case for a new
state law intended to put the brakes on municipal bankruptcy.
It’s a reminder not just of how far and fast a city can fall,
but also of problems that are festering everywhere.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  “There was no money set aside to fund those commitments,”
Stockton City Manager Bob Deis  told Capital Public Radio  in
reference to $760 million in city debt and unfunded
liabilities. “While that was a legal decision they made over
20 years, it was an unsound decision and it has similarities
to a Ponzi scheme.”  Blaming past councils, Deis pointed to a health-care plan
that pays the entire cost of care for every city employee and
spouse for life, after only one month on the job. “In my 32
years of managing finances for various local governments, I
have never heard of a situation like this,” he added.  As  Bloomberg  News reported, the city “granted employees
some of the state’s most generous benefits, and now has 94
retirees with pensions of at least $100,000 a year -- more
than twice as many as some comparably sized California
cities.”  Statewide there are more than 15,000 California
government retirees who are members of the $100,000 pension
club.  The Stockton police union, which had previously paid for
ominous-looking billboards welcoming people to the second most
dangerous city in California, is sure there’s some secret fund
of money somewhere. Like most California unions, it refuses to
recognize the state of affairs driven by the pension and
health-care benefit upgrades they succeeded in attaining,
mostly in the past decade. Instead of working toward reform,
California’s unions and their political allies are trying to
stop every possible relief valve short of huge tax increases.  For instance, the new state law requires a 90-day
mediation period before bankruptcy can be declared, a watered-
down version of a union-backed bill that would have required
approval by a committee before cities could proceed with
abrogating their debt loads. Previously cities, such as the
similarly crime-plagued Vallejo on the northeastern edge of
the  San Francisco  Bay Area, could declare bankruptcy on their
own. Vallejo recently emerged from bankruptcy without
seriously reworking its pension plans, however, which is a
reminder to bankruptcy advocates that it can be helpful but
won’t solve everything.  The state’s pro-union forces aren’t content slowing the
bankruptcy process. They are committed to halting any serious
reforms that would keep cities from reaching that last-ditch
process.  Reforming Pensions  In beachfront San Diego, which has long been the poster
child for pension abuses after a previous city council
underfunded the pension system, reform-minded officials have
placed a pension overhaul they call CPR --  Comprehensive
Pension Reform  -- on the ballot in June. The measures  would
put new employees in a 401(k)-style plan, require larger
contributions from city employees, restrict pension  spiking 
and would cap for five years the amount of compensation used
to calculate pension benefits. This is a city where most of
the payroll budget goes to retirees.  Not only are the unions gearing up for a campaign fight,
but they allege that the very act of placing a pension-related
voter initiative on the ballot is an “unfair labor practice.”
They took their case to an unelected state panel, the Public
Employment Relations Board, which filed an injunction to stop
the election. Fortunately, a superior court judge nixed that
idea, but it shows the lengths to which unions will go to stop
reform, not to mention their undemocratic mindset.  In previous weeks, pension reformers in California
 dropped plans  for an initiative to change the system after the
labor-friendly California attorney general provided a
deceptive title and summary to their measure, thus creating a
difficult hurdle to overcome given that voters rely heavily on
those descriptions.  In  San Jose , Democratic Mayor Chuck Reed is part of a
growing movement of progressives who realize that without
pension reform every other city service is in peril. Relying
on a city charter provision that sets only minimum benefit
levels for city employees, Reed is pushing something that the
state’s good-government Little Hoover Commission says is
necessary -- cuts in benefits for current workers. Public
employee unions recently filed a complaint with the San Jose
elections commission alleging that Reed provided a “knowingly
false, misleading and deceptive fiscal year 2015-2016 city
pension contribution cost of $650 million.” Such harassment is
reflective of a union movement uninterested in constructive
reform.  Going Nowhere  Meanwhile, Democratic legislators at the Capitol are
operating under the same mindset. Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown ’s serious but modest pension reforms gained the backing
of the state’s Republicans, but are going nowhere in a Capitol
dominated by Democrats. Assemblyman Roger Dickinson, a
 Sacramento  Democrat, even introduced a Public Employees Bill
of Rights, which received a firm rebuke from the Sacramento
Bee’s liberal editorial page: “Survey after survey shows that
local and state public employees enjoy some of the best
benefits -- and strongest job protections -- of any public
workers in the nation. Given that, why does California need a
Public Employees Bill of Rights?”  The answer is that the state’s legislators are so
beholden to public sector unions that they are oblivious to
the financial meltdown all around them and aren’t about to do
anything before more cities’ finances hit the wall.  The unfunded liabilities are so large that it’s unlikely
that an economic rebound will correct a problem long in the
making. Even when the economy was doing well, legislators
continued to increase benefits beyond the ability of taxpayers
to pay for them.  Writing in the  Bee this week , Stanford professor  Joe
Nation , a former Democratic assemblyman, argued that “from
Stockton to  San Diego , government pension costs are crushing
local governments.” The article explained: “Based on economic
and finance standards used everywhere except in the public
pension world, the top 24 independent pension systems are
collectively $136 billion in debt and have only 54 cents for
every dollar they owe. In nearly every municipality, employee
pensions are being prioritized over libraries, parks, street
maintenance, health care and public safety.”  Poor cities, such as  Vallejo  and Stockton, are going to
face fiscal disaster first, but the problem is spreading
across California, and there’s nothing much the unions can do
once cities start running out of money.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is
based in Sacramento. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 