-- Life as Libor Traders Knew It Seen as Abusive by Investigators
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-02T07:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/life-as-libor-traders-knew-it-seen-as-abusive-by-collusion-investigators.html
Regulators probing the alleged
manipulation of global  interest rates  are focusing on what
traders involved in setting the benchmark say were routine
discussions condoned by their superiors.  Staff responsible for submissions to the London interbank
offered rate regularly discussed where to set the measure with
traders sitting near them, interdealer brokers and counterparts
at rival banks, according to money-market traders with direct
knowledge of procedures at three firms. The talks became common
practice after money markets froze in 2007, making it difficult
for individual bankers to gauge the cost of borrowing from other
lenders, said the traders, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak about the subject.  “A few hundred people, mostly based in one city and
sitting in close proximity to each other, set an index rate for
trillions of dollars of securities with little or no
oversight,” said Mark Sunshine, chief executive officer and
chairman of Veritas Financial Partners, a Florida-based firm
that provides loans to businesses and real estate companies.
“That cannot continue. The mechanism itself, the oversight and
the penalties if violated, are woefully inadequate.”  The investigation by regulators in the U.K., U.S.  Canada ,
 Japan  and the European Union, is the latest black eye for an
industry smarting from criticism that it caused a global
financial crisis in 2008. The probes have called into question
whether firms can be trusted to set with no regulatory oversight
a rate that is the basis for about $360 trillion of securities
from floating-rate mortgages to commercial loans.  ‘Crucial Role’  “Given the number and the value of transactions in
interest-rate derivatives, and the crucial role these products
play in the management of risk, any confirmed manipulation of
these interest rates would probably imply a very significant
cost to the European economy,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in a speech last week.  Traders interviewed said there were no rules stopping talks
between employees, or guidelines on how the rate should be set.
The British Bankers’ Association, the London-based lobby group
that publishes the rate, said it has never required banks to
erect Chinese walls between those setting the rate and traders
making bets on the future direction of the measure, leaving it
up to the firms themselves and their regulators.  Spokesmen at lenders that contribute to Libor -- Credit
Suisse AG, Societe Generale SA, Bank of America Corp.,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  --
declined to comment on what internal controls they have for
their submissions.  Employees interviewed by Bloomberg said the interbank
lending market had been broken since before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  Reluctance to Lend  The difference between three-month dollar Libor and the
overnight indexed swap rate, an indicator of banks’ reluctance
to lend to each other, peaked at a record 364 basis points on
Oct. 10, 2008. The spread averaged about 10 basis points in the
five years up to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and has averaged 45 basis points since.  Traders say the lack of interbank activity made it
impossible to calculate accurately where borrowing costs should
be fixed. Instead, rate-setters resorted to talking with other
market participants, checking previous submissions from
competitors and scanning the news to come up with a best guess
of what they might have to pay for short-term cash if a market
existed, according to the traders.  During the crisis, banks routinely misstated borrowing
costs in the BBA process to avoid the perception they faced
difficulty raising funds, Tim Bond, then head of  asset
allocation  at  Barclays Capital , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in May 2008. In a report the same year, the  Bank for
International Settlements , the central bank for central bankers,
questioned the accuracy of Libor quotes, saying they could be
influenced by “strategic behavior.” The BIS said firms would
be “wary of revealing” information that could signal stress.  ‘Controversy’  “Libor is not a market interest rate,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The spot fixings are at best bank guesses of a
hypothetical interbank” borrowing rate. “For that reason, this
will always be subject to controversy.”  The benchmark is generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the BBA in which lenders are asked how
much it would cost them to borrow from one another for 15
different time periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euro, yen and Swiss francs. After
a predetermined number of quotes are excluded, those left are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  While the  BBA  says typically only a bank’s Treasurer or
other nominated individual can make a submission, a trader at
one firm said a large number of employees had access to the
software used to make a bank’s submission and could overwrite
others’ figures. On any given week, several different traders
might input the rate and on at least one occasion a graduate
trainee was deputized to do so, according to the trader who had
direct knowledge of that firm’s practices.  Trader Dismissed  Tan Chi Min, a trader dismissed by RBS, said in a lawsuit
filed in  Singapore  in December that he and at least seven of his
colleagues at the Edinburgh-based lender were regularly
consulted on the bank’s yen Libor submissions by rate-setters
and senior managers.  There was no “regulation, policy, guideline or law” in
place, Tan said in the filing. A person familiar with RBS’s rate
setting procedures corroborated Tan’s account.  RBS responded in January, saying in court filings that it
fired Tan because he tried to improperly influence the bank’s
rate setters from 2007 to 2011 to persuade them to offer Libor
submissions that would benefit his trading positions. Tan wasn’t
reachable for comment.  Traders at two more firms said they also discussed where
Libor would be set with managers and rate-setters because that
is how the industry operated.  “As all contributor banks are regulated, they are
responsible to their regulators, rather than us, for maintaining
appropriate Chinese walls,” the BBA said in a statement.  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  imposes no specific
restrictions on banks to prevent communications between traders
and rate-setters over Libor beyond a broad requirement for them
to identify and prevent conflicts of interest, according to
guidelines posted on its website. A spokesman for the London-
based watchdog declined to comment beyond the guidelines.  Investigator Scrutiny  Investigators are now scrutinizing e-mails and instant
messages between traders and rate-setters for evidence that
traders not only discussed Libor, but collaborated to rig the
rate to profit from wagers on future interest rates.  Canada’s  Competition Bureau  said in court filings that one
bank had confessed to participating in a conspiracy among
employees at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG,  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,
JPMorgan, RBS and Citigroup Inc. to rig the price of derivatives
globally by manipulating Libor.  UBS was the bank that alerted Canadian regulators to the
alleged conspiracy in return for immunity from regulatory
penalties for the firm, three people with knowledge of the
inquiry said last month.  A UBS employee, identified only as Trader A in the Canadian
court documents, began in 2007 to contact employees at other
banks to discuss his market positions and a desire for a
“certain movement” in yen Libor, according to the filings.
Some of those contacted said they would try and facilitate his
requests by influencing their own banks submissions, according
to the documents, filed at the Ontario Superior Court in May.  Traders involved say the existence of such correspondence
shows they weren’t trying to hide their acts from superiors.
They didn’t know they were in breach of any rules, they said.  Individuals and firms found to have engaged in wrongdoing
would likely face demands from regulators to return any illicit
profits, said Jordan Thomas, a former enforcement attorney at
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission who now advises
whistle-blowers at Labaton Sucharow LLP in  New York . They may
also be fined and would be forced to improve their business
practices to prevent a similar situation arising again, he said.  “These cases have put the spotlight on the failings of
Libor and will hopefully spur demand on regulators to assess
this,” said Richard Werner, a professor at University of
Southampton,  England . “The danger is that the focus is too much
on individual cases. This is a systemic problem.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  