-- IK Said to Have Raised Half of $2.3 Billion for Buyout Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-02T16:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ik-said-to-have-raised-half-of-2-3-billion-for-buyout-fund-1-.html
IK Investment Partners Ltd., the
former venture unit of Stockholm-based  SEB AB (SEBA) , has raised more
than half of the 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) it is seeking
for its seventh European buyout fund, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The firm informed investors it will announce a so-called
first close this month, four months after formally starting
fundraising, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. A first close will
enable it to start spending the money.  IK, based in  London , joins Stockholm-based EQT Partners AB
and London-based BC Partners Ltd. in securing money just as
investors commit less and to fewer funds. BC Partners said last
week it amassed 6.5 billion euros for buyouts in Europe,
surpassing its target thanks to demand from sovereign wealth
funds in the  Middle East  and  Asia . L Capital, the Paris-based
private-equity firm backed by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC)  and Groupe Arnault SAS, raised 400 million euros, 50 million
euros more than its target, it said today in a statement.  IK, which manages about 5.7 billion euros, returned 1
billion euros to backers last year, said the person. IK plans to
distribute another 200 million euros, or 2.3 times its original
investment, selling Europris AS, a Norwegian discount retailer,
to Nordic Capital Svenska AB, the person said. A spokeswoman for
IK declined to comment.  IK’s most recent fund, which raised 1.68 billion euros in
2007, was generating a 13 percent gross internal rate of return
and a 1.2 times multiple of the acquisition cost as of June 30,
investors who asked not to be identified because the information
is private said previously. The fund has acquired companies
ranging from Hansa Group, a German manufacturer of bathroom and
kitchen fittings, to Agros Nova, a Warsaw-based food-processing
company. The firm targets companies in northern  Europe  countries
including France, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  