-- IMF Says ‘Lot of Consensus’ Among Troika on Anglo Irish Debt
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-02T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/imf-says-lot-of-consensus-among-troika-on-anglo-irish-debt.html
Ireland’s bailout partners have
developed “a lot of consensus” on tackling the country’s
rescue cost for the former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) ., an
International Monetary Fund official said.  “It is still a work in progress,” Craig Beaumont, the
IMF’s mission chief for Ireland, said on a conference call with
reporters today. “But fundamentally the underlying concept has
attracted a lot of consensus.”  Ireland’s government is seeking to restructure about 30
billion euros ($39.6 billion) of so-called promissory notes, or
IOUs, used to rescue Anglo Irish, which was renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp. The nation stepped out of bond markets and
sought an international rescue in November 2010, amid concern
that the nation’s banking woes would push it into bankruptcy.  Beaumont said an accord on the notes would “reinforce”
Ireland’s debt sustainability. Ireland may struggle to regain
“sufficient” access to market funding in 2013, the IMF said in
a report today.  He said the risks to market re-entry next year
“are a little on the high side” and he’d like to reduce them.  “Sovereign spreads have declined recently, but prospects
for regaining sufficient access to market funding in 2013 remain
uncertain,” the IMF said in the report released today in
 Washington . “The program assumes modest  market access  later in
2012 and more substantial market funding in 2013.”  Real Estate  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said re-
engineering Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s promissory notes over 30
years at “more favorable rates” would lead to a “serious
reduction” in the country’s debt burden.  Ireland has committed to repaying 3 billion euros a year
for at least a decade to pay off the cost of Anglo Irish, which
almost collapsed under the weight of souring real-estate loans
before being nationalized.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.99 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start
of December. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is 33
percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 13.5 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  