-- Lin’s Return to Harvard Area as Knicks’ Leader Doubles Prices
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-02T17:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/lin-s-return-to-harvard-area-doubles-prices-of-march-4-knicks-celtics-game.html
Jeremy Lin’s return to the Harvard
University area as a sudden National Basketball Association
standout has more than doubled ticket prices for the March 4
game between his  New York Knicks  and the  Boston Celtics .  The game at TD Garden is the Celtics’ priciest this season,
more than doubling the cost of seats from a month ago, when Lin,
a Harvard economics graduate, mostly watched from the bench
during a Knicks loss.  Boston  (17-17) is hosting  New York  (18-18) for the first
time since beating the Knicks 91-89 on Feb. 3, the night before
Lin took Madison Square Garden in New York by storm with a 25-
point, seven-assist performance as a substitute that kicked off
his rise to international attention and the team’s rebound from
an 8-15 start to the season.  The average ticket price for the game is $267, compared
with the $105 average price for the previous matchup, according
to TiqIQ, an aggregator of the online resale ticket market. The
second-costliest ticket for a Celtics’ home game this season is
$234 for Boston’s April 1 meeting with the Eastern Conference-
leading  Miami Heat  (28-7) and All-Stars LeBron James,  Dwyane Wade  and Chris Bosh.  Harvard is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, across the
Charles River from Boston and less than four miles from TD
Garden.  Last Appearance  Lin, a 23-year-old second-year point guard who twice was
cut by other teams, played less than seven minutes in the
Knicks’ loss in Boston on Feb. 3, scoring two points with one
assist.  New York played its third game in as many days the
following night because of the compacted schedule tied to the
lockout-shortened NBA season, and Lin was given a career-high 36
minutes of play. He moved into the starting lineup two days
later and has averaged 22.1 points and 9.2 assists in that role.  As the Knicks have surged under Lin’s on-court leadership,
ticket resale prices for New York’s home and road games have
jumped and television ratings have soared. Lin, the first
Chinese- or Taiwanese American to play in the NBA and the first
Harvard player to make a league roster since  Ed Smith  in 1953,
was on the cover of  Sports Illustrated  for two straight weeks
and captured the cover of the Asian edition of Time magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 