-- India Shuns Advice on ONGC Sale Pricing as State Insurer Buys
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-03-02T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/india-shuns-advice-on-ongc-sale-pricing-as-state-insurer-buys.html
India ’s government went against the
advice of bankers as it prepared to sell a $2.5 billion stake in
 Oil and Natural Gas Corp.  by seeking a price 2.3 percent higher
than the energy company’s last close, according to three people
familiar with the discussions.  State-owned Life Insurance Corporation of India bought most
of the stock at 290 rupees apiece after interest from other
buyers failed to materialize, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity. Advisers including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Morgan Stanley had recommended a price of 260 rupees for the 5
percent stake, auctioned March 1, according to a Feb. 28
presentation by bankers obtained by Bloomberg News.  The above-market price for ONGC, India’s biggest energy
explorer, compares with discounted sales of shares in ICICI Bank
Ltd. and  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  in the past month.
The divestment risks damping investor enthusiasm for future
asset sales by India’s government.  “They forget the cardinal rule that something has to be
left on the table for the investor and priced the shares
aggressively,” said R.K. Gupta, the New Delhi-based managing
director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $1
billion. “Calling on the state-run financial institutions
should be the last resort.”  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, on Feb. 8 sold 14.7 billion rupees ($297 million) of
shares in Indian lender ICICI at a 1.5 percent discount to the
previous day’s close. New York-based Citigroup sold its entire
stake in HDFC for $1.9 billion on Feb. 24, offering the shares
at a 6.2 percent discount.  ‘Not High’  “The floor price of 290 rupees is not high at all for a
company like ONGC,” Sidhartha Pradhan, additional secretary at
the Department of Disinvestment, told reporters in New Delhi
March 1. “It was the decision of the panel of ministers to
price it at that level.”  The ONGC divestment, part of Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s push to eliminate a  budget deficit , still leaves India
short of its 400 billion rupee target for asset sales in the
fiscal year through March 31.  The government raised 127.7 billion rupees from the  sale ,
according to a statement yesterday. The shares were sold at a
weighted average price of 303.67 rupees apiece, 4.7 percent
higher than the floor price.  LIC’s Bid  LIC bid for 400 million of the 427.8 million shares on sale
at 290 rupees each through multiple brokers, the Economic Times
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people. The government
statement didn’t mention the buyers.  A purchase of 400 million ONGC shares at 303.67 rupees
apiece would have saddled the buyer with a paper loss of 8.9
billion rupees, based on the stock’s 2.4 percent drop yesterday.  The other banks managing the sale were JM Financial
Services Ltd., Bank of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc and
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Pradhan didn’t identify buyers of the ONGC stake and said
the government didn’t ask anyone to bid for the shares. Vipin
Anand, a spokesman for LIC in Mumbai, didn’t respond to two
phone calls to his office and an e-mail seeking comment.  The government plans to sell stakes in companies including
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd.  and Hindustan Copper Ltd. Some of those
divestments were delayed last year amid a 25 percent decline in
the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index.  In the ONGC transaction, India received bids for 98 percent
of the shares on sale, according to a joint statement from the
country’s two stock exchanges. More than 95 percent of the bids
were placed in the last 10 minutes of the auction, the data
showed.  The final results from the exchanges were declared almost
seven hours after the auction closed at 3:30 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  