-- Indian Stocks Advance as Economy Outlook Spurs Foreign Buying
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-03-02T10:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/indian-stocks-advance-as-economy-outlook-spurs-foreign-buying.html
Indian stocks climbed, paring the
benchmark index’s second weekly loss, on signs the  U.S. economy 
is strengthening, the debt crisis in  Europe  is easing, and as
overseas investors continued an equity-buying spree.  State Bank of India  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the biggest
lenders, advanced amid expectation the central bank may take
steps to ease a liquidity crunch.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the
largest engineering company, rose for the first time in three
days.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the top developer, sank to a six-week low after
reports of probe against the company.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) 
after a government auction of shares in the country’s largest
state explorer fell short of full subscription.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.3 percent
to 17,643.39, according to preliminary closing prices at 3:30
p.m. in Mumbai, after changing directions at least 22 times. The
gauge fell 1.6 percent this week.  The government sold shares in ONGC to bridge a fiscal
 deficit , which exceeded the target for the year in the 10 months
through January. The central bank had signaled that efforts to
curb the gap would boost its scope to lower  interest rates  as
growth slows. It reviews rates on March 15, a day before Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  presents the budget. The results of an
election in the most populous state next week may bolster the
government’s effort to undertake reforms to boost growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  