-- ING Wins Challenge Forcing EU to Reconsider Bailout Terms
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-02T17:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ing-wins-partial-victory-in-court-challenge-to-european-commission-ruling.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  won a court ruling
forcing European Union regulators to re-examine the conditions
they imposed on the Dutch lender’s government rescue in the wake
of the 2008 financial crisis.  The EU’s General Court said the European Commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.65 billion) of additional aid to ING on top of 10 billion
euros it received in 2008. The court struck down part of the
EU’s decision, which will force regulators to re-open their
assessment of part of the Dutch government’s bailout to the
bank.  ING was ordered by the commission to sell units to shrink
its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and avoid
undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products for
three years or until it repaid the aid. The lender returned 5
billion euros of aid in 2009 after agreeing with the Netherlands
on revised terms. The EU regulator determined that change
amounted to extra aid of about 2 billion euros.  “This is quite good news for ING,” said Cor Kluis, an
analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht. “Hopefully it
won’t take too much time for the EC to adjust the terms. We also
hope the EC won’t appeal.”  ING shares  rose  3.2 percent to 6.99 euros in Amsterdam
trading today. That made it the second-best performer in the 32-
company Stoxx Insurance 600 Index, which rose 0.5 percent.  Lehman Collapse  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 amid the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
commission, most of that in loan guarantees and fresh capital.
The EU must approve large state subsidies and can impose
conditions on the aid.  The ruling “should mean that the commission has to reopen
the formal investigation procedure” on ING’s restructuring,
said Christoph Arhold, a lawyer for White & Case LLP based in
Berlin and Brussels. “The whole approval has gone, so the
commitments have to be renegotiated.”  ING and the Dutch government challenged the terms of the
EU’s approval, which the bank says punished it too harshly for
state help in 2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator
miscalculated the amount of aid and imposed excessive
restructuring demands.  Changed Bailout Terms  The commission didn’t show that changes to the bailout deal
agreed to by ING and the Dutch government were on terms that a
private investor would have refused to give the bank, the court
said.  That rejects the regulator’s argument that it doesn’t need
to check if private investors would accept the same terms
offered by the state in cases where a company has already
received government help, Arhold said.  “ING welcomes the judgment to partially annul the EC
decision,” the Amsterdam-based bank said in a statement. “ING
will carefully assess the full judgment and its consequences.
Announcements on any potential further actions will only be made
if and when appropriate.”  The commission will publish a revised decision on the aid,
Antoine Colombani, spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
antitrust commissioner, said in an e-mail. The regulator will
“carefully assess” the ruling before deciding whether to
appeal, he said.  Finance Ministry ‘Satisfied’  The Dutch Finance Ministry in The Hague is “satisfied” by
the ruling and will study it to “further assess the
consequences,” spokesman Ben Feiertag, said in a phone
interview.  ING was ordered to sell its entire insurance operations,
its U.S. online-banking division and Dutch mortgage lender
WestlandUtrecht Bank before a 2013 deadline.  Pending the court ruling, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen pushed ahead with the forced restructuring.  Last month, ING completed the sale of its U.S. online bank
to Capital One for $9 billion. The company also disposed of its
Latin American insurance operations last year. The divestment
program encountered a glitch as  Europe ’s fiscal woes scared off
potential buyers, making initial public offerings impossible.  “Additional flexibility with regard to the divestment
deadlines for ING’s insurance activities and the divestment of
WestlandUtrecht Bank will have positive implications for the
stock,” said Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS
Securities, as the lender “is facing serious challenges” with
those disposals.  ABN Amro, WestLB  The EU court still has to rule on state aid conditions
imposed on a second Dutch bank,  ABN Amro  Group NV, which last
year challenged the EU ban on it acquiring businesses.  WestLB AG shareholders also sought to suspend a deadline
that would have stopped the lender’s real estate unit WestImmo
from accepting new business. WestLB agreed last year to be wound
down and broken up.  The Dutch central bank joined the case on ING’s behalf.
National bank supervisors should formally be heard by the
commission to avoid it imposing terms that hurt financial
stability, it said. Klaas Knot, who heads the central bank, has
also argued for a dispute settlement procedure when competition
and national financial regulators clash.  “We see today’s ruling as a signal to the commission that
it would be wise to involve national supervisors in its
decisions,” said Kees Verhagen, a spokesman for the Dutch
central bank in Amsterdam. “The court ruled the decision was
based on incomplete information and that was partly caused by
the fact that they ignored information submitted by the national
supervisor.”  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Luxembourg via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  