-- Lira Heads for Biggest Drop in 2012 on Bets Inflation Rate Rose
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-02T17:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/lira-falls-on-bets-inflation-rate-rose-in-february-yields-climb.html
The lira headed for the biggest drop
this year and bond yields advanced on speculation the  inflation 
rate rose in February.  The Turkish currency weakened 0.9 percent to 1.7694 per
dollar at 6:46 p.m. in Istanbul, heading for the biggest
depreciation since Dec. 28.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year benchmark debt
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 9.24 percent,
according to a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index.  Inflation more than doubled last year to the highest among
the Group of 20 economies as a weaker currency increased
 Turkey ’s import cost. The rate probably held at a three-year
high of 10.6 percent in February, according to the median
estimate of three economists polled by Bloomberg before the
statistics office releases its report March 5.  “I expect CPI coming in above market consensus,” Daniel Lenz, chief emerging market strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. “This again will move
markets and probably will not turn things for the better.”  The central bank cut its overnight lending rate and
benchmark one-week repo rate last month, saying a 7.9 percent
rebound in the lira this year and slowing domestic economic
growth damped price pressures.  “The positive sentiment on the lira and Turkish bonds has
faded since the central bank cut the overnight rate. Investors
are worried the bank could repeat old mistakes,” Lenz said.  The Turkish central bank cut  interest rates  to a record low
of 5.75 percent in August, sending the lira 18 percent weaker in
the biggest decline worldwide last year. Yields soared 390 basis
points in the biggest jump since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  