-- Iranians Vote in Parliamentary Elections as Foreign Sanctions Hit Economy
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-02T15:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/iranians-vote-in-parliamentary-elections-as-foreign-sanctions-hit-economy.html
Iranians voted today in the
country’s first election since the disputed presidential contest
of 2009 sparked mass protests, as sanctions targeting the
country’s nuclear program squeeze the economy.  Voting to elect 290 members to the parliament, known as the
Majlis, was extended until 8 p.m. local time due to long lines
at polling stations, the Interior Ministry said. About 48
million Iranians were eligible to cast ballots for more than
3,400 candidates cleared to compete by the Guardian Council, a
body of jurists and clerics. One-third of would-be candidates
were barred, including about 30 members of the current assembly.  Iranian leaders urged a high turnout for the ballot, which
takes place as the U.S. and European Union apply growing
pressure with sanctions targeting  Iran ’s oil sales and central
bank. President  Barack Obama , in an interview with the Atlantic
magazine published today, warned that references to possible
military action against Iran are not a “bluff.”  “These elections are important for the regime, it needs to
show it maintains legitimacy,” said Geneive Abdo, director of
the Iran program at the Century Foundation in  Washington .
“They’ve eliminated the reformists and narrowed down who’s
allowed to run. Now they need a voter turn-out.”  ‘Power Balance’  The U.S. and allies say the measures against Iran are aimed
at preventing it from obtaining nuclear weapons. Israel has also
threatened an attack on Iran to prevent that happening. Iran
says it is developing atomic technology for peaceful purposes.
Escalating tensions have raised the risk of military conflict in
a region that holds more than half of the world’s oil, as
Iranian officials warn of preemptive or retaliatory strikes.  Iran’s parliament doesn’t directly control foreign policy,
and the outcome of today’s election probably won’t affect the
country’s nuclear stance. The opposition movement that
challenged President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in and after the
disputed 2009 presidential election isn’t taking part today,
narrowing the range of candidates.  “The competition is between various factions within the
conservatives,” said Gala Riani, head of Analysis for the
Middle-East and North Africa at Control Risks in  London . “It’s
a power balance between these factions.”  Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, who lost that
election and then led protests denouncing the result as rigged,
have been under house arrest for more than a year. Many of their
supporters, who have argued for more freedoms at home and a less
confrontational stance toward Western nations, have advocated a
boycott of today’s vote. Dozens were killed when security forces
suppressed the protests after the 2009 election.  Currency Run  Results from small constituencies will be announced 48
hours after polling ends, while in large constituencies such as
Tehran it will take 72 hours, the state-run Fars news agency
said today citing Solat Mortazavi, head of the election board.  This year’s heightened sanctions have led to a run on
Iran’s currency, causing the rial to lose half its value on
unofficial markets as Iranians rushed to buy dollars or euros to
protect their savings.  The central bank announced a devaluation of 8.5 percent at
the official rate in January, and authorities cracked down on
black-market transactions. Ahmadinejad’s opponents have cited
the episode as an example of his economic mismanagement.  Iranian authorities urged voters to go to the polls in a
display of defiance toward the countries applying economic
pressure.  “The controversies and verbal threats against the Iranian
nation are many,” Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said
after voting in Tehran today, according to Fars. “The best
thing to do is to accompany talk with action. The more people
cast their ballot today, the better it will be for the
country.”  ‘Martyrs’ Eyes’  At the Valiasr roundabout in downtown Tehran, large posters
display pictures of Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan, a nuclear scientist
who was killed in a bombing in Tehran in January. “The martyrs’
eyes are on your vote,” the posters say.  Iran has accused Israel and the U.S. of targeting nuclear
scientists, at least four of whom have been killed in recent
years, to halt the country’s technological progress. The U.S.
denied involvement and Israel declined to comment.  “I came to vote to show our power, to show that the U.S.
and  Israel  can’t do anything against us,” said Hamidreza
Shadai, a 33-year-old electrical technician, at a polling
station in the Narmak neighborhood of Tehran. “If we stand
strong and show our presence and unity, they will never allow
themselves to launch a war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 