-- Iran Tanker Signals Shell Mooring in Singapore as Destination
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-03-02T09:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/iran-tanker-signals-shell-mooring-in-singapore-as-destination.html
An Iranian oil tanker off Singapore
is signaling a mooring point near  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
refinery complex on Bukom Island as its next destination,
according to data from AISLive compiled by Bloomberg.  The Delvar, a very large crude carrier owned by the
National Iranian Tanker Co., has been moored in the Singapore
Strait since Feb. 26, the data show. It is signaling Shell Bukom
SPM, referring to a single-point mooring where ships load or
unload. Destination data are usually entered by ships’ officers
and are sometimes subject to errors. Mich Villar, a spokeswoman
for Shell in  Manila , said the company doesn’t comment on
trading, in an e-mailed response to questions.  Pulau Bukom is Shell’s largest refinery, with a crude-
processing capacity of 500,000 barrels a day. The Delvar is
sitting 15.5 meters (50.9 feet) deep in the water, compared with
a maximum draft of 22.2 meters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. VLCCs can carry about 2 million barrels of crude oil
or refined products.  The ship stopped near the Indonesian island of Karimun on
Feb. 23 with a draft of 19.7 meters before moving to the
 Singapore  Strait, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
area is sometimes used to transfer cargoes between vessels.  Iran  faces a European Union embargo on the purchase,
transportation, financing and insurance of its oil from July 1
because of its nuclear program. The Delvar hasn’t violated
United Nations Security Council law or local regulations, the
Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore said Feb. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  