-- Iran-0wned Tankers Storing Crude Falls to Two-Year Low, E.A. Gibson Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-03-02T16:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/iran-0wned-tankers-storing-crude-falls-to-two-year-low-e-a-gibson-says.html
The number of Iranian tankers used
to store oil at sea slid to a two-year low as more of the ships
were deployed to carry crude to Asia before the U.S. and Europe
tighten sanctions on exports, said E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd.  Four very large crude carriers, each able to hold 2 million
barrels, are in use to store Iranian oil, down from 16 at the
end of last year, the London-based shipbroker said today in a
report. That’s the lowest monthly total since the start of 2010
and may signal a change in the country’s policy on transporting
crude to customers,  Gibson  said.  The decline may stem from a halt by tanker owners to
carrying crude from  Iran  before sanctions that ban insurance
coverage for any ships calling at the Persian Gulf country begin
July 1, according to Gibson. That’s the date a European Union
embargo on the country’s oil takes effect.  “This may have left a void which has necessitated the use
of Iranian-controlled very large crude carriers to move more
cargoes, which could account for their increase in activity,”
Gibson said. “It may also be a decision by Tehran to offload as
much crude as possible ahead of the impending sanctions.”  Floating Storage  NITC , an Iranian owner of at least 26 VLCCs, has used as
many as 25 of the vessels at any one time to store crude over
the past two years, according to Gibson. About 12 were used on
average over 2011 for floating storage, the broker estimated,
citing vessel-tracking data.  Most of the crude shipped to  India  in January was carried
on NITC tankers, according to Gibson. India was the largest
buyer of the oil that month, analysis from Lloyd’s List
Intelligence, a unit of London-based Informa Plc, showed. Some
NITC vessels are going to  China ,  Taiwan  and  Singapore , while the
destinations of others recently loaded with crude for export
were unknown, said Gibson.  NITC’s ability to continue transporting crude on its
vessels after July can’t be determined, and some of the fleet
may have to be idled, particularly if China cuts imports, the
shipbroker said. The nation is the world’s second-biggest
consumer of crude after the U.S.  China imported 2 million metric tons of oil in December,
the latest month for which figures are available, compared to an
average of 2.3 million tons in 2011, data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  