-- Ireland to ‘Breathe Down’ Banks’ Necks as Mortgage Arrears Rise
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ireland-to-breathe-down-banks-necks-as-mortgage-arrears-rise.html
Irish Central Bank Deputy Governor
Matthew Elderfield pledged to “breathe down the necks” of the
country’s banks to deal with unsustainable home loans, as
mortgage arrears surge.  Irish banks may need to “warehouse” portions of some
loans, allowing “borderline insolvent homeowners” to pay down
a smaller part of the loan for a period to ease the burden,
Elderfield said in an e-mailed version of a speech in Dublin
today. They may also take equity stakes in homes, he said.  “The mortgage arrears problem is one of the biggest
remaining challenges for Ireland from the financial crisis,”
said Elderfield. While borrowers “who genuinely can’t afford to
pay back all their mortgage should get help,” those that can
“need to face up their responsibilities,” he said.  Irish home loans more than 90 days in arrears stood at 9.2
percent at the end of last year, according to the central bank,
as unemployment trebled to 14.3 percent and house prices almost
halved since the real-estate market collapsed in 2007. While
arrears will probably rise this year, banks have “a substantial
capital buffer with which to absorb losses on their mortgage
portfolios,” Elderfield said. Lenders need to be more realistic
in using this capital to provide for unsustainable loans, he
said.  Ireland has injected 62 billion euros ($82 billion) into
its banking system over the past three years to cushion lenders
against soaring bad loan losses. Still, banks will probably need
more capital over the “medium term” as they prepare for the
implementation of Basel III financial rules in 2019, Elderfield
said.  Nation’s Largest  “The sooner the banks can be restored to profitability,
the better they are able to meet these medium-term targets,
ideally from market sources,” he said. The nation’s two largest
banks,  Bank of Ireland Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , have
about 5 billion euros of so-called deferred tax assets, which
they can use to reduce the tax paid on future profits.  As the central bank pushes lenders to find solutions for
unsustainable mortgages, the government is reshaping personal
bankruptcy and insolvency laws. Troubled borrowers seeking at
least partial mortgage writedowns in out-of-court settlements
need approval from 75 percent of creditors, according to
proposed legislation.  “There are considerable uncertainties regarding the impact
of the forthcoming bankruptcy law reform on borrower behavior,”
Elderfield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 