-- Canada’s Growth Slowed in Fourth Quarter Even as U.S. Rebounded: Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-02T21:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/italian-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-on-spending-cuts-tax-economy.html
Weak foreign trade slowed  Canada ’s
 economic growth  rate in the fourth quarter even as the U.S.
rebounded, showing the country’s vulnerability amid uneven
global growth prospects.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
pace from October to December, matching economists’  forecasts ,
following a revised 4.2 percent third-quarter rate, according to
data today from Ottawa-based Statistics Canada. Export growth
slowed to 4.6 percent from 16 percent, while imports gained 2.2
percent following a 1.5 percent decline.  Canada relies on shipments abroad for a third of its output
and remains at risk from a potential U.S. slowdown and a
recession in Europe, said Diana Petramala, an economist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  A strong currency and weak global demand
will limit Canada’s growth to about 2 percent in the first half
of the year according to a January central bank  forecast .  “We are still looking at a number of constraints
globally” including “tough austerity measures” in Europe,
Petramala said. “A modest pace of growth is likely to keep the
Bank of Canada from raising rates until mid-2013.”  Central bank governor  Mark Carney  in a March 8 announcement
will probably keep his policy  interest rate  at 1 percent, where
it’s been for almost 18 months, according to an economist
survey. Carney said he will show “flexibility” in setting
monetary policy as the economy returns to its full output next
year.  Manufacturers Struggling  Manufacturers are  struggling  with a  currency trading  near
parity with the  U.S. dollar  while companies such  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
benefit from global energy demand.  “Trade has really petered out,” said Ian Pollick, senior
fixed income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. “For
a small open economy, when you don’t see that, it does concern
me.”  Canada’s dollar declined 0.4 percent to 98.93 cents per
U.S. dollar at 4:21 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0113. Five-year government  bond yields  fell 3 basis
points to 1.42 percent. Stocks fell, with the S&P/TSX Composite
Index down 79.64 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,643.82.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said this week he
will present a budget on March 29 that will continue a plan to
eliminate a deficit in the next few years. The budget “will
focus on making Canada’s economy stronger for today and tomorrow
with prudent, pro-economic growth initiatives, keeping taxes
low, and responsible spending of taxpayers’ dollars” he told
Parliament yesterday.  Italy Budget  Italy today reported its  budget deficit  narrowed more than
economists forecast last year. Spending cuts and tax increases
helped shore up public finances even as the economy slipped into
recession.  The budget shortfall fell to 3.9 percent of  gross domestic
product  from 4.6 percent in 2010, Rome-based national statistics
office Istat said today. Economists forecast a decline to 4
percent, according to the median of six estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Italy entered its fourth recession since 2001 in the final
quarter of last year. The European Commission on Feb. 23
forecast the economy will contract 1.3 percent this year.  The ECB this week awarded banks a record 529.5 billion
euros in a second tranche of three-year loans to get credit
flowing to households and consumers and boost economic growth.
The 17-nation economy will contract 0.3 percent this year,
according to the commission.  ‘Major Downside Risks’  In  Asia , job markets are holding up even as  Europe ’s
slumping economy hurts exports, auguring well for domestic
demand.  Singapore ’s unemployment rate fell to a 14-year low of 2
percent in 2011,  Hong Kong ’s January rate matched levels not
seen since 1998, while  South Korea ’s is near the lowest since
early 2008.  The global economy faces “major downside risks” as its
recovery continues to be threatened by stresses in the euro
area, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report prepared
for the Group of 20 nations and published yesterday.  Parts of Canada’s economy that are sensitive to  low
interest rates  supported economic growth in the fourth quarter.
 Consumer spending  expanded at a 2.9 percent annualized pace, up
from 1.8 percent in the third quarter, while business investment
rose 6.3 percent, the eighth consecutive increase.  Growth was curbed as companies added to inventories at a
slower pace,  Statistics Canada  said in its report. Stockpiles
increased by C$6.45 billion in the quarter, down from a C$10.5
billion buildup in the July-September period.  Government
spending  rose 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter.  ‘Take Advantage’  “The challenge that we face as a country is our
manufacturing base,” Jim Prentice, vice-chairman of Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-biggest bank,
said in an interview yesterday in Toronto. He said companies
facing a strong dollar and low  interest rates  need to “take
advantage of other opportunities.”  Enbridge, the Calgary-based pipeline company that’s
Canada’s largest, said Feb. 17 that fourth-quarter profit rose
as it raised rates for oil shippers and transported more natural
gas.  On a  monthly  basis, Canada’s economy grew 0.4 percent in
December, with half the gain coming from oil and gas extraction.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent increase according to the
median of 24 responses in a  Bloomberg survey .  Statistics Canada today also increased its estimate of
third-quarter growth to 4.2 percent from 3.5 percent.  The economy grew 2.5 percent last year following a 3.2
percent expansion in 2010 and a 2.9 percent contraction in 2009.  Exports to U.S.  Canada ships about 75 percent of its  exports  to the U.S.,
which two days ago reported growth at a 3 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, the most since the second quarter of 2010.
The pace of expansion slowed to 2.1 percent in the first quarter
according to a Bloomberg economist survey.  Canada’s foreign sales were volatile last year, falling 6
percent in the April-June period as natural disasters disrupted
production before a 16 percent rebound in the third quarter,
followed by a slowdown in the final three months to 4.6 percent.  The head of Canada’s largest port said he’s seeing signs
the economy will continue to be supported by commodity sales
while manufacturing struggles.  “You really do see the strength in Canadian coal, potash,
grain, forest products,” Robin Silvester, President of Port
Metro  Vancouver , said in an interview last month in Bloomberg’s
Ottawa newsroom. Stagnant container imports suggest that
factories aren’t “particularly strong” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  