-- ITGI Pipeline Is ‘Strategically Important,’ Minister Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/itgi-pipeline-is-strategically-important-greek-minister-says.html
Greece and  Italy  still consider the
Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy pipeline project for
transporting Caspian Sea gas to  Europe  “strategically
important,” Greek Environment, Energy and Climate Change
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  The  BP Plc (BP) -led group of companies developing the second
phase of the Shah Deniz field in  Azerbaijan  on Feb. 20 ruled out
using ITGI to transfer gas to the European Union. The venture
also comprises State Oil Company of Azerbaijan,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
 Total SA (FP) , OAO Lukoil, Naftiran Intertrade and Turkiye Petrolleri
AO.  “We continue to believe that ITGI is the most mature of
the pipeline projects,” Papaconstantinou said in a Feb. 29
interview in Athens. “We’re willing to continue discussing with
the Shah consortium potential solutions that take advantage of
this maturity and that come closer to the venture’s concerns
about commercial issues as well as ITGI’s shareholding
structure.”  ITGI is a venture of Greek natural gas supplier Depa SA and
Italy’s  Edison SpA. (EDN)  BP said Feb. 22 that the Shah Deniz group
will choose between the OMV AG-led Nabucco project and the BP-
proposed South-East Europe Pipeline, or SEEP, by the middle of
this year.  The winner will then compete with the Trans-Adriatic
Pipeline, known as TAP, for the rights to carry gas into the EU
via its southeastern borders, the so-called Southern Corridor
route. The venture will then make its final choice by mid-2013.
Statoil owns a 42.5 percent state in TAP.  Northern Spur  While ITGI and TAP both plan to link Greece with Italy, the
TAP venture will also cross Albania. The ITGI project foresees a
northern spur pipeline between  Greece  and EU neighbor  Bulgaria .  In addition to the EU sourcing Russian and Azeri gas,
“there will increasingly be Israeli, Cypriot and possibly Greek
gas,” Papaconstantinou said.  Israel and Cyprus have discovered
reserves of offshore gas in the past two years estimated to be
worth billions of dollars in exports. Greece has invited
investors to bid to explore for oil and gas in both off- and
onshore areas.  “It’s clear for Greece and Italy that a route going
through these two countries to Europe that connects to the Azeri
side, to the south and possibly to the north, is extremely
important for strategic reasons and we will continue to do
whatever it takes to keep that route on the map of future gas
routes,” Papaconstantinou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 