-- Live Nation Wields ‘The Boss’ in Stub Hub Ticket Battle
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-03-02T18:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/live-nation-wields-the-boss-against-stubhub-in-paperless-ticket-battle.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the
world’s largest concert promoter and ticket seller, is using
Bruce Springsteen’s tour to push paperless tickets, a move that
may weaken StubHub’s lead in the $4 billion resale market.  The company set aside a fifth of the seats at Springsteen’s
 New Jersey  concerts next month for paperless transactions. Its
Ticketmaster unit sold conventional tickets for the New York
shows, as state law requires. The result:  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
StubHub.com lists 63 percent fewer tickets for those sections at
the New Jersey shows, Live Nation said in an e-mail.  Live Nation says paperless tickets keep prices lower and
give fans a better chance at good seats. The technology also may
help the company extend its control over live entertainment and
wring more profit from events, by letting Ticketmaster steer
resales to its own TicketExchange, a StubHub competitor.
Paperless tickets are tougher to exchange on other sites.  “Springsteen is an interesting test,” Michael Rapino,
Live Nation’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.
“With paperless, the lack of availability at secondary sites is
staggering.”  Paperless tickets, which aren’t meant to be exchanged
outside of Ticketmaster’s sites, require a buyer’s credit card
or mobile phone for admission. Customers purchase online, and
must provide identification to gain entry for themselves or
guests. That creates barriers for brokers who use StubHub and
other sites to resell tickets.  To transfer a paperless ticket, the seller might, for
example, have to meet a buyer at the venue, according to  Beverly
Hills , California-based Live Nation.  ‘Miserable’ Purchasing  “Of course there are fewer tickets on StubHub or the
secondary market in general because they are not allowing
resale,”  Glenn Lehrman , a spokesman for San Francisco-based
StubHub, said in an e-mail. “Now the same company that made
ticket purchasing miserable in the first place is trying to
destroy the secondary market by claiming paperless tickets are
for ‘real fans.’”  Ticketmaster has long battled unfavorable publicity related
to fees such as “convenience charges” and its dominance of the
ticketing industry. In the mid-1990s, Pearl Jam canceled a tour
in protest of service charges, only to return the the following
year.  Live Nation acquired Ticketmaster in 2010, becoming the
world’s largest ticket seller and adding to its concert business
and management of top acts including the Eagles. Regulators
approved the deal with conditions that included a 10-year ban on
retaliating against concert sites that hire competing ticket
sellers, and a moratorium on bundling ticket services and
concert promotions.  The Boss  Springsteen, nicknamed The Boss, opposed the merger, saying
it would give the company too much power in concerts and
ticketing. Ticketmaster angered Springsteen and fans in February
2010, a month after the deal was approved, by steering buyers to
TicketsNow, another resale site it owns, where prices were as
much as four times higher.  After the incident, Ticketmaster reached a settlement with
U.S. regulators to stop the practice, which Springsteen called
“scalping.” The company agreed to stop linking to TicketsNow
from the Ticketmaster website for a year and to limit
advertising of the resale site.  Marilyn Laverty , a spokeswoman for Springsteen, declined to
comment.  Fewer Seats  In the 20 percent of Springsteen seats designated as
paperless, StubHub lists 131 tickets for April 3 and April 4
shows at the Izod Center in  East Rutherford , New Jersey,
according to Live Nation. At Madison Square Garden in New York,
355 tickets in comparable sections were available for shows
April 6 and April 9.  “Where we use paperless, the results have been
spectacular,” Rapino said. “Paperless is an artist-friendly
tool.”  Ticketmaster had $1.19 billion in revenue last year, or 22
percent of Live Nation’s sales. The worldwide secondary ticket
market is roughly $4 billion and StubHub is the biggest broker,
Gary Bongiovanni, Pollstar magazine’s editor, said in an e-mail.  “We don’t want to really be in the StubHub business,”
Rapino said on a Nov. 18 conference call. “We want to be in the
business of taking that $4 billion and putting it back on the
right side of the column where the artist or the teams
participate. We are in business with most sports teams through
Ticketmaster, and most artists.”  The effort to corral a bigger share of revenue, which has
led to experiments like dynamic pricing based on real-time
ticket demand, also includes alliances with more musicians.  Mayer’s Plan  John Mayer said on his  website  paperless tickets will be
used where possible for his tour, starting April 9. Tickets,
which go on sale today, may be resold on TicketExchange, with
prices capped at 20 percent more than face value. Where
paperless isn’t permitted, steps are being taken to make
transfers and resales difficult. The best seats aren’t
transferable and tickets must be picked up the night of the
show.  In addition to limiting resales, paperless tickets for
Springteen’s Wrecking Ball tour are commanding less money in the
secondary market than regular tickets for comparable seats
elsewhere.  “If this e-ticket tactic with  Bruce Springsteen  is
successful, the TicketsNow platform could drive interest from
artists and sports teams looking to keep secondary prices lower
while capturing more revenue for themselves,” Rich Tullo, an
analyst at Albert Fried & Co., said in a report today.  At Madison Square Garden, sellers at StubHub as of Feb. 29
were asking as much as $9,500 for lower-level seats near the
stage that have a $120 face value. At the Izod Center, where
similar seats are paperless, prices range as high as $4,500.  Live Nation also sold paperless tickets to Springsteen
shows in Atlanta,  Los Angeles ,  Detroit ,  Boston ,  Washington ,
Tampa,  Florida , and  San Jose ,  California .  Live Nation lost 1.5 percent to $9.19 at 1:38 p.m. in  New
York . The  shares  had climbed 12 percent this year before today. 