-- Jamaica Seeks Greek-Style Bailout to Aid Growth, Leader Says
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-03-03T16:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/jamaica-seeks-greek-style-bailout-to-boost-growth-leader-says.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story published March 2 to
say IMF accord linked to the debt swap failed, corrects prime
minister’s comments in second paragraph and adds comment from
opposition party in eighth paragraph.)  Jamaican Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller said the Caribbean island would benefit from a
Greek-style bailout as it negotiates a new loan agreement with
the  International Monetary Fund .  “If they could give a bailout like  Greece , lord have
mercy, you would see Jamaica grow and flourish,” Simpson
Miller, 66, said in an interview yesterday in Montego Bay. “The
European countries got together and tried to do something so
that they can give some serious aid to Greece. We know we would
never be able to get the same level as Greece, but if we could
get some consideration from countries or the IMF, we would be on
our way.”  An IMF accord that included a $1.27 billion loan fell apart
after the previous administration failed to share information
with the Washington-based lender for almost a year, Simpson
Miller said. The loan had been linked to the successful swap of
$7.8 billion of local bonds in 2010 for securities with longer
maturities and lower  interest rates . Jamaica’s debt burden was
126 percent of GDP in 2011, according to the IMF.  The IMF accord had paved the way for Moody’s Investors
Service to raise Jamaica’s credit rating and the IMF, which
devised the debt exchange, to approve a 27-month, $1.27 billion
stand-by credit.  The governing People’s  National Party  has since agreed to
boost taxes and limit pensions as part of reaching a new IMF
accord. Jamaica will not tax the most vulnerable, said Simpson
Miller, who is island’s third prime minister since October and
previously served in the post in 2006-2007.  Economic growth will rise to 2.4 percent this year from 1.4
percent in 2011, according to the IMF.  Debt Burden  An official with the opposition  Jamaica  Labour Party called
Simpson Miller’s statements inaccurate.  “There was no failure to share information with the IMF
for one year,” Audley Shaw, a spokesman for the party on
economic and finance issues, said in a statement. “The lack of
several IMF reviews under the Stand-By Agreement was as a result
of slower than expected pace of implementation of critical
structural reforms to tax, pension and public sector wage
settlements.”  Jamaica’s debt burden in 2011 ranked it the eighth most-
indebted country in the world, behind only Antigua & Barbuda and
St. Kitts & Nevis in the Caribbean. Zimbabwe led the list at 231
percent of GDP, with Greece fourth at 165 percent.  Argentina and Belarus  The stalled agreement with the IMF “further detracts”
from Jamaica’s credit rating,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb.
22 report. The country’s debt is rated B- by S&P, while Moody’s
rates Jamaica at B3, or six steps below investment grade. The
Moody’s rating puts the island of 2.9 million in the same
category as  Argentina  and Belarus.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Jamaica’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has fallen 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, since Simpson Miller took office on Jan.
5 to 8.14 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Diversified Index. The Jamaican dollar has fallen 0.1
percent this year to 86.42 per  U.S. dollar .  Simpson Miller said that austerity measures to pay off debt
could harm efforts to control drug gangs. Former Prime Minister
Bruce Golding declared a state of emergency in 2010 to contain
violence related to the extradition of an accused drug lord to
the U.S.  “Criminals will be allowed to survive if we can’t provide
for the peace-loving people who live in communities the gangs
operate in,” Simpson Miller said.  Drug Lord  Tourism, which accounts for about 10 percent of gross
domestic product and half of foreign exchange earnings, has
rebounded since drug dealer Christopher “Dudus” Coke was
captured and prosecuted in  New York , she said.  Gangs still control areas of Kingston, the capital, though
the violence has not affected the beaches, resorts and golf
courses popular with tourists on the country’s north shore.  Simpson Miller, who was Jamaica’s first female prime
minister, joins a recent crop of female leaders in Latin
American and the Caribbean, including  Dilma Rousseff  of  Brazil ,
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina and Laura Chinchilla
of  Costa Rica .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Montego Bay, Jamaica at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  