-- Japan’s Job Prospects Improve
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-02T03:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/japan-s-job-prospects-improve.html
Job prospects in  Japan  improved in
January as the world’s third-biggest economy showed signs of
rebounding from a contraction in the fourth quarter.  A report showed 73 jobs available for every 100 applicants,
the most since November 2008, the Labor Ministry said. The
median forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for the gauge, known as the  job-to-applicant  ratio, to rise to
0.72.  The figure added to evidence that the economy is regaining
momentum, with reports earlier this week showing that industrial
production and retail sales exceeded analysts’ estimates in
January. Brighter prospects have yet to help the nation overcome
deflation, with a report today showing consumer prices slid for
a fourth month.  “Demand for labor is still solid because there is still
considerable reconstruction demand in disaster-affected areas,”
said Junko Nishioka, chief Japan economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd.  The yen traded at 81.33 as of 12:06 p.m. in  Tokyo . It has
weakened about 7 percent since touching a postwar high of 75.35
in October. The almost 21 trillion yen ($258 billion) the
government has tapped in extra budgets to rebuild after last
year’s earthquake and tsunami may also help to support the labor
market.  Job Opportunities  “Industrial production is expanding, and if the yen’s
weakening continues or stabilizes, the labor market could
continue to improve,”  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at
Societe Generale SA in Tokyo, said before the report. “While
the labor market won’t see exciting growth, there are good
indications that domestic demand will expand job
opportunities.”  The  jobless rate  rose to 4.6 percent from 4.5 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Tokyo today, compared with the 4.5
percent median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The unemployment rates in disaster-stricken Iwate and
Fukushima prefectures were below the national average at 4.3
percent, a statistics bureau survey showed.  Capital spending  jumped by the most in nearly five years in
the fourth quarter, a boost the  finance ministry  said yesterday
was partly due to rebuilding factories damaged in the
catastrophe.  The yen’s hovering around a postwar high last year battered
manufacturers such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and contributed to a
record monthly trade deficit in January. The currency has
weakened since the  Bank of Japan  boosted monetary stimulus and
set an inflation goal on Feb. 14.  Bridgestone Corp (5108) , the world’s biggest tiremaker by market
value, said Feb. 16 it will spend about 4.7 billion yen on
domestic plants to increase production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  