-- JFE, IHI Shipbuilding Merger to Target $6.2 Billion of Sales in Five Years
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-03-02T03:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/jfe-ihi-shipbuilding-merger-to-target-6-2-billion-of-sales-in-five-years.html
JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and  IHI Corp. (7013)  will
seek to increase sales of their combined shipbuilding units by
about 30 percent in five years to fend off competition from
South Korean and Chinese rivals.  The units, set to be merged on Oct. 1, will target annual
revenue of 500 billion yen ($6.2 billion) by 2017, Shinjiro Mishima, who will be president of the new entity, said in an
interview. The company will speed up development of fuel-
efficient and cost-competitive ships, focusing on container
vessels, bulk carriers and  oil tankers , he said.  Combining JFE’s  Universal Shipbuilding Corp.  and IHI Marine
United Inc. will create  Japan ’s biggest shipbuilder that will
challenge larger rivals including Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.,
the world’s largest. Japanese shipbuilders are struggling as
slowing economies sap demand for new ships and a rising yen
makes locally built ships more expensive than vessels made in
 South Korea  and  China .  “We are aiming for expansion, though we need to slim down
operations when the environment is bad,” Mishima, who is also
the president of Universal Shipbuilding, said in the Feb. 29
interview at the company’s Kawasaki headquarters, near Tokyo.  The global market share of Japanese shipyards has more than
halved to 12 percent since 2005 as measured by new orders,
according to data compiled by the Shipbuilders’ Association of
Japan. Japan lost its title as world’s biggest shipbuilding
country to South Korea in 2000 before falling to third place
behind China in 2009.  The Japanese currency, which rose to a postwar high on Oct.
31, traded at 81.27 yen to the dollar at 9:35 a.m. in Tokyo. The
yen has gained 20 percent in the past three years.  Steel Purchase  The new company will continue purchases from  Nippon Steel
Corp. (5401)  and JFE Steel Corp., aiming to win larger price cuts by
increasing orders, Mishima said. A global oversupply of ships
will drive prices down until 2015, after which sales will
probably revive, he said.  Japan’s shipbuilding industry will need to consolidate,
Kazuaki Kama, chairman of the shipbuilding association and the
president of IHI, said on Feb. 21. There are “too many”
shipbuilding companies in Japan, even as domestic shipping lines
have combined into three large companies and steelmakers have
united into two groups, he said.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Mitsui O.S.K. Line Ltd. and Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. are the three major Japanese shipping
companies, while domestic steelmakers have formed two groups --
one led by Nippon Steel and the other by JFE. Nippon Steel plans
to merge with its alliance partner Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd.
in October, creating the world’s second-larger steelmaker.  Size Matters  JFE and IHI will each hold 45.93 percent of the new company,
while  Hitachi Zosen (7004)  will take 8.15 percent. The merged entity
will “welcome” other Japanese shipyards should they seek to
join, Mishima said. The merged group ranks fourth or fifth
worldwide, he said in January.  The two units had combined sales of 382 billion yen in the
financial year ended March 31. Hyundai Heavy’s sales reached 25
trillion won ($22 billion) last year, of which shipbuilding
accounted for 38 percent, or 948.7 billion won.  Japan needs to form a shipbuilder with annual sales of
about 500 billion to pare costs and speed investment in energy-
saving ships, Mishima said March 2, 2011.  South Korean shipbuilders, with combined annual sales of as
much as 1 trillion yen, are the main threat to Japanese yards,
Mishima told reporters on Jan. 30, when the merger was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  