-- Obama Recess Appointments Can’t Be Challenged in Labor Rule Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-03T08:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/judge-rejects-challenge-to-obama-labor-relations-board-recess-appointments.html
President  Barack Obama ’s recess
appointments to the  National Labor Relations Board  can’t be
challenged as part of a lawsuit over requirements for businesses
to inform employees of their rights, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington
yesterday said the  National Federation of Independent Business 
and other trade groups “attempted to shoehorn a challenge” to
the recess appointments into a case over a rule mandating that
companies notify workers of their rights to form a union.  “The court declines this invitation to take up a political
dispute that is not before it,” Jackson said in her six-page
ruling. She didn’t rule on whether the appointments were legal.  In a separate ruling, the judge found the board has the
authority to require companies to post union-rights
notifications. She ruled the board lacked the authority to
enforce the so-called poster rule as an unfair labor practice.  “We are concerned that this decision will encourage
frivolous lawsuits by unions against small-business owners who
refuse to comply,” Karen Harned, executive director of NFIB’s
Small Business Legal Center, said in an e-mailed statement.  She said the group will appeal the rulings.  Obama appointed three members to the board on Jan. 4,
bypassing the Senate by asserting lawmakers were in recess and
unable to act on nominations. A president is permitted to make
appointments without Senate confirmation during a recess.
Republicans dispute that was the case at the time.  Four Labor Cases  The  Washington  lawsuit is one of at least four labor cases
in which parties have argued that the recess appointments were
unconstitutional, thus leaving the board without a quorum to
transact business or enforce regulations.  On March 1 in a federal court in New York,  Paul Clement , a
lawyer for a landlord, asked a judge to throw out a court
petition seeking to halt a lockout of 70 workers at a Brooklyn
apartment complex. He said the petition isn’t valid because the
board that filed it lacked a quorum.  “We’ve never had an attempted recess appointment like
this,” said Clement, who was solicitor general and acting
attorney general under President  George W. Bush .  Obama has since sent the Senate the nominations of the
three candidates.  In January, some of the trade groups in the poster-rule
case sought to add the recess appointment challenge to their
lawsuit.  ‘Widespread Confusion’  The groups urged the judge to rule on the legality of the
appointments to avoid “widespread confusion” and forestall
challenges to the NLRB’s authority in multiple cases.  “Millions of employers are faced with immediate confusion
and uncertainty as to their notice posting obligations due to
the widely publicized questions regarding the constitutional
legitimacy of the current board,” the trade groups said in a
Feb. 3 filing.  Eric Moskowitz, an NLRB lawyer, said in a Jan. 30 filing
that the trade groups shouldn’t be able to revise their
complaint to question the board’s authority to enforce the new
rule. He called the request “futile and prejudicial.”  On Feb. 13, the quorum argument was cited in a motion to
dismiss a petition in which the NLRB accused a  New York 
supermarket of firing five workers for seeking to unionize. On
Feb. 23, an Illinois lighting-equipment maker raised the
argument in its response to a petition in which the labor board
accused it of moving work from the U.S. to  Mexico  because its
employees went on strike.  The case is  National Association of Manufacturers  v.
National Labor Relations Board, 11-cv-01629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 