-- KanAm Fund, Portsmouth, Solar Millennium, Inprombank: Bankruptcy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-02T16:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/kanam-fund-portsmouth-solar-millennium-inprombank-bankruptcy.html
KanAm Grund KAG will liquidate its
3.92 billion-euro ($5.2 billion)  Grundinvest Fund (KANGRND) , making it the
largest German mutual property fund to be wound up, after
failing to raise enough money to meet investor withdrawals.  Grundinvest, which suspended redemptions in May 2010, had
two years to sell assets and raise sufficient cash to return to
investors. The fund will now be liquidated and money returned by
the end of 2016, Frankfurt-based asset manager KanAm said in a
statement Feb. 29.  The liquidation “leaves little doubt that German open-
ended fund disposal activity will accelerate in the mid-term,”
said Iryna Pylypchuk, an associate director of research at
property adviser CBRE Group Inc.  KanAm cited Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and concern
among German savers about investment in the country’s mutual
property funds for its inability to reopen Grundinvest. Since
closing, the fund sold or agreed to sell 1 billion euros of
property in  Canada ,  Europe  and the U.S. It owns 51 properties in
nine countries with an estimated value of 6.3 billion euros,
according to the statement.  German Luxury Hotel Used for G8 Meeting Files for Insolvency  The luxury hotel on  Germany ’s Baltic Sea coast used for the
Group of Eight meeting in 2007 filed for insolvency after
failing to attract new investors for an overhaul.  The owner of the  Grand Hotel Heiligendamm , which has more
than 200 rooms, can no longer pay the interest on its loans,
Fundus-Gruppe said in a  statement  on its website Feb. 28.
Fundus-Gruppe controls Grand Hotel Heiligendamm GmbH & Co. KG,
or Fonds KG, which filed with the district court in Aachen,
Germany, the statement showed.  Heiligendamm, 23 kilometers (14 miles) west of the city of
Rostock in eastern Germany, is the country’s oldest seaside
health resort dating from 1793, according to its website.  World
leaders  including  Angela Merkel ,  George W. Bush ,  Vladimir Putin 
and  Tony Blair  stayed there during the G8 meeting in 2007.  Portsmouth May Not Be Able to Finish Season, Administrator Says  English soccer club Portsmouth, which entered
administration last month for the second time in two years, may
not be able to finish the season, the administrator for the
second-tier team said.  Portsmouth won’t get any league funding, including 2.2
million pounds ($3.5 million) from the Premier League in so-
called parachute payments, because the money would go straight
to a former owner, administrator Trevor Birch said in a
 statement .  “We had previously stated that there was a real danger of
the club running out of cash before the end of the season,”
Birch said. “The risk of this happening increases substantially
without the money from the football authorities. Unless
something significant happens, there is a real possibility that
we may not be able to fulfill the season’s fixtures.”  Birch said lawyers will challenge the parachute payment
arrangement, which was made by the team’s former owners. Clubs
receive the payments for four years after being relegated from
the Premier League. Portsmouth dropped to the second-tier
Championship following the 2009-10 season.  Solar Millennium Continues Investor Search Amid Insolvency  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ’s insolvency proceedings were opened by
a German court on Feb. 28 as the search for an investor for the
German solar-power developer continues.  Volker Boehm, the insolvency administrator appointed by the
local court in Fuerth, sees opportunities to find a buyer for
the company’s Flagsol GmbH unit and some of its projects in
 Spain , mainly the Arenales solar-thermal power plant, Solar
Millennium said in a statement. It fired its remaining 40
employees, it said.  While some investors are interested in taking over Solar
Millennium as a whole, the prospects of such a deal “are highly
uncertain,” it said.  Solar Millennium said Feb. 6 it sold 2.25 gigawatts of U.S.
projects to  Solarhybrid AG. (SHL)  The Erlangen-based company filed for
insolvency on Dec. 21, citing slow progress in selling its U.S.
assets and failure to reach an agreement on bringing in
investors for its Ibersol venture in Spain.  The first creditors’ meeting is scheduled to take place May
15, Solar Millennium said.  Ukraine Will Liquidate Lender Inprombank, Central Bank Says  Ukraine’s central bank will revoke the banking license held
by PAT Innovatsiyno Promyslovyi Bank, or Inprombank, and begin
liquidation proceedings.  The central bank appointed Oleksiy Halaburda, the head of
the bank supervision department, as the liquidator of the
institution, the regulator said in a  statement  on its website
today.  Petroplus’s Antwerp Refinery Has Potential Buyer, De Tijd Says  An unidentified potential buyer for Petroplus Holdings AG’s
refinery in the Belgian port of Antwerp has emerged,  De Tijd 
reported on its website, citing the court-appointed trustee for
the refinery.  The trustee declined to disclose the identity of the
possible buyer, according to the newspaper.  Elpida Credit-Default Swaps to Be Settled at Auction, ISDA Says  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  credit-default swaps have been triggered
by a bankruptcy credit event and will be settled at auction,
according to the International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  -- With assistance by Simon Packard, Abigail Moses and Bob
Bensch in  London , Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg, Nariman
Gizitdinov in Almaty, Kateryna Choursina in Kiev, Stefan Nicola
in Berlin and John Martens in Brussels. Editor: Christopher
Scinta  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 