-- Kazakh President Threatens to Halt OSCE Vote Monitoring Missions
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-03-02T11:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/kazakh-president-threatens-to-halt-osce-vote-monitoring-missions.html
Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev , who has ruled the Central Asian nation since 1989,
threatened to block the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe  from monitoring elections.  “Again we see attempts to use instruments such as observer
missions during national elections to apply pressure by one
group of countries on another,” Nazarbayev told foreign
ambassadors today in the capital, Astana, according to the
state-owned  Kazinform  news service. “If it continues this way,
we will be forced to reject these missions in the future.”  Nazarbayev, whose country chaired the OSCE in 2010, won a
new five-year term last April with 95.5 percent backing. He was
named “leader of the nation” two years ago, giving him power
to dictate policy even after he retires. No election in
 Kazakhstan  has ever been deemed “free and fair” by the OSCE,
Europe’s democracy watchdog.  The president’s ruling party garnered 80.7 percent of the
vote in a Jan. 15 election following the worst violence in
Kazakhstan since the former Soviet republic won independence two
decades ago. Riots broke out in December after an oil-worker
strike over wages in an oil-rich region bordering the  Caspian
Sea  in western Kazakhstan, killing 16 people and leaving more
than 100 injured.  Kazakh police arrested opposition leaders Bulat Abilov and
Amirzhan Kosanov on Feb. 25 when a second rally against the
results of parliamentary elections was scheduled to be held, the
National Social Democratic Party said in a Feb. 29 statement.
Both politicians went on hunger strike to protest their arrests,
the party said.  Russia , Kazakhstan’s closest ally, elects a president on
March 4, with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  predicted by polls
to win enough support to avoid a runoff. Observers from the OSCE
said Russia’s parliamentary vote in December lacked fairness and
was marred by procedural violations.  The OSCE, which refused to monitor Russia’s presidential
elections four years ago, applies “dual standards” in its
approach, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said last September.  -- Editors: Paul Abelsky, Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  