-- Keystone Pipeline Brings Pain at Pump: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-03-02T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/keystone-pipe-brings-pain-at-pump-few-jobs-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
(Corrects second paragraph to show that pipeline markets
are domestic and foreign, deletes erroneous reference to spill
in third paragraph in column published March 2.)  “I’ll get us that oil from
 Canada ,”  Mitt Romney   said  in his victory speech after the
Michigan primary. He was referring to Keystone XL, the crude-oil
pipeline that has become a top-tier campaign issue for
Republicans.  Problem is, the tar-sands oil in that pipeline wouldn’t
necessarily be coming to “us.” Some of it would go directly
from Canada to refineries in the Gulf region en route to export
markets in  Latin America  and  Europe .  We’ve heard a lot about spills on the completed portions of
the pipeline -- more than a dozen since it started operation in
2010. Conservative Nebraskans became greens overnight when they
learned the details of the project that will go through their
state.  But the immediate effect of completing the Keystone
pipeline (perhaps by 2015) is more surprising and
counterintuitive.  The Jobs Myth  The project would increase domestic oil prices by more than
$6 a barrel and prices at the pump in parts of the country by
about 20 cents a gallon. You read that right. At a time when
rising gas prices threaten President  Barack Obama ’s re-election,
the Republicans’ most ballyhooed remedy -- a new pipeline --
would make the problem worse.  Before I explain why, here’s a little background on
Keystone’s other practical shortcomings beyond its broader
threat to a clean energy future.  The same Republicans who opposed the auto bailouts that
saved about 1.5 million jobs ( according  to the Center for
Automotive Research) claim that Obama’s delay of a decision on
Keystone until after the election is a travesty because it’s a
“job-killer.”  The president’s announcement in January that he would punt
was highly political; he didn’t want to offend environmentalists
in the Democratic base. But it’s a myth to say unemployment will
rise as a result. TransCanada Corp., the company building the
pipeline, initially estimated that the project would create “a
few hundred” permanent jobs. The State Department put the
number at 20. Experts I consulted say that maintenance of the
specialty pipe used in Keystone is more complicated than the
State Department figures indicate. Presumably the refineries
processing the additional oil might add some jobs. So the total
number of permanent jobs could perhaps be closer to 1,000.  Knowing that such paltry figures would harm their efforts
to sell the project to the U.S. public, TransCanada underwrote a
study by an outfit called the Perryman Group claiming that
Keystone XL will create 119,000 total jobs. But according to a
 report  by the Cornell Global Labor Institute, the Perryman study
is bogus. It included the vaguely calculated multiplier effects
of $1 billion spent for a section of the pipeline in Kansas and
 Oklahoma  that has already been built and isn’t part of the
controversial extension.  The temporary construction and manufacturing jobs created
by the project over two years -- estimates range from 2,500 to
20,000, depending on how much of the money is spent in the U.S.
-- would be welcome, but by themselves they hardly justify
approval of the whole thing.  Extortionist Logic  The Republicans’ decision to politicize the issue is a
perfect illustration of their pound-foolish approach. First they
tried to hold up the payroll tax holiday (a proven job
multiplier) if Obama didn’t approve Keystone. Now they are
applying the same extortionist logic to the transportation bill,
which would create hundreds of thousands more jobs than a single
pipeline.  Then there’s the backlash from landowners resentful of
TransCanada’s cavalier approach. The company, apparently less
sensitive to NIMBY than American firms, sent out threatening
letters pressuring property holders to sell their land. The
letters often wrongly claimed that the permitting necessary to
seize the property had already been completed. This has sparked
a strange bedfellows alliance between environmentalists
concerned about dirty energy and Tea Party activists angry about
eminent domain.  TransCanada’s plan to jack up  oil prices  is hiding in plain
sight. In the  appendix  to its application to the Canadian
National Energy Board (helpfully provided to me by the  Natural
Resources Defense Council ), the company brags that its project
is “expected to realize an increase in the heavy crude price of
approximately $3.00 per barrel by avoiding a discount” at the
U.S. Gulf Coast. The market price of heavy crudes should rise an
additional $3.55 per barrel when the new pipeline “relieves the
oversupply situation in the Midwest.”  That oversupply, which holds down prices, is a result of
more oil flowing south from Canada into Midwestern refineries.
(It used to flow north from the Gulf region, which was more
expensive.) The Canadians “propose building the Keystone line
to go around Midwest refineries,”  says   Philip Verleger , an oil
industry consultant and professor at the University of Calgary.  John Kilduff , an oil analyst at Again Capital, reminds me
that eventually the supply bottlenecks (most famously in
Cushing, Oklahoma) will ease, the oil will flow, and sharply
increased supply from Canada will push down global oil prices.  Maybe so, but in the meantime the Keystone XL pipeline has
become just another example of Republican hype. Like the false
claim that Obama is hostile to oil leasing (in truth, he has
greatly expanded it) and intent on putting the industry out of
business (so why the record profits?), this debate feeds
dangerous myths about our energy future.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 