-- Netanyahu Says He Won’t Set Iran ‘Red Lines’ as Obama Keeps Options Open
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-02T22:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/netanyahu-says-he-won-t-declare-red-lines-for-u-s-on-iran-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today he won’t go to the White House next week
demanding that President  Barack Obama  accept his terms for
whether to take military action against Iran.  “I haven’t set down red lines and I will not set down red
lines for the  United States ,” Netanyahu told reporters in
Ottawa after a meeting with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper . “I want to reserve Israel’s freedom to maneuver in
light of threats, every country would demand that.”  Tensions have increased between the U.S. and Israel over
how to deal with Iran, as one U.S. official after another has
called for additional time to let new, more severe sanctions
have an impact. Israeli leaders have warned publicly that time
is running out for a military strike that could stop  Iran  from
developing nuclear weapons.  Netanyahu, who will spend the next two days in Ottawa
before going to Washington to meet with Obama, said the world
should avoid falling into a “trap” set by Iran where the
country would agree to talks about its nuclear program while
still developing arms.  “The warnings that I and others have been giving over the
years will materialize unless Iran is stopped,” Netanyahu said
at a news conference with Harper in the Parliament buildings.
“All options should be left on the table.”  No Bluff  Obama, in an interview published today in the Atlantic
magazine, said Iran can’t be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon
and the U.S. will do what’s necessary. He repeated that the U.S.
is leaving all options open and that the ultimate option is the
“military component.”  “I don’t bluff,” Obama said of a U.S. willingness to use
military action if needed. “I also don’t, as a matter of sound
policy, go around advertising exactly what our intentions are.”  He rejected any policy that would seek to contain a
nuclear-armed Iran and warned that it would trigger an arms race
in the region. Still, he said that sanctions are having an
effect and may force Iran’s government to give up pursuing
nuclear arms.  The U.S. and the European Union tightened economic
 sanctions  following a November 2011 report by  United Nations 
inspectors that Iran’s nuclear research program may include
pursuing the capability to build a nuclear weapon. It said there
was evidence Iran was working on a weapon designed to fit on a
missile that could reach Israel and  Europe . Iran says its
nuclear program is for civilian energy and medical research.  ‘No Ambiguity’  Robert Gallucci, a former special envoy on weapons
proliferation and assistant secretary of state in President  Bill
Clinton ’s administration, said today he believes there is “no
ambiguity” that Iran has a nuclear weapons program and that
ultimately it cannot be stopped without military action.  “There’s an enrichment program; there is a plutonium
program,” Gallucci, now president of the John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Foundation, said at a forum on nuclear rogue
states, held at the  Brookings Institution , a policy center in
 Washington . “This is a nuclear weapons program.”  Netanyahu -- speaking in Hebrew and English as he stood
beside Harper, who spoke in English and French -- laid out three
steps by Iran that he said would preclude an Israeli attack:
Dismantling its underground nuclear facility in Qom, stopping
 uranium enrichment  and disposing of all enriched material other
that what would be used to make medical isotopes or generate
atomic power.  Endorsing Stance  Harper, known for his strong support of Israel, endorsed
Netanyahu’s stance toward Iran. Harper also said Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad must stop killing his countrymen and
leave office.  “We will keep working with the international community to
pressure the Iranian regime to abandon its nuclear weapons
program, to immediately allow international inspectors of all
its nuclear sites and to comply with the United Nations’
Security Council resolutions,” Harper said.  In the Atlantic article, Obama also said he was puzzled
over skepticism about his concern for  Israel ’s security.  “Why is it that despite me never failing to support Israel
on every single problem that they’ve had over the last three
years, that there are still questions about that?” Obama asked
interviewer  Jeffrey Goldberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ottawa at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  