-- New York Man Who Touted Bin Laden on MySpace Gets 27 Years in Prison
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-02T22:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/new-york-man-who-touted-bin-laden-on-myspace-gets-27-years-in-prison.html
A 24-year-old  Brooklyn , New York,
man who transcribed  Osama bin Laden  videos on his MySpace page
was sentenced to 27 years in prison for conspiring to commit
murder overseas and supporting terrorism.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn sentenced
Betim Kaziu today. In July, a jury convicted him on four counts,
including an attempt to provide support to a terrorist
organization overseas.  “You grew up in Brooklyn and you decided to murder your
own country’s soldiers,” Gleeson said. “You admired Osama bin
Laden.”  Kaziu, a U.S. citizen, was arrested in  Kosovo  in 2009.
While traveling in Cairo, Kaziu sought to join Al-Shabaab, a
group fighting to overthrow the government in Somalia, U.S.
prosecutors said. He tried to travel to  Afghanistan ,  Iraq , and
 Pakistan  and sought to buy an AK-47 on the black market, the
U.S. said. He was also seeking to attack NATO troops in Kosovo,
where some U.S. troops were stationed, according to prosecutors.  “I’m already changed -- almost three years in jail is
enough,” Kaziu told Gleeson before he was sentenced. “I regret
a lot of things I did in the past and I just want to go back
home.”  ‘Radical Thoughts’  Kaziu, who has been in custody since his arrest, said that
while he “may have had certain radical thoughts or opinions”
but he never acted on them.  Kaziu had asked for a sentence “significantly below” the
nonbinding guideline of life in prison, in part because no one
was injured from his crimes and because of his “age and lack of
sophistication.” Prosecutors said the punishment should be “at
or near” life. The U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services System
recommended 30 years, according to court papers.  “The only thing that stopped Mr. Kaziu was  United States 
and Kosovo law enforcement,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Shreve
Ariail told Gleeson today. “There’s no indication that he’s
anything but a committed jihadist.”  Joshua L. Dratel, a lawyer for Kaziu, declined to comment
on the sentence.  Sulejmah Hadzovic, whom the U.S. called Kaziu’s best
friend, testified that the two men traveled to Cairo and wanted
to wage jihad overseas, possibly in Somalia, before Hadzovic
abandoned the idea and returned to the U.S. in May 2009.  Overseas Travel  Kaziu and Hadzovic, neighbors in Brooklyn who met when
Kaziu was in the sixth grade, were first-generation Americans
whose parents came from the former  Yugoslavia .  Closing arguments in the trial focused on whether Kaziu’s
MySpace page and his contacts and travel overseas were evidence
of a conspiracy.  His avatar on the page, “Sayf-UL-iSLAM,” showed a figure
in military fatigues with a saber. Under the alias Abdul Wahab
Al-Albani, Kaziu’s postings included lines such as “Angry at
the Kuffar,” or disbeliever.  He posted films including one of a crying U.S. soldier, and
an interview with Osama  bin Laden  from 2008.  U.S. prosecutors said Kaziu had taken Osama Bin Laden’s
words and rebroadcast them as his own and disseminated messages
from Anwar al-Awlaki on his MySpace page. In September, a
missile from a U.S. drone killed Al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born Islamic
cleric who masterminded the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound
airplane in 2009. Bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces in May in
a private residence in Abbottabad, Pakistan.  “From the moment you were arrested there was good reason to
believe you were ready, willing and able to kill for jihad,”
Gleeson told Kaziu today. “You’ve dedicated your young life to
the cause of destroying this country and all that it stands
for.”  The case is U.S. v. Kaziu, 09-cr-660, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 