-- Christie Would Weigh Romney Request for Veep Run
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-02T02:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/new-jersey-s-christie-would-weigh-romney-request-to-run-for-vice-president.html
Chris Christie , New Jersey’s first-
term Republican governor, said he’d consider a request from  Mitt Romney  to become his vice presidential running mate, if the
former chief executive of  Massachusetts  were to ask.  Christie, 49, said voters in his party are “shopping
around” for the best challenger to face President Barack Obama
in the U.S. general election in November. His comments came in
response to questions about the primary race between Romney, 64,
and challengers including Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania .  “They’re going to come back to Mitt Romney as the
Republican nominee and then he’s going to have a battle on his
hands with the president this fall,” Christie told host Steve
Adubato today during a “Christie on the Line” broadcast on
public television and radio stations from  Montclair State
University .  Christie said he would consider being Romney’s running
mate, if the former Bain Capital LLC chief executive asked him.
The New Jerseyan has endorsed Romney and made campaign
appearances on his behalf since ruling himself out of the race
last year. Romney won primaries in  Michigan  and Arizona Feb. 28.  Christie said he doubted that running for vice president
was “something I would want to do.” Still, he added, “I won’t
rule it out.”  Owes Consideration  “I owe it to Governor Romney, if he were to ask me the
question, to sit and listen to him as to why he thinks I would
be the best person to be vice president,” Christie said. “From
my perspective, if you’re a betting person, bet on me still
being governor of  New Jersey  in January of 2013.”  Christie ended weeks of speculation by announcing that he
wouldn’t run for his party’s presidential nomination Oct. 4,
even after receiving offers of support from major Republican
fund-raisers.  A Quinnipiac University survey of voters released yesterday
found that putting Christie on the November ballot with Romney
wouldn’t be enough to deliver the 11th-biggest state by
population to the Republicans over Obama, a Democrat. A Romney-
Christie matchup with Obama and Vice President Joe Biden gave
the state to the president, 49 percent to 43 percent, according
to the poll of 1,396 registered voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  