-- New York Mets Main Financial Challenge May Be Fielding Competitive Team
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-03T07:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/new-york-mets-main-financial-challenge-may-be-fielding-competitive-team.html
New York Mets  general manager Sandy Alderson, preparing to drive to  Florida  for spring training
earlier this month, joked with fans through Twitter messages
about the sorry state of his baseball team’s finances.  He would need a fundraiser for gas money to get to the Mets
Port St. Lucie training complex because the team only reimbursed
miles at a “downhill rate,” he said.  Mets fans, on local talk radio or in blogs devoted to the
fortunes of the beleaguered Major League Baseball team, give the
impression they consider the financial prospects of the team a
joke too.  That may be about to change. After fan predictions of
bankruptcy, the Mets owners are set to hear by March 5 whether
they must go to trial to fight a $386 million claim for money
they had with  Bernard Madoff , the con man who ran the biggest
 Ponzi scheme  in history and now resides in federal prison in
 North Carolina .  A ruling that ends or limits the potential liability would
come on top of a pending infusion of about $200 million from
minority investors in the team, which will be used to pay $65
million of short term loans from Major League Baseball and  Bank
of America (BAC)  Corp. If all goes well, the principal challenge as
spring training season games begin may be fielding a team that
will get fans back in the seats at Citi Field, the Mets’ home
park in Queens, New York.  “We’ve got to win the fans back,” Mets owner Fred Wilpon
told reporters last week at the team’s spring training facility.
“We have a diminished population coming to Citi Field. We need
that revenue. And the only way we’re going to get that revenue
is if we have a competitive, interesting team on the field.”  Few Stars  The Mets’ roster has only a few proven stars, including
third baseman David Wright, 29, a five-time All-Star whose
production slipped in 2011, and  Johan Santana , 32, a former 20-
game winner for the Minnesota Twins who missed all of the 2011
season because of shoulder surgery.  The team lost shortstop Jose Reyes, 28, last year’s
National League batting champion, to the  Miami Marlins  after he
was offered more money in a longer contract than the Mets
thought made sense. Carlos Beltran, a six-time All-Star and
former Rookie of the Year, was traded to the  San Francisco
Giants  last year for a package of players including pitcher Zack Wheeler, 21, who has yet to play in the major leagues. Wheeler
along with pitcher Matt Harvey, 22, are the two Mets ranked
among Baseball America’s top 100 prospects.  “They’re not barren, but the farm system won’t play a
major role in their resurgence the next couple of years,” said
Jim Callis, Baseball America’s executive editor, referring to
younger players brought onto the team.  Revenue Slide  That doesn’t bode well for improvement on the field this
year from 2011, when the Mets finished fourth out of five teams
in the NL East. Sterling Mets LP, which runs the team and owns
Citi Field, took $51 million out of Queens Ballpark Co. in 2010,
down from about $167 million in 2009, according to the stadium’s
latest published annual results, available on the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board  website . Results for the full year
2011 aren’t available yet.  Distributions to Sterling Mets in 2009 were swelled by $50
million of cash on hand at the beginning of the year and about
$20 million of lower lease and other costs, according to the
financial statements.  Revenue from the stadium slipped further in 2011, falling
12 percent through November as attendance fell to 2.29 million,
according to Standard & Poor’s analyst Jodi Hecht. Stadium
managers’ projections of a rebound in attendance in 2012 to 2.5
million appear “aggressive,” she said in a December report.  Ticket Sales  The Mets owners get paid mainly from ticket sales from 81
home games a year. Bondholders get all revenue and receivables
from luxury suite premiums, some ticket sales from club and
premium seats, food, beverage and merchandise concessions,
advertising and most of the naming rights, certain sponsorship
agreements and parking operations. Separately, the Mets owners
also get paid from their stake in SNY, a regional sports
network.  S&P in December cut to negative the outlook on $695.4
million of debt issued to build Citi Field after the team’s
third straight losing season and falling attendance.  “If your attendance numbers are going down, the unsold
inventory is putting pressure on your primary market -- season
ticket holders, mini plans,” said Rob Tilliss, managing partner
at advisory firm Inner Circle Sports. “If there’s that much
inventory out there on, say, StubHub, it’s harder to retain
pricing power.” StubHub is a secondary ticket market.  Revenue Stream  Selling tickets is key to the Mets’ finances, as it’s one
of the few revenue streams the team keeps from the stadium.  Most season-ticket holders will pay less this season, the
Mets said in October. About 80 percent of their seats will cost
at least 5 percent less; 57 percent will dip at least 10
percent, and 35 percent will drop at least 20 percent. Under a
new “dynamic pricing” policy, fans will probably pay more to
see relatively more popular clubs such as the Philadelphia
Phillies and Miami Marlins, than for clubs such as the  Houston
Astros  or  San Diego Padres .  Last season’s average ticket price for the Mets was $31.81,
fifth-highest in  Major League Baseball , according to Team
Marketing Report, an industry newsletter. Premium seats cost
$102.13, sixth highest in baseball.  At that level, the Mets lost $70 million last year, general
manager Alderson has said. The team’s loss, and the owners’
slide in revenue from the stadium, comes after the Madoff fraud
wiped out $500 million the Mets owners thought they had of their
own and the team’s money, they estimated.  Team Expenses  Also gone is about $63 million a year of Madoff money that
paid team expenses including players’ deferred compensation. The
amount represents withdrawals in the six years before the con
man’s 2008 arrest, calculated by the Madoff firm’s liquidator,
 Irving Picard . During baseball’s regular season, when money was
needed, Sterling made about three-quarters of its withdrawals
from Madoff accounts, Picard said.  Sterling Equities Inc., Wilpon’s and his partners’ company,
restructured a bank loan of more than $500 million after
Madoff’s arrest, Picard said in his lawsuit. Bankers ordained
that a judgment in the Madoff case of more than $100 million, or
in some cases $50 million, would be “an event of default,” he
said.  ‘Team-Generated Revenue’  Picard’s assertion that the Mets couldn’t make their
payroll without Madoff money was “disingenuous,” the owners
said in a court filing this month. The money they withdrew from
their Madoff accounts to meet the payroll came from ticket sales
and other “team-generated revenue” deposited with the con man,
they said.  William Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on loans to the Mets’ owners.  The Mets’ themselves have a $430 million loan that comes
due in June 2014, a year before a $450 million loan to SNY, the
sports network built around the Mets, falls due, according to
author Howard Megdal, who wrote a 2011 book, “Wilpon’s Folly:
The Story of a Man, His Fortune, and the  New York  Mets.”  Restructuring Firm  While Sterling declined to discuss the loans, its partners
have hired a restructuring firm “to provide services in
connection with financial reporting and budgeting processes,”
according to a statement. The loans may be restructured, said a
person familiar with Sterling’s finances who declined to be
named as the debt plans are private.  The team owners are partly offsetting the loss of Madoff
income by reducing their basic payroll to about $90 million this
season, from $140 million. This is the first time since 2002
that the franchise’s Opening Day salary total has dipped below
$100 million. The Mets finished with a 77-85 record last season,
slashing costs during the offseason by not re-signing Reyes,
whose contract with the Marlins is worth at least $111 million
over six seasons, according to ESPN.  The Mets in the past five years have spent $24.9 million on
draft bonuses for players in school, which ranks 22nd among 30
teams. Baseball America has the Mets as the 24th-ranked farm
system in baseball.  ‘What You Pay For’  “For a team in their market, with a new ballpark, that’s
inexcusable to spend that little on the draft,” Baseball
America’s Callis said. “Money doesn’t guarantee success, but a
lot of what you get out of the draft is what you pay for.”  Bondholders who helped finance the stadium’s construction
are repaid by revenue allocated to them, including from luxury
suites, and can’t pursue the Sterling partners. There’s enough
revenue to make bond payments, according to S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service.  If the judge handling the Mets owners’ case, Jed Rakoff,
awards Picard the $83 million he wants immediately before trial,
out of a total of $386 million, Wilpon will have to post a bond
to appeal the ruling.  The team has sold seven minority ownership shares, out of a
targeted 10, $20 million shares, each representing about 4
percent of the franchise, Wilpon said last month. If he buys the
shares back in six years, as the New York Times reported
investors were told, he’s adding debt, not getting an equity
infusion.  More of a Loan  “It’s more of a loan than an investment if he buys them
back,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer and baseball fan
in Louisville,  Kentucky . Sterling wouldn’t say if a buyback is
planned.  The sale was largely to Sterling companies and partners.
Four shares went to SNY, the regional sports network owned by
the team with  Time Warner (TWC)  Cable Inc. and  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp. Two
shares went to Sterling partners. Billionaire hedge-fund manager
Steven Cohen of SAC Capital Advisors, a bidder for the  Los
Angeles Dodgers , is among those investing in the Mets, a person
with direct knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg News.  If the judgment in the Madoff case is more than $100
million, that could technically trigger a default on Sterling’s
$500 million loan, according to Picard’s reading of the
documents.  The Mets owners have hired restructuring firm CRG Partners,
which advised the  Texas Rangers  on its bankruptcy. The Mets say
they haven’t hired CRG for such advice.  “Sterling could file for bankruptcy,” Bowles said. “I
would be shocked if they hadn’t consulted someone about using
bankruptcy as a way to reduce a legal judgment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net 
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ; or
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  