-- Nokia Debt Lowered to One Step Above Junk by S&P on Outlook
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-02T13:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/nokia-debt-rating-cut-to-lowest-investment-grade-by-s-p-outlook-negative.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, had its debt  rating  cut to the lowest
investment ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited operating
margins that may be further reduced this year.  The long-term rating was lowered to BBB- from BBB with a
negative outlook, Standard & Poor’s said today. Moody’s
Investors Service ranks the debt Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade.  “The negative outlook reflects the possibility of a
downgrade in the next two years” if mobile-phone margins remain
in low to mid-single digits or if cash declines to less than 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion), Standard & Poor’s analyst Thierry
Guermann wrote in a report. It was the fourth cut within a year
by the ratings company.  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , is trying to build momentum
for its four-month-old Lumia Windows Phone line and this week
introduced a 189 euro Windows Phone to compete with Android
smartphones. Sales of Windows Phones may not increase fast
enough to offset a decline in the company’s established line
based on the Symbian software, which is being phased out,
Standard & Poor’s said.  Margins Estimate  The rating cut won’t have a material impact on Nokia’s
current financing costs, spokesman James Etheridge said in an e-
mailed statement.  Nokia’s handset margins, adjusted for some items, declined
from  more than 20 percent  in 2007, when  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced
the iPhone, to  4.9 percent  last quarter, pared by competition
from Apple’s expansion and from devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software.  Standard & Poor’s forecast a “low single digit” margin
this year, based on non-IFRS accounting rules, compared with 7
percent of revenue last year, it said today.  Nokia’s smartphone market share was 12.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, down from 28.1 percent a year earlier, according
to Strategy Analytics figures cited by Standard & Poor’s. Its
overall handset share was higher at 25.5 percent, helped by
lower-priced phones which account for about half its device
revenues.  Fitch Ratings rates Nokia BBB-, its lowest investment
grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  