-- Nordea Investment Sold Italian Bonds on Growth as ECB Weighs on Sentiment
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-02T10:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/nordea-investment-sold-italian-bonds-on-growth-as-ecb-weighs-on-sentiment.html
Nordea Investment Management, part
of the Nordic region’s largest lender, sold some Italian bonds
in the past month amid concern the global economic recovery may
be derailed by higher  oil prices .  The world beating rally in Italian debt this year may also
fade after the  European Central Bank  shielded itself from
potential losses in  Greece ’s debt restructuring, said Martti Forsberg, responsible for managing about 2.5 billion euros ($3.3
billion) at the investment company’s Helsinki office. The world
economy is “not out of the danger zone,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said Feb. 27.  Italian bonds have risen with their Spanish counterparts
since December as investors used proceeds from the central
bank’s liquidity operations to buy the debt. The securities were
also buoyed as the ECB bought them as part of its bond-buying
program. The gains may be threatened as the global economy slows
and investors perceive that they will be disadvantaged in any
restructuring, Forsberg said.  Investors are now focused on “how this restructuring is
going to be done,” Forsberg, who joined Nordea in 2000, said in
a telephone interview on Feb. 24. “As it is, it seems it will
be done by letting certain shareholders keep their senior
position. That has an effect on how investors feel about holding
the weaker countries’ bonds in the future.”  Nordea Investment Management , a unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
oversees about 191 billion euros, according to its 2010 annual
report.  ECB Status  The ECB swapped about 50 billion euros of Greek bonds for
new debt, making it senior to other investors, according to
Moritz Kraemer, head of sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s ,
and exempting it from the largest sovereign debt forgiveness in
history. That may hit demand for bonds in the so-called
periphery, said Forsberg, who bought Italian notes before the
ECB’s first cash allotment to banks in December.  “In effect investors who hold bonds that the ECB has been
buying are now subordinated bondholders and that is of course is
an important new feature in European bond markets,” Forsberg,
39, said. “That’s a factor that will keep longer yields higher
than they otherwise would be. It’s not a positive that’s for
sure.”  Italian bonds delivered the highest returns this year among
26 markets in an index devised by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, earning 13 percent
including reinvested interest as of yesterday.  Brent Crude  The yield on the nation’s 10-year securities fell below 5
percent yesterday for the first time since August. The yield
reached a euro-era record of 7.48 percent on Nov. 9. The bonds
rallied with those of  Spain  after the Frankfurt-based ECB
offered banks three-year loans in the first long term
refinancing operation in December.  Ten-year yields rose today for the first time since Feb.
23, climbing by two basis points to 4.98 percent at 10:22 a.m.
London time. The yield on the  Italian two-year debt , which
slipped below 2 percent yesterday for the first time since
October 2010, was little changed at 1.75 percent.  Brent oil may rise to $150 a barrel this year if diplomatic
relations between  Iran  and the west worsen, Barclays Plc said
yesterday. Crude oil for April delivery rose 52 cents to $107.59
a barrel at 11:35 a.m. yesterday on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 8 percent in the past year.  ECB Allotment  The central bank said on Feb. 29 it would lend 800
financial institutions 529.5 billion euros for three years. That
was more than the 470 billion-euro median of 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey and the 489 billion euros taken up at the
December operation.  The yield on  Italian two-year debt  slipped below 2 percent
yesterday for the first time since October 2010.  Forsberg said he bought Italian shorter-dated notes last
year, favoring them because of their liquidity and high yields
compared with Spain. He reduced his holdings of Italian bonds
and is underweight the longer-dated securities of both
countries, meaning his funds own a smaller percentage of the
debt than the indexes against which they measure their
performance. Forsberg is neutral on shorter-dated notes in
 Europe ’s so-called periphery countries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  