-- Obama Calls Georgetown Law Student After Limbaugh Slurs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/obama-calls-to-support-georgetown-student-after-limbaugh-s-radio-attacks.html
A law student subjected to personal
slurs by radio commentator  Rush Limbaugh  for advocating  health
insurance  coverage for contraception received a phone call
offering support yesterday from President  Barack Obama .  The student, Sandra Fluke, was barred from testifying last
month before a House committee on what became an all-male panel
talking about women’s access to birth control. She appeared a
week later before House Democrats and discussed the need for
insurance to cover contraception for women.  Obama called Fluke, who is attending Georgetown
University’s law school, and spoke with her for several minutes,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters. Obama
thought Limbaugh’s comments were “reprehensible,” Carney said.  “He wanted to offer his support to her,” Carney said.
“He wanted to express his disappointment that she has been the
subject of inappropriate personal attacks and to thank her for
exercising her rights as a citizen to speak out on an issue of
public policy.”  Fluke said  on MSNBC  that Obama “encouraged me and thanked
me for speaking out about the concerns of American women” and
told me to “tell my parents that they should be proud.”  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  decried
the “vicious and inappropriate attacks” leveled against Fluke,
and House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, criticized
Limbaugh’s remarks in a statement from his spokesman,  Michael Steel .  Fundraising Appeal  “The speaker obviously believes the use of those words was
inappropriate, as is trying to raise money off the situation,”
Steel said.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee sent a
fundraising appeal shortly after Fluke was excluded from the
House hearing.  Limbaugh called Fluke a “slut” and a “prostitute” on
his March 1 show, according to a transcript posted on his
website. A day later, he said on his program that Fluke admitted
to “having so much sex that she can’t afford it anymore. And
thus, a new welfare entitlement must be created so that society
will pay for it.”  His comments cost the program some of its advertising.
Quicken Loans Inc. of Detroit said it was suspending its ads due
to Limbaugh’s “inflammatory comments along with valuable
feedback from our clients and staff,” chairman  Dan Gilbert , the
owner of the  Cleveland  Cavaliers basketball team, said on
Twitter.  Ads Suspended  Select Comfort Corp. (SCSS) , the Plymouth, Minnesota-based maker
of the Sleep Number beds, and the Sleep Train Inc., a Citrus
Heights, California-based mattress retailer, also withdrew their
ads, according to Twitter posts.  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum , asked
about Limbaugh’s comments in a CNN interview yesterday, said the
talk show host was “being absurd.”  “But that’s, you know, an entertainer can be absurd,”
said Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania . “He’s
in a very different business than I am.”  Santorum rival Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, said “it’s not the language I would have used” after
being pressed by reporters at an event in Cleveland to weigh in
on Limbaugh’s comments.  “I’m focusing on the issues that I think are significant
in the country today, and that’s why I’m here talking about jobs
and Ohio,” Romney said.  Source of Controversy  The controversy over  birth control  arose after the Obama
administration initially required religiously affiliated
universities and hospitals to pay for contraception coverage for
their employees, with the exception of houses of worship. The
administration then modified the rule so that insurers, not the
institutions themselves, would pay for the coverage.  The Democratic-controlled Senate blocked Republican-
sponsored legislation on March 1 that would let all employers or
insurers exclude coverage for any health service that violates
their religious beliefs.  Democrats on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, which held the hearing that excluded Fluke, called on
the panel’s chairman, California Republican  Darrell Issa , to
join in the condemnation of Limbaugh.  “You are in a unique position to speak out now on her
behalf and to join us in condemning, in the strongest possible
terms, this very public and very malicious attack on all women
who share her views,” they wrote in a March 1 letter to Issa.  Issa responded yesterday, calling the Democrats’ focus on
Limbaugh’s comments “self-serving and dismissive of other
inappropriate comments and attacks on Americans of faith” and
instead suggested that both sides offer a “broader
condemnation” of “the regrettable personal attacks that have
come from individuals on both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  