-- Mobile-Phone Leaders Boost Battered Barcelona With $400 Million
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-02T11:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/mobile-phone-leaders-boost-battered-barcelona-with-400-million.html
Restaurant owner Bernardo Van der
Vyver is thrilled by the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona,
Spain’s second-largest city. And he isn’t a techie.  At Ben cafe, which offers a menu of 18 dishes about 200
meters (660 feet) from the  Fira  conference center, Van der Vyver
said he had to hire extra waiters as sales doubled in the past
four days. He is just one example of those who stand to gain
from the more than 300 million euros ($400 million) in revenue
the city receives from the event, according to its organizer.  “This week has been fantastic for my business,” said Van
der Vyver, 41, who also serves food inside the Fira. “I’ve seen
an increasing number of customers since the Mobile came to
Barcelona six years ago. This has been a good one, and I want
the next one to be even better.”  Barcelona, which ranks behind  Madrid  by population, is the
capital of Catalonia, a region whose budget deficit has reached
4.28 percent of its gross domestic product. That’s the third-
biggest behind Castilla-La Mancha and Murcia. Earlier this week,
its government approved a plan to cut the wages of more than
200,000 workers in the public sector by 3 percent this year to
save 180 million euros, said Marta Vilalta, a spokeswoman.  Traffic Jam  Further reductions in education and health care led to
demonstrations during the four-day Mobile World Congress, 
clogging traffic and forcing the organizer to shut down one 
of the main entrances in the evening of Feb. 29.  From restaurants and hotels to taxi service, Barcelona’s
local businesses said the event offered relief in the continuing
debt crisis and high unemployment as more than 67,000 visitors
came to the city for the show, including 3,500 chief executive
officers, according to a statement from GSMA, the industry group
of almost 800 mobile operators including  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   David Salazar, a cab driver in Barcelona, said the congress
allowed him to make 50 percent more in sales than a regular day
even as more visitors took public transportation this year
because of the protests. Thousands of youngsters rallied in
Barcelona streets protesting austerity measures.  “Thanks to events like this one, we can make up for
declining revenues as people take fewer cab rides,” Salazar
said.  Qualcomm, Gemalto  The Mobile World Congress provides a stage for technology
companies to show some of the most innovative products, meet
customers and sign business partnerships, said Sy Choudhury,
director of  product management  at  San Diego , California-based
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , who attends the trade fair every year.  “We showcase all the greatest technologies and it’s also
an easy way for us and partners not only to meet with executives
and key product management folks but also to see the demos,”
Choudhury said at Qualcomm’s stand. “And of course, we also
want to impress consumers, the press and analysts.”  Samir Khlif, vice president of subscriptions management at
smartcard maker  Gemalto NV (GTO) , said he came to Barcelona along with
other 100 executives and employees of the company from around
the world including Chief Executive Officer Olivier Piou.  “This is the event to be if you are in the telecoms
industry because it’s worldwide and you have all technologies,
from NFC to machine-to-machine and cloud computing, in just one
place,” Khlif said, referring to the short-range wireless
standard called near field communications.  Soaring Unemployment  More than 6,000 temporary jobs were created during the
congress, said Estefania Redondo, a spokeswoman for the city
mayor’s office.  Spain  has the highest  unemployment rate  in the
European Union at 23 percent, with almost half of youngsters
without jobs.  Barcelona resident Pol Amat, 19, said he got a contract for
five days, and worked 12 hours a day checking badges at the
site’s entrance. He’s earned 450 euros, he said.  “We work hard, but you can’t say no amid the current
crisis,” said Amat, who is studying for a degree in tourism.
“Besides, I get to meet people from all over the world, which
is very cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  