-- Hoboken Steels for Drunken Revelers Even Without St. Patrick’s Day Parade
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-02T18:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/hoboken-braces-for-drunken-revelers-even-without-st-patrick-s-day-parade.html
The parade is off and the party is
on -- so on that the square-mile city of  Hoboken (9609MF) ,  New Jersey , is
boosting the number of portable toilets for a crush of thousands
paying tipsy tribute to St. Patrick.  Organizers in January canceled the march after Mayor Dawn Zimmer said it would have to take place on a weekday, rather
than the first Saturday in March, to cut down on misbehavior.
The parade of step dancers and bagpipers, a 25-year tradition in
the city of about 50,000 across the  Hudson River  from Manhattan,
was followed by fighting, public urination and property damage.
Last year, two sexual assaults were reported.  The plan now: delayed bar openings, police from more than a
dozen nearby departments, a zero-tolerance policy for public-
safety violations and 60 portable toilets, “50 percent more
than in past years,” according to the city’s  website .  “We’re preparing for thousands of people,” Juan Melli, a
spokesman for Zimmer, said in a telephone interview today.
“We’re trying to be as proactive as possible. It’s difficult to
predict exactly what will happen.”  Hoboken Lepre-Con, a group selling themed T-shirts and
working to steer crowds to bars offering specials, has more than
18,000 people on  Facebook  saying they’re going tomorrow.  “We’ve seen how people can get out of hand and act
foolish,” Jamie Darrah, 26, a Lepre-Con co-organizer and city
resident, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve dealt with
people peeing in the street. There’s going to be some people
that act stupid. We hope it’s not as stupid as it has been in
the past.”  25 Years  The parade had no official connection to Hoboken
government. It was started in 1986 by a group of friends who
wanted to honor Patrick, the Roman Catholic bishop and patron
saint of Ireland whose feast day is March 17.  Thousands of visitors turned out every year for the early
tribute in Hoboken, the birthplace of  Frank Sinatra  and a draw
for artists, New York City commuters, young families and bar
patrons.  The misbehavior became such that by 2009, the city put into
effect its zero-tolerance policy for “all quality-of-life
infractions.” Last year, police issued more than 500 summonses,
and 200 people were ordered to perform community service.  ’Uncontrollable Siege’  Zimmer in January likened the parade’s aftermath to “an
uncontrollable siege of our community.”  In one incident, firefighters responding to a call were
assaulted with flower pots. One resident complained that her
antique stained-glass door survived riots decades ago, only to
be destroyed by a party-goer.  Parade organizers, when they announced the cancellation in
January, said they had no responsibility for the rowdiness. The
city demonstrated an “inability to protect” participants, they
said in a statement on their  website .  The city now is planning a family-oriented Irish Festival
on March 14 in Frank Sinatra Park, with dance, food and a
hurling demonstration. As for the defunct parade, its Facebook
fan page lives on, as does a mobile-telephone application
designed to navigate more than 60 bars.  One tavern, the Pilsener Haus & Biergarten on Grand Street,
will open at 11 a.m. tomorrow for its “1st Annual Hoboken St.
Patrick’s Parade-less Day,” according to its website. For
visitors from  Manhattan , it will operate a free shuttle from the
PATH subway station.  No Cover  Liberty Bar and Grill will serve $3 drafts and “clover
shots,” a mix of Bailey’s Irish Cream and creme de menthe,
while Northern Soul won’t charge a cover, according to the
Lepre-Con website. The Shannon and Willie McBride’s are both
advertising live Irish music on their websites.  The city warned on its own website against gathering on
rooftops and fire escapes, saying violators may face fines of as
much as $2,000 plus community service. Fire Department personnel
will check businesses and private homes for occupancy
violations, and a crane demolishing a building on Washington
Street, the main avenue, will be relocated so traffic can flow.  “Residents are asked to notify authorities as early as
possible if they believe that a house party is not fully under
control,” the city said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  