-- Ohio ‘Little People’ Urge Republicans to Help Working Class
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-02T15:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/ohio-s-little-people-implore-republicans-to-help-working-class.html
They drive trucks. They wait on
tables. Some still have factory jobs. And they likely will
determine which Republican presidential candidate walks away
with one of Super Tuesday’s biggest prizes.  White working-class voters -- individuals without a college
degree -- may amount to half the primary turnout in Midwestern
bellwether  Ohio  on March 6, says Ruy Teixeira, senior fellow at
the Century Foundation in Washington.  Buffeted by global economic forces their political
representatives have done little to mitigate, these voters head
for the polls bruised and skeptical.  “Somebody’s got to step up and help us, instead of helping
the companies and banks,” says James Snyder, 45, an unemployed
steelworker in Steubenville. “If they don’t help the little
people, they won’t survive, and they’re the backbone of the
country.”  Voters like Snyder, who is undecided, face a choice between
two leading candidates with very different styles:  Mitt Romney ,
a co-founder of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC with a
penchant for references to his wealth, such as last week’s
offhand remark that his wife drives “a couple of Cadillacs,”
and  Rick Santorum , a coal miner’s grandson who boasts about his
“working-class roots.”  Struggle to Connect  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor whose fortune is
estimated at up to $250 million, has struggled to connect with
voters of modest means. Santorum, a millionaire former U.S.
senator from  Pennsylvania , leads his rival among those with
household incomes between $30,000 and $50,000 by 34 percent to
29 percent, according to a March 2 Quinnipiac University poll.
That’s down from a 19-point Santorum advantage in a Feb. 27
Quinnipiac survey.  Romney, 64, topped Santorum by 3 percentage points among
college-educated voters. Among those without a four-year degree,
Santorum enjoyed a 9-point gap. Overall, Santorum held a 4-point
advantage over Romney, down from 7 points earlier and within the
survey’s 4.3 point error margin.  Though not back to pre-recession levels, the state is
rebounding faster than most, which could complicate Republican
efforts to play to workers’ discontent. The opposition party
also confronts the legacy of a failed bid by Ohio Governor  John Kasich  and a Republican-controlled legislature to limit
collective bargaining that was overturned in a November
referendum by a 61-to-39 margin.  State Recovering  Ohio, which lost almost 275,000 manufacturing jobs, a 30
percent decline over the last decade, ranks fifth in improving
economic health in the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
from the third quarter of 2009 through the third quarter of last
year, the most recent data available.  The Bush and Obama administrations’ rescue of the domestic
 auto industry  in 2008-09 has paid off for state companies.
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Lordstown plant is barreling along on three
shifts, making the popular Chevy Cruze. Near Youngstown,
 Vallourec SA (VK) ’s V&M Star unit this summer will begin producing
small steel tubes to exploit the region’s shale gas boom.  The company is advertising on its website job openings for
production operators, crane operators and maintenance personnel.
Ohio’s  unemployment  rate was 7.7 percent in January, compared
with 8.3 percent nationwide that month, and the state added
32,800 jobs from a revised December total, the Ohio Department
of Job and Family Services reported today.  Reagan Democrats  Throughout the campaign, Santorum has targeted “Reagan
Democrats,” who helped Ronald Reagan defeat President  Jimmy Carter  in 1980. In remarks after winning the Jan. 3 Iowa caucus,
Santorum, 53, hailed his grandfather, a coal miner in early 20th
century southwestern Pennsylvania, saying he had taught him:
“work hard, work hard, and work hard.”  Santorum has proposed exempting manufacturers from the 35
percent corporate tax. Yet today’s “Reagan Democrat” is as apt
to work in a big box retailer as on an assembly line, says Henry
Olsen, a political analyst with the  American Enterprise
Institute  in Washington.  The state’s top employer is  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  with
52,275 workers spread across its 173 outlets in Ohio, according
to a September report by the Ohio Department of Development.
That’s the most in any state, except for California, Texas and
 Florida , each of which has several million more residents,
according to a recent company report.  Social Issues  “One of the weaknesses that Santorum has had so far is he
talks about and seems to think about the white working class as
if nothing has changed since 1980,” Olsen says.  The Catholic conservative’s frequent comments on issues
such as contraception complicate his efforts to attract working
class voters, who aren’t as reliably religious as their parents’
generation, according to Olsen.  Snyder, the father of daughters aged 15 and 13, says he’s
tired of Republican candidates squabbling over social issues
instead of laying out an economic vision to help working
families. Though he voted for President  Barack Obama  in 2008,
Snyder says he’ll do so again only “if I have to.”  Ohio has been one of the nation’s  industrial anchors  since
John D. Rockefeller established his 19th century Standard Oil
Co. empire along Cleveland’s Lake Erie shoreline. Later, eastern
Ohio’s Mahoning Valley flourished as an auto and steel industry
mainstay, providing jobs for generations of workers whose chief
credential was a willingness to work hard.  ‘Make Stuff’  “People around here like to make stuff,” says Bill
Binning, who headed the Mahoning County Republican Party in the
1980s.  Older, whiter, less educated than the national average,
according to the U.S. Census, Ohio has lived a familiar Rust
Belt story of extended decline. In 1984, the typical state
household was slightly more prosperous than the national
average. Over the next quarter century, as the national median
income rose by 16 percent, the typical Ohioan lost ground.  The state’s 2010 median  income  of $46,093, adjusted for
inflation, was less than 1984’s $46,217, according to Census
Bureau data.  For the non-college-educated workers who dominate Ohio’s
workforce, globalization has meant disorienting competition.
Nationally, changes in trade and technology produced a barbell-
shaped labor market with increasing numbers of workers in high-
and low-wage jobs, bracketing a thinned middle, according to a
November 2011  study  by economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York .  Mid-Skill Jobs  The number of mid-skill jobs such as machine operators fell
by more than half between 1980 and 2009, wrote economists Jaison
Abel and Richard Deitz. And wages have stagnated or declined for
some of these positions, which once allowed workers with no more
than a high school diploma to build a decent life. The median
wage for construction jobs fell from $38,000 to $35,000 in 2009,
even as salaries for computer-related jobs rose 37 percent, the
study found.  At the same time, surging imports from  China  were
responsible for one-third of the roughly 4 million U.S.
manufacturing jobs lost between 1990 and 2007, according to a
2011  study  by economists David Autor of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, David Dorn of  Madrid ’s Institute for
the Study of Labor and Gordon Hanson of the University of
 California ,  San Diego . Ohio was among the victims.  ‘Got Their Back’  Higher skill requirements, competition from workers
overseas willing to take less pay and declining union
protections have left many working-class voters feeling exposed
to powerful economic forces.  “The thing they most want is to know someone’s got their
back,” said Olsen.  Ohio was hit hard during the economic declines of the past
decade, losing 578,900 jobs, or 10.3 percent, from 2000 to 2010,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Only  Michigan 
lost a higher percentage of jobs during that period, federal
data show.  Since then, the state added 72,400 jobs last year, fifth
most nationwide, federal data show. That gain included 18,300
manufacturing jobs.  In the 2012 general election, Republicans will be seeking
to maximize their white working class vote to offset Democratic
advantages among other groups, such as minorities and younger
voters. The president needs to hold his working-class losses to
a minimum.  In 2008, Obama lost that group by 18 percentage points
nationally and 10 points in Ohio on the way to winning the
presidency.  “A Republican national candidate needs to not only do well
among this group. He has to basically crush his Democratic
opponent among this group,” says Teixeira.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  