-- Oil Trader Gunvor to Buy Petroplus’s Antwerp Oil Refinery
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-03-02T11:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/oil-trader-gunvor-to-buy-petroplus-s-antwerp-oil-refinery-1-.html
Oil trader Gunvor Group Ltd. will
buy the 107,500 barrel-a-day  Antwerp  refinery in  Belgium  from
insolvent Swiss oil refiner Petroplus Holdings AG and plans to
restart the plant as soon as possible.  Gunvor, which is registered in Nicosia, Cyprus, and has
offices in Geneva and  Singapore , expects to complete the deal in
six to eight weeks, the company said in a statement today,
without disclosing financial details. All of the plant’s staff
will be retained, Gunvor said.  “We are delighted to have won the bid for what will be a
significant asset for the group as we look to expand our
presence and trading activities in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp region,” Torbjorn Tornqvist, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The Antwerp plant began shutting down at the end of
December after banks froze $1 billion of  Petroplus (PPHN)  loans.
 Europe ’s largest independent refiner filed for insolvency in
January after talks with lenders to secure funding failed.  Gunvor sold about 1.26 million barrels of crude a day in
2010, with Russian oil accounting for less than 40 percent of
that volume, the company said on its website. The trader’s
revenue was a record $69 billion in 2010, the most recent year
for which data are available on the website.  Petroplus’s Coryton plant in the U.K. returned to full
operations last month after administrators secured crude
supplies for three months through a “tolling” agreement with
Morgan Stanley, KKR & Co. and AtlasInvest. Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Europe’s largest oil company, made a separate agreement to
supply crude to Petroplus’s Petit-Couronne refinery in  France 
for six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  