-- Oil Is Poised for Weekly Decline After Saudi Denial of Pipeline Explosion
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-03-02T13:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-on-economic-recovery-middle-east-tension.html
Oil fell in  New York  and headed for
the first weekly decline in four after Saudi Arabia denied a
reported pipeline explosion in its Eastern province.  Futures slid as much as 1.1 percent after climbing to the
highest price in 10 months yesterday. There was no sabotage at
oil facilities in the Qatif area, according to Major General
Mansour Al-Turki, a spokesman for the Saudi Arabian Interior
Ministry. Prices rose above $110 a barrel for the first time
since May after Iran’s Press TV said an explosion hit pipelines
in the area, home to Saudi Arabia’s largest refinery.  “The report of the pipeline fire seems to have been a very
successful scam by the Iranians,” said Filip Petersson,
commodity strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “They want higher
oil prices to compensate for lost export barrels and are
obviously using various means to achieve it. The success clearly
shows how nervous the market is.”  Oil for April delivery dropped as much as $1.22 to
$107.62 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $108.37 at 1:53 p.m. London
time. The contract closed up $1.77 at $108.84 yesterday, after
rising as high as $110.55. Prices are down 1.4 percent this week
and up 5.9 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement slipped $1.05, or 0.8
percent, to $125.15 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange after falling as much as 1.4 percent earlier. It surged
as much as 4.7 percent to $128.40 yesterday, the highest price
since July 2008, the month Brent reached a record $147.50. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $16.73 a barrel today.  Saudi Fire  A fire occurred in an industrial area in the town of Safwa
in Shiite-dominated Qatif near  Saudi Arabia ’s Ras Tanura
refinery, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.
The blaze didn’t damage the refinery or any pipeline in the
area, said two people familiar with the situation who declined
to be identified.  “The most interesting thing is that prices have not fallen
back more after Saudi sources denied the whole matter,”
Petersson said. “I would be surprised if we do not see crude
fall back more today.”  Oil has gained this year on concern a dispute between the
western nations and Iran over the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
program will lead to military conflict in a region that holds
more than half the world’s crude. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to meet U.S. President Barack Obama in  Washington  on March 5 to discuss the issue.  Possible Attack  The Obama administration is escalating warnings that the
U.S. may join  Israel  in an attack on the nuclear facilities if
 Iran  doesn’t dispel concern that its atomic-research program is
aimed at producing weapons. Air Force Chief of Staff General
Norton Schwartz told reporters this week that the Joint Chiefs
of Staff have prepared military options.  The market is “extremely nervous, fearing a spread of
violence to Saudi Arabia,” said  Robert Montefusco , senior
broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London. “The Iran-Israel
spat and rhetoric is not helping.”  Brent averaging $135 a barrel this year would cut economic
growth in  Asia , with India, Korea, Thailand and the Philippines
hurt much more than China, Malaysia or Singapore, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Growth in Asia excluding  Japan  would fall to 6.1 percent
from 6.6 percent if  oil prices  remain at those levels,  Rob Subbaraman , Nomura’s chief economist for the region, said in a
report e-mailed today. Crude may peak at $150 in the second
quarter in an “ugly” scenario driven by supply factors or
financial speculation, the bank said.  Crude prices may rise next week as U.S. gasoline gains amid
declining inventories, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Fourteen
of 25 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast oil will increase
through March 9. Eight respondents, or 32 percent, predicted
prices will fall and three estimated there will be little
change. Last week, 43 percent of surveyed analysts expected an
increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  