-- Oil-Price Reporting, Floating NAV, Nuke Rules, Italian Bankers: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-02T13:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/oil-price-reporting-floating-nav-nuke-rules-italian-bankers-compliance.html
A commission appointed by the Group
of 20 nations called for stricter regulation of price-reporting
agencies to prevent the manipulation of oil markets.  The consultation  report , published yesterday by the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions , said that
price-reporting companies are at risk from  oil prices  being
manipulated and called for greater regulation in their
complaints process and in the appointment of board members.  The G-20 appointed IOSCO in November last year to look into
the role played by oil-price reporting agencies, including
Platts, the energy and pricing unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and
Argus Media Ltd., in the functioning of oil markets, their
methods of operation and governance and options for future
oversight. Platts has reported on oil markets since 1909.  The closing date for responses to the consultation report
is March 28. A final report will be submitted to the G-20
Finance Ministers in June.  Compliance Policy  Fidelity Says Floating NAV Would Destroy Money Market Funds  Fidelity Investments , the largest manager of U.S. money
market mutual funds, said reforms contemplated by regulators
would “destroy” the industry and were unnecessary following
rule changes two years ago.  The impact of the 2010 reforms “should be explored and
understood more thoroughly” before regulators make additional
changes, the Boston-based company said yesterday in a report
that accompanied a letter from the firm to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The SEC’s staff is expected to propose two separate rules
changes later this month that fund companies have said would
drastically reduce the attraction of money funds to investors
and disrupt the financing they provide to U.S. businesses.
Regulators have debated how to make the funds more stable since
the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, which triggered an industrywide run on funds by clients
and helped freeze global credit markets.  The Fidelity report seeks to bolster the industry’s
argument by outlining how the 2010 rules changes -- which
introduced liquidity minimums, average maturity limits and new
disclosure requirements -- have already made funds safer.  The first of two proposals being prepared by the SEC’s
staff would force money funds to drop their traditional $1 share
price. The second would require funds to create capital cushions
capable of absorbing losses and hold back a portion of any
client withdrawal for as much as 30 days.  Fidelity managed $419 billion in money market mutual funds
as of Jan. 31, according to  Crane Data LLC .  Post-Fukushima Rules May Prompt Nuclear Sales, PPL CEO Says  New U.S. operating standards imposed in the wake of the
reactor meltdowns in Fukushima, Japan, last year may prompt
owners of single nuclear plants to consider selling them,  PPL
Corp. (PPL)  Chief Executive Officer William Spence said.  Requirements that are more efficiently met by owners of
multiple plants may lead companies that own a single plant to
sell it, Spence said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters
in New York Feb. 29. PPL has no such plans and views its 2,289-
megawatt Susquehanna nuclear plant 70 miles (113 kilometers)
northeast of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, as a key strategic asset,
Spence said.  The five-member  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  is weighing
rules to improve safety at U.S. nuclear reactors and may issue
its first Fukushima-related orders by March 9,  David McIntyre ,
an NRC spokesman, said in an e-mail Feb. 29.  For more, click here.  U.K. Regulator Said to Quiz Banks About U.S. Swap Registration  Britain’s  Financial Services Authority , concerned that
proposed new rules across the Atlantic may limit its powers,
began quizzing firms last week on their plans to register as
swaps dealers in the U.S., according to two people familiar with
the talks.  The British agency’s role in setting capital levels may be
limited for non-U.K. banks with substantial operations in  London 
if those lenders register as swap dealers in the U.S., according
to one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private.  Agencies including the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
have formulated rules to reduce the likelihood of a default by a
major counterparty in the U.S. market for swaps. The CFTC
commissioners delayed a vote on a rule defining which banks,
hedge funds and energy companies would be considered swap
dealers under the Dodd-Frank Act, and may take up the measure on
March 20, according to a person briefed on the schedule.  The rules being written by the SEC, CFTC and other
regulators may result in companies designated as swap dealers
facing higher capital and margin costs to reduce trading risks.
 Steven Adamske , director of public affairs at the CFTC, and
 Joseph Eyre , a spokesman at the FSA, both declined to comment.  The FSA is concerned disputes may arise between U.S. and
U.K. regulators should a bank default on derivative contracts,
said one of the people. The agency would still have oversight of
 capital ratios  for banks domiciled in the U.K. that want to
participate in the U.S. swaps market.  For more, click here.  Insurance Rules Threaten U.K. Infrastructure Investment, FT Says  The European Union’s planned Solvency II rules could
prevent insurers from making long-term investments in the U.K.,
the Financial Times reported, citing a speech by Otto Thoresen,
director general of the  Association of British Insurers .  Insurers may be barred from playing “a major role in
infrastructure investing” in the U.K., preventing them from
meeting investment expectations outlined by the government,
Thoresen said, according to the FT. He said the draft
regulations need clarification and rewording, the FT reported.  Compliance Action  Bank of  Portugal  Says Inspections on Country’s Lenders Completed  The Bank of Portugal said it completed the inspections on
Portuguese banks required by the country’s external aid package.  The central bank concluded the process Feb. 29 with the
assessment of the lenders’ methodologies to evaluate their
future solvency, the Bank of Portugal said in a statement on its
website yesterday.  Most of the eight banks assessed use adequate methods, the
central bank said, although some need to introduce improvements.
The Portuguese unit of  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Espirito Santo
Financial Group SA (ESF)  said, in separate statements, that they
achieved the highest possible classification.  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA (BCP)  said the central banker found it used “appropriate
parameters and methodologies.”  The Bank of Portugal said four banks used methods that are
“generally” adequate, although they need to introduce
improvements in some areas.  Courts  ING Wins Challenge Forcing EU to Reconsider Bailout Terms  ING Groep NV (INGA)  won a court ruling forcing European Union
regulators to re-examine the conditions they imposed on the
Dutch lender’s government rescue in the wake of the financial
crisis.  The EU’s General Court said the  European Commission  wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.65 billion) of additional aid on top of 10 billion euros it
received in 2008. The court struck down part of the EU’s
decision, which will force regulators to re-open their
assessment of part of the Dutch government’s bailout to the
bank.  ING and the Dutch government challenged the terms of the
EU’s approval, which the bank says punished it too harshly for
state help in 2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator
miscalculated the amount of aid and imposed excessive
restructuring demands.  The commission didn’t show that changes to the bailout
terms agreed by ING and the Dutch government were on conditions
that a private investor would have refused to give the bank, the
court said.  “ING welcomes the judgment to partially annul the EC
decision,” the Amsterdam-based bank said in a statement. “ING
will carefully assess the full judgment and its consequences.
Announcements on any potential further actions will only be made
if and when appropriate.”  “We are satisfied with the ruling. We will study the
ruling to further assess the consequences,” Ben Feiertag, a
spokesman for the Dutch Finance Ministry in The Hague, said by
telephone.  The  European Commission  said it will publish a revised
decision on the terms of aid to ING following today’s court
ruling. The regulator will “adopt a new decision taking the
judgment into account,” Antoine Colombani, spokesman for
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in an e-
mail.  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  Interviews/Speeches  Mussari Says Italian Bank Association Heads May Resign  Italian Banking Association  Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari 
talked to reporters in Rome after he and seven other executives
offered to resign in protest over new banking-fee rules included
in the government’s legislation on boosting competition.  The eight members of the presidential committee of the
association known as ABI tendered their resignations to the
board after the Senate Industry Committee approved new rules on
commissions received by banks, Mussari said yesterday. The offer
to step down will be reviewed in the coming days by ABI’s board
and executive committee, which can reject it.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Bernanke Says Volcker Rule Criticism Taken Seriously  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says the central
bank takes criticism of the so-called Volcker Rule
“seriously.”  He spoke in response to a question in his testimony
yesterday before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Separately,  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, said the Volcker rule will
be “out of action” until after the presidential election.
Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Silva Says Italian Banks Need More Diversified Boards  Ralph Silva, a strategist at  Silva Research Network , talked
about Italian banks and the  European Central Bank ’s long-term
refinancing operation.  He spoke with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television’s “On
the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Atlanta Fed Regulator Says Half of Region’s Banks Still Troubled  More than half of banks in the U.S. Southeast supervised by
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta remain troubled more than 2
1/2 years after the recession ended, said Michael Johnson,
senior vice president for supervision and regulation.  Johnson, who spoke at an Atlanta Fed banking conference,
said regarding the more than 600 bank holding companies in the
district, “to this day over 50 percent of them are in troubled
or problem condition.”  The Atlanta Fed district includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia
and portions of Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee.  While that is “bad news,” profit trends have improved,
and banks in the Atlanta Fed district were profitable overall in
2011 for the first time in several years, Johnson said.  Georgia led the U.S. in bank failures between late 2007 and
2011’s third quarter with 75, followed by Florida’s 57,
according to  Trepp LLC , a provider of mortgage information.  Saluzzi Says High-Frequency Trading ‘Corrupted’ System  Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading
LLC, talked about high-frequency trading and the Security and
Exchange Commission’s review of the practice.  He spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking
Stock.”  For the video, click here.  Rodge Cohen Says Dodd-Frank Fixes ‘Too Big To Fail’  Rodge Cohen, partner and senior chairman at  Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP (1147L) , talked with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia on Feb. 23
about the regulatory landscape for banks and financial
institutions in the U.S. after the implementation of Dodd-Frank.
The interview was aired on Bloomberg News yesterday.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Iceland FSA Fires CEO for Failing to Disclose Bank Holdings  Iceland’s  Financial Supervisory Authority  fired its
director Gunnar Andersen following an investigation into his
failure to disclose holdings at  Landsbanki Islands hf , where he
worked 11 years ago.  Andersen, who took over as the Reykjavik-based watchdog’s
head in 2009, will step down immediately, the regulator said in
a statement. The FSA also reported to the police that Andersen
gathered information on the island’s financial system without
authorization, according to the statement.  State broadcaster RUV reported in November that Andersen
had been involved with offshore companies owned by Landsbanki in
2001, and that he failed to disclose this to the regulator 11
years ago.  Andersen on Feb. 17 refused a request to step down. “The
continued and pointless probes are in reality a servitude to
those parties that most fear the FSA and the efficient
operations of the regulator,” he said in a letter to the board
in February, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 