-- Top U.S. House Appropriations Democrat Norm Dicks Won’t Seek Re-Election
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-02T19:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/top-u-s-house-appropriations-democrat-norm-dicks-won-t-seek-re-election.html
U.S. Representative Norm Dicks, the
top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee and one of the
House’s  longest-serving  members, said today he won’t seek re-
election.  “I have made the decision to change gears and enjoy life
at a different pace,” Dicks, 71, said in a statement.  It’s the latest in a series of retirements that include
announcements this week by Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine  and
Representative David Dreier of  California , both Republicans,
that they won’t seek re-election.  Ten senators -- seven Democrats and three Republicans --
have said they won’t face voters again in November. Dicks
becomes the 37th House member, and the 21st Democrat, to
announce plans to step down.  His seat should remain in the Democratic column, said
 Nathan Gonzales , an analyst for the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report. “I don’t think we’ll be talking about this
seat in terms of the fight for the House this fall,” he said.
“Democrats should be able to hold it.”  President  Barack Obama  said in a statement, “Norm’s
dedication to our nation’s intelligence personnel and his
leadership on the Appropriations Committee will be missed in
Congress.”  Football Linebacker  Dicks, a former linebacker for the University of  Washington 
football team, is the top Democrat on the committee that decides
how to spend about one-third of the federal budget.  He also is the top Democrat on its defense subcommittee,
where he has been a strong advocate for  Boeing Co. (BA) , which
employs thousands in his western Washington district.  He helped lead Democrats in defeating Republican efforts to
use must-pass spending bills to force changes in a number of
administration policies.  Dicks had good relations with Republicans. House
Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican, said, “Despite our ideological differences, Norm
has never hesitated to work together.”  “I have rarely had the chance to work with someone of his
decency, strong work ethic, jovial character and honesty,”
Rogers said in a statement. Representative Jerry Lewis, a
California Republican who also serves on the panel, said, “The
Appropriations Committee will sorely miss his leadership.”  Marcy Kaptur  The departure may aid Representative Marcy Kaptur of  Ohio ,
the second-ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee. The
prospect of taking over the party’s top spot may boost her re-
election bid, where she is in a primary battle against fellow
Democratic Representative Dennis Kucinich.  Indiana’s Peter Visclosky is the second-ranking Democrat on
the defense appropriations subcommittee.  Dicks is serving his 18th term, tying him with two
colleagues as the 10th longest-serving member currently in the
House. He was elected to the seat in 1976 after graduating from
the  University of Washington  law school and working for the
state’s late Senator Warren Magnuson.  Dicks won a rare first-term appointment to the
Appropriations panel and steadily gained in seniority. He took
over his party’s top spot on the panel last year after of
Representative David Obey of  Wisconsin  retired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  