-- Morgan Stanley Executive Charged in Cab Hate Crime Attack
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-03T13:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/morgan-stanley-executive-jennings-is-charged-with-hate-crime-over-cab-fare.html
 William Bryan Jennings, Morgan
Stanley’s bond-underwriting chief in the U.S., was charged with
a hate crime in the stabbing of a  New York  City cab driver of
Middle Eastern descent over a fare.  Mohamed Ammar said the banker attacked him Dec. 22 with a
2½-inch blade and used racial slurs after a 40-mile ride from
New York to the banker’s $3.4 million Darien, Connecticut home.  Jennings, who had attended a bank holiday party at a
boutique hotel in Manhattan before hailing the cab, refused to
pay the $204 fare upon arriving in his driveway, the driver said.
When Ammar threatened to call the local police, Jennings said
they wouldn’t do anything to help because he pays $10,000 in
taxes, according to a report by the Darien police department.  Ammar, a native of  Egypt , said he then backed out of the
driveway to seek a police officer. The banker called him an
expletive and said “I’m going to kill you. You should go back
to your country,” according to the report, filed in state court
in  Stamford . A fight ensued as they drove through Darien, and
Jennings, 45, allegedly cut Ammar, 44, police said.  The banker, who eventually fled the cab and turned himself
in two weeks later after a vacation in  Florida , was charged with
second-degree assault, theft of services and intimidation by
bias or bigotry. He faces as long as 5 years in prison on the
assault charge.  Put on Leave  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , said yesterday that Jennings, who is free on $9,500
bond and is set for a March 9 court appearance, has been put on
leave.  The banker has worked at Morgan Stanley during his entire
career in the securities industry, starting in 1993, according
to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Now co-head of North American fixed-income capital markets,
he worked his way up from associate; vice president, and then
principal, for debt capital markets; to  executive director  for
 investment banking  and then managing director for fixed income
capital markets. He is a graduate of  Williams College  and
received a master’s in business from  Northwestern University .  Ammar, an American citizen who immigrated to the U.S. in
1994, is a resident of the Astoria section of the  New York City 
borough of Queens. He is married and has three children, he said
yesterday in a phone interview. Ammar has been driving yellow
cabs since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks cut business
for a limousine service he had operated starting in 1997, he
said.  Called Police  He told police Jennings flagged him down in front of Ink48,
a hotel on Manhattan’s West Side. The hotel confirmed there was
a Morgan Stanley party that night, which Jennings said he had
went to following a charity event.  The banker appeared “drunk,” the driver said, according
to court documents.  Jennings told police that, while he had been drinking
throughout the afternoon, he wasn’t “highly intoxicated,”
according to the police report. The executive said he had hosted
the charity auction for Morgan Stanley until 6 p.m. before
heading to the bank’s holiday party at the hotel’s rooftop bar.  He left the party sometime before 11 p.m. and headed to the
street, where he was supposed to be met by a car service,
Jennings said. He hailed Ammar’s cab after the livery car didn’t
appear, according to the report.  Ammar said Jennings agreed on the fare and told him he
would pay cash. Jennings fell asleep during the trip, the driver
said. Once at the destination, though, Jennings said “he did
not feel like paying” because he was already home, Ammar told
police.  Threatened Him  Ammar told officers Jennings threatened him, and that he
feared for his safety. He backed out of the driveway with
Jennings still in the cab. Ammar said he had tried to call 911
but was hampered by poor cellular reception in the wealthy
Fairfield County suburb.  As he drove off, Ammar said, Jennings pulled the knife and
began stabbing him through the open partition that divided the
front and rear of the cab. Ammar said he tried to defend himself
by using his right hand to block the opening, and then pulled
over and dialed 911 again, as Jennings got out and fled, police
said.  Jennings told Darien police the cab driver accidentally cut
his hand while attempting to block the banker from calling the
police himself on his cell phone, according to the report.  Florida Vacation  The Morgan Stanley executive told police he was afraid to
come forward after the incident because the cab driver knew
where he lived. He then went on vacation to Florida, police said.  Jennings told officers he subsequently called his lawyer
after a friend told him police were looking for a suspect in the
stabbing incident, according to the report.  “Jennings said he didn’t know what to do -- he just wanted
the whole thing to go away,” Darien Police Detective Chester
Perkowski said in a court document filed with the report.  In the arrest warrant application dated Feb. 26, Perkowski
wrote his investigation “discredits Jennings’ statement that
Ammar reached into the back of the cab while he was driving.”  Ammar reaching into the backseat while driving, as Jennings
claimed, would have been “virtually impossible,” he wrote,
adding that Jennings never attempted to call police in the
aftermath of the incident. Jennings was charged Feb. 29.  Eugene Riccio, his defense attorney, said the driver made
an “exorbitant demand” closer to $300 and that he attempted to
abduct his client.  Denied Claims  “My client was the victim of a crime that night -- not the
perpetrator of one,” Riccio said, denying that his client was
drunk or made any racial slurs. “He was abducted against his
will from his own driveway. Fortunately he was able to escape.”  The driver threatened to return to New York, Riccio said.
Ammar denied the lawyer’s allegation.  Riccio contended that the driver was “seconds away” from
the on-ramp to the highway heading back to the city when
Jennings drew a knife from his pocket.  “He pulled it out in an effort to try to get the man to
stop,” Riccio said. “He was in a car that was racing down the
road, disobeying traffic signals with the back door open.”  In a telephone interview, Ammar said that, when he first
quoted a price for the ride outside the Ink48 hotel, located on
11th Avenue in  Manhattan ’s Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood, Jennings
said it was “no problem.”  ‘Bunch of Money’  “He pushed his hand in his pocket and pulled out a bunch
of money. I said it’s OK,” Ammar said, adding that he showed
Jennings the price as listed in New York City’s Taxi & Limousine
Commission’s guidebook for cab drivers.  Jennings asked him to stop somewhere for food before taking
the highway, so he took him to a deli on 10th Avenue, a stop
that helped police investigators identify the banker, Ammar said.
Video footage from the deli allowed police to recognize Jennings
after Ammar said he was unable to remember the location of the
banker’s house in  Connecticut .  Police also took garbage that Jennings left in the back of
the cab as evidence, Ammar said.  “I don’t feel safe,” Ammar said yesterday of the events
more than two months ago. “I never felt somebody could do
something like this in America.” He said, however, that he had
no choice but to continue working as a cab driver.  “This is my job and I have to do it,” he said.  Round Trip  Ammar denied allegations by Jennings and his lawyer that he
tried to return to New York from Darien during the dispute.  “Why should I take him back to New York, give him a round-
trip?” Ammar said. “I just want to get my money and that’s
it.”  His hand required more than 60 stitches, he said. Ammar
said he refused to be treated in Connecticut and instead chose a
New York hospital.  Yesterday at Jennings’s home in Darien, nobody answered the
door when a reporter visited seeking comment on the case.  Allan Fromberg, a spokesman for the TLC, said the cab ride
would have been outside the commission’s purview because the
destination was outside mandatory drop off areas.  “The passenger and the driver would have had to come to an
agreement on a flat fare,” he said.  Typically in cases like this, the cab meter runs until the
city limits with the passenger and the driver negotiating on the
final price, he said. Although the TLC uses GPS to track taxis,
the system wouldn’t be engaged in a situation such as this
because of the destination, Fromberg said.  Attacks on Drivers  Bhairavi Desai is executive director of the New York Taxi
Workers Alliance, which calls itself the largest taxi driver
union in the country. She said the group gets one or two reports
of assaults on drivers every week.  “We know that most of them go unreported both to the
police and to us,” she said. “People are silent because it’s
almost become a norm as part of this work.”  Desai said that while group doesn’t see a special pattern
of assaults for trips out of town to places like Connecticut, it
does see a pattern of fare beating.  “We do have incidents of people jumping out and running
into their homes,” she said in an interview. “The driver is
not as familiar with the area. They tend to be very residential
areas, they’re not as well lit. There’s not as many people on
the streets, not as many police.”  The alliance has been promoting the Taxi Driver Protection
Act, a bill that would make an assault on a driver a felony, as
it is for transit workers.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court
in Stamford at   jdillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 