-- Tornadoes, Severe Thunderstorms Rake Parts of Eastern U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-02T20:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/tornadoes-flooding-rain-may-rake-much-of-eastern-u-s-today.html
Storms carrying hail, flooding rain
and tornadoes crashed across the Ohio Valley into the South
today, damaging homes, snapping trees and knocking down  power
lines  in at least eight states.  Tornadoes touched down today north of Huntsville, Alabama,
damaging a high school, said Paige Colburn, an officer with the
 Huntsville-Madison County Emergency Management Agency . Twisters
also were reported in  Illinois ,  Indiana  and  Tennessee .  “We’re getting a lot of injury reports and a lot of
reports of damage,” Colburn said. She couldn’t say how much
damage or how many injuries may have occurred at the school.  A damage assessment was called off about 1:30 p.m. local
time because more storms were about to hit, said Candy Sumlin,
another officer with the agency. Schools and government offices
were closed.  The  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  warned that parts of 19
states would bear the brunt of “a significant severe weather
episode,” the second this week.  Tornado watches were in effect in eight states, meaning the
storms had a good chance of forming. Weather service radar
tracked potential tornadoes in Indiana, Illinois,  North Carolina 
and Tennessee.  Homes Damaged  Power lines were knocked down and trees or homes damaged in
Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee, South Carolina, Illinois, Missouri
and Indiana, according to the storm center. A 300-yard wide
tornado struck near Posey County, Indiana, about 145 miles west
of Louisville, Kentucky, the center said.  Tornadoes ripped across the central U.S. earlier this week,
killing at least 13 people, according to the Associated Press.
One of those systems was  confirmed to be an EF-4 , the second-
most powerful. It hit Harrisburg, Illinois, leaving six people
dead, said the storm center in Norman,  Oklahoma .  The same storm system snarled air traffic along the East
Coast and brought snow to Boston.  A flash flood watch was issued today for eastern  Kentucky .
Rain earlier this week left the ground saturated and any new
rain will probably cause floods, according to the  National
Weather Service .  On the northern side of the system, winter storm warnings
and advisories were issued for Wisconsin and northern Michigan.
 Chicago  rain is expected to change to snow later today, making
travel difficult.  Flights Delayed  Air traffic delays of more than two hours were reported at
Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, according to the Federal
Aviation Administration’s website.  In Milwaukee, 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters) of snow
may fall, and across northern Michigan as much as 8 to 14 inches
may be on the ground by tomorrow.  Light snow and freezing rain is expected in Toronto, Ottawa
and  Montreal , according to Environment Canada. Severe
thunderstorms with winds of 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour
were being tracked in the states bordering Lake Erie and Lake
Ontario, including Buffalo,  New York , the weather service said.  Thunderstorms and tornadoes across the U.S. in 2011 killed
at least 552, the most in 75 years, and caused $25 billion in
insured losses, making them the deadliest type of natural
disaster last year, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in New York.  From 1991 to 2010, tornadoes caused 30 percent of all
catastrophic losses in the U.S., second only to hurricanes,
which accounted for 44 percent, according to the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  