-- Most European Stocks Rise as EU Aid Plans
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-02T08:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/most-european-stocks-rise-as-eu-aid-plans.html
European stocks  were little changed,
as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index headed for a weekly gain, after
the region’s leaders agreed to speed up payment to the permanent
bailout fund. U.S. index futures and Asian shares were little
changed.  Commerzbank AG led shares of lenders higher. Banks and
utilities were the  best-performing group  on the benchmark gauge
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on both
industries. Repsol YPF SA rallied 2.8 percent to 20.67 euros.
 Belgacom SA (BELG)  fell 3.9 percent after reporting a drop in earnings.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.1 percent to 267.43 and 8:28 a.m. in
 London , as a summit of European Union leaders resumes for the
second day in Brussels. The March contract on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 0.2 percent.  “Investors will be watching for further comments out of
day two of the EU economic summit,” Stan Shamu, market
strategist at IG Markets in  Melbourne , wrote. “The discussions
will be focused on the euro-zone firewall and growth policies.”  The Stoxx 600 climbed 3.9 percent last month and rose 9.2
percent from the beginning of the year through yesterday. That
was the biggest January-February increase since 1998 as optimism
mounted that the euro area will contain its debt crisis and U.S.
economic data beat estimates. The benchmark index is heading for
a 1.1 percent gain this week.  Rescue Fund  Euro-area leaders agreed to provide capital faster for the
planned permanent bailout fund in a concession to international
pressure to strengthen the region’s defenses against the debt
crisis.  Euro governments might pay the first two annual
installments into the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion) fund this
year and complete the capitalization in 2015, a year before
schedule. A decision will come later today.  “There will be an acceleration,” European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters in Brussels late yesterday
after an EU summit. “It could be starting with the payment of
two tranches in 2012 but we have to take a definite decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  