-- Sydney Dam Spills After Rains as Flooding in Australia Forces Evacuations
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-03T04:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/thousands-evacuating-northwestern-sydney-after-rains-spill-over-main-dam.html
More than 2,000 residents in
northwestern Sydney are being evacuated as heavy rain caused the
dam that supplies the city’s water to spill, adding to floods
threatening much of the Australian state of New South Wales.  Residents and caravan parks in low-lying areas along the
Hawkesbury River and in nearby communities were asked to leave
their homes early today, State Emergency Service Commissioner
Murray Kear said at a press conference broadcast on  Sky News .
Warragamba Dam, about 65 kilometers (40 miles) west of Sydney,
began spilling for the first time in more than 13 years late
yesterday, he said.  Three-quarters of the state is affected by flood waters and
about 3,500 people are subject to evacuation amid
“unprecedented” rainfall, Kear said. Floodwaters in northern
New South Wales last month damaged homes and ruined cotton
crops, one year after natural disasters cost the Australian
economy A$9 billion ($9.7 billion).  “The rain is continuing to fall and will for the next two
days,” Kear said. “We are expecting a number of major bridges
in the western part of Sydney to be cut.”  The bridges affected include those at North Richmond and
Windsor as the Hawkesbury River rises to more than 7 meters (22
feet) above normal.  River Peak  The Hawkesbury-Nepean river system is continuing to rise
and will probably peak at about 10 meters above normal late
tomorrow or early March 5, Kear said. Assuming rains clear after
the weekend, the river will take 48 hours to subside from the
peak, he said.  About 200 millimeters (8 inches) of rain is forecast to
fall in the next 48 hours, Kear said.  More than 1,500 people have already been evacuated from the
towns of Cowra, Cooma and Goulburn, in the state’s southeast,
the SES said on its website. Parts of Bega, a town of about
4,500 people 400 kilometers south of Sydney, were  evacuated  on
March 1, it said yesterday.  Flooding across roads and low-lying land has isolated about
3,200 people in properties throughout the state, Kear said. Some
rescues were conducted in other parts of the state, including
the town of Bathurst, he said.  Residents near the Suma Park Dam at Orange, about 250
kilometers west of Sydney, were warned to prepare to evacuate as
water spilled and nearby roads were closed, the SES said.  Victoria State  Authorities in the northeastern region of neighboring
Victoria state are also monitoring the Goulburn River at
locations including Shepparton and McCoys Bridge, the state
emergency service said in a statement on its website. As much as
75 millimeters more rain is forecast over the weekend which may
cause minor-to-moderate flooding in the lower reaches of the
river, it said.  In  New Zealand , heavy rain and gale-force winds brought
down trees, cut power and damaged homes in Taranaki province on
the western coast of the  North Island , police said in an e-
mailed statement today. Motorists are being urged to stay off
roads in the capital, Wellington, and other parts of the lower
North Island.  The center of the weather system has moved across the
country and off the coast, with gales forecast to ease,
MetService New Zealand said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  