-- Housing Lays Foundation for Rebound as Buyers Coaxed Back
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n ,   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/housing-in-u-s-lays-foundation-for-recovery-as-economy-coaxes-buyers-back.html
Dan Kowalyshyn figures he owes about
$200,000 more than what his four-bedroom house is worth today.
It faces a cul-de-sac where three of the six homes have been
lost to foreclosure since his $570,000 purchase in 2006.  The software developer has decided to keep up on his
mortgage payments because he sees signs of improvement outside
his window. Trucks drive by to deliver lumber for houses being
constructed by  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , KB Home and  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)   “Either those builders are insane or they’re getting some
traction selling new homes,” Kowalyshyn, 40, said in a
telephone interview from his house in Eastvale,  California , 45
miles (72 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles . “I think we’re
seeing the beginning of a recovery.”  After several false starts, housing is flashing the
strongest signals yet of a sustainable rebound. While
foreclosures continue to depress prices,  buyers  are wading back
into the market, lured by rising employment and record-low
mortgage rates. Six years into the biggest real estate collapse
since the Great Depression, housing may become a net contributor
to the  U.S. economy  for the first time since 2005.  “There are definitely green shoots in the housing market,
no argument about that,” said Peter de Bruin, an economist at
ABN Amro Group Economics in Amsterdam. He is the most accurate
forecaster of new-home sales, along with his colleague Maritza
Cabezas, in the two years ended Feb. 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “Housing will contribute modestly to
recovery this year and we will see a sustained recovery in
2013” that probably will continue through 2015, he said.  ‘Improved Somewhat’  The  Federal Reserve , in its regional Beige Book business
survey issued Feb. 29, said the housing market has “improved
somewhat in most districts” with “several reports of increased
home sales and some reports of increased construction.” Among
the Fed’s 12 district banks, “Boston, Cleveland, Richmond,
Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas reported growth in home sales,”
and “Philadelphia reported strong residential real estate
activity.”  Speculation that new home sales will rebound has boosted
shares of homebuilders, with the 11-member  Standard & Poor (SPY) ’s
1500 Homebuilding index up 17 percent this year, compared with a
9.3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Early signs of a recovery haven’t revived prices, which
have continued to fall as distressed real estate sales depress
values. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of 20 U.S. cities fell 3.9
percent last year to a post-crash low, sinking prices on repeat
sales to 34 percent below their July 2006 peak, according to a
Feb. 28 report. Short sales, when owners sell for less than the
amount owed, and foreclosures accounted for 35 percent of
January transactions, according to the National Association of
Realtors.  Declines Leveling Off  The rate of price declines is reaching the leveling off
point this year, even as the the flow of foreclosed homes to
market will probably accelerate following a Feb. 9 settlement
between the five largest mortgage servicers and state attorneys
general over their methods for repossessing homes, said  Paul Dales , an economist with Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “The bottom is behind us,” said Dales, top ranked for his
home-price estimates by Bloomberg. “I don’t think we will
return to anything like the exceptional booming market we had
five years ago. We will have a very steady, slow recovery but a
recovery nonetheless.”  After falling two years ago to the lowest level since
records were kept in 1947, household formations may hit 1.2
million this year, de Bruin said. New households will help
absorb the so-called shadow inventory of homes that are vacant
or facing foreclosure, and fuel demand for construction of new
apartments and houses in areas with growing populations.  Existing Sales Rise  Existing home  sales reached their fastest pace in 20 months
in January and more Americans than forecast signed contracts to
buy, according to the National Association of Realtors.  In a sign that demand may be catching up with supply, the
 inventory  of homes listed for sale fell to 6.1 months, down from
a peak of 12.1 months in July 2010 and the lowest level since
April 2006, when the real estate bubble was nearing its crest,
the Chicago-based Realtors group said.  Banks loosened standards on both prime and nontraditional
loans such as adjustable-rate mortgages in the third quarter of
2011 for the first time since at least 2007, the Federal Reserve
reported Nov. 7 in its survey of senior loan officers. An
increased number of banks reported stronger demand in the fourth
quarter, when lending standards didn’t change, the Fed reported
Jan. 30.  Banks Come Back  “We are seeing early signs of the banks being willing to
come back on a very selective and limited basis,” said Barry
Rutenberg, a Gainesville, Florida, builder who is chairman of
the National Association of Home Builders. “We are starting to
see it loosen up just a little bit. This is the very beginning
of this. Let’s not get carried away with euphoria. It is
generally loosening up.”  New single-family home  sales beat analysts’ expectations in
January and sales for December and November were revised upward,
the Commerce Department reported Feb. 24. Last year, new home
sales declined to a record low of 304,000, according to
department records dating to 1963.  Housing  starts , including apartments, rose 1.5 percent in
January to an annual pace of 699,000, the Commerce Department
reported. About 750,000 total new housing units -- 480,000
single-family and 270,000 multifamily -- will be started this
year, up 23 percent from last year, and below the 2 million pace
in 2004 and 2005, Dales said.  Homebuilder Confidence Improves  Homebuilder  confidence  improved in February to the highest
level since May 2007, according to the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge. Ninety-eight
metropolitan markets had improving conditions for homebuilders,
according to the group’s index, including  Detroit , Miami and
 Minneapolis .  “The trend is up, not down,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. and a former Federal Reserve
researcher. “That is a big change from where we’ve been over
the last several years. So I don’t think we’re going to get to a
point over the next year or two where homebuilders and others
think these are really good times in the housing market. We’re a
long way from that. But what we are seeing is some improved
trajectory.”  While existing home sales are mostly “a transfer of assets
from one household to another,” new home construction is a
direct contributor to economic growth, said Karl E. Case, co-
creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller property-value indexes. Each
increase of 100,000 housing starts adds about $25 billion to the
economy, estimates Case, professor emeritus at Wellesley College
in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  New Tax Revenue  Each new house creates about three yearlong jobs and more
than $89,000 in new tax revenue, according to the National
Association of Home Builders.  KB Home (KBH) , the seventh-largest U.S. builder by revenue, has
begun to raise prices and reduce incentives at some of its 39
communities in Southern California, even as prices on existing
homes continue to drop, said Steve Reffner, president of the
Southern California region for the Los Angeles-based builder.  The new homes compete with lower-priced existing houses by
offering construction warranties and energy-efficient features
such as solar-energy panels and insulation that come with tax
credits and cut monthly utility bills by as much as 80 percent,
Reffner said.  ‘At the Bottom’  “Buyers are motivated now because they feel we’re at the
bottom,” he said in a telephone interview.  The improvement in construction has led to a run-up in
homebuilder-stock prices that led analyst Wilkes Graham of
Compass Point Research & Trading to downgrade KB Home,
PulteGroup and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  KB Home’s shares are up 68
percent this year, the most of any U.S. homebuilder.  “While our updated 2012 and 2013 estimates assume a
continued recovery in the market for new homes, we believe the
equities have more than priced the growth that we expect to come
in the next two years,” Graham wrote in a Feb. 28 note to
investors.  Owners of about 5 million homes have lost their properties
to foreclosure since the housing crisis began in mid-2006,
according to  RealtyTrac Inc. (HOMFCLOS)  A rout in real estate prices has
stripped $7 trillion from home values, according to the Federal
Reserve. As a result, more than 11 million owners have mortgages
that are bigger than their property values, a figure that
increased by about 400,000 in the fourth quarter, CoreLogic Inc.
reported yesterday.  More Foreclosures Coming  About 8 million more homes will be lost to foreclosure or
sold through distressed transactions in the next five years,
according to a Feb. 16 report by analysts at Morgan Stanley.
About half will be purchased by investors and converted to
rentals, wrote Oliver Chang, Vishwanath Tirupattur,  James Egan 
and Jose Cambronero.  A decline in prices from discounted foreclosure sales along
with 30-year mortgage  rates  of less than 4 percent boosted U.S.
housing  affordability  to a record in the fourth quarter.  “Affordability has increased dramatically as a result of
the decline in house prices and historically low  interest
rates ,” Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in Feb.
29 testimony to the House Financial Services Committee. Many
buyers, however, are “reluctant to buy a house now because of
concerns about their income, employment prospects and the future
path of home prices,” he said.  Increases in Detroit  Detroit (SPCSDET) , where prices have fallen to 1995 levels, was the
only metro area in the 20-city Case-Shiller index with year-
over-year increases in 2011, rising almost 0.5 percent through
December as U.S. prices fell almost 4 percent. Prices in the
Warren-Troy-Farmington Hills area north of Detroit rose 3.5
percent last year, the most of the 25 largest U.S. metro areas,
according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s home-price
index.  Andy Hargreaves of Coldwell Banker Preferred Realtors in
Plymouth, Michigan, said 60 percent of his listings in Detroit’s
western suburbs have been getting multiple offers since
December, driving up prices. Auto workers are using bonuses of
as much as $7,000 for down payments on homes, as the Michigan-
based  industry  rebounds, he said.  One home had 20 offers, Hargreaves said, and his inventory
is half the size it was three years ago.  “I can’t keep a good home on the market very long,” he
said.  Urgent Bid  In September, Jason and Rebecca Prone paid $383,000 for a
new 3,100-square-foot (290-square-meter) home in Northville, a
Detroit suburb, because they couldn’t find an existing house in
the area chosen for its quality schools.  “If we didn’t put in a bid by the time we were outside
looking at it, we missed it,” said Jason Prone, 34, a
transplant from  Washington , D.C., who works from home for the
U.S. Patent Office.  Demand also has grown for New York City-area condos and for
homes in the Boston-to-Washington corridor, said Doug Yearley,
chief executive officer of  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , which reported
that orders for the quarter ended Jan. 31 rose 19 percent and
average prices climbed 22 percent to $682,000.  “We’re optimistic,” Yearley, whose Horsham, Pennsylvania-
based company is the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, said in a
Feb. 22 interview on Bloomberg Television. “We have orders that
are up significantly. We’re seeing deposits up. We’re seeing
traffic up.”  ‘Pockets of Success’  More people are building new high-end homes around Boston
and spending has increased on home improvement, said John Ted
Mahoney III, president of Windjammer Construction Corp., a
closely held home-construction and remodeling business in
Bridgewater, Massachusetts.  “There are pockets of success for the first time in a long
time,” said Mahoney, who’s also president of the Builders
Association of Greater Boston.  In Phoenix, prices rose 2.7 percent last year, including a
7 percent increase in the fourth quarter alone, according to the
Federal Housing Finance Agency index, which measures resale
prices of homes with  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  mortgages. The
turnaround in the Arizona state capital -- where almost 53
percent of homes had negative equity in the fourth quarter,
according to CoreLogic -- is carrying over to the new-home
market.  ‘It’s on Fire’  Meritage Homes raised Phoenix-area prices this year by as
much as $1,500, said Larry Seay, chief financial officer for the
Scottsdale, Arizona-based builder. In January, developer DMB
Associates Inc. selected the name Eastmark for a 3,200-acre
(1,300-hectare) project that’s the first new large master-
planned community in the Phoenix area since 2005, said James
“Nate” Nathan, president of Nathan & Associates Inc., a land
broker in Scottsdale, Arizona.  “It’s on fire here,” Nathan said in a telephone
interview. “We’re adding jobs, the lot inventory is dwindling
and population growth has resumed.”  Even in Florida -- which has the highest percentage of
homes in the foreclosure pipeline, according to  Lender
Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  -- demand for new houses has revived in
pockets, said Jody Kahn, vice president of John Burns Real
Estate Consulting Inc. Prospective buyers began lining up Jan.
27, the night before closely held G.L. Homes Ltd. opened a new
community in Naples where homes start at $379,000, she said.  “Florida builders began raising prices in December,” Kahn
said in a telephone interview from Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
“It’s kind of mind-blowing because so many people consider
Florida ground zero for foreclosures.”  Inventory Falls  In  Denver (SPCSDEN) , prices hadn’t rebounded even as the inventory of
existing homes listed for sale fell to 8,800 in January, down 37
percent from a year earlier, according to the Colorado
Association of Realtors. That may change as agents have started
to receive multiple offers on mid-range properties in recent
weeks, said Scott Matthias, the group’s president.  “I haven’t seen multiple offers in four or five years,”
said Matthias, a Realtor with Re/Max Professionals in  Denver. (SPCSDEN)   Those offers also may spark more interest in new home
starts, which fell to 3,600 last year in the Denver area, down
82 percent from the 2006 peak, said John Covert, director for
the Colorado region for Metrostudy, a Houston-based company that
tracks home construction.  “We expect the market to grow by 15 percent this year,”
Covert said. “That sounds like a big number for housing starts,
but it’s still only going to get us another 500.”  Hopes for a housing recovery were dashed in 2010 when tax
credits spurred a spike in sales that proved temporary, and last
year, when rising unemployment, bickering over the U.S. deficit
and falling stock prices spooked  consumer confidence .  Buffett ‘Dead Wrong’  “I was dead wrong,” Warren Buffett said in his Feb. 25
letter to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. shareholders about his
expectations for a housing recovery last year. He says he’s
optimistic again, expecting reinvigorated household formation to
spur demand for more residences.  “Housing will come back -- you can be sure of that,” he
wrote. “Every day we are creating more households than housing
units. People may postpone hitching up during uncertain times,
but eventually hormones take over. And while ‘doubling up’ may
be the initial reaction of some during a recession, living with
in-laws can quickly lose its allure.”  After looking for several years for a larger home, Jessica
Moehlman, an auto sales manager, said she and her partner expect
to complete the purchase by June of a $439,000 three-bedroom
house in Grant Township, Minnesota, about 20 miles east of
Minneapolis, so his three children can get into a good school
district.  No More Waiting  The improving economy and current price levels have
“created an urgency for us to purchase a new home now versus
waiting a few years,” said Moehlman, 27. “We feel we are still
able to utilize our money more effectively by buying a bigger
house for less money.”  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. builder by revenue, and D.R.
Horton, the biggest by volume, each have one community in
Eastvale, the California city where software developer
Kowalyshyn sees improvement. Meritage sold about 30 homes in the
town last year and this year opened a new community called  River
Road , with prices starting at $402,990, said CFO Seay.  KB Home has four communities in Eastvale, with prices
starting at $272,990, according to its website. The homes are
selling at a profit, Reffner said.  “We think Eastvale is a great market,” he said.  Kowalyshyn said he considered alternatives to keeping up
payments on his home, including selling at a loss or walking
away from his property to let the bank take it back. To buy a
house closer to his Los Angeles office -- a 100-mile round-trip
commute from Eastvale that costs four gallons of gas a day and
about $50 a month in tolls -- he’d pay more money for less
space.  “I’m a numbers guy,” he said. “I’ve done a statistical
analysis of all my options. I talked to a lawyer. My conclusion
is the best choice, at least short term, is to stay and see what
happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  