-- How Google Can Help in the Search for the Right to Privacy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-02T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/how-google-can-help-in-the-search-for-a-universal-right-to-privacy-view.html
The only Web company that is also a
verb has run into the language barrier. How do you say “Google
privacy policy” in French? (It’s “regles de confidentialite
Google.” Thanks,  Google Translate .)  Google Inc.’s new privacy policy, which took effect March
1, is in general a praiseworthy effort. But it has won only
faint applause, especially in  Europe . This may have less to do
with Google specifically than with privacy generally, and with
the differing European and American definitions of the term. At
its base this is a philosophical dispute, which is oddly
encouraging: All everyone has to do is  figure out  the least
disruptive way to disagree and move on.  And disagree they do. The French National Commission for
Computing and Civil Liberties, acting on behalf of a group of
European Union officials, sent Google  a letter  Feb. 27 saying
the new rules may violate European law. Thirty-six attorneys
general in the U.S. also sent  a letter  to Google Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Page . Meanwhile, Google has found little support
from privacy groups like the U.S.-based Electronic Privacy
Information Center, which  sued in federal court  to get the
Federal Trade Commission to stop the change.  You’d think Google had announced it would start collecting
terabytes of data about you, your neighbor and your dog,  if he’s
ever online . You’d be wrong: Google already does that. Google is
not collecting any new information; rather, it is sharing (with
itself) more of the information it already has. As of March
1,  Google says , it is combining “information you’ve provided
from one service with information from other services. In short,
we’ll treat you as a single user across all our products.” The
change reduces more than 60 of the company’s privacy policies,
spread over as many products, to  just one . At about 2,500 words,
it is admirably clear and concise.  So what’s not to like? Well, that French letter complains
that officials weren’t given enough time to study Google’s new
policy and that “trained privacy professionals” -- undoubtedly
in Brussels -- find it confusing. They want more information.
That’s easy enough for Google to provide, and it  plans to do so .  But there are other concepts, such as the “ right to be
forgotten ,” which are embedded in the European idea of privacy
but may prove problematic to honor online. You may have the
right to take down that photo of your drunken self from your
Facebook wall, but should the law force Facebook to remove it
from your friend’s wall? Can it force Google to stop including
it in search results? Google has to comply with local laws in
all jurisdictions in which it operates. This, however, is an
issue that transcends borders.  The American objections to Google’s privacy policy tend to
be more legalistic. EPIC, the privacy-rights group, says the new
policy violates the consent decree Google signed with the
Federal Trade Commission in October, which among other things
requires Google to obtain “express affirmative consent” from
users for many changes to its policy. The  attorneys general 
carry a brief for the millions of Americans who “bought an
Android-powered phone in reliance on Google’s existing privacy
policy.” And here we thought all they cared about was the
 Twitter  app.  All of which is not to say that these changes, by Google
and to our notion of privacy, aren’t real. Google provides a
vast array of products and services, from the aforementioned
Android OS to YouTube to blogging platforms to e-mail. When
you’re messaging your spouse about dinner from your mobile phone
and you see an ad for that takeout Chinese place you searched
for a month before, you may find it convenient or creepy (or
maybe a little of both). Either way, it is the future.  This is the predicate assumption of the Obama
administration’s 62-page “ Framework for Protecting Privacy ,”
issued last week, which includes a seven-point Consumer Privacy
Bill of Rights and other good ideas, like a “Do Not Track”
button that users could click on if they don’t want anyone
following them online. Others have proposed things like  privacy
insurance  that would compensate individuals for any harm caused
by a breach.  These ideas are appealing precisely because none of the
details have been quite worked out. Once Congress and the
private sector start filling them in, there’ll be plenty of
debate.  When companies like Google change their policies, it is
imperative that they both notify users and allow them the option
of not participating. On the first point it’s hard to fault
Google, which has just spent a month littering the Internet
with  notifications . On the second, Google sounds a little like
the apocryphal  Henry Ford  selling the  Model T : You can use
Google any way you want, so long as you use it the way we say.  One thing Google could be clearer about is how long it
keeps your data even after you’ve asked it to stop tracking you.
It does  allow you  to modify some privacy settings, and to create
multiple accounts with different settings. But it’s not simple.  That, perhaps, is the central truth that Google’s policy
exposes: As much as corporations and websites can do to protect
users’ privacy -- and they can do a lot -- the burden will
increasingly fall on users. Google deserves some credit for
trying, and mostly succeeding, to make it easier to understand
what’s at stake.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 