-- Toyota Beats Sales Estimates as Prius Deliveries Jump
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-05T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/toyota-beats-u-s-sales-estimates-as-prius-hybrid-supply-builds.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (JDCSTYTA) , seeking record
U.S. Prius sales in 2012, said increased supply of the hybrid
helped the automaker beat analysts’ estimates for February sales
and will buoy gains in March amid rising fuel prices.  Asia ’s largest carmaker reported yesterday that sales of
Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles rose 12 percent last month,
more than the 8.2 percent average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Prius sales, including the v wagon, were up 52
percent to 20,593, the highest in almost four years. The total
for all Toyota and Lexus hybrids climbed 60 percent.  “They’re targeting 220,000 Prius sales,” said Alan Baum,
principal of Baum & Associates, a provider of auto-industry
analysis in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “Given the assumption
we’ll have high gas prices into the summer, this looks like a
reasonably good bet.”  Toyota’s gain contributed to a 16 percent increase for all
Asian brands last month, as the industrywide U.S. annual sales
pace was the highest since February 2008, according to Autodata
Corp. With rising  gasoline prices  stoking demand for fuel-
efficient vehicles and signs of a strengthening economy helping
light trucks, the industry’s sales also advanced 16 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Consumers gained confidence in February as the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  exceeded 13,000 for the first time since May
2008 and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest in three
years. The  average price  for a gallon of regular unleaded
gasoline has increased 14 percent this year to $3.74 as of Feb.
29, according to AAA, the largest U.S. motorist group.  Toyota starts March with more than 25,000 Prius hatchbacks
and wagons already on the way to dealers, or at least 29 days of
supply, one of the highest levels it has had in the U.S. for the
gasoline-electric model,  Bob Carter , the company’s group vice
president of U.S sales, said in a conference call yesterday. The
Prius c subcompact and plug-in model will also go on sale this
month and boost sales for the hybrid, he said.  “I like our positioning in the market,” Carter said on
the call. “We projected an increase in fuel prices as we moved
into the spring. We didn’t expect fuel prices would move this
quickly and this rapidly.”  Prius Preparations  That’s benefiting dealers such as Don Mushin, general
manager at  Toyota of Hollywood  in  Los Angeles , which says it’s
among the top three Prius sellers in the U.S. by volume. The
dealership’s supply of Prius models has nearly doubled in the
past couple of months, and the new small version of the hybrid
that arrives within the week should be a particularly strong
seller, he said.  “It’s a whole different story from a year ago,” said
Mushin. “If gas prices go to $5, I think the Prius c that’s
priced at around $20,000 will probably be the commuter car for
everybody.”  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker sold 159,462
vehicles in the U.S. last month. Toyota also benefited from
demand for the revamped Camry sedan that went on sale in late
2011, with deliveries rising 27 percent.  The carmaker is running no-interest loan offers for Avalon
sedans, Tundra pickups, Venza wagons, Highlander and RAV4 sport-
utility vehicles, and Sienna minivans to keep sales growing
across the Toyota brand.  ‘Best Position’  “They are clearly in the best position they’ve been in in
the last two years,”  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst for pricing
service TrueCar.com, said in a telephone interview.  Toyota’s market share in February was 13.9 percent,
according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata. That was
a drop of 0.4 point from a year earlier, as the company’s sales
gain trailed the industry’s.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  South Korea ’s  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  also reported February sales that
topped analysts’ estimates.  Toyota fell 0.6 percent to 3,315 yen at 9:55 a.m. in  Tokyo 
trading, while Nissan and Honda were little changed. Hyundai
rose 3 percent and Kia advanced 1.7 percent in  Seoul .  Honda, based in Tokyo, said sales for the Honda and Acura
brands grew 12 percent to 110,157, including a 42 percent surge
for the Civic small car. Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan,
posted a 16 percent increase to 106,731 Nissan and Infiniti
vehicles.  The averages of seven estimates were for gains of 4.5
percent for Honda and 6.1 percent for Nissan.  Hyundai, Kia  Hyundai and Kia, affiliates that operate separately,
combined for a 26 percent jump from a year earlier. The Seoul-
based companies beat the average of five analysts’ estimates for
a 19 percent gain. Sales of Hyundai’s Accent small car were up
29 percent. Kia benefited as deliveries of the Optima midsize
sedan more than doubled.  Honda’s February gain followed a January increase that was
the automaker’s first monthly advance since its inventory
plunged after  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami in March.  “February felt great,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said in a phone interview. “Consumer
demand is coming back, and I think it’s coming back fairly
aggressively.”  Honda’s U.S. market share was 9.6 percent last month, a
decline from 9.9 percent a year earlier; Nissan’s was unchanged
at 9.3 percent; and combined share for Hyundai and Kia was 8.4
percent, an increase from 7.7 percent, according to Autodata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  