-- Patrick Stewart Overdoses, Hookers Kidnap Dvorak: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/patrick-stewart-overdoses-hookers-destroy-dvorak-s-magic-on-london-stage.html
Edward Bond’s 1974 play “Bingo,”
about the last years of  William Shakespeare , provides a gift of
a role for a great actor.  Patrick Stewart  commands it fully.  Stewart presents the Bard as a quiet, shrewd observer. His
big monologue, in which he rages at life’s futility, is a three-
course banquet of theatrical goodies at London’s  Young Vic .  A local fat-cat neighbor wants to evict some small farmers
in order to enclose their fields for his own use. Shakespeare,
also a landowner, agrees to it (as he did in real life) as long
as his own financial interests are provided for.  Meanwhile, his emotional distance drives his daughter
Judith to despair. A monomaniacal puritan starts agitating
against the enclosures too. Some of it feels rather meandering.  You can hear tubs being thumped. Bond, a Marxist, wants to
show that those who care only for their own interests come to no
good. In the end, his Shakespeare commits suicide.  The play appears to suggest that if only some kindly time-
traveler had biffed him on the head with a copy of “Das
Kapital” he’d have cheered up and been a bit nicer.  Angus Jackson’s period-costume production is clear and
straightforward. An excellent supporting cast helps. Rating: **.  ‘Rusalka’  While Bond’s so-so play gets a near-ideal production, at
the  Royal Opera , a great work is brought low by dullards.  There are three worlds depicted in Dvorak’s fairy-tale
“Rusalka.” You wouldn’t know it in this new production.  Rusalka is a water nymph who lives in a lake. She enters
the forest to find a witch who can make her human, and then goes
to live in the realm of men. It all goes horribly wrong.  Directors Jossi Wieler and Sergio Morabito use a surreal
contemporary setting. A pink neon cross hovers above gaudy
plastic-wrapped sofas. At the start, nymphs appear in baby doll
nighties. By the end they’ve transformed into cheap drug-taking
hookers. They seem to live in the same brothel as Rusalka.  The production received a storm of boos and jeers on
opening night. It’s not that we Brits are uptight about seeing
nubile young sopranos in micro-panties.  Dispiriting as it is to find yet more male directors who
relish exposing scantily clad females in hooker gear, that’s not
the problem. It’s just that there is zero stagecraft.  Wriggling Corpse  The final scene is staged with unforgivable incompetence.
Rusalka’s human lover dies in her arms. She tries to drag his
body to an open trapdoor. Unfortunately the poor tenor isn’t
really of draggable proportions, so the corpse kindly wriggles
and shoves itself along the floor to help out. It could be
straight out of a Marx Brothers movie. Is he dead, or isn’t he?  I don’t think Dvorak had disbelieving giggles in mind when
he wrote that tragic scene of his opera. It’s all the greater
shame because, musically speaking, it’s a triumph.  Conductor Yannick Nezet-Seguin relishes every gorgeous
melody and climax with suitably romantic fervor. Bryan Hymel
(the Prince) has one of those tenor voices which makes the hairs
on the back of your arms stand to attention. Camilla Nylund
(Rusalka) sings with subtlety and huge power.  When they’re all at full throttle, the opera still works
its emotional magic, defying the best efforts of the directors.  It’s the first time the Royal Opera has staged Dvorak’s
1901 masterpiece. It would be nice if this sloppy dog’s dinner
won’t put them off staging the work properly before another 111
years have passed. Rating: **.  ‘Hay Fever’  Noel Coward’s comedy “Hay Fever” comes up sparkling in a
terrific production at (appropriately enough) the Noel Coward
Theatre.  It’s a frothy piece about a Bohemian family that
accidentally invites a quartet of straight-laced guests to stay
for the weekend. Mayhem ensues, and misunderstandings abound.  Lindsay Duncan plays the actress matriarch Judith Bliss
with a grand manner, and times her put-downs to perfection.
Phoebe Waller-Bridge plays Judith’s daughter with amusing
gaucheness, and Amy Morgan manages to invest the empty-headed
flapper Jackie Coryton with a surprising amount of depth.  Howard Davies ’s production, set in a ramshackle 1920s
artists’ studio, looks great, and the laughs come thick and
fast. Who needs Bond’s Marxist finger-wagging when there are
guilty pleasures like “Hay Fever”?  Rating: ***.  “Bingo” is at the Young Vic, 66 The Cut, Waterloo, SE1
8LZ. It is sponsored by Coutts Bank. Information:
 http://www.youngvic.org  or +44-20-7922-2924.  “Rusalka” is at the Royal Opera,  Covent Garden , WC2E 9DD.
Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  “Hay Fever” is at the Noel Coward Theatre, 85-87 St.
Martin’s Lane, Charing Cross, WC2N 4AU. Information:
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5140.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 