-- PDVSA Said to Consider Lower Orinoco Venture Stakes for Hong Kong Listing
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-03-02T20:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/pdvsa-said-to-consider-lower-orinoco-venture-stakes-for-hong-kong-listing.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA  is
considering a plan to sell part of its stakes in Orinoco heavy
crude joint ventures in a private placement on the  Hong Kong 
stock exchange, according to a company official.  The state-owned oil producer, which has held at least 60
percent of each Orinoco venture since President  Hugo Chavez 
nationalized the oil industry in 2007, may reduce its stakes to
as little as 51 percent, the official, who isn’t authorized to
speak publicly, said today in Caracas.  China ’s Citic Securities
Corp. is advising on the potential listing, the official said.  PDVSA will use proceeds from the deal to invest in the
development of the Orinoco belt, one of the world’s largest oil
reserves, he said. The operation would not be considered a
privatization, as shares will be offered in a holding company
created to manage PDVSA’s stakes in the joint ventures and not
in the state oil company itself, the official said.  PDVSA is studying the Hong Kong stock exchange because of
investor demand in the region and the South American nation’s
close political ties with China, according to the official.
PDVSA may consider an initial public offering in the Orinoco
ventures if the private placement goes well, the official said,
without providing a time frame for the operation.  Citic, China’s largest state-owned investment company, is
currently conducting due diligence to purchase a 10 percent
stake in the Petropiar heavy crude project held with PDVSA and
California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the official said. PDVSA does
not need permission from its minority partners to sell, list, or
reduce its stakes in the ventures, according to the official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  