-- Pentagon Sees ’Substantial Savings’ in Block Buying of V-22 Osprey, Subs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/pentagon-sees-savings-in-block-buying-from-v-22-to-subs.html
The Defense Department will realize
“substantial savings” from further five-year purchases of
weaponry, including the V-22 Osprey from  Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer told Congress.  Frank Kendall, the department’s acting undersecretary for
acquisition, wrote lawmakers yesterday that additional block
contracts for the Marine Corps’ V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft,
the Navy’s Virginia-class attack submarine and DDG-51 Arleigh
Burke destroyer and the Army’s CH-47 Chinook heavy-lift
helicopter meet criteria established by law.  Kendall’s letter is a first step required before
congressional review and the eventual signing of contracts.
Multiyear commitments are seldom canceled because the Pentagon
would have to pay substantial termination fees to contractors
and would face opposition from congressional champions of the
systems being scrapped.  Bulk contracts also let companies buy parts in advance,
with savings passed on to the Pentagon, and maintain a stable
workforce. Kendall’s letters outlined initial expected savings
derived from the Pentagon’s cost-analysis unit.  The biggest savings over annual purchases would be $4.4
billion, or 14 percent, for nine Virgina-class submarines bought
between 2014 and 2018 from  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of
 Newport News ,  Virginia , and  General Dynamics (GD)  Corp.’s Groton,
Connecticut-based Electric Boat unit. Annual purchases would
cost as much as $31 billion in contracts for the vessels, radar
and sonar.  Nine Destroyers  Bulk contract purchases of nine new missile-defense capable
DDG-51 destroyers built by Huntington and General Dynamics’ Bath
Iron Works, of Bath,  Maine , would save $1.5 billion, or 9
percent, over an estimated $17.7 billion in annual contracts.  The Navy wants to buy 98 additional V-22s from the joint
venture of Textron’s Fort Worth, Texas-based Bell Helicopter
unit and Boeing’s Philadelphia aircraft unit. Kendall found a
block purchase would save at least $852 million, or 12 percent,
over $7.35 billion in annual buys.  Kendall certified a savings of at least $373 million, or 10
percent, for bulk purchases of 155 new and upgraded Boeing
CH-47F helicopters through 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  