-- PepsiCo Leads Higher U.S. Bond Sales as Yields Reach Record Low
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-02T21:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/pepsico-leads-higher-u-s-bond-sales-as-yields-reach-record-low.html
PepsiCo (PEP)  Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, and  Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO)  are
leading a 48 percent increase in U.S. corporate bond sales this
week as investment-grade yields touched a record low.  PepsiCo (PEP) , based in Purchase, New York, sold $2.75 billion of
bonds at its lowest borrowing costs ever, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Clear Channel Outdoor, the biggest
billboard owner, raised $2.2 billion of debt, after boosting the
size of the offering 76 percent. Sales this week reached $40
billion and more than $145 billion was issued in February, the
busiest month since May.  Issuance climbed from $27 billion on signs of an improving
economy. Gross domestic product expanded more than initially
estimated in the fourth quarter and jobless claims matched the
lowest level since 2008. Yields on Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index fell to 3.42 percent on Feb.
28, the least in the bank’s data going back to October 1986.  “This is a great opportunity at a relatively attractive
cost to extend maturities and get rid of refinancing risk,”
 John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Returns on bonds from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
corporate borrowers reached 1.1 percent in February, the best
gains for the month since 2007, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index.  Speculative-grade bond issuance revived with more than $12
billion of sales, the most in almost a month, as the relative
yield on junk debt hit a seven-month low, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads declined to 594 basis
points, the least since Aug. 3.  ‘Hunt for Yield’  “There’s definitely a hunt for yield that’s being driven
by a low-rate environment,” Abdullah Karatash, head of U.S.
fixed-income credit trading at Natixis SA in  New York , said in a
telephone interview.  PepsiCo’s three-part offering included $750 million of 0.75
percent notes due in March 2015, $1.25 billion of 2.75 percent
securities maturing in March 2022 and $750 million of 4 percent,
30-year bonds, the data show. The company previously came to
market in August when it raised $1.25 billion of debt, Bloomberg
data show.  Clear Channel’s $2.2 billion of eight-year notes were
priced to yield 7.625 percent, the lowest  interest rate  it has
received on record, Bloomberg data show. The company, which is
controlled by Bain Capital Partners LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, will use the proceeds from the sale to pay a
dividend to shareholders, it said in a Feb. 29 statement.  ‘Cautiously Constructive’  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  sold $2 billion of bonds Feb. 27, four
months after raising as much as $4 billion of debt in a Nov. 4
offering.  “Coming into the year we were all a little bit cautious
and weary; the mood is cautiously constructive now.”  Sabur Moini , a  money manager  who helps oversee about $2 billion of
high-yield debt at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, said in a
telephone interview. “The data has certainly been more
encouraging.”  Demand for corporate debt has increased as the  U.S. economy 
has shown signs of gaining strength. First-time applications for
jobless benefits  fell 2,000  last week to 351,000, matching the
lowest level since March 2008, the Labor Department said
yesterday. Gross domestic product grew at a 3 percent pace in
the fourth quarter, up from an initial estimate of 2.8 percent,
the Commerce Department said.  Business Activity  Business activity  in February accelerated to the fastest
pace in ten months, according to the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago. The barometer climbed to 64 from 60.2 in
January, the most since April when it was at 65. Readings above
50 signal expansion and the figure exceeded all forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The fundamental backdrop is very strong,” Jonathan Beinner, chief investment officer and co-head of fixed income at
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Combine that with very strong technicals
and you have a market that is going to keep going up.”  -- With assistance from Deirdre Bolton and  Erik Schatzker  in New
York. Editor: Richard Bravo, Alan Goldstein  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  