-- Pimco Bid to Extend Gross Brand Leaves Advisers Cold
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-03-02T16:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/pimco-s-bid-to-extend-bill-gross-brand-to-active-etf-leaves-advisers-cold.html
Bill Gross says the  exchange-traded 
version of his $250 billion Pimco  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has the
potential to become the first hot seller among actively managed
ETFs. Investment advisers are giving the fund a cool reception.  “We would just stick with the Total Return Fund rather
than going to the ETF,” because the ETF won’t have the same use
of derivatives to increase returns as the traditional fund, said
Brian Pollak, fixed income portfolio manager for New York-based
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $3.2
billion.  Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the  Newport Beach , California-based unit of
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , is the most prominent professional to start
an actively managed ETF. The flagship Total Return Fund he runs
has generated 8.4 percent average annual returns over the past
five years, and  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  named Gross a fund manager of
the decade in 2010.  Assets in ETFs, which generally are baskets of securities
that trade on exchanges like stocks, rose to about  $1.1 trillion 
in January from about $66 billion in 2000, according to the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group for
the mutual-fund industry.  Yet actively managed ETFs, which seek to benefit from the
skill of a manager selecting investments rather than tracking
indexes, haven’t gained significant traction among investors as
assets are less than 0.5 percent of the total invested in ETFs,
according to ICI data.  Growth Driver  Registered investment advisers are a “growth driver” for
the ETF industry, said Tyler Cloherty, senior analyst for
Cerulli Associates. RIAs are firms that manage or provide advice
on investments and generally charge fees for services, compared
with broker-dealers that more commonly charge commissions.  About 15 percent of assets under management by advisers
were invested in ETFs in 2011, up from about 8 percent in 2009,
according to the Boston-based market research firm. Advisers
account for about 10 percent of total assets invested in ETFs.  Pimco in April filed to start an ETF that Gross will manage
and may invest in a similar strategy as his Total Return Fund.
The ETF will invest primarily in a diversified portfolio of
fixed-income assets, including  government bonds  and mortgage-
backed securities.  Restrictions on Derivatives  Unlike the flagship mutual fund, the Total Return ETF can’t
use certain derivatives, such as futures, options and swap
agreements, according to  documents  on the Pimco website.
Derivatives are financial instruments used for speculation or to
hedge risks, and generally derive their values from an
underlying asset.  “If you believe  Bill Gross  and Pimco are diligent and
thoughtful about the use of derivatives, then why wouldn’t an
investor employ Bill Gross with the ability to use
derivatives?” said Alan Zafran, a partner with Los Angeles-
based Luminous Capital, which manages about $4.7 billion.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2010
 stopped approving  applications for ETFs that would make
“significant investments” in derivatives, pending a review
examining whether additional protections are necessary for funds
that do so.  “There’s a tool in their toolkit that they don’t have
access to,” without the full use of derivatives, Evercore’s
Pollak said.  Day Trading  Advisers who prefer buy-and-hold investing may not find the
ETF’s trading feature useful, said Mark Green, chief investment
officer of Carmel, Indiana-based Oxford Financial Group Ltd.,
which manages about $10 billion.  “No one day trades bond funds,” said Jonathan Bergman,
chief investment officer of Scarsdale, New York-based Palisades
Hudson Asset Management LP, which oversees more than $1 billion
on behalf of individuals and families. “The fact that it’s
available intraday is inconsequential.”  The ETF will charge 55 basis points in annual expenses
after accounting for a fee waiver, according to fund documents.
That compares with 46 basis points for the traditional fund’s
institutional shares, which generally are used by advisers. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “If you already own the Total Return Fund with a lower
fee, it’s hard to see why you’d want to go into the Total Return
ETF with a higher fee other than for more liquidity,” Gross
said in an interview on Feb. 29, referring to holdings of the
institutional shares among advisers.  Asset Flows  “We’d prefer the open-end fund,” meaning the traditional
fund, for its greater flexibility with derivatives and lower
expense ratio, Zafran said.  Actively managed ETFs received about $1.4 billion in
deposits in the 12 months through January, compared with about
$108 billion for ETFs that track an index, according to
Morningstar. There are almost four times as many index ETFs as
active ETFs.  “With just a few exceptions, overall asset flows into
active ETFs have been not great,” said Robert Goldsborough, ETF
analyst for Chicago-based Morningstar. “By the same token, not
a lot of ETF providers have come up with actively managed
ETFs.”  In June, Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  said it would liquidate
two actively managed ETFs --  PowerShares Active Alpha Multi-Cap
Fund (PQZ)  and  PowerShares Active AlphaQ Fund. (PQY)  Columbia Management
Investment Advisers LLC, a unit of Minneapolis-based  Ameriprise
Financial Inc. (AMP) , in April said it had agreed to acquire actively
managed ETF firm Grail Advisors LLC. Columbia’s five actively
managed ETFs have about $23 million in assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Largest Active ETF  The Pimco Total Return ETF may benefit, compared with
offerings from smaller firms such as Grail, from Pimco’s
existing brand, distribution and marketing, Goldsborough said.  “There’s a lot of inherent advantages to what Bill Gross
has,” he said. “There’s an untested aspect to a smaller firm
that isn’t there with a bigger firm like Pimco.”  The  Pimco Enhanced Short Maturity Strategy Fund (MINT)  is the
largest actively managed ETF. The fund invests primarily in
short-duration investment-grade securities and is managed by
Jerome Schneider, and has about $1.4 billion in assets. The fund
returned about 1 percent for the year ended Feb. 29, Bloomberg
data show.  Investors who currently hold higher-expense share classes
of the traditional fund may consider switching to the ETF for
the cost savings, said David Hallman, vice president of
investment research and management for Newport Beach,
California-based United Capital, which with its affiliates
oversees about $16 billion.  ‘Mom and Pop’  The ETF may appeal to “mom and pop” investors, Gross
said. The fund’s annual expenses are lower than those of the A,
C and D share classes of the flagship fund, where costs range
from 0.75 percent to 1.6 percent.  “The challenge is obvious,” Gross said. “We could fall
flat on our face or we could roar like a lion in a year or two
or three and become the largest ETF.”  The Pimco Total Return ETF had about $103 million in assets
and traded at a 4 basis point discount to its net asset value as
of its first day of trading yesterday.  Bond ETFs may be more likely to trade at substantial
premiums or discounts to their net asset values than stock ETFs,
said Michelle Knight, chief economist and managing director of
fixed income for Boston-based Silver Bridge Capital Management,
which oversees about $3.2 billion for families and institutions.  Pricing Disconnect  In January, taxable bond ETFs traded with an average
monthly premium of 23 basis points, compared with an average
monthly discount of 4 basis points for U.S. stock ETFs,
according to Morningstar. The average monthly premium for
taxable bond ETFs during 2008 widened to as much as 1.87
percent.  “To me, that’s a bigger deal than anything else -- that
disconnect,” Knight said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 