-- Safety Rules for U.S. Nuclear Plant Outages, Fuel Pools Advance
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-02T23:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/post-fukushima-reactor-safety-rules-advanced-by-u-s-nuclear-agency-votes.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission moved closer to imposing tougher safeguards at the
nation’s reactors, a year after a disaster in  Japan  that
triggered radiation leaks from a crippled power plant.  The commission led by Chairman Gregory Jaczko voted
unanimously to issue three orders for safety steps at 104
operating reactors. The agency now will complete writing the
rules, which may be released by March 9,  David McIntyre , an NRC
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Companies including  Southern Co. (SO) 
and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  would have until early next year to write a
plan and comply by 2016.  “The rapidly approaching one-year anniversary of the
tragic earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear accident in Japan is a
poignant reminder of the importance of our work for nuclear
safety,” Jaczko said in his vote, posted yesterday on the
agency’s website.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11 crippled
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing
explosions, radiation leaks and meltdowns. The NRC and the
nuclear industry have been studying the disaster to bolster U.S.
plant protection from floods, quakes and power failures that
prevent the cooling of atomic waste.  The NRC’s rules would require that plant owners have
sufficient equipment on site to handle blackouts as well as
adequate instruments to monitor pools holding spent fuel during
an emergency. The agency also wants operators with older,
 General Electric Co (GE) .-designed reactors, similar to those that
failed in Japan, to have “hardened vents” to relieve gas
pressure and prevent explosions.  Sales Possible  The safety orders may prompt companies that own a single
nuclear plant to consider selling the units to avoid higher
operating costs,  PPL Corp. (PPL)  Chief Executive Officer William
Spence said.  The proposed requirements would be more efficiently met by
owners with multiple reactors, Spence said in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  on Feb. 29. PPL has no plan
to sell its 2,289-megawatt Susquehanna nuclear plant 70 miles
(113 kilometers) northeast of Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , which it
views as a key strategic asset, Spence said.  PPL, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and 13 other
companies run a single nuclear plant, according to NRC data.  Commissioners George Apostolakis, William Magwood, William Ostendorff and Kristine Svinicki asked for some procedural
revisions to the rules before they take effect. Svinicki made
her vote public today, a day after her colleagues took the same
action.  ‘Sound, Common Sense’  “These three orders contain sound and common-sense
proposals,” Apostolakis said in a statement. He and Ostendorff
said the orders, presented to the commission Feb. 17, should be
revised to explicitly say that they’re needed to ensure adequate
public health and safety.  The NRC had set March 9 for action on the orders, developed
after an agency review of failures at the Fukushima plant, and
any revisions to the rules could delay the schedule, McIntyre
said.  The NRC’s staff expects to prepare the technical plans for
the rules by August, giving reactor owners until February 2013
to write individual compliance plans and to take action no later
than Dec. 31, 2016.  Regulatory ‘Patchwork’  The commission is weighing additional rules that would
require reviews of seismic and flooding hazards as well as a
proposal to replace what an agency task force described as a
regulatory “patchwork.” Jaczko wants reactor owners, such as
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , to comply with
Fukushima-related rules within five years of the disaster.  “An unfortunate consequence of taking action now is that
the so-called regulatory ’patchwork’ is perpetuated,”
Apostolakis said.  Reactor owners are “generally aligned” with the NRC’s top
regulatory priorities to improve plant safety after Fukushima,
 Steve Kerekes , a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based industry group, said in an e-mail.  The industry on Feb. 21 approved a plan to place portable
equipment, including back-up pumps and generators, at plants to
handle emergencies.  “More than 300 pieces of major equipment that supplement
our layered protective approach already have been acquired or
ordered,” Kerekes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  