-- Obama Punt on Cameras Robs GOP of Issue
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-03-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/punt-on-backup-cameras-shows-obama-robbing-republicans-of-regulation-issue.html
The Obama administration’s delay of
costly regulations, including one to require rearview cameras on
cars and light trucks, weakens a Republican line of attack ahead
of the election.  President  Barack Obama  has been hammered by Republicans for
promulgating expensive rules, and the party’s front-runner for
the presidential nomination,  Mitt Romney , vows to do away with
“job-killing regulation.” The camera requirement, mandated by
a 2008 law signed by Republican President  George W. Bush , was
listed by the Obama administration last year as one of the five
most expensive pending regulations, with an estimated price tag
of as much as $2.7 billion.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood this week put off the
backup-camera rule until as late as Dec. 31. It was LaHood’s
second delay of the rule and came after the White House blocked
new standards on ozone and slowed the regulation process for
sulfur in gasoline and greenhouse gas emissions by  power plants .  While the delays won’t stop Republicans from linking Obama
to expensive rulemaking, “these types of decisions will lessen
their impact,” said  Dan Schnur , who was communications director
for  John McCain ’s 2000 presidential campaign. “Even if you
assume these decisions were made for policy reasons, it’s still
very smart politics.”  At the same time, Obama supporters “will swallow this and
hope it gets done after the election,” said Schnur, now
director of the  Jesse Unruh Institute of Politics  at the
University of  Southern California .  Normal Review Process  The White House Office of Management and Budget maintains
that delays are part of the normal process of reviewing proposed
regulations and ensuring that all interested parties have been
heard.  “These are all complicated rules, at different stages of
review, that require careful analysis,”  Kenneth Baer , associate
OMB director for communications and strategic planning, said in
an e-mail. “It is a deliberate and extensive process undertaken
by career staff, reviewing hundreds of thousands of comments and
engaging all stakeholders to ensure that any standards are both
effective as well as scientifically and legally sound.”  In the case of the backup-camera requirement, the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  has “made significant
progress toward a final rule” and believes further study is
needed “to ensure the most protective and efficient rule
possible,” Lynda Tran, a spokeswoman for the Transportation
Department, said in a statement. NHTSA is an agency of the
Transportation Department.  Election-Year Delays  Still, regulatory delays are coming earlier in
presidential election years, said John D. Graham, former
administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs at OMB.  “Thirty years ago, this delay strategy did not begin until
after Labor Day or so,” Graham, now the dean of the school of
public and environmental affairs at  Indiana University , said in
an e-mail. “But as the polarization and competitiveness of
national politics have intensified, the delays have begun much
earlier in the year of the election.”  A report released today by the  Center for Progressive
Reform , a Washington-based research group focused on regulatory
policy, found that 10 of 12 regulatory actions tracked by the
organization had been delayed beyond timelines proposed by the
Obama administration last June.  “All 12 rules were chosen originally because we thought
the administration could easily get them done if the agencies
proceeded in a reasonable but determined fashion,” Rena Steinzor, the center’s president, said in an interview.  All or
part of at least nine won’t be completed before the election,
and even minimal delays will push the other three past November
as well, she said.  Lunch at 8  “It’s almost like we’ve gone to lunch at 8 in the
morning,” said Steinzor, a law professor at the  University of
Maryland . “Usually you stop working closer to an election.
These folks have stopped way early. I think they’ve just told
the agencies not to rock the boat.”  Rules cited in the report include one for new limits on
ozone, which at an estimated cost of $19 billion to $90 billion
was the most expensive regulation under consideration by the
Obama White House. That rule at the Environmental Protection
Agency was delayed by Obama until 2013.  “With any standard, EPA is engaged in a deliberative and
extensive process, reviewing hundreds of thousands of comments
and engaging all stakeholders to ensure that any standards are
both effective and scientifically and legally sound,” Betsaida
Alcantara, EPA press secretary, said in an e-mail.  Behind Schedule  Other behind-schedule rules would apply to storm water,
mountaintop removal mining and the disposal of coal ash,
according to the center’s report. Another would allow the EPA to
compile a list of “chemicals of concern” that would include
some widely used plastics additives.  The EPA also missed a deadline in September for issuing
regulations concerning greenhouse gas emissions from power
plants, pledging to issue them in the first month of 2012. It
missed that deadline, and now the first round of rules is being
reviewed by the OMB.  Those rules, though, would cover just new power plants.
Regulations for existing plants haven’t been sent to the White
House yet, and the EPA hasn’t said when those will be proposed.
Meanwhile, emissions rules for refineries aren’t being prepared
now, and won’t be issued this year, EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said Feb. 28.  Sulfur Emissions  The Obama administration also has held back on a rule for
curbing sulfur emissions in cars and light trucks. The  American
Petroleum Institute  warned last month that the rule could
increase the price of gasoline by 25 cents per gallon.  Subsequently, EPA assistant administrator  Gina McCarthy 
told lawmakers in a letter that the agency had narrowed the
proposed rule and expected costs to increase by “approximately
one penny per gallon.”  Nonetheless, there’s little indication the Obama
administration will move ahead with a rule anytime soon, said
 Frank O’Donnell , president of  Clean Air Watch , a Washington-
based environmental group.  “It’s a classic case of presidential election year where
the incumbent doesn’t want to give opponents any opportunity to
rail about an issue that can be demagogued,” O’Donnell said in
a telephone interview. “Clearly the White House is looking at
the price of gas and saying ‘Do we want to do anything that will
add even one cent to the price of gas, and they’re going,
‘No.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  