-- Rambus Loses Ruling Against LSI and STMicro in Trade Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-02T22:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/rambus-loses-ruling-against-lsi-and-stmicro-in-trade-case-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer of high-
speed memory chips, lost a ruling from a U.S. trade judge in its
efforts to boost patent-licensing fees from inventions.  LSI Corp., (LSI)   MediaTek Inc., (2454)  and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  didn’t
violate  patent rights  owned by Rambus, U.S. International Trade
Commission Judge Theodore Essex said in a one-page notice posted
on the agency’s website. The judge’s findings are subject to
review by the six-member commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  Rambus has sought to boost royalties from its designs by
extending the reach of patent enforcement beyond personal
computers, where the Sunnyvale, California-based company has
fought a decade’s worth of legal battles, to communications
devices and electronics.  The judge gave no reason for his determination. The
findings will be released to the public after both sides get a
chance to redact confidential information.  “We have yet to receive the decision, but are disappointed
with the initial determination of no violation,”  Thomas Lavelle, Rambus’s general counsel, said in a statement. “We
believe in the strength of our portfolio and remain committed to
protecting our patented inventions from unlicensed use.”  Essex earlier sided with Rambus on three of the patents in
a different case, against  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , Rambus said. That case
was on appeal until Rambus and Nvidia reached a settlement.  Infringement Denial  The dispute in this case centers on a type of dynamic
random access memory called SDRAM that acts as the main memory
in computers. Rambus contends its inventions speed the transfer
of data.  The memory controllers are used in networking gear,
televisions, set-top decoders and other devices. The complaint
also names customers of the three chipmakers, including  Asustek
Computer Inc. (2357) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co.  LSI, based in Milpitas, California; Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
MediaTek and Geneva-based STMicro denied infringing the patents
and challenged their validity.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and Nvidia also were part of the original
case before they reached settlements of all pending litigation.
Rambus asked the ITC to dismiss Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
which uses Broadcom and Nvidia, because of the settlements.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips
and Products Containing Same, 337-753, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  