-- South Africa Rand Falls Most in Two Weeks, Yields Fall on Growth Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-02T15:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/rand-declines-pares-week-s-rally-as-concerns-about-europe-growth-remain.html
The rand declined the most in two
weeks and bonds gained for the first day in three on concern
slowing growth in the euro region,  South Africa ’s biggest
trading partner, will dim prospects for the nation’s exports.  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 1.1 percent,
the most since Feb. 16, and traded 0.9 percent weaker at 7.5081
to the dollar as of 16:22 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency has
gained 1.2 percent this week, its third consecutive five-day
advance. It fell 0.3 percent to 9.9312 per euro. The yield on
the nation’s 77 billion rand ($7.5 billion) of 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.87 percent. Bond risk fell to a six-month low.  Euro-area manufacturing shrank for a seventh month and
unemployment rose to the highest in more than 14 years, reports
showed yesterday, stoking concern that the regional economy may
struggle even after the  European Central Bank  increased lending
to banks to shore up the region’s debt crisis. The euro region
buys 22 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  “Markets may well be realizing that after this round of
liquidity, believed to be the last, the problems in the Eurozone
remain,” Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-based currency strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in e-mailed comments.
Manufacturing for the euro region and the U.K. was “generally
disappointing,” Guma said.  Market Correction  The rand rose to a five-month high on Feb. 29 after the
ECB’s injection of liquidity into the region’s banks boosted
appetite for higher-yielding assets. That gain may be overdone,
a technical indicator showed today.  The stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar
was 20.7 today, below the 30 threshold that signals the currency
may have appreciated too fast and is poised for a decline. The
measure, which tracks the price of a security relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period, dropped below 30
yesterday for the first time since Feb. 16.  “In the very near-term, we remain reluctant to continue
selling dollars and believe that the market remains ripe for a
correction,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials
fell for the first time in three days and South Africa’s
benchmark stock  index  snapped a three-day rally, led by mining
companies including Anglo American Plc and BHP Biliton Ltd.  Raw materials account for 64 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to South African Revenue Service data. The
nation has the world’s biggest reserves of platinum, manganese
and chromium.  Bonds Gain  South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent bonds gained,
driving the yield down six basis points to 4.13 percent, the
lowest since the bonds were first sold on Jan. 17. The premium
investors demand to hold the debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
narrowed three basis points to 2.15 percent, a record low.  Credit default swaps for South Africa’s foreign-currency
sovereign bonds fell 5.4 basis points to 153.6 yesterday, the
lowest since Sept. 1, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  