-- Rand Drops From 5-Month High as Charts Indicate Peak: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-02T15:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/rand-drops-from-5-month-high-as-charts-indicate-peak-johannesburg-mover.html
South Africa ’s rand had its biggest
one-day decline in more than a week as a technical indicator
measuring the currency’s momentum suggested its advance to a
five-month high this week had gone too far, too fast.  A stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar was
20.7 today, below the 30 threshold that signals the currency may
have appreciated too fast and is poised for a decline. The
measure, which tracks the price of a security relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period, dropped below 30
yesterday for the first time since Feb. 16.  “In the very near-term, we remain reluctant to continue
selling dollars and believe that the market remains ripe for a
correction,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  South Africa’s currency depreciated as much as 1.1 percent
to 7.5230 per dollar and traded at 7.5084 as of 4:28 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The decline pared its gains this week versus the
dollar to 1.4 percent. The rand reached 7.4025 against the U.S.
currency on Feb. 29, the strongest level since Sept. 19, as the
 European Central Bank ’s injection of liquidity into the region’s
banks boosted appetite for higher-yielding assets.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of 4 billion rand
($535 million) of South African stocks and bonds this year,
according to the JSE Ltd., operator of the nation’s bourses. The
rand fell 0.5 percent to 9.9535 per euro, snapping a six-day
rally against the 17-nation currency.  ‘Problems Remain’  The ECB said on Feb. 29 it will lend 529.5 billion euros
($702.7 billion) to financial institutions, more than the
predicted allotment of 470 billion. The loans helped ease
concerns about funding pressures and provided liquidity for
investment in riskier assets.  “Markets may well be realizing that after this round of
liquidity, believed to be the last, the problems in the  euro
zone  remain,” Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-based currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in e-mailed
comments.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI)  of 24  raw materials 
slipped as much as 0.7 percent today, its first decline in three
days, as appetite for riskier assets waned. South Africa has the
world’s biggest reserves of platinum, manganese and chromium,
according to government data. Raw materials including metals
account for 65 percent of the nation’s exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  