-- Treasury’s Wolin: No Sign Dodd-Frank Doing Harm
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-02T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/treasury-s-wolin-sees-no-evidence-dodd-frank-doing-harm-2-.html
U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said there’s no evidence that the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law has had any “negative effect” on the financial
system.  Wolin, in an interview with CNBC television today, also
said the costs of implementing Dodd-Frank are a “pittance”
compared with those associated with the financial crisis.  “I think that there is no evidence frankly that the Dodd-
Frank legislation or the bits and pieces that are being
implemented as we go forward have had any negative effect on our
financial system,” Wolin said. “Fundamentally, it is putting
our financial system in a much stronger, much safer, much more
robust position.”  The financial industry has resisted the overhaul contained
in the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. The law’s ban on proprietary
trading, known as the Volcker rule, has resulted in more than
17,000 comment letters, the most of any Dodd-Frank provision and
one of the highest for a financial regulation.  “People are having their ability to express their
perspectives, and those perspectives will be factored in,”
Wolin said on CNBC.  The Dodd-Frank law was enacted by Congress and signed into
law by President Barack Obama to prevent a repeat of the market
tumult that followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “We should be attentive to the costs of compliance,”
Wolin said. “The real question to ask is ‘what are the costs
relative to not having these reforms?’”  “Those costs are a pittance relative to the costs that we
all had to endure, we’re still enduring frankly, from the
financial crisis that we went through,” the Treasury
Department’s No. 2 official said. “It is important for us to
make sure that the country is put on a sounder footing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  