-- Treasuries Snap Three-Day Decline as Euro-Area Concern Spurs Safety Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-02T22:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/treasuries-advance-as-euro-area-growth-concern-increases-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries gained for the first time
in four days as concern that measures to increase lending in the
euro region won’t boost economic growth, spurred demand for the
safest assets.  U.S. 10-year note yields traded below 2 percent as a German
report showed  retail sales  in  Europe ’s largest economy
unexpectedly declined in January. The  European Central Bank  said
overnight deposits soared to a record after its second
allocation of three-year loans on Feb. 29. The  Federal Reserve 
bought $1.97 billion in longer-term securities.  “People just don’t feel confident about going home short
with the possibility of more headline risk,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “People are wondering if there’s
going to be enough funding for the situation.” A short position
is a bet the price of a security will drop.  The  yield  on the 10-year note fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security maturing in February 2022 gained 15/32, or $4.69 per
$1,000-face amount, to 100 7/32. Yields are little changed this
week.  Futures Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Feb. 28, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 22,496 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 42,789 contracts, or
66 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Volume in the Treasury market yesterday exceeded $300
billion for the second straight day amid disappointment Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to indicate the central bank
will boost economic stimulus. Volume totaled $313 billion
compared with $365 billion traded the previous day through ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. The one-year
average is $273 billion.  “We overshot yesterday and the day before,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest rate strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc’s
HSBC Securities unit in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “Now we’re having a bit of a recovery.”  Yield Difference  The  difference  between the yield on 10-year German debt and
similarly dated Treasuries widened to 18 basis points today, the
most since November, as German bund yields dropped more than the
U.S. benchmark yield on concern the sovereign-debt crisis is
weighing on the region’s economic recovery.  Financial institutions parked 776.9 billion euros ($1.03
trillion) with the Frankfurt-based ECB, up from 475.2 billion
euros a day earlier. The ECB this week lent banks 529.5 billion
euros for three years in the biggest-single refinancing
operation in its history.  German  retail sales , adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, fell 1.6 percent from December, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists was for a 0.5 percent gain.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent.  “I’m in the risk-off camp,” said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC, in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The austerity
measures are still to put a bite into the growth trajectories. I
don’t think this is an atmosphere where there’s going to be a
lot of risk appetite.”  Haven Appeal  Investors who are betting on Treasuries say the securities
still have appeal as a haven. Demand for the relative safety of
 U.S. debt  is keeping 10-year yields within about 0.4 percentage
point of the record low 1.67 percent reached Sept. 23.  The global economy faces “major downside risks” as its
recovery is threatened by stresses in the euro area, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report yesterday.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt, was 2.24 percentage
points. The decade-long average is 2.14 percentage points.  Treasuries fell yesterday as initial jobless claims in the
U.S. matched a four-year low and as Bernanke failed to hint at
additional economic stimulus. A government report on March 9 is
forecast to show nonfarm payrolls grew by 210,000 in February,
after gaining 243,000 the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Price Swings  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 77.4 basis
points, at almost the lowest since July 2007 and less than the
five-year average of 112 basis points.  The Fed purchased securities maturing from February 2036 to
May 2041 today as part of its Operation Twist program to replace
shorter-term Treasuries with longer-term securities.  Government bonds  in the U.S. and other developed nations
may be heading into a “structural  bear market ” from which they
may not emerge for two decades, according to  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc. (ADN)   Yields have fallen to historically low levels that aren’t
justified by fundamentals, said Paul Griffiths, head of fixed
income at Aberdeen, the biggest  money manager  in  Scotland  and
which oversees $265 billion. This makes the bond markets
vulnerable to a sudden reversl, especially if central banks
including the Fed and the  Bank of England  sell their holdings of
debt bought under quantitative easing stimulus programs, he
said.  The 10-year Treasury yield will climb to 2.52 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  