-- Treasuries Set for Weekly Loss on Europe Efforts to Stem Crisis, Jobs Data
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-02T11:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-on-europe-efforts-to-stem-crisis.html
Treasuries headed for a weekly loss
as European officials took steps to contain the region’s debt
crisis and data showed improvement in the  U.S. economy .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
central-bank efforts to spur growth are sending credit markets
and shares higher. U.S. government securities have declined 0.5
percent this year, while company debt returned 3.3 percent, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “Yields are at the top of a range which has been in place
since the beginning of November,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It has in
part been some easing of the euro-zone tensions. The better U.S.
economic data has pushed well back any expectations” that the
Fed will expand it bond-purchase program, he said.  The U.S. 10-year note  yielded  2.02 percent at 6:05 a.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent security maturing in February 2022 traded at 99 26/32.
Yields climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this
week, the most since the period ended Feb. 10.  Bernanke defended the U.S. central bank’s expansive
monetary policy yesterday, telling a Senate hearing it helped
bring jobs and stabilize prices.  “We’ve had about 2.5 million jobs created” since November
2010, Bernanke said, referring to when the Fed started its
second round of large-scale securities purchases. “We’ve seen
big gains in stock prices, improvement in credit markets.”  Stock Returns  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks returned almost
10 percent this year, including reinvested dividends, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drop in U.S. government bonds
marks a reversal from 2011, when Treasuries returned 9.8 percent
and the  S&P 500  gained 2.1 percent.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap long-
term borrowing costs under a program due to conclude in June.
The central bank plans to  purchase  as much as $2.25 billion of
debt due from February 2036 to February 2042 today.  Euro-area banks tapped the  European Central Bank  for a
record amount of three-year cash on Feb. 29, raising
expectations the companies will pump the money into the economy.
The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will lend 800 financial
institutions 529.5 billion euros ($701 billion) for 1,092 days.
European leaders agreed this week to provide capital faster for
the planned permanent bailout fund for indebted governments.  Rescue Fund  Euro-area governments might pay the first two annual
installments into the 500 billion-euro bailout fund this year
and complete the capitalization in 2015, a year ahead of
schedule. A decision is expected today.  Investors who are betting on Treasuries say the securities
still have appeal as a haven. Demand for the relative safety of
 U.S. debt  is keeping 10-year yield within about 35 basis points
of the record low.  The global economy faces “major downside risks” as its
recovery is threatened by stresses in the euro area, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report yesterday.  Costs in the U.S. economy will stay in check, said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of $40.4 billion.  “Investors will focus on deflation,” Nakamura said.
“When that happens, yields will start to decline.” Ten-year
yields will fall to 1.5 percent by June 30, he said.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.28 percentage
points. The decade-long average is 2.14 percentage points.  Inflation Swaps  Five-year inflation  swaps , which allow investors to
exchange fixed-interest rates for returns equivalent to the
consumer price  index (SPX) , were 2.4 percent.  Treasuries fell yesterday as data showed initial jobless
claims in the U.S. matched a four-year low.  Consumer confidence 
rose to the highest in a year, industry figures showed Feb. 28.
A government report on March 9 will show nonfarm payrolls grew
by 206,000 in February, after gaining 243,000 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Western Asset Management Co., which oversees $443.1 billion
and is based in  Pasadena ,  California , is recommending emerging-
market dollar-denominated corporate bonds.  The securities offer “attractive income and total return
potential,” according to a report yesterday on the company’s
 website . The document didn’t identify the author.  Yields indicate investors have greater demand for
securities beyond the government bond market.  The  difference  between U.S. two-year swap rates and the
yield on same maturity Treasuries shrank to as little as 25
basis points today, the least since August.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The difference, the gap between the
fixed component and the Treasury rate, is a gauge of investor
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The 10-year Treasury yield will climb to 2.5 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  