-- RHI of Austria Eyes Serbia’s Magnohrom, Privatization Agency Chief Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-02T13:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/rhi-of-austria-eyes-serbia-s-magnohrom-privatization-agency-chief-says.html
RHI AG (RHI) , the Austrian maker of fire-
proofing ceramics, is interested in Magnohrom, Serbia’s sole
basic refractory product manufacturer, Privatization Agency
chief Vladislav Cvetkovic said.  “RHI informed us about their interest in Magnohrom,”
Cvetkovic said in an interview late yesterday, adding that the
agency is still preparing documentation for its sale, due later
this year.  The agency is trying to find new owners at least for parts
of the company, which in March 2011 restarted production of
basic magnesia products used in steel, cement, and glass
industries, after idling for four years. While Magnohrom was
first sold to Pramod Mittal’s Global Steel Holdings Ltd. in
2006, the contract was canceled in 2007 after Global Steel
failed to invest, revive production and reach agreement with
workers as pledged under the contracts.  “RHI is looking into a number of acquisition opportunities
including in  Serbia ,” said Elke Koch, a spokeswoman for the
company in Vienna. “As a rule we do not comment on projects
that may be of interest to us prior to agreement being
reached.”  Austria’s WirtschaftsBlatt reported on Feb. 28 that RHI may
buy a mid-sized competitor in Serbia before the end of the
second quarter, citing an unidentified person at the company.  Privatization History  According to the Privatization Agency’s records, Serbia
sold nearly 2,400 firms over the past decade as it tried to
transform once socially-owned enterprises into private
companies, hoping private ownership will improve their
performance. The agency canceled 630 sale contracts in the same
period as investors failed to live up to agreed terms of sale.  The government is now trying to find new partners to save
jobs and make sure people get paid in an economy where
 unemployment rate  is already 24.4 percent and average wages are
less than 350 euros ($463) per month.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s cabinet, facing re-
election by early May, has seen its popularity sink as economy
slows and foreign demand for its exports weakens amid the
sovereign debt crisis in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  