-- Romney Seeks to Allay Republican Doubts on Super Tuesday
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-02T13:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/romney-seeks-to-allay-republican-doubts-on-super-tuesday-1-.html
Mitt Romney  is pressing to refocus
the Republican presidential race on jobs and the economy in the
sprint to potentially pivotal Super Tuesday contests next week,
looking to blunt rival  Rick Santorum ’s bid to sow doubts about
his record on social issues.  Romney, seeking momentum after twin primary wins, assailed
President  Barack Obama ’s energy policies and offered himself as
the only Republican candidate with the business experience to
create jobs. Santorum, his leading rival, raised questions about
Romney’s core beliefs and commitment to socially conservative
principles.  Both men were aiming for victories in the 11 contests to be
held March 6, which together award the largest delegate haul in
the campaign so far and could go a long way to determining the
nominee in an unpredictable Republican race.  A poll released today by the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , shows the race tightening in
 Ohio , a Super Tuesday state that is expected to be a
battleground in the general election. Santorum has a four-point
lead in the poll, 35 percent to Romney’s 31 percent, with a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.3 percentage points. The
telephone poll was conducted Feb. 29 and March 1 among 517
likely Republican primary voters.  The previous Quinnipiac poll in Ohio gave Santorum a seven-
point lead, 36 percent to 29 percent.  ‘Go Out and Vote’  Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor, yesterday
implored voters in North Dakota and Idaho, which hold caucuses
that day, to participate in the contests.  “I don’t need a lot; I just need you to go out and vote,”
Romney said in a high school gymnasium packed with about 1,000
people in  Idaho  Falls. “I want to make sure we win, we win
solidly in Idaho, that I get the delegates I need to go on and
win the nomination.”  Santorum, seeking to rebound from losses in the Arizona and
Michigan Feb. 28 primaries, appealed to voters in Georgia -- the
state that awards the most delegates next week -- to “stand
with the conservative” in the race.  Two thousand miles to the northwest in Idaho Falls, Romney
said he is “running against some good guys in the primary, but
you know, they don’t have any experience in business.”  “To get America on track, to create good jobs, it helps to
have a president who’s had a good job, and I have,” he said.  Lowering Expectations  Romney strategists attribute his win in  Michigan ’s primary
to his economy-focused message and think the theme will be
crucial to his chances in Ohio, which also has been hit hard by
the downturn and high unemployment, said an adviser who spoke on
condition of anonymity to describe internal deliberations.  Still, Romney’s campaign is playing down expectations for a
decisive victory March 6 that would solidify his grasp on the
nomination, arguing that the former governor is simply pressing
to collect as many delegates as he can.  Romney made the pitch as he sought to pivot from a flap
yesterday over his stance on contraception coverage, renewing
his criticism of Obama’s economic record and blaming the
president for slowing U.S. energy development.  Obama “has tried to slow the growth of oil and gas
production in this country, and coal production,” Romney said
during an appearance in Fargo,  North Dakota . “Far from taking
credit, he should be hanging his head and taking a little bit of
the blame for what’s going on today.”  He said Obama has halved lease rates and slashed drilling
permits by a third, and is now trying to get the Environmental
Protection Agency to regulate hydraulic fracturing.  Energy Policy  “He’s got 10 federal agencies trying to push their way
into fracking so that they can slow down the development of oil
and gas,” Romney told a few hundred people seated on a
warehouse floor at Wrigley Mechanical, a mechanical contracting
company in Fargo.  Romney’s promise to expand energy development came in a
state where an oil boom has fueled an 8.7 percent growth in
economic health during Obama’s presidency, according to the
 Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States  index that measures such
statistics as tax collections, personal income,  home prices  and
employment.  The Obama administration has emphasized data that show
domestic crude oil production at the highest level in eight
years. At the same time, U.S. warnings to  Iran  about its nuclear
program helped drive gasoline futures to a nine-month high.  Who’s to Blame?  The U.S. public spreads the blame for higher gasoline
prices, citing Obama,  oil companies  and unrest in the  Middle
East , according to a poll by the Pew Research Center in
 Washington .  Eighteen percent fault the Obama administration, 14 percent
say oil companies are to blame and 11 percent cite the situation
with Iran and in the Middle East, Pew said. The poll was
conducted Feb. 23-26 among 1,005 adults. The error margin is
plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Discussing  energy policy  for the third time in a week,
Obama said in a speech in Nashua,  New Hampshire , that his
Republican critics are “licking their chops” at the prospect
of rising gasoline prices as higher energy costs threaten to
crimp the economic recovery.  Romney also presented himself in Fargo as a defender of
social conservatives’ priorities, telling a voter who asked him
about gun laws that he would “protect the right to bear arms.”  Contraception Issue  He used the question as a chance to reiterate his support
for a Senate measure that would allow employers to deny health-
insurance coverage for contraception and other services that
violate their principles. The legislation, proposed by Senator
 Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican who backs Romney, was defeated
yesterday on a 51-48 vote in the Democrat-controlled chamber.  Romney created confusion yesterday about his stance on the
legislation, telling an Ohio television interviewer he didn’t
support it, only to have his campaign quickly issue a statement
saying he did back the bill and had misunderstood the question.  The Obama administration health-care rule the measure
sought to undo “violates the conscience of the church, the
conscience of individuals and fortunately there’s an effort in
Washington to stop that, to reverse that,” Romney said
yesterday.  The dust-up over contraceptives reflected doubts many
Republican rank-and-file voters have about Romney’s stance on
social issues.  Freedom of Religion  Santorum, 53, the former Pennsylvania senator who has
emphasized his opposition to abortion rights, seized on the
episode, saying it gave voters insight into “what’s in the gut
of  Governor Romney .”  “If I was asked a question like that, my gut reaction”
would always be “you stand for the First Amendment. You stand
for freedom of religion,” he told voters gathered in an airport
hangar in Atlanta. “You want someone who at their core believes
and is going to step up and fight, not put them on the back
burner.”  Santorum told Washington state residents at a rally at
church in Spokane that they had the power to pack another punch
at Romney.  “The best chance for us to win is not to go along with the
good old boys who always want to nominate a moderate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Idaho Falls at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Dalton,  Georgia  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  jcummings21@bloomberg.net  