-- Russia Plans $8 Billion Siberia Investment to Boost Coal Exports
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-03-02T07:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/russia-plans-8-billion-siberia-investment-to-boost-coal-exports.html
OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s second-
largest steel producer, is among four companies planning mines
and a state-backed railroad in the Siberian region of Tyva that
would double the country’s metallurgical coal exports by 2020.  “Annual coal production in Tyva may reach 40 million
metric tons in 2020 should all the companies implement the
announced plans in full,” Dmitry Sakhno, project manager at
Severstal, said in an interview in Moscow. “More than half of
these volumes will be exported.”  Russia produced 64.7 million tons of the variety of coal
used by steelmakers last year and exported 14.2 million,
Economic Ministry data shows. The projects proposed by the four
companies and the railroad partly funded by the state may cost
about $8 billion, according to an estimate by Dmitry Smolin, an
analyst at UralSib Capital.  Evraz Plc (EVR) , Russia’s largest steelmaker, Severstal,
billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s En+ Group and shareholders of
Russian Copper Co. have bought licenses for coal deposits in the
Tyva region since 2008. In December, Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin  hammered a symbolic golden spike that marked the start of
work on a railroad to the remote region.  The 400 kilometer (250 mile) railroad, linking Tyva to the
Trans-Siberian railroad as early as 2015, will allow the
transportation of coal from the Ulug-Khem basin, which contains
16 billion metric tons of coal reserves, according to data
provided by Severstal, about 2.5 times more than the Tavan
Tolgoi field in neighboring  Mongolia .  Joseph Stalin  Russia, holder of the world’s second-largest coal reserves,
mines 60 percent of its production in Siberia’s Kuzbass region,
developed largely under plans overseen by Joseph Stalin in the
1930s. Rising output from mines in Kuzbass has caused railroad
bottlenecks and lapses in safety, including underground blasts
at a site operated by OAO Raspadskaya that killed 91 in 2010.  “Tyva will be the first new coal basin developed in Russia
in at least 50 years,” said Andrei Churin, head of coal
business at En+ Group, a natural resources holding company owned
by Deripaska, chief executive officer and main shareholder of
 United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer. Coal
from Tyva may be shipped to  China ,  South Korea ,  Japan  and
southeast  Asia  by railroad or by sea from harbors in Far Eastern
Russia, he said.  China, which accounts for half of global steel output, is
the major customer for metallurgical coal. Chinese demand for
the raw material may increase to 65 million tons by 2014 from
about 40 million tons last year, according to IHS McCloskey.  The complexity’s of developing Tyva and delays by some of
the mining companies may curb production by 2020 to 15 million
to 20 million tons, Severstal’s Sakhno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  