-- Syria Reported to Take Homs on Rebels’ Retreat as Russia Backs UN Stance
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-02T03:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/russia-withdraws-support-for-assad-as-syrian-troops-attack-homs.html
Syrian rebel fighters retreated from
the city of Homs as government troops overran the center of
anti-regime resistance after almost a month of artillery
bombardment, according to reports by the Washington Post.  The Syrian military offensive came as the International
Committee of the Red Cross announced that  Syria  had given it
permission to enter Homs, under its 27th day of bombardment, to
deliver supplies and evacuate the wounded. Troops were moving
through the city’s Bab Amr neighborhood detaining all males
older than 15, according to opposition activists cited by the
Post.  Hours earlier, the  United Nations Security Council  issued
its first unified statement on Syria in seven months, demanding
that President Bashar al-Assad allow access for humanitarian
aid. The Security Council statement was backed by Russia,
possibly signaling a shift from its steady defense of Assad.  President  Vladimir Putin  told a British newspaper his
country has no special relationship with Assad and Syrians
should decide who leads them. Russia yesterday also backed a
 Security Council  statement deploring “the rapidly deteriorating
humanitarian situation.” The non-binding measure avoided citing
the Syrian regime as responsible for the “growing number of
affected civilians.”  Earlier in the day, Russia voted against a resolution in
the UN’s top human rights body in Geneva which condemned the
Syrian government’s “widespread and systematic violations of
human rights.” Russia has twice joined China since October in
vetoing a binding Security Council resolution censuring Assad’s
regime.  Russia Is Key  Russia’s stance on Syria is “a key element of how this
goes forward,” said  Jeffrey Feltman , the U.S. assistant
secretary of state for Near East affairs. The Russians “can use
their influence inside Syria to be part of the solution,” he
said.  Feltman, testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said he had recently visited Moscow to discuss Syria
and got the sense that “there was a lot of discomfort” with
 Russia ’s isolation on the issue.  Feltman said the analysis in Moscow about Assad is not that
different from the U.S. assessment. Yet Russia has been ignoring
its own best interests in continuing to back Assad, Feltman
said.  ‘The Assad Titanic’  “It seems to us that Russia is not going to preserve those
interests that it deems important if it rides the Assad Titanic
all the way to the bottom of the Mediterranean,” he said.  Putin told the London-based Times in an interview that “we
need to make sure they stop killing each other.” The Times
cited Putin as saying “we only have interest in the conflict
being resolved.”  The French government announced the successful
evacuation of two journalists who had been wounded in the siege
of Homs. Edith Bouvier and William Daniels were being cared for
at the French embassy in  Beirut  after several days of being
trapped in the Syrian city, Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said
in a statement.  ‘France’s Gratitude’  Juppe expressed “enormous joy” and said those who risked
their lives to save the journalists had “ France ’s gratitude.”  Even as rebels announced a tactical retreat from Homs, the
Syrian National Council, the main opposition alliance, said it
is establishing a military bureau to aid the rebel Free Syrian
Army. Mustafa Hamitoglu, an Istanbul-based member of the
council, said the deadlock at the UN raised the risk of civil
war.  “So long as the deadlock continues, there’s always a risk
of civil war, and the responsibility for that won’t be SNC’s
alone, but also of those who don’t support the Free Syrian Army
and block solutions,” Hamitoglu said by telephone. “The
opposition has reached a point where it’s beginning to believe
that the situation can only be resolved by taking up arms.”  The head of the Syrian Free Army, Colonel Riad al-As’ad,
rejected the national council’s military office plan, saying
there will not be any coordination between the two opposition
groups.  Lacking Cohesion  “The initial position is we will not deal with this
office, because we lack the knowledge of its goals and
strategies,” he said on Al Jazeera television.  In the U.S. Senate hearing, lawmakers expressed their
concern about the opposition’s difficulty cooperating.  “At present, the Syrian opposition lacks cohesion and a
sufficiently defined political agenda,” said the senior
Republican on the foreign relations panel, Indiana Senator
 Richard Lugar . “As a practical matter, it also lacks the
physical space and technical means to mature, overcome its
internal differences, and develop a plan for a democratic
transition.”  Senator  John Kerry , the Democratic chairman of the
committee, said there is discussion among U.S. lawmakers and
among leaders in the region about whether and how to support the
opposition. He also expressed concern about the opposition’s
organizational shortcomings.  Political Force  “It’s time to redouble our efforts to engage with Syria’s
political opposition to try to shape their thinking and strongly
encourage them to coalesce into a coherent political force,”
Kerry said.  The U.S. ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , told the
senators that probably won’t happen soon.  “It’s a reach to think they’re going to unify soon,” Ford
said of the opposition. The questions are whether they can
“unite around a vision and can they unite around a transition
plan,” he said.  The opposition, which is now a fragmented set of groups
inside and outside Syria, doesn’t need to unite into a single
group, Ford said, “but they do need to unite” behind a goal.  In Geneva, the UN Human Rights Council resolution approved
yesterday was proposed by  Turkey , with 37 votes in favor and
three -- Russia,  China  and Cuba -- voting against. Three members
of the 47-nation body abstained and four didn’t vote.  World ‘Outrage’  The resolution “sends a forceful message about the
international community’s outrage,” said Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the U.S. representative to the council. The three
countries that chose to vote ‘no’ “find themselves isolated
from the strong international consensus on the need to protect
the people of Syria.”  The Security Council statement issued in  New York  by the
U.K. mission, called upon “the Syrian authorities to allow
immediate, full and unimpeded access of humanitarian personnel
to all populations in need of assistance, in accordance with
international law and guiding principles of humanitarian
assistance.”  Such a statement by the president of the Security Council
is weaker than a resolution adopted by the 15-member council,
the policy arm of the world body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  