-- SABMiller Loses to Kingfisher in Battle Over India’s Beer Market: Retail
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   A b h a y   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-02T05:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/sabmiller-loses-to-kingfisher-in-battle-over-india-s-beer-market-retail.html
Indians sip only two liters of beer
a year, just one-twentieth the amount consumed by Chinese and
less than one-fortieth by Americans.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,  Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  see that as an opportunity.  The global brewers are forming partnerships, introducing
new products and marketing milder, pricier brews to young
Indians. They have yet to overcome a maze of regulations and
 United Breweries Ltd. (UBBL) , owner of top local brand Kingfisher, in a
market expected by Euromonitor International to almost double to
$9 billion by 2016.  United Breweries so far has beaten back the challenges. It
started selling Heineken in India over the past seven months to
offer more options against foreign rivals. Changing state
regulations have already eaten into London-based SABMiller’s
market share and all of the brewers still face some Indian
taboos on alcohol consumption.  “Everyone fantasizes: Imagine if you had a billion Indian
people drinking 50 liters of beer per capita,” said  Trevor Stirling , analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London . “It’s
going to be many decades, if ever, before Indian per capita
consumption reaches 50 liters.”  Emerging markets  such as India are important to global
brewers as growth slows in the developed world and brands like
Budweiser fight competition from craft beers in the U.S.  At the same time, the experiences of foreign brewers show
how regulations or entrenched competitors are holding back many
of the world’s largest companies in the second most populous
nation. Retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  faced a setback
in December when the government reversed a decision to allow
their entry into a market dominated by local mom-and-pop stores.  India  also bans advertising of alcoholic drinks, which can
make it harder for brewers to introduce consumers to new names.  Supplying British Troops  United Breweries traces its roots to British soldiers’ love
for beer.  In 1915 , a Scotsman named Thomas Leishman bought five
breweries in southern India to form United Breweries. The
company transported its beer in barrels on bullock carts,
serving British troops. Vittal Mallya, father of present
chairman  Vijay Mallya , bought United Breweries in 1947, and
snapped up distillers and brewers on the cheap when the Indian
government briefly threatened prohibition in the 1970s.  The sale and distribution of alcohol in India is controlled
by state governments, which impose taxes on imports and exports,
forcing companies to open distilleries and breweries in each
state where they want to sell their products cost-effectively.  “The biggest challenge is, in India, every state has their
own system in terms of taxation, labor requirement,” said
Joergen Buhl Rasmussen, chief executive officer of Copenhagen-
based Carlsberg, which entered the country in 2007. “That does
make India not very efficient to operate.”  United Breweries benefits from 28 breweries spread across
the country’s 28 states. That tops the 13 that SABMiller uses
and Carlsberg’s five.  New Beers  United Breweries, based in Bangalore, increased its beer
market share to 57 percent in 2011 from 43 percent in 2006,
according to London-based Euromonitor. In the same period,
SABMiller’s share dropped to 24 percent from 37 percent.  The success of the brewing business contrasts with United
Breweries parent UB Group’s money-losing  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) 
The airline, which has reported more than 10 straight quarterly
losses, is seeking new funds after grounding planes and cutting
flights because of a cash shortage.  Kingfisher has held its own in the beer market helped by
the introduction of new products, including milder, higher-
priced varieties like Kingfisher Ultra.  “When we were going to launch Kingfisher Ultra two years
ago, we used to wonder who would buy a 100-rupee ($2) beer,”
Samar Singh Sheikhawat, vice president of marketing at United
Breweries, said in an interview in August when the company
introduced Heineken in India. “But today, Kingfisher or the
mainstream beers are close to 90 or 95 rupees. What was
considered a barrier for beer doesn’t exist anymore.”  Regulatory Disputes  SABMiller also added brands, such as Miller High Life, to
reach young, urban consumers. Its market share was still hurt by
regulatory disputes in the states of  Andhra Pradesh  and  Uttar
Pradesh , and excise duty increases in other states, the company
said in its 2010  annual report .  “The single greatest challenge that any brewer faces is
regulation,”  Derek Hugh Jones , marketing director of SABMiller
India, said in an e-mail. “The movement of beer across state
borders is inefficient, eliminating any scale efficiency.”  Still, consumers’ greater affluence and increasing social
acceptance of beer will “ensure sustained growth” for the
industry in India, he said.  Religious Taboos  Per capita consumption of beer in India at 1.6 liters is a
fraction of 35.5 in  China , 75.6 in the U.S. and 105.6 in  Germany ,
based on Euromonitor estimates.  “You have a reasonably high proportion of a Muslim
population who won’t drink alcohol,” said Stirling. “Also, if
you’re a devout Hindu, you won’t drink alcohol.”  Social norms are changing and beer consumption picking up
as India’s young adults have more money to spend and travel
around the world. The economy has  grown  at an average annual
pace of more than 8 percent for the last four years. Euromonitor
estimates India’s beer market will grow to 447.9 billion rupees
($9 billion) from 257 billion rupees in 2011.  Carlsberg’s Rasmussen said the potential to raise per
capita purchases makes the country “a very attractive market to
be in over time.”  Carlsberg, which entered India in 2007, had a 4.4 percent
share in 2011. Anheuser-Busch InBev, the Leuven, Belgium-based
company that sells its Budweiser beer, held 1.1 percent.  Stronger Tastes  One factor in the new brew battles: the strength of the
beer. Indian drinkers are largely still partial to stronger
beers like Kingfisher Strong, with an alcohol content that can
go as high as 8 percent.  As much as 80 percent of the beer sold in India’s beer
industry is “strong,” with alcohol content of six to eight
percent, by Sheikhawat’s estimate.  United Breweries’ stable of brands includes Kingfisher
Strong and Draught as well as milder variants such as Ultra.
Carlsberg has introduced stronger brews, including Carlsberg
Elephant and Tuborg Strong.  Microbreweries are springing up in India as well. The  New
Delhi  suburb of Gurgaon has several. One of the largest, called
Rockman’s Beer Island, has raised prices as many as four times
since starting in 2009 and still has customers flying to its
brewery, on the top floor of an upscale mall, from other cities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Abhay Singh in New Delhi at 
 abhaysingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  