-- SABMiller Says Modelo, Heineken Thwart Mexico Beer Choice
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-03-02T21:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/sabmiller-says-corona-dos-equis-makers-limit-mexico-beer-choice.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  are
blocking consumer choice in Mexico, the world’s sixth-biggest
beer market, with inducements to businesses to thwart rival
brewers,  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  said.  Modelo, maker of Corona beer, and Dos Equis producer
Heineken offer loans, upfront payments and refrigerators to
restaurants and retailers that agree not to serve other brands,
said Armando Valenzuela, the head of SABMiller’s Mexico unit.  The practice is the focus of SABMiller’s 2010 antitrust
complaint against Mexico’s two largest brewers, the second time
the London-based company has formally accused them of blocking
competition. Mexico’s antitrust agency decided Feb. 14 to extend
an inquiry into the complaint for 120 business days after
grouping it with other cases filed by undisclosed parties.  “We haven’t been able to sell to clients because they’re
exclusive with one or the other,” Valenzuela said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City office. “What we’re
seeking is access to the market that we don’t have now.”  Mexico’s beer market is a prize for brewers because it’s
still growing while U.S. and European consumption stagnates.
Volumes will rise 2.9 percent a year to 73 million hectoliters
(1.9 billion gallons) in 2015, according to research firm Plato
Logic Ltd. in  London .  Heineken, Modelo  Cuauhtemoc Moctezuma, the Mexican unit of Amsterdam-based
Heineken, said it strictly observes the country’s competition
law. Actions that restrict competitors from entering a market
can only be punished if they are found to hurt competition more
than they enhance it, the company said in an e-mail.  “We’re in a permanent battle with our competition for the
conquest of each customer and each client that sells our
products,” Cuauhtemoc Moctezuma said.  Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Mexico City-based
Modelo, declined to comment.  Modelo fell 0.4 percent to 83.62 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. Heineken slid 0.7 percent to 39.60 euros in
Amsterdam, and SABMiller was little changed at 2,583 pence in
London.  SABMiller is the world’s second-largest brewer. No. 1
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , which is based in Leuven,  Belgium ,
sells brands such as Budweiser in Mexico and has a 50 percent,
non-controlling stake in Modelo.  ‘Technically Open’  SABMiller has found a niche in some cities near the U.S.
border and in retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Mexican
unit. That hasn’t been enough to challenge Modelo and Heineken,
whose combined market share exceeds 90 percent, according to
Lauren Torres, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York .  “Mexico’s been one of those markets where the doors are
technically open to foreign competition,” Torres said in a
phone interview. “But because of the heritage and the history
and relationships, it’s incredibly hard to make any inroads and
have any notable business there when you have these very strong
players fending off competition.”  Torres has a “neutral” rating on SABMiller, Modelo and
Heineken.  Heineken entered the Mexican market by buying Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB’s brewing unit in 2010 in a transaction
that Femsa valued at $7.35 billion when it was announced.  SABMiller has been selling in  Mexico  for two decades with
brands that include Miller Lite, MGD and Miller High Life. The
company almost succeeded in striking a blow against exclusivity
deals in 2006, when the antitrust agency ordered Modelo to drop
such contracts.  Exclusive Deals  Modelo appealed the ruling, and regulators reversed course
later that year, dropping the case after concluding that the
original decision should have evaluated the market for all low-
alcohol-content beverages and not just beer.  Eduardo Perez Motta, Mexico’s antitrust chief, said in a
2006 interview that while exclusive deals aren’t prohibited by
law, they’re banned when “done to displace competitors.” He
said at the time that regulators would pay “close attention”
to the beer industry.  An antitrust official who can’t be identified under the
agency’s policy declined to comment this week because the probe
into SABMiller’s current complaint is in progress.  “We’re seeking for the Mexican consumer to be able to
choose his beer brand, whether it be domestic or imported,”
Valenzuela said. “Many consumer categories already offer a
choice in Mexico, but beer doesn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  