-- Santander’s Berenguer Said to Plan to Leave for JPMorgan’s Gavea
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-03-02T17:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/santander-brasil-s-berenguer-said-to-plan-departure-for-jpmorgan-s-gavea.html
Jose de Menezes Berenguer Neto, head
of retail, asset management and private banking at Banco
Santander Brasil SA, will leave to join a unit of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Berenguer, 45, will depart at the end of March to join
JPMorgan’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda., the Rio de Janeiro-based
private-equity and hedge fund founded by former  Brazil  central
banker Arminio Fraga, according to the people, who asked not to
be identified because the decision hasn’t been made public.  Santander, which generates more profit in Brazil than
anywhere else, will announce management changes for the country
at the end of March as it boosts the number of Spaniards on the
team, the people said. Brazil  contributed  more than 28 percent
of Santander’s earnings last year.  Berenguer referred questions to a Santander spokesman, who
declined to comment, as did a spokesman at Gavea.  Berenguer joined Santander in 2008 when the company
acquired Banco ABN Amro SA, where he was a senior vice
president. ABN Amro’s former Brazil chief executive officer,
Fabio Barbosa, became Santander Brasil’s CEO at the time and
took on the role of chairman last year. Barbosa resigned in
September to become head of Abril SA, a Sao Paulo-based media
company.  Berenguer, an executive with experience in  investment
banking  and corporate finance, took on Santander Brasil’s retail
business in March 2011 in what was supposed to be a step toward
replacing Barbosa as CEO, according to the people. That plan was
abandoned. Marcial Portela, a former general director at
Santander in  Spain  with close ties to Chairman  Emilio Botin ,
succeeded Barbosa as CEO last year.  Ignacio Dominguez-Adame moved to Brazil from Spain to take
over for Berenguer as head of global banking and markets in
Brazil in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  