-- Sarkozy Poll Deficit Grows After Hollande Floats Milliona
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-02T14:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/sarkozy-poll-deficit-grows-after-hollande-floats-milliona.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
re-election bid stumbled in a week marked by Socialist Francois Hollande proposing a millionaire tax-surcharge and protesters
booing the incumbent as the “president of the rich.”  Sarkozy, who was forced yesterday to seek refuge in a bar
during a campaign visit to a southwestern town after an angry
mob threw pieces of paper at him, saw his support dwindle in the
polls. Hollande’s lead over Sarkozy widened to 3.5 percentage
points from as little as 1 point last week,  Ifop’s daily
tracking poll  showed yesterday. In second-round support, the gap
widened to 13 points from 11 points.  The Socialist candidate’s Feb. 27 proposal for 75 percent
income tax on annual earnings of more than 1 million euros ($1.3
million) was aimed at shoring up his base and putting Sarkozy on
the defensive in the 10-week campaign, analysts said.  “For Hollande, this is about recovering the initiative,”
said  Eric Bonnet , a pollster at the BVA Institute in Paris.
“He’s betting that he’s become sufficiently credible on the
economy and austerity that he can make this sort of proposal.”  About 49 percent of voters judge Hollande capable of
cutting  France ’s budget deficit, compared with about 48 percent
for Sarkozy, an  Ipsos-Logica poll  published yesterday showed.
Sarkozy is seen as stronger confronting the financial crisis by
a margin of 52 percent to 45 percent, while Hollande is seen to
be better on reducing unemployment by 60 percent to 37 percent.  Sarkozy attacked Hollande’s tax proposal yesterday, saying
it would drive entertainers and entrepreneurs out of France.  Battle Over Tax  “ Francois Hollande  wants fewer rich people in France --
that’s his right -- but I want fewer poor,” he said on RTL
radio. “If tomorrow we have a genius such as  Steve Jobs  on the
scene, must we absolutely chase them away?”  Still, 61 percent of French people approve of Hollande’s
millionaire tax, according to a poll by TNS Sofres and
Mediaprism for iTele released today. The pollster surveyed 1,010
people aged 18 years or more.  Separately, Sarkozy was jeered yesterday upon his arrival
in Bayonne, a town in France’s southwestern Basque region, and
had to be ushered into a café where a lunch was scheduled with
local supporters. A flustered Sarkozy denounced them as a
“violent minority” that are close to “a terrorist movement.”  The kerfuffle eclipsed Sarkozy’s pledge to offer high
school teachers a 500-euro a month pay increase for working
longer hours and his announcement that  ArcelorMittal (MT)  agreed to
invest 17 million euros in a steel plant in northeastern France
where jobs are threatened.  Taking Control  For Sarkozy, who since starting his campaign Feb. 15 has
announced policy in doses rather than presenting a complete
platform, that meant that Hollande was setting the agenda.  “The game of the past week has been about who has been the
master of the tempo of the campaign,” said  Guenaelle Gault , a
pollster at TNS in Paris. “With the 75 percent tax, Hollande is
moving away from the defensive and taking back control.”  Sarkozy now has the support of about 25.5 percent of the
electorate for the first round of voting against 29 percent for
Hollande, according to the  Ifop rolling poll . The first ballot
will be held on April 22. Hollande’s support for the May 6 run-
off is currently at about 56.6 percent, compared with 43.5
percent for Sarkozy, the poll showed.  Speaking to supporters in Lyon late yesterday, Hollande
rebuffed Sarkozy’s criticisms of his tax, saying the proposal is
more about fairness than about raising money.  “This measure isn’t about bringing a single euro into
state coffers, it’s motivated by a form of patriotism that the
country needs,” Hollande said. “My campaign is one for the
middle class, not the privileged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  