-- Scene Last Night: Grant Achatz, Joe Torre, David de Rothschild
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/scene-last-night-grant-achatz-joe-torre-david-de-rothschild-eric-lane.html
Grant Achatz , the chef of  Chicago ’s
Alinea, attended the  Details  magazine party Thursday night to
celebrate being named one of a dozen “Social-Media Mavericks”
in the March issue.  “I love Twitter, it’s an authentic link to your
customer,” said Achatz, wearing a Zegna jacket, an All Saints
shirt and Levi’s.  Other Mavericks circulating at the Calvin Klein store on
Madison Avenue, were Neda Talebian Funk and Caroline Limpert,
founders of  Fitist . Their website bundles boutique gym classes,
offering an alternative to a one-gym membership.  Later, music executive Clive Davis sat on a banquette at
the lounge  Griffin  to celebrate opening night of “Carrie.”  “I’m a big fan of Michael Gore and Larry Cohen,” Davis
said, referring to the men who wrote the show’s music and book.  Davis said his friendship with Gore started when he wrote
the song “All the Man That I Need” for Whitney Houston.  At the  Hedge Funds Care  annual gala, Elizabeth Choi of
 Fortress Investment Group (FIG)  LLC loaded up her plate with a scoop
of tuna tartare, some shrimp and a slice of beef carpaccio.  Cipriani 42nd Street’s prodigious buffets ensured no one
would go hungry at the marathon mingling session.  “It would take me six months to meet the people I’ll see
here in three hours,” Justin Press, a managing director in the
prime brokerage division of BTIG LLC, said.  The networking paused only to present  Joe Torre  with an
award for founding the  Joe Torre Safe At Home Foundation . The
organization places counselors in schools to work with young
victims of abuse.  Dublin Knocking  Last year Hedge Funds Care awarded 104 grants to programs
that prevent and treat child abuse, using funds raised at events
in more than 30 cities.  “Dublin has been knocking on our door,” said Kathryn
Conroy,  executive director  and chief executive officer of Hedge
Funds Care.  Conroy will meet the Irish hedge-funders the Friday before
St. Patrick’s Day, when they’ve been invited to ring the opening
bell of the  New York  Stock Exchange.  Long white candles flickered in the ballroom of the
Waldorf-Astoria Wednesday night as David de Rothschild, group 
chairman of Rothschild, turned away from his chicken dinner to 
the subject of art.  “I like abstract,” Rothschild, 69, said. “The cubists.
And I’m starting to like modern art.”  Dining with James Lawrence, David Resnick and Christopher
Lawrence, top executives of his North American operations,
Rothschild was at the Jewish Museum’s Purim Ball.  ‘Important for Jews’  “I’ve seen quite a few museums,” Rothschild, the ball’s
honorary chairman, said at the lectern, flanked by the museum’s
new director, Claudia Gould, and its chairman,Robert Pruzan,
co-founder of Centerview Partners LLP.  “In an uncertain world, an institution like the Jewish
Museum is extremely important,” the Paris-based descendant of a
long line of bankers and art collectors, said. “It’s important
for Jews, and more important for non-Jews to understand who we
are. Intolerance is caused by ignorance, and museums are there
to bring knowledge.”  The occasion drew 475 guests and raised $1.1 million.
Attendees included Eric S. Lane, co-head of  investment
management  at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Craig Effron, co-founder
of Scoggin Capital Management LP, a museum board vice president,
and Jeffrey Aronson, co-founder of Centerbridge Partners LP,
whose wife, Shari, is a board member.  Next Friday, the museum opens an exhibition of 14 portraits
of Israeli youth by Kehinde Wiley.  Board members will have dinner with the artist and preview
the exhibition on Monday.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 