-- SEC Enforcement Story Doesn’t Add Up for 2011
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/sec-accounting-of-record-enforcement-year-in-2011-doesn-t-add-up.html
U.S Securities and Exchange
Commission officials have been citing a jump in the number of
enforcement actions last year as proof that an overhaul of the
agency’s investigative force is bearing fruit. The claim isn’t
supported by a detailed examination of the statistics.  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in November
that the unit filed 735 actions in fiscal 2011, “a record-
breaking performance during a period of resource constraints.”
Citing the numbers, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told a Washington
conference last week that the agency’s changes “are already
producing record results.” The SEC also noted the record
numbers in justifying its 2013 budget request to Congress.  Still, more than 230, or 31 percent, of the 735 matters
weren’t new. They were so-called follow-on administrative
proceedings that institute penalties in cases that already had
been brought, the examination by Bloomberg News shows.  Excluding those actions, such as barring people who’ve
already been found guilty of fraud from working in the industry,
the SEC filed 499 original cases last year, fewer than the 520
in 2009, the year before the reorganization. In 2009, 144, or 22
percent, of the 664 total actions were follow-on proceedings.  “There’s so much noise in the reporting system that we
really can’t tell whether the restructuring is working or not,”
said  James Cox , a securities law professor at  Duke University .  The SEC has been under pressure for more than three years
to show results. Lawmakers and investors have faulted the agency
for missing  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion fraud and for doing
too little to hold Wall Street accountable for the financial
market turmoil of 2008. At the same time, the agency, which has
said it lacks sufficient resources to do its job, has struggled
to get additional funding from Congress. Schapiro is scheduled
to defend her budget request March 6 before a House panel.  ‘Unique’ to SEC  SEC spokesman  John Nester , who declined to comment
specifically on the agency’s tally, said that follow-on actions
are important tools in enforcement.  “The remedies we obtain through administrative proceedings
-- such as preventing law-breaking securities professionals from
ever working in the industry again -- are unique to the SEC and
are critical to our ability to deter future misconduct by  Wall
Street  professionals,” Nester said in a statement.  Khuzami, 55, who joined the agency in 2009 only months
after Madoff’s fraud was exposed, revamped the division,
eliminating a layer of management, adding front-line
investigators and establishing specialized units in 2010 to
focus on areas such as  hedge funds , market abuse and structured
products. The agency said it was the most significant
reorganization of the unit since it was established in 1972.  Talent and Grit  When the 2011 statistics were released in November, Khuzami
praised Schapiro’s leadership in his statement. “This
remarkable accomplishment has its roots in the talent, grit, and
determination of the staff, as well as their creativity and
willingness to consider new tools and approaches to stopping and
deterring fraud and misconduct,” he added.  Schapiro, 56, in her speech last week to the Practicing Law
Institute, said the enforcement actions that stemmed from
Khuzami’s reforms included “some of the most complex cases
we’ve ever worked on.”  The 2011 numbers cited by the SEC include follow-on actions
for cases filed last year and in previous years, sometimes prior
to Khuzami’s restructuring. Many of the actions required little
further investigation.  Counting Twice  For example,  Mark Kurland , a former  fund manager , was sued
by the SEC in October 2009 in connection with the Galleon
insider trading case. Kurland pleaded guilty to criminal charges
in May 2010 and was later sentenced to 27 months in prison. In
February 2011, the SEC submitted a four-page follow-on action
barring Kurland from association with any  investment adviser .
That was added to the division’s tally.  In another matter, the SEC sued John Scullin in May,
claiming he falsely represented himself as an accountant
licensed to practice in  Virginia . Days later, after the court
entered a final judgment against Scullin, the SEC filed a
follow-on administrative order to suspend him from practicing as
an accountant before the agency. The SEC counted both actions in
the 2011 results.  To be sure, the agency obtained about $928 million in
financial penalties last year compared with $345 million in
2009, and also issued 578 formal orders of investigation, up
from 496 in 2009. A formal order authorizes staff to compel
testimony and issue subpoenas.  Delisting Companies  The agency also tallied more so-called “delinquent
filings” cases last year since at least 2006. Those cases often
entail sanctioning or delisting companies that have stopped
filing public statements. Typically, they require little
investigation and aren’t related to work by the specialized
units.  Taken together, follow-on administrative proceedings and
delinquent filings cases made up 49 percent of the enforcement
division’s actions in fiscal 2011, compared with 36 percent in
2009, before the enforcement division was reorganized. At the
same time, the SEC brought the fewest number of accounting-fraud
cases in at least a decade in 2011.  “I’m always skeptical of enforcement statistics because
there are many different ways the numbers can be presented,”
said Bradley J. Bondi, an enforcement partner at Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP and former counsel to two SEC
commissioners. “The bigger issue is whether the enforcement
program is working to deter  securities fraud .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  