-- Semtech Decreases Rate on $350 Million of Purchase Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-02T18:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/semtech-decreases-rate-on-350-million-of-purchase-loan-1-.html
Semtech Corp. (SMTC) , a supplier of analog
and mixed-signal semiconductors, cut the interest rate it will
pay on $350 million of loans it’s seeking to support the
acquisition of  Gennum Corp. (GND) , according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  A $250 million five-year term loan B will now pay 3.25
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
down from 3.25 percentage points to 3.5 percentage points, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars from
each other, will now have a 1 percent floor compared with 1.25
percent originally offered.  Semtech is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company and
boosting the yield to investors.  The $100 million five-year  term loan  A portion will now pay
interest at 2.75 percentage points more than Libor, with no
minimum on the benchmark, the person said. The interest rate
will step down to 2.5 percentage points more than Libor, when
leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, is at 1.5 times, the person said.  The company is proposing to sell the term loan A piece at
99.5 cents on the dollar, the person said.  Commitment Deadline  Jefferies Group Inc. is arranging the financing for the
Camarillo, California-based company and commitments are due
today at 3 p.m. in  New York , the person said.  Semtech is acquiring Burlington, Ontario-based Gennum for
about $494 million, according to a Jan. 24 company statement
distributed by  Business Wire . Shareholders of Gennum will
receive C$13.55 ($13.59) in cash for each common share held.  Linda Brewton, senior manager of  investor relations  at
Semtech, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking
comment.  A term loan A is sold primarily to banks, while so-called B
loans are mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  