-- SkillSurvey Helps Employers Get ’Honest’ References for Potential Hires
-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 2012-03-02T16:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/skillsurvey-helps-employers-extract-honest-references-for-potential-hires.html
     After 15 years in human resources at Emory
Healthcare, the largest hospital system in Atlanta, director
of recruitment and retention Adair Maller was frustrated.
Playing phone tag with job applicants’ references could drag
on for weeks. And when her staff could get references on the
phone, they were reluctant to share their unvarnished
opinions, wary of defamation lawsuits.  So in early 2010, Maller tested an online service from a
Philadelphia company called SkillSurvey that promised to speed
up the process from weeks to days and elicit candid answers by
granting references anonymity. Impressed by their candor
during the test period, Emory spent $50,000 to implement the
service across its HR department a few months later.
Now, Maller says Emory “eliminates from consideration” 20
percent of applicants early on and interviews only two or
three candidates per position. “We find people are very honest
in this process because they’re anonymous and the candidates
have given them permission to do this,” she says.  Eleven-year-old SkillSurvey is a pioneer of so-called
recruiting analytics and automated assessments, selling an
online software service that is changing how HR departments
operate. Its reference-checking technique flips a longtime
method traditionally used to assess current employees’
performance and uses it on applicants who haven’t yet been
hired. Job seekers ask their former (or soon-to-be-former)
managers and colleagues to rank their behaviors and skills on
SkillSurvey questionnaires. Then, SkillSurvey software
assesses the data and creates reports reflecting the
applicant’s strengths and weaknesses regarding skills and
behaviors. The SkillSurvey system ensures compliance with
federal employment laws and Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission regulations, according to SkillSurvey Chief
Executive Officer Ray Bixler, 49.  As recruiting analytics catches on, the talent management
market is consolidating. In February, Oracle bought Taleo
Corp. in Dublin,  California , which began in recruiting and now
offers a more comprehensive system, and SAP bought performance
management company SuccessFactors in  San Mateo , California.
Competition is increasing as well. HR software makers
Checkster in  Mill Valley , California, and Chequed in Saratoga
Springs,  New York , sell online tools similar to SkillSurvey’s
that check references, assess talent and predict employee
behavior.  To protect its intellectual property, SkillSurvey filed
for a patent in 2008 to use its assessment tool to evaluate a
candidate’s skills via the Internet. Bixler expects a decision
from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by the end of the
year. Esther Kepplinger, chief patent counselor at
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati in  Palo
Alto , California, and former deputy commissioner for the
Patent and Trademark Office, says the four-year lag “is not
out of the ordinary for a patent, since on average it takes
over three years for all technologies, and longer for those in
electrical areas, which includes software, hardware, and
telecommunications.”  SkillSurvey has raised $5.7 million from Milestone
Venture Partners, Inflection Point Ventures and other
investors. The 34-employee company, which has some 500
hospitals as clients, focuses primarily on the health-care
industry, though EBay, Iron Mountain, Boston Scientific,  John
Hancock  and McDonald's also use its services. Bixler says last
year’s revenue was $9.5 million and expects more than $14
million in 2012. Forrester Research pegged the worldwide
market for recruiting systems at $1 billion in 2011 and
projects it will be $1.3 billion in 2014.  Katherine Jones, an analyst with Bersin & Associates, an
HR research and consulting firm in
Oakland, California, wonders whether SkillSurvey’s main
service -- objective information about a candidate -- will
catch on among most of corporate America’s HR managers. “Their
surveys have over 25 questions. That could be an imposition
[on a past manager] or not,” she says. Forrester Research
analyst Claire Schooley in Berkeley, California, notes most
businesses want one solution for all the steps in talent
management. She says there are lots of small companies selling
expertise and tools for specific HR tasks, “but to a large
extent the industry remains a boutique business.”  Although SkillSurvey is focused on the early stages of
recruitment, Emory Healthcare’s Maller says SkillSurvey’s
benefits go beyond vetting potential hires and assessing new
recruits. When references were asked if they wanted to be
informed of new jobs at Emory, half opted in, creating a fresh
pipeline of potential employees. “I mined that talent. We made
a job offer in January to someone we found from our
SkillSurvey database and hired them.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel
at  kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
