-- Slim Said to Ready Netflix-Like Web Video Service for Mexico
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-02T21:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/slim-said-to-prepare-netflix-like-web-video-service-for-mexico.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  is considering starting an online service for movies
and television shows in Mexico, where the company is banned from
using its network to offer traditional TV, according to a person
familiar with the company’s strategy.  The company is holding off on starting the service, which
is similar to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s, until a regulatory ruling on
whether showing video on the Internet would violate the TV ban,
said the person, who couldn’t be named because the plans aren’t
public. The company would use distribution unit DLA Inc. to
offer movies and shows as it already does in Argentina and
Uruguay, with titles such as “Captain America” and “Lost.”  Offering video to home-phone and Internet customers would
put Mexico City-based  America Movil  in more direct competition
with Grupo Televisa SAB and TV Azteca SAB. Televisa, the
nation’s biggest broadcaster, has lured away Slim’s clients with
voice, Internet and TV-service bundles.  In Argentina and Uruguay, America Movil’s service is called
Ideas Entertainment. It offers video subscriptions for about $5
to $10 a month and 24-hour pay-per-view movie rentals. The
company is competing with similar services from Netflix and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  in Latin America.  News, Car Racing  America Movil isn’t allowed to offer video over its
landline network under the terms of its telecommunications
license, granted to what is now its Telefonos de Mexico unit in
1990 when Slim acquired control of the company in a government
privatization sale. Slim has tried unsuccessfully to obtain a TV
license since, with the government arguing that the company
hasn’t met requirements in its network connections with rivals.  An America Movil official who can’t be named under company
policy declined to comment.  Telmex, as the fixed-line carrier is known, already offers
some video online for free. The company produces news
programming called Uno TV Noticias, and it has streamed video
online of auto races and other sporting events, such as last
year’s Pan American Games in Guadalajara,  Mexico .  That production drew the attention of broadcaster TV
Azteca, which complained to Mexico’s phone regulator that Telmex
was offering TV in violation of its license. The Federal
Telecommunications Commission hasn’t yet ruled on the complaint.
Emilio Azcarraga, chief executive officer of Mexico City-based
Televisa, also called for regulators to examine if Telmex’s
license includes the right to offer TV programming.  DLA Purchase  If the agency rules that Telmex is allowed to stream video
online, the company can go forward with its Netflix-like plan,
said the person familiar with the company’s strategy. The
service would be similar to the offerings in Argentina and
Uruguay, which don’t include mail-in DVDs, a service Netflix
offers in some markets, the person said.  America Movil said in October it agreed to buy DLA, then a
unit of  Claxson Interactive Group Inc. (XSON) , for an undisclosed
price. In addition to providing video content for Internet and
mobile devices, DLA provides TV channels and pay-per-view
programming to cable carriers in  Latin America .  America Movil’s online video services complement the cable
and satellite packages it offers across Latin America, including
Brazil and  Colombia . The company had 13.4 million pay-TV
subscribers at the end of 2011, the most in the region.  America Movil fell 0.6 percent to 15.34 pesos at the close
in Mexico City. Televisa was little changed at 54.37 pesos, and
TV Azteca rose 1.2 percent to 8.21 pesos. Netflix, based in  Los
Gatos ,  California , gained 2.1 percent to $115.10 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  