-- South Africa to Use Flexible Inflation Targeting in Crises, Kganyago Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-03-02T15:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/south-africa-to-use-flexible-inflation-targeting-in-crises-kganyago-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank  will  use
a “flexible” inflation-targeting policy to address any future
financial shocks, Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago said.  That approach will allow the rand to cushion the impact on
the economy from swings in inflows during crises, Kganyago said
in a speech yesterday, according to a copy posted on the bank’s
website today.  South Africa has kept the benchmark repurchase rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent since November 2010, even as inflation
accelerated, to help support the economy as  Europe  heads into a
recession. Investors have turned to higher yielding, emerging
market securities as Europe and the U.S. pledged to keep rates
near record lows, bolstering the rand. The currency has surged
7.6 percent this year after plunging 18 percent in 2011.  “The financial shocks that South Africa will face in
future will continue to be best addressed with a flexible
inflation targeting framework that allows the currency to
cushion the domestic economy from volatility,” Kganyago said.  The rand fell 1 percent to 7.5177 against the dollar as of
4:47 p.m. in Johannesburg today.  To minimize the rand’s impact on  inflation , the central
bank needs “foward-looking inflation expectations and
transparency by monetary authorities,” Kganyago said. While
that approach may not always be successful, it’s “far better
than the alternative of having to move domestic  interest rates 
on a frequent basis to try to maintain a stable  exchange rate ,”
he said.  A more stable rand will also depend on fiscal policy,
Kganyago said. The government needs to allocate more resources
on building infrastructure to boost the competitiveness of the
economy and shift capital inflows toward foreign direct
investment, rather than portfolio flows, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  