-- European Stocks Rise as Focus Shifts to Economic Growth
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-02T16:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/stock-futures-advance-in-europe-as-eu-plans-to-speed-up-payments-into-fund.html
European (SXXP)  stocks rose, with the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index capping a weekly gain, as policy makers
declared a turning point in the sovereign-debt crisis and
shifted their focus to pulling the region out of a recession.  International Power Plc (IPR)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paced gains in
utilities and lenders, respectively. The two industries were the
 best-performing groups  on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on them.  SBM
Offshore NV (SBMO)  jumped 16 percent after saying it sees “buoyant”
market conditions in offshore oil and gas. Belgacom SA declined
after reporting a drop in earnings.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent to 267.21 at the close of
trading. The benchmark index gained 0.9 percent this week as the
 European (SXXP)  Central Bank boosted lending to banks and euro-area
leaders approved a second aid package for  Greece .  “ The fact that the bailout plan has been validated is
good news,” said Bruno Ducros, a  fund manager  at CamGestion in
Paris, which oversees about $4 billion in stocks. “The problem
isn’t resolved, but it gives us time for things to be done. Time
is necessary and the measures have been taken. We are on the
right path.”  The Stoxx 600 climbed 3.9 percent last month and rose 8.1
percent from the beginning of the year through Feb. 29. That was
the biggest January-February increase since 1998 as optimism
mounted that the euro area will contain its debt crisis and U.S.
economic data beat estimates.  International Pressure  In a two-day summit that began yesterday in Brussels, euro-
area leaders agreed to provide capital faster for the planned
permanent bailout fund in a concession to international pressure
to strengthen the region’s defenses against the debt crisis.  Today, the leaders committed to a pro-growth agenda even as
they signed a deficit-control treaty at the 17th high-level
meeting since the outbreak of the crisis.  “We’re not out of the economic crisis yet but we are
turning the page of the financial crisis,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters after the Brussels summit.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 added less than 0.1 percent.
Germany’s DAX declined 0.3 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost
0.3 percent.  Spain, Italy, Germany  Spain  raised its budget deficit target for 2012, breaching
its commitment with its European partners. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  announced a new deficit goal of 5.8 percent of
gross domestic product compared with the 4.4 percent target
previously agreed with the European Union.  Italy’s budget deficit narrowed more than economists
forecast last year as spending cuts and tax increases helped
shore up public finances even with the economy slipping into a
recession.  In  Germany , a report showed  retail sales  unexpectedly
declined in January. Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, fell 1.6 percent from December, when they increased 0.1
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Goldman raised its recommendations on utilities and banks
to “overweight” from “neutral.” Utilities offer some of the
highest dividend yields, the strategists wrote. The ECB’s long-
term refinancing operation has improved cash supply for banks,
they wrote.  International Power, Barclays  International Power, an operator of electricity plants on
five continents, advanced 4.4 percent to 365.5 pence.
 Electricite de France SA , Europe’s biggest power generator,
rallied 3.3 percent to 19.60 euros.  Suez Environnement Co. (SEV) , the
region’s second-biggest water company, climbed 3.5 percent to
11.80 euros.  Barclays added 2.2 percent to 256.75 pence. The U.K.’s
third-largest lender by assets took 8.2 billion euros of three-
year loans from the  European Central Bank  to provide “funding
stability” for its units in Spain and Portugal.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest bank, gained 1.2
percent to 1.96 euros.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest lender,
rose 1.5 percent to 37.92 euros.  SBM Offshore jumped 16 percent to 15.36 euros, its biggest
gain since October 2008. The world’s biggest supplier of
floating oil and gas platforms said it sees “buoyant” market
conditions in offshore oil and gas. The order portfolio was
$16.9 billion at year end, the company said.  Repsol, Belgacom  Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s biggest oil company, advanced 1.5
percent to 20.41 euros. Argentina’s President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner refrained from announcing a plan to take over
Repsol’s unit in that country. The local media had speculated
about a takeover since the government last month threatened to
take the “most vigorous measures” against the unit if it fails
to meet domestic demand.  Belgacom (BELG)  dropped 4.9 percent to 22.89 euros. The Belgian
telephone company said full-year net income fell to 756 million
euros from 1.27 billion euros for the prior year.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO) , the world’s biggest pest-control
company, lost 5.5 percent to 76 pence. The company reported a
full-year pretax profit of 184.4 million pounds ($294 million),
missing analyst estimates for 189.7 million pounds.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s largest retailer, fell 2.9 percent to
28.40 euros as the country’s retail sales unexpectedly declined
and Commerzbank AG said the company’s  earnings  may drop this
year.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer,
retreated 5.8 percent to 1,000 pence. The stock was cut to
“hold” from “buy” at Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  