-- Sugar Surplus May Drop 50% on Brazil Ethanol Switch, Itau Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-02T14:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/sugar-surplus-may-drop-50-on-brazil-ethanol-switch-itau-says.html
A forecast sugar surplus may drop as
much as 50 percent if millers in  Brazil , the world’s largest
producer, direct more cane to making ethanol in the season
starting in April, according to Banco Itau BBA SA.  Sugar supplies are set to outpace demand by 9.7 million
metric tons in the 12 months ending in September, according to
broker and researcher Kingsman SA. The following year will see a
surplus of 5.5 million tons, the Lausanne, Switzerland-based
company estimated on Feb. 7. Producers in Brazil use sugar cane
to make both the sweetener and the biofuel.  “There is a surplus in the global market, but any changes
in the mix in Brazil toward ethanol would easily eliminate half
of the sugar surplus,” Giovana Araujo, an analyst at the bank,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo  yesterday. “That’s the reason this
surplus is not translating into lower prices.”  Sugar has climbed 7 percent in  New York  so far this year.
The price dropped 27 percent in 2011, the biggest decline in a
decade, as traders anticipated a surplus after three years of
deficits. Sugar prices will average 23.9 cents a pound this year
before sliding to 22.1 cents a pound next year, Araujo
estimated.  Sugar cane output in Brazil’s Center-South, the country’s
main producing region, will rise to 530 million tons in the
2012-13 season, according to Itau. Sugar production will be 33.7
million tons, the bank estimates.  Cane production fell for the first time in a decade this
season after dry weather, old cane, frost and flowering cut
yields, according to industry group Unica. Brazil harvested
494.3 million tons of cane in 2011-12 as of Feb. 15, the group
said on Feb. 29. Most of the harvest has already been completed.  Dry Weather  Cane production may fall short of the forecast if dry
weather damages the crop, Araujo said. Cane replanting rates
will remain below the historical average, she added.  “Part of the Mato Grosso do Sul is being affected by dry
weather now and the prospects overall for next year are more for
a number below 540 million tons and may even be below 530
million tons,” she said.  Millers are set to continue favoring sugar production at
the expense of ethanol on higher prices for the sweetener,
according to the bank. Brazil is likely to continue to import
ethanol from the U.S. to fulfill its domestic needs.  Sugar production in  India , the world’s second-largest
producer and biggest consumer, may fall to 24 million to 25
million tons in the 2012-13 season that begins in October there,
Itau estimates. That compares with 26 million to 28 million tons
in 2011-12. Output will slide partly on high cane prices that
limit millers’ profitability and farmers switching to other
crops, Araujo said.  Indian Surplus  “In 2012-13, we will see a more balanced situation between
production and consumption in the country,” she said.  India will have a domestic surplus of 3 million to 4
million tons in the sweetener in 2011-12, Abinash Verma,
director general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said at
a conference in Dubai on Feb. 5.  Sugar prices are set to remain supported because of
concerns about the 2012-13 crops in Brazil and India, Araujo
said.  “I would not expect any sustainable downwards correction
to prices as long as the market does not have visibility about
the potential numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  