-- Surgut Revealed as Best Russian Oil With Sleepy $28 Billion Secret: Energy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-03-02T16:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/surgut-cited-as-best-russia-oil-with-28-billion-secret-energy.html
Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer
pumps more crude than the U.K., employs 100,000 people and
trades on  stock exchanges  in Moscow,  London  and New York. What’s
not disclosed is how much cash  OAO Surgutneftegas (SNGSP)  holds and the
identity of its biggest shareholders.  A law to align Russian financial reporting with
international standards this year promises to lift the veil on
the Siberian driller, run by General Director Vladimir Bogdanov
since his Soviet-era appointment in 1984 at the age of 33.
Citigroup Inc. estimates the company holds $28 billion in cash,
more than double the balance of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Opaque accounting has held back the share price, according
to Citigroup, which ranks the company as the best Russian oil
investment ahead of OAO Lukoil. Even after dividends,
Surgutneftegas investors earned a return of 11 percent over the
past five years, a period when crude oil more than doubled.
 Russia , which holds a presidential election this weekend, is
pushing transparency as part of a campaign to make Moscow a
financial center and broaden the economy.  Greater transparency “is a game changer” at
Surgutneftegas, said  Ildar Davletshin, an oil and gas analyst
at  Renaissance Capital . “Something the market has been waiting
for the last decade.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who will step down in
May, met executives including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO
Jamie Dimon last year for opinions on how Russia might gain a
larger role in international finance.  Rosneft Switch  One result was a law that started Jan. 1 requiring publicly
traded companies to meet International Financial Reporting
Standards. TNK-BP, BP Plc’s Russian venture with a group of
billionaires, said this week it will adopt IFRS standards for
the first quarter. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company,
switched yesterday.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , favored to win the
presidential election, signed the order to create the financial
reporting legislation last year.  “Long a sleepy ignored stock, we see changes afoot at
Surgutneftegas,” said  Ronald Smith , an oil analyst at Citigroup
in Moscow. “A material change in transparency and already in
law may be accepted by the market as inevitable by year end.”  Bogdanov, whose $3.3 billion fortune ranks 32nd on the
Forbes list of Russia’s richest men, quit reporting under U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, after 2002
and has given no indication of a change. He declined to comment
on 2012 plans when asked by Bloomberg News on Feb. 9 and
wouldn’t be interviewed for this story. The Forbes estimate
assumes the general director holds a controlling stake in
Surgutneftegaz that isn’t disclosed.  Controlling Shareholders  The new law won’t force Surgutneftegas, which has a market
value of about $35 billion, to disclose its controlling
shareholders. The company listed ZAO ING Bank Evraziya and Bank
of  New York  nominees as its largest shareholders and the only
ones exceeding a 5 percent holding in accounts to Russian
standards.  Surgut shares gained 0.3 percent to close 30.60 rubles on
Moscow’s Micex exchange today.  Surgutneftegas has pumped oil from a swampy stretch of
Siberia near the city of Surgut since the 1964 discovery of the
region’s reserves. Even as rivals from billionaire Vagit Alekperov at OAO Lukoil and  Mikhail Fridman  of TNK over the past
decade opened up accounting, Surgutneftegas held firm.  The company produced 1.2 million barrels a day in January,
0.7 percent more than a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bogdanov has kept ties to the Kremlin, running Putin’s
maiden election campaign in west Siberia in 2000. In a Feb. 20
newspaper article, Putin thanked Bogdanov’s Surgutneftegas
personally for funding a Pacific nuclear submarine base in 2002
when the state couldn’t fund it.  Shirked Acquisitions  The company has made only one acquisition, a purchase of
MOL Nyrt. shares, allowing an estimated $28 billion to pile up,
according to Smith, who extrapolated his figure from the
company’s 2002 GAAP results.  “Surgutneftegaz remains among the least transparent
companies in Russia,” said Aivaras Abromavicius, a partner at
East Capital, which holds a 3.75 percent stake in
Surgutneftegas. East Capital, an asset manager specializing in
Eastern Europe and  China , has overlooked a lack of clarity on
ownership and reporting in favor of a “handsome” dividend
supported by the company’s strong cash flow and cash position,
he said.  Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas analyst at Otkritie
Capital, said reporting to international accounting standards
would allow Surgutneftegas to compete for a wider range of
investors.  Cash Not Clear  Right now it’s unknown if the cash is there, said Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas analyst at Otkritie Capital. In
Russian accounting, the company listed a total of $28 billion in
short-term investments, long-term investments and cash accounts,
although details of the investments aren’t made public, he said.  While investors may benefit from improved financial
reporting standards -- Citigroup’s Smith said today’s valuation
is based mainly on the company’s supposed cash holdings and not
the underlying oil-production business -- they won’t unmask the
company’s largest shareholders.  “Bogdanov wasn’t so secretive about Surgutneftegas
ownership before 2002-2003,” the time when investors speculate
he transferred ownership to someone else, said Vladimir Milov,
an opposition politician who served as deputy energy minister at
the time.  Milov named  Gennady Timchenko , founder of oil trader Gunvor
International, as the likely buyer of the company, without
providing proof. Timchenko denies the claim, and his Volga
Resources fund owns less than 0.1 percent of Surgutneftegas
shares, said Stuart Leasor, a spokesman for the fund.  Putin Spokesman  Kremlin economic adviser Arkady Dvorkovich declined to
comment on whether Surgutneftegas would have to report IFRS
under the new law. Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov also declined
to comment directly on the issue.  In 2002, GAAP reporting showed that the company held shares
in its own treasury, something the company later denied.  Surgutneftegas’s only major acquisition, a surprise
purchase of 22 percent in  Hungary ’s largest refiner MOL Nyrt.
from OMV AG, failed because of the lack of clarity in ownership.
A Hungarian law prevented Surgutneftegas from being listed among
shareholders until it revealed its beneficial shareholder, Peter Csaszar, a securities analyst at KBC said.  Surgutneftegas management may have controlled as much as
72% of the company through 23 non-commercial entities, Russian
newspaper Vedomosti reported in 2007. Bogdanov controlled nine
of the entities and 47 percent of Surgutneftgas’s voting rights,
according to the newspaper.  “The world is changing around Surgut,” said  Ivan Mazalov ,
director of Prosperity Capital Management, which manages about
$4 billion in assets including Surgutneftegas shares. “And
Surgut will have to adapt to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  