-- Suspected Nigerian Islamists Burn Schools; Blast Kills 3
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-03-02T18:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/suspected-nigerian-islamists-burn-schools-blast-kills-3-2-.html
Suspected Nigerian Islamist
militants burned five primary schools yesterday in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri, police and military officials
said.  Troops killed four Islamist fighters in a separate clash,
officials said. Three public schools in Maiduguri’s Gwange
district and two private schools were set ablaze, Samuel Tizhe,
a police spokesman, said by phone today, adding that “there was
no casualty as a result of the attacks.”  Nigeria ’s more than 160 million people are roughly split
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south. A spokesman for Boko Haram, which wants Islamic law in
Nigeria, told reporters on Feb. 26 on a teleconference from
Maiduguri that the group chose to target schools because
security forces were raiding Koranic schools in search of their
members.  Separately, a blast in the Kaleri district of Maiduguri
today killed three people suspected to be Boko Haram Islamist
militants as they worked in an improvised bomb factory,
Lieutenant-Colonel Hassan Mohammed, a spokesman for the
military, said by phone.  “We are in no doubt that these are Boko Haram members who
got killed while coupling improvised explosive devices,”
Mohammed said.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most
populous country, blame the militant Islamist group, which draws
inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for a surge of
violence in the country’s north and Abuja, the capital in which
hundreds have died this year.  Four people suspected to be members of the Islamist
militant group, whose name means “Western education is a sin,”
were shot dead when they refused to stop their car at a
checkpoint in Maiduguri yesterday and opened fire on soldiers,
Mohammed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  