-- U.K. Regulator Said to Quiz Banks About U.S. Swap Registration
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-02T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/u-k-regulator-said-to-quiz-banks-about-u-s-swap-registration.html
Britain’s  Financial Services
Authority , concerned that proposed new rules across the Atlantic
may limit its powers, began quizzing firms last week on their
plans to register as swaps dealers in the U.S., according to two
people familiar with the talks.  The British agency’s role in setting capital levels may be
limited for non-U.K. banks with substantial operations in  London 
if those lenders register as swap dealers in the U.S., according
to one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private.  Agencies including the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
have formulated rules to reduce the likelihood of a default by a
major counterparty in the U.S. market for swaps. The CFTC
commissioners delayed a vote on a rule defining which banks,
 hedge funds  and energy companies would be considered swap
dealers under the Dodd-Frank Act, and may take up the measure on
March 20, according to a person briefed on the schedule.  “I think that the FSA and other foreign regulators are
concerned about the degree of supervision the U.S. regulators
are demanding for foreign banks” to deal swaps, David Felsenthal, a partner at Clifford Chance LLP in  New York , said
in a telephone interview.  Dodd-Frank, the U.S. regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010,
required the CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  to
increase transparency in the global swaps market -- valued at
$708 trillion as of June 2011 -- after largely unregulated
trades of such securities helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Capital, Margin  The rules being written by the SEC, CFTC and other
regulators may result in companies designated as swap dealers
facing higher capital and margin costs to reduce trading risks.
 Steven Adamske , director of public affairs at the CFTC, and
 Joseph Eyre , a spokesman at the FSA, both declined to comment.  The FSA is concerned disputes may arise between U.S. and
U.K. regulators should a bank default on derivative contracts,
said one of the people. The agency would still have oversight of
 capital ratios  for banks domiciled in the U.K. that want to
participate in the U.S. swaps market.  “There’s no easy answer for anybody,” Felsenthal said.
“A lack of clarity isn’t good even for the lawyers. It is
something a lot of banks have been thinking about.”  One interpretation of the CFTC’s final rule, issued last
month, is that banks with branches in the U.S. would have to
register the entire firm with U.S. regulators in order to trade
derivatives for clients, shifting supervisory influence to the
U.S. regulators.  Swaps Subsidiaries  To avoid this, banks may need to establish a swaps-focused
subsidiary in the U.S., possibly adding to their cost base via
higher taxes and capital requirements, Felsenthal said.  “I think we’re going to see that problem replicate itself
across many aspects of the regulatory reform agenda,” Bob Penn,
financial regulation partner at Allen & Overy LLP, said in a
telephone interview in London. “It’s begun in derivatives and
will spread to other aspects, like capital.”  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for over-the-
counter derivatives since the collapse in 2008 of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  The Financial Stability Board, which includes regulators,
central bankers and finance-ministry officials from the Group of
20 countries, warned last year that some nations may miss an
end-2012 deadline for implementing agreements on OTC
derivatives. There is also a risk of the G-20 rules being
applied inconsistently, the FSB said.  Face-to-Face  The European Commission, the executive arm of the European
Union, talks to U.S. supervisors “bilaterally, regularly and in
face-to-face meetings,” on how to mesh their regulatory systems
to avoid overlaps, Jonathan Faull, the EU director general for
internal markets, said in a speech in London today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said
interest-rate swaps and credit are among the biggest sources of
revenue in its trading businesses in a  presentation  to investors
on Feb. 28.  The bank generates $375 million from credit trading in a
“typical quarter” and $350 million each from interest-rate
swaps and foreign-exchange spot and futures trading.  The swaps market “isn’t constrained by natural borders,”
said  Mark Williams , who teaches at  Boston University  and wrote
the 2010 book “Uncontrolled Risk,” about the fall of Lehman
Brothers.  Squeezing a Balloon  Williams said swap regulation is like squeezing a balloon,
where efforts to minimize risk on one side transfer the problem
to the other. Without international standards, the swaps market
will suffer from an “ad hoc” regulatory regime in which, for
example, “if the FSA takes an aggressive approach, more swap
transactions will be done in the U.S., and vice-versa,” he said
in a phone interview.  For now, Dodd-Frank trumps the FSA’s standards, Williams
said. Banks are learning the “level of interpretation and level
of enforcement” of the U.S. law, he said. “The FSA is also
motivated to take an aggressive stance on a fast-growing
industry such as swaps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  