-- U.K. Construction Index Rose to 11-Month High in February
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-02T10:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/u-k-construction-index-rose-to-11-month-high-in-february-1-.html
A measure of  U.K. construction  rose
to the highest in 11 months in February on gains in new orders
and commercial projects.  The gauge of building activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 54.3 from 51.4 in January, Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in a report in London. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  The report adds to signs Britain may have avoided sliding
into another recession after the economy contracted in the
fourth quarter. The groups’ manufacturing survey yesterday
showed continued expansion.  Bank of England  Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said this week  the economy  may strengthen, though
it faces risks from the turmoil in  Europe .  “The improved performance of the construction sector adds
to other positive data released on the U.K.,” Sarah Bingham, an
economist at Markit, said in the statement. “However, it
remains to be seen whether GDP growth for the first quarter will
be recorded and, if it is, any expansion is likely to be only
modest as general economic conditions remain fragile.”  The groups’ measure for commercial construction showed the
fastest increase in activity since September 2010, and their
indexes for housing and civil engineering also showed gains.
New business rose at the fastest pace in 21 months.  Fourth-Quarter Slump  A separate report showed construction orders fell 14
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three months to
the lowest level since 1980 as demand for government building
work declined, the  Office for National Statistics  said today on
its website.  The economy contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter as
business investment shrank. The purchasing manager surveys for
services, manufacturing and construction all showed gains in
January.  The Bank of England expanded its  bond-purchase program  by
50 billion pounds ($80 billion) last month to 325 billion pounds
to support the economic recovery. Bean said this week he expects
“gradual strengthening” of the U.K. economy, though the
biggest risk is from “disorderly developments” in Europe.  “There have been a few positive signs, but I think it’s
important not to read too much into one or two indicators rising
to the upside,” Bean told lawmakers on Feb. 29. “It’ll take a
lot more swallows to make a summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  