-- WTO Members Seek Services Accord as Doha Stalls, U.S. Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-02T18:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/u-s-seeking-15-member-wto-services-deal-negotiator-says-1-.html
The U.S. is in talks with 15 other
members of the  World Trade Organization  on a deal covering
services after broader global negotiations stalled, an Obama
administration official said.  “We should pursue market opening wherever and however we
can,” Michael Punke, U.S. ambassador to the Geneva-based group,
told reporters today in Washington. “We should not simply allow
the whole system to be paralyzed by the fact that some members
are not ready to talk right now.”  The talks so far include the European Union,  Japan ,
Switzerland, Norway, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Singapore, Pakistan, Taiwan,  Hong Kong , Mexico and
 South Korea , Punke said. More nations may join, Punke said.  Having an agreement that’s as broad as possible “is in
everyone’s economic interests,” he said, citing a “desire
among all participants in this process to use this as a stepping
stone toward a broader multilateral agreement.”  At the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in May, a
group of 21 Pacific ministers said that the so-called  Doha round 
of negotiations faces an “unbridgeable” gap and needs a new
approach after a decade without striking a deal.  The Doha talks, which began in the Qatari capital in 2001,
had three primary areas of negotiation -- agriculture,
industrial goods and services. While discussions initially
snagged over farm subsidies in rich nations, the U.S. and the EU
have in recent years demanded that India,  China  and Brazil
reduce tariffs on manufactured products.  Global attempts to reach a single, all-encompassing deal in
the Doha round “demonstrably failed,” Punke said today. “We
didn’t get a deal.”  Pascal Lamy, the director general of the WTO, said on Feb.
8 at a conference in Geneva that he expects no agreement on the
Doha Round this year because “the political energy tank is
empty.  ‘‘On trade it’s pretty obvious that we have a huge package
on the table after 10 years of negotiations,’’ Lamy said. ‘‘It’s
not going to be the big package, all or nothing, at least for
the moment.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  