-- U.S.-Egypt Tensions Persist as Democracy Workers Leave Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-02T23:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/u-s-egypt-tensions-persist-as-democracy-workers-leave-egypt-1-.html
U.S. pro-democracy workers facing
trial in  Egypt  for illegally accepting foreign funds left the
country yesterday, with the cases against them unresolved and
tensions between the two nations still high.  Thirteen workers for non-governmental organizations,
including the Americans, departed Cairo in a U.S. government
plane after a court lifted their travel ban and their
organizations posted bail, according to the U.S. State
Department. The group included Sam LaHood, son of U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.  The case drew attention from the highest levels of both
governments and threw into question the $1.3 billion in annual
U.S. aid to Egypt, which is contingent this year on Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton certifying that the government is
advancing democracy. The aid has been a cornerstone of the U.S.-
brokered 1978 Camp David peace agreement between Israel and
Egypt, the most populous Arab nation.  The dispute over the non-governmental organizations, or
NGOs, has underscored the uncertain state of U.S.-Egypt
relations since pro-democracy protests forced out of office
President  Hosni Mubarak  last year. The Egyptian government’s
decision to press criminal charges against American and other
pro-democracy workers -- and impose a travel ban -- opened the
deepest rift with the U.S. in almost four decades.  “The relationship faces a broader deterioration, not based
on this one episode, but on the broader fundamentals of whether
the Egyptian people and the Egyptian government want to maintain
a productive relationship with Washington,” said David Schenker, director of the program on Arab politics at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a research group.  ‘Severe Impact’  While welcoming the news about the NGO workers, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the Obama
administration doesn’t consider the issue resolved.  “This incident could have a severe impact on all of the
things we want to do going forward,” Nuland said yesterday in
 Washington . The workers’ departure doesn’t resolve the legal
case or the larger issues surrounding the work of pro-democracy
groups in Egypt, Nuland said.  Nuland said that no decisions have been made on the next
installment of aid to Egypt, due in the next two months.  As U.S. officials warned of the potential fallout, Egyptian
officials heightened their criticism that the U.S. was meddling
in a matter for its independent judiciary.  Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for Egypt’s Muslim
Brotherhood, called the lifting of the travel ban
“regrettable.” The case “shows that America continues to
interfere in Egypt’s affairs,” he said. The Brotherhood’s party
alliance is the largest bloc in Egypt’s recently elected
parliament.  ’Political Case’  The April 6 movement, one of the youth groups that
organized the protests that led to Mubarak’s overthrow, said in
a statement that it “strongly condemns” the “blatant
intervention” in the work of the judiciary and the
“mysterious” decision to revoke the travel ban. The group said
its criticisms apply “even though everyone knows this is a
political case that is no more than a charade” targeting civil
society.  Schenker said he expects the  Muslim Brotherhood , which
dominated the elections, to tone down its rhetoric in light of
the nation’s economic conditions.  “The Brotherhood and others left holding the bag on
running this country are walking a fine line,” Schenker said.
“They may share the anti-American sentiment, but for all the
bravado, they’re keenly aware of the economic situation and the
other assistance Egypt might get thanks to U.S. backing.”  Cases Continue  In the past year, Egypt has run through about half its
 foreign reserves , which hit $16.4 billion in January, the lowest
level since December 2004, according to central bank data.
Reserves fell almost $2 billion a month, on average, since
October. In addition to U.S. aid, the NGO dispute jeopardized
Egypt’s plans to seek a $3.2 billion IMF credit.  The NGO cases will continue and will be reassigned to a
different panel of judges after those initially on the case
excused themselves, Egyptian Planning and International
Cooperation Minister Fayza Aboulnaga said yesterday.  A total of 43 employees of four democracy promotion
organizations have been charged with illegally accepting foreign
funds and operating without a license. A fifth group, the Konrad
Adenauer Foundation, is based in  Germany . All have been
assisting Egyptian democracy activists with voter registration
and electoral reform efforts.  Republican, Democratic Links  The Americans were employed by U.S. government-funded
democracy advocacy groups allied with the Republican and
Democratic parties, the National Democratic Institute and the
International Republican Institute, where Sam LaHood works.  After charges were filed in December, the Americans took
refuge in the U.S. Embassy compound in Cairo. The charges
carried a possible jail sentences of as long as five years and
fines, Ashraf el-Ashmawy, a judge overseeing the case in its
early stages, told Bloomberg News.  Nuland said today that the U.S. government paid the
workers’ bail, reversing her statement yesterday that the groups
did so. It was set at 2 million Egyptian pounds ($332,000) for
each defendant, according to Negad El-Boraie, who represents
employees of the International Republican Institute and Freedom
House, another U.S.-based civil-society group.  Legal Expenses  “We discussed this issue of bail with the NGOs and we made
arrangements with them so that the legal expenses associated
with this incident would be treated as part of the activities
that the U.S. government funds,” Nuland said today. “We agreed
to this because the situation arose in the context of the
democracy promotion work that they were doing that we had funded
and supported on behalf of the  United States .”  She said the workers were in Egypt doing government-funded
work and previous administrations have paid fees in similar
incidents.  No comment has been made on whether the defendants will
return to stand trial.  The U.S. government plane that took off yesterday from
Cairo carried 13 NGO workers of several different nationalities,
including Americans, Norwegian, Serbian, German, and
Palestinian, Nuland said. There were six Americans and one other
U.S. citizen chose to stay in Egypt, she said.  U.S. officials had lobbied the Egyptian government on
behalf of the NGO employees. State Department officials argued
that the organizations had tried for years to register, only to
run into bureaucratic red tape.  Egyptian Staff  The International Republican Institute issued a statement
yesterday welcoming the decision to lift the travel ban and said
it was “hopeful that the charges against its expatriate and
local Egyptian staff will be dismissed.”  The group said it remains concerned about the
investigations of Egyptian civil society groups “and the impact
it will have on Egypt’s ability to move forward with the
democratic transition that so many Egyptians have sought.”  Lawmakers in Congress, expressing relief for the NGO
workers, reacted similarly. “We hope that the recent decision
to postpone the trial of these individuals until April will
ultimately lead to the court proceedings being halted
altogether,” four senators, who had pressed for the release of
the Americans and others during a visit to Egypt last week, said
in a statement.  The four are Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona ,
 Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , John Hoeven  North Dakota  and
Democratic Senator  Richard Blumenthal  of  Connecticut .  “I remain concerned about the recent moves against
Egyptian non-governmental organizations,” Senator  John Kerry ,
the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  