-- U.S. Busts 29 Over $325 Million in Counterfeit Chinese Goods
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-02T20:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/u-s-charges-26-in-325-million-chinese-counterfeit-smuggling-ring-busts.html
U.S. authorities charged 29 people
with smuggling $325 million in counterfeit  consumer goods  from
China, including phony Nike sneakers and Coach handbags, through
a New Jersey port.  The bust was one of the largest counterfeiting probes in
U.S. history, and it involved smuggling cigarettes, handbags and
sneakers through the Port Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal as
U.S. agents secretly watched and listened, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said. Agents infiltrated two overlapping criminal rings
and lured them to use a front company run by the government.  Authorities arrested 23 people in  New York , New Jersey,
 Texas  and the  Philippines . Six are at large. Most are Chinese
and lived in New York. Prosecutors said they used phony
paperwork to import goods in corrugated shipping containers,
used distributors and wholesalers, and laundered illicit
proceeds.  “The cost of  counterfeit goods  is not limited to massive
financial harm to American businesses and consumers,” Fishman
said at a news conference in  Newark . “Criminals can exploit the
same channels to import other material that threatens our health
and safety.”  Estimates of annual counterfeiting worldwide are “tens of
billions” of dollars a year, Fishman said.  “This is an extraordinarily large case but there’s a huge
amount of this going on out in the world,” he said.  UGG Boots  Aside from Nike and Coach, the counterfeited brands
including UGG boots; Burberry, Louis Vuitton and Gucci handbags;
and Ed Hardy and Juicy Couture clothing, according to criminal
charges in federal court in Newark.  Agents from the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and from
Homeland Security Investigations and the U.S. Customs and  Border
Protection  conducted parallel probes of crimes at the port,
which moves 2.5 million containers annually. The rings
eventually overlapped, and the agents coordinated their
investigations.  The Homeland Security and CBP probe, begun in September
2009, focused on Patrick Siu, 39, of Richardson, Texas, and his
associates, who are accused of smuggling $300 million in
counterfeit goods. Siu worked with an undercover agent who
promised to use his “connections” to help move containers
through the port, according to a complaint.  Some defendants would take counterfeit goods to warehouses
they controlled and remove generic labels to reveal fraudulent
designer labels, or would add phony designer tags, authorities
said. Others are accused of supplying retailers with counterfeit
goods, and some laundered the proceeds, authorities said.  ‘The Beijing Kid’  One defendant, Ning Guo, 38, of  China , was known as “The
Beijing Kid,” prosecutors said. He was also charged separately
with a ring investigated by the FBI. That group is accused of
importing more than $25 million in counterfeit goods and using a
front company, set up by agents, that acted as an importer.  The arrest complaints quote dozens of secretly recorded
conversations, including one between Hai Yan Jiang, 32, of
Richardson, and Lin Wu, 43, of Maspeth, New York. They discussed
importing counterfeit cosmetics, and Wu asked if the products
would be safe, according to their arrest complaint.  Yan said the cosmetics were “counterfeit, but of good
quality,” adding: “All I care about is to make money, other
things do not matter.”  ‘Go Be a Monk’  When Wu said “business needs to be done with a clear
conscience,” Yan replied, “Then go be a monk.”  Three defendants were charged with trying to import crystal
methamphetamine, including Soon Ah Kow, 72, of  Hong Kong , who
was indicted in January and arrested Feb. 18 in  Manila . He was
also accused of illegally importing cigarettes and footwear.  Two of those defendants, Hui Sheng Shen, 45, and Huan Ling
Chang, 41, both of  Taiwan . They discussed selling 50 kilograms
of crystal meth to undercover agents, and delivered one kilo as
a “sample load” that was concealed in tea bags hidden in a
computer inside a cargo container, authorities said.  The cases include U.S. v. Patrick Siu, 12-cr-7061 and U.S.
v. Ning Guo, 12-cr-7060, U.S. District Court, District of  New
Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  