-- Lucky to Post Record Profit as Pakistan Home Demand Rises
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2012-03-02T12:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/lucky-to-post-record-profit-as-pakistan-home-demand-rises-1-.html
Lucky Cement Ltd. (LUCK) ,  Pakistan ’s
biggest producer of the building material, will post a record
profit this year as demand for new homes in the South Asian
nation offsets sluggish  government spending .  “We lack housing, we lack infrastructure, the population
is growing and there is a lot of potential on the domestic
side,” Abid Muhammad Ganatra, director of finance, said in an
interview at his Karachi office yesterday. “It will be a record
profit this year. No doubt about that.”  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government has cut
spending on roads and bridges to curb a budget gap that may rise
to as much as 7 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending June, according to the  International Monetary Fund . Even
so, domestic demand for cement increased 8 percent in the six
months ended Dec. 31, Ganatra said, adding usage could rise to
30 million tons in the next two years from 24 million.  Net income at Lucky Cement rose to 1.51 billion rupees
($16.6 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from 733.9
million rupees a year earlier, the company reported last month.
Lucky had a record  annual profit  of 4.59 billion rupees in the
12 months ended June 30, 2009.  The company’s  shares  rose 4.3 percent, most in over four
months, to 102.98 rupees, the highest since June 26, 2008 at the
4:30 p.m. local time close on the Karachi Stock Exchange. The
stock has surged 37 percent this  year , compared with the 16
percent rally in the benchmark KSE100 Index.  Timely Expansion  “The company has many advantages compared with others and
has utilized them quite well,” said Habib-ur-Rehman, who
manages stocks and bonds worth 8.2 billion rupees at Atlas Asset
Management Ltd. in Karachi. “They took a timely decision on
expansion and that is paying off now.”  Lucky Cement increased its production capacity to 7.75
million tons in 2009, from 1.2 million tons at the start in 1996.  More Pakistanis are building houses as overseas residents
send more money home and the fastest inflation in  Asia  after
 Vietnam  increases farmers’ income, said Ganatra, 46, who has
been with the company since 1994. Pakistan’s population of 196
million people is growing at an annual rate of 2.1 percent,
according to the government.  Pakistan’s so-called inward remittances rose 34 percent in
January to $1.1 billion, pushing payments for the first seven
months of the fiscal year 21 percent higher from a year ago,
according to central bank data.  Diversify Risk  Lucky will begin construction of a cement factory in Congo
by June through a joint venture with local company Groupe Rawji
as the African nation seeks to rebuild infrastructure destroyed
in more than a decade of war. The plant, which will have a
capacity to produce 1.2 million tons a year, will be completed
by the end of 2014, Ganatra said.  “We are looking for investment opportunities abroad
because we want to diversify our risk from Pakistan,” he said.
“We are also looking in  Iraq  and  Sri Lanka , mainly in cement
but also power generation.”  Pakistan’s local cement sales rose 7 percent in the first
seven months of the financial year ending June 30, while
overseas sales fell 3.6 percent from a year earlier, according
to the All Pakistan Cement Manufacturers Association.  Lucky ships cement to  Africa , Iraq,  Afghanistan  and Sri
Lanka and plans to increase exports to  India  as trade ties
improve. Pakistan exports 800,000 tons of cement a year to India,
which has an annual demand of 250 million tons, he said.  The nuclear-armed rivals agreed last year to broaden the
number of goods that can be traded between the countries and to
grant more business visas as they move to normalize economic
ties. They vowed to dismantle tariffs on about 8,000 items by
the end of this year, with all restrictions being lifted by 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Merritt  in Karachi at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  