-- Putin’s Best Bet for Survival Is Free and Fair Elections: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/vladimir-putin-s-best-bet-for-survival-is-free-and-fair-elections-view.html
Vladimir Putin ’s return to the
Russian presidency is all but assured. His battle to hold on to
power is just beginning.  This Sunday, March 4, Russians will go to the polls for
their sixth presidential election since the country’s
independence in 1991. Whether or not officials repeat the
widespread fraud of December’s parliamentary vote, it’s hard to
imagine a scenario in which Putin does not win. His chief
opponents -- Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  and
ultranationalist  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  -- are longtime Kremlin
stooges who offer voters little more than an opportunity to
register protest.  Victory, though, will not be sweet. Putin is set to regain
the presidency for a six-year term at a time when his model of
“managed democracy” is crumbling. Russians are increasingly fed
up with a regime in which rules exist largely to be manipulated
by an official elite, and in which people who resist the desires
of corrupt bureaucrats all too often end up in jail, or worse.
Street protests that attracted about a hundred thousand
demonstrators in the dead of winter could get even larger come
spring.  Meanwhile, the  government spending  required to mollify the
rest of the populace and keep the military on Putin’s side is
putting the state’s finances on a troubling trajectory. London-
based consultants Capital Economics estimate that Putin’s
campaign pledges alone will raise the oil price required to
balance Russia’s  budget , heavily dependent on revenue from the
energy sector, to $130 a barrel, up from about $117 now and only
$55 in 2008.  So where can Putin take Russia from here?  For one, he can opt for the evil-dictator approach. Plant
some agents to turn the protests violent and crack down with the
help of the police and military. As the experience of more than
one authoritarian leader in the Arab world has shown, this may
be the best way for Putin to galvanize the opposition and
expedite his own downfall. It’s also not clear all the law-
enforcement heavies would support him: An online  poll  of
Moscow’s police found that more than 80 percent sympathized with
the demonstrators.  Second, Putin can create the appearance of compromise.
Appoint respected professionals -- such as former Finance
Minister  Alexei Kudrin  -- to his new government and promise
reform. Or form an alliance of convenience with someone
malleable who also enjoys some support from protesters;
billionaire and longshot presidential candidate  Mikhail Prokhorov  comes to mind. Neither option will produce the genuine
change required to build institutions such as an open electoral
system, impartial courts and inviolable private property rights.
The power of the Kremlin elite is too dependent on its ability
to ignore laws or bend them to its liking. Eventually,
protesters would be back in the streets.  Finally, Putin can do what the protesters are asking,
starting with free and fair elections for parliament and the
presidency. Oddly, what’s best for the country could also be
Putin’s best bet for survival -- if not for the survival of the
corrupt regime he personifies. The opposition, a varied group
ranging from liberal intellectuals to hard-core nationalists,
hasn’t coalesced around a single candidate. Putin, by contrast,
still has a lot of support outside Moscow, among Russians wary
of another revolution.  As a reputedly consummate practitioner of judo, Putin
should be able to recognize a situation where yielding would be
to his advantage. Unfortunately, nothing in his resume suggests
he’s willing to take the risks needed to emerge as the
legitimate leader of a democratic country.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 