-- Vontobel Puts Funds in Smart Grids as Solar Weighed Down by Glut
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-02T14:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/vontobel-puts-funds-in-smart-grids-as-solar-weighed-down-by-glut.html
Vontobel Asset Management, a unit of
Swiss bank  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , is putting money into smart
power grids and efficient electric motors as its traditional
solar and wind-energy investments are hurt by surplus supply.  “Alternative-energy sectors remain difficult given current
overcapacity,” Pascal Dudle, head of global trend investing,
said in an interview in London. “We are putting more emphasis
on the  energy-efficiency  side, such as grid infrastructure
markets and demand-side energy efficiency.”  Governments from  Brazil  to  China  are promoting smart grids,
which allow generators and users to monitor power use and reduce
costs by saving energy in transmission. That’s lured some
investors away from solar and wind stocks, which slumped after
equipment manufacturers increased capacity even as prices sank.  Vontobel’s  Global Trend New Power Fund , which has invested
about 180 million euros ($238 million) in alternative-energy and
energy-efficiency stocks, has scaled back its holdings in wind,
solar, biofuels and geothermal companies to less than a quarter
of the fund from about half in 2007, Dudle said. Investments
include  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  and  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)   Slowing global growth and a market oversupply led to a 47
percent decline in solar-module prices last year, driving
manufacturers including Solyndra LLC out of business and
spurring funds to rein in investments. European countries
including Italy and the U.K. accelerated subsidy cuts in the
industry to curb growth as the sovereign debt crisis took hold.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “We have to look at the financial situations these regions
are in,” Dudle said Feb. 28. “ Europe  is in a difficult
situation and we have to manage this transition.”  As Vontobel expands in the energy-efficiency industry, it’s
investing in motors used in pumps, ventilation systems and
electric vehicles, according to Dudle. Efficient motors have
variable speeds, enabling users to reduce energy consumption, he
said, declining to elaborate on specific investments.  Vontobel is also looking at equipment makers that supply
Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc., which produce
LED  light bulbs .  “We hear about what LG and Samsung are doing but you’re
not necessarily aware of the companies that are supplying them
with the components, and that’s where we can get real value,”
Sheridan Bowers, Vontobel Asset Management’s director of U.K.
and Ireland business, said in the same interview.  Vontobel, majority-owned by a shareholder pool including
the founding family, generates revenue from investment banking,
asset management and private banking. The asset management
unit’s Future Resources fund has about 140 million euros in
industries such as materials, water and forestry. Its 20
million-euro Clean Technology fund focuses on waste management,
energy efficiency, grids and transportation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  