-- Vulcan-Martin Marietta Merger-Trial Judge Reserves Decision
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-02T21:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/vulcan-martin-marietta-combination-not-unexpected-banker-says-at-trial.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) ’s planned
hostile takeover by rock-crushing rival  Martin Marietta
Materials Inc. (MLM)  could be blocked by a Delaware Chancery Court
judge who reserved decision on the case after a four-day trial.  Judge Leo Strine Jr. today asked lawyers for post-trial
briefings before the end of the month in Wilmington, Delaware,
and said he’d hold final arguments the week of March 29.  If the ultimate remedy is to “block it,” the question is,
“for how long?” Strine said of Martin Marietta’s $4.7 billion
stock-swap bid.  In guiding lawyers’ future arguments, Strine said, “I
don’t think there was ideal scrutiny on either side” of the
potential combination, subject of initial friendly talks two
years ago.  The “primary reason” for the breakdown in earlier talks
was that the parties “couldn’t decide who was going to run
it,” the judge said.  “I think it’s a tough case,” Strine said. “ Martin
Marietta  has put itself in an awkward position.”  Combining the companies is “compelling” and would create
“enormous  shareholder value ,” Martin Marietta’s Chairman,
Stephen P. Zelnak, told the judge earlier today.  ‘Natural Fit’  Merging Vulcan, headed by Chief Executive Officer Don James, and Martin Marietta, headed by CEO Ward Nye “seems to be
a natural fit,” Zelnak said.  The mix would result in more than $200 million in combined
cost-savings, Zelnak testified.  Martin Marietta sued Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan on
Dec. 12, the same day it made the unsolicited bid.  Martin Marietta has asked Strine to declare that the offer
wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality agreement.
Vulcan claims Martin Marietta violated the agreement with its
public offer.  Vulcan contends managers of both companies met “over the
course of more than a year exchanging confidential data on
synergies and divestitures,” during which Martin Marietta
General Counsel Roselyn Bar took several pages of data and made
a “feckless attempt to stuff the confidential information in a
box behind the credenza in the back of her office,” to prevent
its misuse, according to court papers.  Board Seats  “Martin Marietta went to great lengths to create the
appearance that it had stopped using Vulcan’s confidential
information,” the Vulcan lawyers wrote.  Martin Marietta has proposed candidates for five Vulcan
board seats to be filled at the annual shareholder meeting in
May, not enough to control the 11-member board. Vulcan pledged
to sell assets for as much as $500 million to reduce debt and
cut costs by $155 million to rally shareholder support.  “We continue to recommend that shareholders not tender any
shares to Martin Marietta,” Vulcan’s James said in a Feb. 23
letter to employees.  The combination is a foregone conclusion among merger-and-
acquisition professionals, a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBD)  official testified
earlier today.  The proposed merger is “one of the inevitable
transactions” that has been “talked about on  Wall Street  for
years,” said Deutsche Bank’s James Ratigan, who advised
Raleigh, North Carolina-based Martin Marietta on the deal and is
getting paid a fee by that company.  Cost Savings  He told Strine that Martin Marietta is known as one of the
“best in class” companies to deal with, “under-promising and
over-delivering” data on such things as cost savings in
acquisitions.  Ratigan also said that while conducting his analysis last
year, he didn’t use any protected nonpublic information. Vulcan
claims Martin Marietta revealed proprietary information it had
promised to keep secret.  Martin Marietta fell 65 cents to $85.15 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m. Vulcan declined 51
cents, or 1.2 percent, to $43.63.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 