-- Waertsilae Declines as HSBC Cuts Recommendation: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-03-02T17:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/waertsilae-declines-as-hsbc-cuts-recommendation-helsinki-mover.html
  Waertsilae Oyj (WRT1V) , the world’s largest
maker of ship motors, was today’s biggest decliner in the  OMX
Helsinki 25 Index (HEX25)  as the top-ranked analyst tracking the stock
lowered his  recommendation  after recent gains.  Waertsilae fell as much as 2.7 percent, the biggest decline
since Feb 28. The shares of the Helsinki-based company dropped
41 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 25.10 euros at closing time in the
Finnish capital.  Waertsilae has jumped 37 percent in the last six months,
making the stock the fifth-best performer in the Helsinki 25
Index, as stricter emission and ballast water requirements spark
demand for its dual-fuel engines and environmental solutions.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s Colin Gibson cut his recommendation
today to “neutral” from “overweight.” His advice on the
stock has returned clients 41 percent over the last 12 months,
more than any of the other 16 analysts covering Waertsilae,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think we’ve changed our fundamental view on the
stock so much as it has simply been a fantastic performer,”
Gibson said in a phone interview today. Gibson said he plans to
keep the stock off his overweight list at least until the
company provides its new strategy at a capital markets day later
this month.  Waertsilae last year canceled its Nov. 21 investor meeting
and moved it to March 29 this year, citing strategic
considerations. It will be the first time Chief Executive
Officer Bjoern Rosengren, who started Sept. 1, addresses
investors at a capital markets day.  “I would at least expect some clarity on the company’s
focal points, maybe some expansion in the product portfolio and
strengthening of maintenance,” Pekka Spolander, an analyst at
Pohjola Bank Oyj, said today by phone. Expectations “are
naturally higher” after the company postponed the date, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  